May 10, 2020||Kochi||#Mother's Day special: Mothers on the front-line talk about finding a new balance||As the lockdown extends to nearly 50 days, we find that no tribute is too much for frontline workers, who toil day and night to keep the pandemic in check. While all healthcare workers, police, administrators and volunteers, among others, deserve our greatest appreciation, this Mother’s Day, we would like to honour the women who, under these difficult circumstances, have had to take risks, make sacrifices, and even put the needs of the public before their own families. Mothers, working on the frontline to keep us safe, talk about trying to still strike a balance in these difficult times. ‘My children and I know that we are sacrificing important moments for social work’KK Shailaja “To strike a balance between professional and personal life, I ensure to talk to my family daily through video or phone calls. I am happy that the bond between my children, husband and I have never been broken, even though I have missed important moments of their lives. I feel bad for it too but my children and I know that we are sacrificing these for social work. I have two grandchildren, Niral and Ifaya, and as an achamma (grandmom), I am supposed to be part of their growth and joy. My family takes videos of them and sends me. I watch them whenever I travel. Even the little ones don’t sleep early and so, I talk to them through video calls. Mash (husband) is also a social worker, so in the night we brief each other about our work. We faced a similar situation during Nipah too,” she says, adding that she used to go home every weekend before the Covid-19 pandemic. The minister adds that the mind of a mother wants to see everybody’s happiness. “Motherly affection doesn’t have any limits. For us, every family and their peace of mind is as important as ours,” she says. ‘I was not able to feed my baby due to the long hours of work’NITHYA C SATHYAN Nithya C Sathyan, staff nurse at Medical College Hospital, Thiruvananthapuram, had been posted at the ICU for Covid-19 patients and is currently undergoing a 14-day self-quarantine after a week of duty. The mother of a one-year-old daughter and seven-year-old son says, “Due to the physical and mental stress at work, I was not able to breastfeed my baby. I had to squeeze the milk out because my duty often ends with me being exhausted and in pain. My husband is stranded at his workplace and my children are staying with my parents. I feel helpless when my ailing mother can’t find time to take a bath. But the thought that my children are safe with my parents helps me get through the days in quarantine,” she says. “I talk to my children through video calls and my heart sinks every time my son asks when I’m coming back home to play with them.” ‘As a mother who can’t be with her two boys, I understand the plight of those quarantined’Dr P K SUSHAMA “I have two sons, who are 21 and 24, and miss them dearly. The only time we interact is during our daily, late-night calls which we try not to miss,” she says. “There are many international travellers and others whom we have to quarantine. As a mom who can’t be with her children, I understand their plight perfectly well. I also know it is a lot more difficult for them to deal with the pain of not being with their children and family, than for us. The lack of time helps mothers like me forget the pain of not being able to see their children, but that’s not the case of those who are quarantined. But, I believe that the emotion we share helps us deal with each other better.” ‘I was not afraid to do this work’SHAMLA P M, “I have a daughter, 26, and son, 22, staying with us,” says Shamla, who has twice won Best Asha Worker title. “My son has been really helpful with my husband in this difficult time.” She finishes her housework early and sets out for her duties, which includes distributing quarantine kits and food packets from the community kitchen. She works in Fort Kochi’s Calvathy area, where she has ‘charge’ of about 300 households. “The work can leave you exhausted, but I have been doing social work since I was a youngster and it gives me great satisfaction. I have never felt fear during this time,” she says.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/mothers-day-special-mothers-on-the-front-line-talk-about-finding-a-new-balance/articleshow/75647965.cms||Anjana George
May 10, 2020||Bengaluru||Meet Bengaluru’s Covid warrior mothers, who are leading the fight against the pandemic||Dr Smitha Segu, Taskforce head and nodal officer for Covid-19 at the government-run Victoria hospital for Bangalore Medical College and Research Institute (BMCRI)Handling health crisis and disasters is nothing new for Dr Smitha Segu, Taskforce head and nodal officer for Covid-19 at the government-run Victoria hospital for Bangalore Medical College and Research Institute (BMCRI), given that her first brush with such a situation was the 2004 tsunami. "My husband and I set up a medical relief camp at some of the worst hit areas in Tamil Nadu for a week. Then, five years ago when Nepal was devastated by an earthquake, I took a team from Bangalore Medical College and stayed there for a week," says Dr Smitha. The coronavirus pandemic, though, she admits, is a totally different ballgame, as she and her team are dealing with a potentially-fatal virus. Although duty comes first for her, Dr Smitha admits that the current crisis has made her miss her daughter, who is studying in the USA, all the more. "My 21-year-old daughter Ashna is a final-year undergrad student in Illinois. I was all set to join her there for her graduation on May 16, but all plans got cancelled because of the pandemic and I was required to be here. As a mother, it hurt that I wouldn’t be there to witness this important milestone, but as a medical professional, I realise that dealing with the pandemic is the need of the hour," says Dr Smitha, who will also have to celebrate her daughter's birthday this week over a Zoom call. 'Managing patients and members of the task force is a lot of work'Handling a Covid-19 care centre has not been easy considering the patient load the hospital sees daily. "It has been really hectic, converting a regular hospital into a COVID care centre. On average, 70-80 patients are admitted here and taking care of the entire hospital logistics is far from easy," she says, adding that a day in her life includes, managing doctors, nurses and hospital staff in four shifts daily, organising their food, stay, PPE kits. "Once patients recover, they continue to be quarantined in the hospital for two weeks. My team has to oversee their discharge reports and update the health department with patient details," she says, adding “Most importantly, I also have to ensure the physical and mental well-being of each member of my team.” Dr Smitha with her daughter, Ashna' I am only human and do get scared' The sheer scale of the pandemic has, no doubt, shaken even the otherwise calm and composed Dr Smitha. "I am only human and sometimes, especially now, even I get scared, and fear for the health of my near-and-dear ones and myself. I know I have to deal with my emotions and cannot let my daughter and husband know that I am scared," she says, adding, “Ashna knows me too well, though, and keeps telling me to take care of myself and be careful. She's alone there, so, I don't discuss my inhibitions and fears with her. But there are times when the mother in me comes to the forefront and I wonder, what will happen if I catch the virus? What if I am not there for my daughter -- that's a mother's ultimate fear, right?" she signs off. Rohini Katoch, DCP South, who has a seven-year-old son, AdvikAs a police officer, extended hours and dangers on the job are part and parcel of being on the force. But that has never been the case for such a long period as now, says Rohini Katoch, DCP, Soouth. "At a time like this it does get difficult to manage home and work. There are days when I do not get to see my son and my office becomes home," says Rohini, adding, “But then, there are things that need my attention and I cannot ignore them. Thankfully, my parents and husband help out and take care of my son." ‘I don’t hold my son until I have cleaned up’ As an officer who deals with the public every day, Rohini is acutely aware of the safety protocols she has to follow to protect herself and her family. "Given that police officers are at the forefront of ferrying patients and their contacts to hospitals, ensuring lockdown and containment in red zones, it is important that I follow precautions. In fact, when I return home, my son comes running to hug me, but I don’t let him, until I have showered and changed into fresh clothes. He doesn't understand why, but I tell him to wait. Only then do I even hold him. Sometimes, I sleep in a different room to avoid contact with him or other members of the household. It is tough, but I have to do it," says Rohini. ‘I feel I am missing a part of my son’s childhood’The nature of her job also means that Rohini doesn’t get to see her son for days together. "Sometimes I feel I'm missing out on his growing years. Suddenly, he seems all grown up to me and I feel I have missed a part of his childhood," she rues. Yet despite all the hardship, Rohini aims to spend quality time with her loved ones. "Once I am home, I try to spend as much time as I can with my family, especially my son," she says. Isha Pant, DCP Command Centre, mother to a three-year-old girl, AnvikaFor DCP Command Centre, Isha Pant, the pandemic meant realizing that being a police officer and a mother at the same time is far from easy. "Like many of those online videos, where you see doctors and nurses unable to even hold their children, I too have had to stop my daughter from doing so. She is very young and doesn’t understand, which makes it even more difficult, but the current situation is such that I have to be cautious. Every day she comes running to hold me and I have to stop her," says Isha, adding, "Our job is such that we are always busy and do not have fixed working hours. We can't decide on our working hours. Obviously, we would also like to spend more time with our families, but now is not the time for that. However, when I get some free time, I try to spend it all with Anvika and make the most of it.” ‘ I will have to work on my daughter’s birthday’ 75650252Being on field also means having to miss out on important functions, events and activities. "The biggest challenge I feel is time - we do not get enough time to spend with our kids or family. Corona has, of course, made things unpredictable. We cannot plan anything these days, because we never know what may come up work-wise. In fact, Anvika’s birthday is on May 11 and I will be working on that day since the lockdown is still in force," says Isha adding, "Every day when I leave for work, she says 'Mummy don't go.' So, when I have to leave, I ensure she's not around and sneak out. It becomes very difficult for me, as a mother, to leave my home like that, but it needs to be done."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/meet-bengalurus-covid-warrior-mothers/articleshow/75650100.cms||Joyeeta Chakravorty
May 10, 2020||Amaravati||Lupus patients more vulnerable to coronavirus: Experts||AMARAVATI: The protracted lockdown could make patients with lupus, a chronic autoimmune disease, more vulnerable to coronavirus, fear doctors. Lupus weakens the immune system, which could make them prone to coronavirus. Experts noted that the governments should set special focus on such patients and allow them to get treated on war footing as neither the lockdown, nor Covid-19, are likely to end soon. “Lupus attacks healthy tissues. This can make the immune system less effective at fighting infections. Medications that suppress the immune system, which people with lupus often take, might also limit the patients’ ability to respond to infections. As a result, people with lupus are less able to fight bacteria and viruses, like Covid-19,” observed noted rheumatologist Dr Manukonda Muralikrishna of Guntur Rheumatology and Immunology Center. He explained that when people with lupus may also have other ailments such as diabetes, cardiovascular disease, kidney disease, which put them at higher risk from coronavirus. According to Muralikrishna, the number of people with lupus have been growing. “Studies showed that people with an inherited predisposition for lupus may develop the disease when they come into contact with something in the environment that can trigger it,” said Dr Muralikrishna.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/lupus-patients-more-vulnerable-to-coronavirus-experts/articleshow/75652691.cms||Samdani MN
May 10, 2020||Goa||In the summer of 60, when Portugal tried to use Benfica to bind Goa||PANAJI: Rene Costa was in his teens when Sport Lisboa e Benfica, or simply Benfica, landed here in the summer of 1960, but the lifelong fan remembers the visit like it happened only yesterday. “It was the biggest gift for Goa to see those standard players, right before our eyes,” said Costa. It was 60 years ago, on this day, that Benfica, Portugal’s most dominant and resonant football team, played the first of their three friendly games here in ‘Estado da India’ or Portuguese India. They won all three games against Military Selection (2-1), Goa (4-0) and Goa Selection (1-0), but the nine-day visit was more than just football. Benfica’s visit was significant, not just because it was the most famous football club to have played in Goa, but also the last visit of a foreign team prior to Goa’s liberation in December 1961. It was a crucial decade. With pressure building on Portugal to relinquish its hold over foreign lands, the Salazar regime had to throw everything they could to convince Goa that they were in good hands. Football became a useful tool to bind people together and Goans were treated to never-seen-before versions of jogo bonito. Clube Ferroviario de Lourenco-Marques started the first wave of football diplomacy in 1955, then there was Port Trust of Karachi (1959), but nothing generated more interest than Benfica, already one of the great club sides of the world at the time. When the team landed in Goa from Portugal on May 7, 1960, the first activity for the visitors after a customary visit to the Basilica of Bom Jesus in Old Goa was an introduction with governor general Vassalo e Silva. “I am sure that this visit will contribute to the idea of a Portugal more knowledgeable of its Portuguese lands. You youngsters will tell your sons and grandsons that we have visited a beautiful land, of rivers and coconut trees, where for the last five centuries one of the most glorious chapters of Portuguese history has been written,” the governor general is quoted to have told the team in ‘O Benfica’, the club’s publication. Photo credit: SL Benfica  Just a year after Benfica sent largely a reserve side to Goa with a smattering of internationals, the Portuguese giants ended Real Madrid’s record run of five-in-a-row European Cups and then successfully defended their European crown in 1962. “Benfica's tour of Portuguese Goa in 1960 was seemingly intended to remind indigenous subjects of their imperial connections and responsibilities. The presence of general Vassalo e Silva, the governor-general of the colony, at the associated events was undoubtedly intended to reinforce this message and to signal to neighbouring India that Goa remained Portuguese territory,” Todd Cleveland wrote in ‘Following the Ball: The Migration of African Soccer Players Across the Portuguese Colonial Empire’. General Vassalo was the chief guest for the concluding friendly in Margao. In his presence, Benfica captain Alfredo walked inside the field with a Portugal flag and took a lap of the ground, along with the entire team. The opponent captain did the same with a Benfica club flag in his hands. Benfica started their tour with a 2-1 victory over Military Selection in Margao, thanks to goals from Mendes and Palmeiro, while substitute Alves had drawn level for Military. “There was a large gathering, all waiting to see Benfica. People even entered inside the fence and journalists didn’t get a seat. The match was delayed (by half an hour),” A Vida, a local Portuguese newspaper, said in its match report. Goa were Benfica’s next opponents in Vasco and the visitors were comfortable 4-0 victors with Mendes and Espirito Santo scoring two goals each. Vasu Raiturcar was the undisputed star for Goa with Benfica players and officials singling him out for special praise. The concluding friendly against Goa Selection – a mix of Portuguese based here and Goans – proved to be the most entertaining with Espirito Santo’s 10th minute strike separating the two teams in Margao. “The football can be compared to the standard of third division here. Goa Selection played tactically and more definitive football because of the preparations instilled by officials from Lisbon. The locals played more openly, without any tactics,” noted Benfica director Alfred Valveira. The Benfica director hoped that the visit would pave the way for Goa’s league champion to travel abroad and take part in Taca Portugal, a tournament where teams from Portuguese colonies showed up. Benfica even threw open its club facilities for the visiting Goan champions. But with Goa liberated just over a year later, the Portuguese dream died a natural death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/in-the-summer-of-60-when-portugal-tried-to-use-benfica-to-bind-goa/articleshow/75652811.cms||Marcus Mergulhao
May 10, 2020||Delhi||Saluting front-line warrior moms on Mother’s Day||While everyone celebrates Mother’s Day today – digitally or in person – these moms, who are at the front line in the war against the pandemic, will probably not even get to hug their children.I made a painting to explain to my 5-year-old why she should not run to meet me when I come home: Tanu Sharma, ACP, Mayapuri, Delhi PoliceI am in-charge of one of the biggest containment areas in Delhi. And I have a 5-year-old daughter at home who’s too young to understand any of this. We both love to paint, so I made a painting to explain to her why she should not run to meet me. Due to our 14-17 hour workday, it is difficult to spend time with her, but we try to have one meal together. A few days back, her teacher asked why she was looking upset during their online class. She said because other kids’ moms are present during video classes, and her mom is not even at home. The teacher told her it’s “because your mom is corona warrior”, now she is happy that her mom is a warrior. Proud my girls are helping me in relief work: Bhavreen Kandhari, activistMy friends and I collaborated with the authorities to provide meals to people. I have to coordinate and be on the field to ensure the delivery of meals and supplies. I’m really proud that my both daughters are sharing the workload by coordinating from home. To gather funds, they auctioned their musical instruments and laptops. What more can a mother ask for? For the first time ever, I was not by my son’s side on his birthday: Roseline Bendick, Nursing Head, Sharda Hospital, Greater NoidaWe have been staying at the hospital for 14 days of duty and then self-quarantining at home for 14 days. On April 20, it was my younger son’s (15) birthday and for the first time, I was not by his side. While my elder one (18) understands, my younger one is really attached to me and he was crying, asking me to leave my job and come home. They would make me a greeting card every Mother’s Day but are planning a digital celebration this year. I fear my 10-month-old won’t even recognise me when I’m back from duty: Divya S Nair, Infection Control Nurse, Fortis Memorial Research Institute, GurgaonI’ve sent my 5-year-old and 10-month-old kids to my mother’s place. My elder one keeps crying and asking me to come back home when we speak on video call, while my younger one doesn’t even know what is happening. My biggest fear is that he may not even recognise me when I come back from my duty – he has already been without me for two months now. However, I still try to make them feel like I’m there and we often play hide and seek on video call! Every year on Mother’s Day my elder one would gift me flowers, chocolates and greeting cards. Last year he said, ‘Mom, I will gift you a big teddy bear next year!’ Sadly, that won’t be possible. I maintain a distance from my sons: Saroj, sanitation workerMera kaam badh gaya hai kyunki kabhi-kabhi koi duty pe aa nahi pata (due to transport issues) toh uska kaam bhi karna padta hai. I have five children, and two sons still stay with me. Even though I’m taking all the precautions, but when I return home, I stay away from them. Now when we sit together, I maintain a distance. There’s always a fear that I may infect my kids since I’m on field whole day: Ritu Maheshwari, CEO, Noida AuthorityWith the coronavirus outbreak, field work has increased manifold while office work has reduced. As a result I often visit infected areas and meet many people. Though I take all precautions on coming home, there is always a fear at the back of my mind that I may infect my kids. However, one has to carry out their duties and I cannot avoid meeting my kids or staying with them either. Both my children (aged 9 and 13) do realise that their mother is at the forefront and themselves also take precautions, we often discuss corona-related news and statistics at home and I keep them informed as well. For Mother’s Day, I am sure they have something planned for me just like every year. I don’t even remember the last time I hugged my kids: Dr Neetu Talwar, Senior Consultant, Paediatric Pulmonology, Fortis Memorial Research Institute, GurugramI sent my kids- one aged 16 and another 18, away to my parents’ house two months back when I started working on COVID duty. We talk on video calls every day but we miss each other a lot. Before this, whenever I used to come home I was met with a hug from them each day but today, I don’t even remember the last time I hugged them. Social distancing has also led to a lot of emotional distancing among us. For everyone else, this lockdown period is when probably families are getting closer as moms are working from home and kids are at home as well. But for us, it is the opposite, as earlier I could still see my kids at the end of the day but now I can’t. Every year the kids would surprise me in the morning on Mother’s Day but this year will be different, sadly. However, I am guessing they are planning to do something special, online hi sahi ( laughs). When other parents are giving more time to kids, I'm giving less: Kaushalya Kumar, nurse, government hospitalI'm the ward in-charge at a government hospital, and we work with patients who are not at high risk. Even as I wear masks and gloves during my shifts and take all the precautions, but there is always this fear of exposing my family to the virus. I am a mother to two kids - a nine-year-old and a four-year-old. I was trying to explain to my four-year-old about coronavirus, and I was like, 'You know there’s coronavirus outside, so I need to stay away from you when I come back home.' It's so heartbreaking to see how he stops himself from running towards me after I reach home. Earlier, they used to be very curious- 'Mummy, aaj hamare liye kya layi ho?' Now they don't even ask. Sometimes it hurts that now during the lockdown when most of the parents are getting all the time with their kids, I am giving them less time than before. I get concerned for my family, but what keeps me going is to knowing that what I'm doing is an essential service: Meenal Jain, department store ownerI work at my own department store with my family, and when we open the store in the morning, usually there are people waiting. People keep telling me that it is scary to work at the grocery store because you don't know if any of those customers have been exposed to the virus. Obviously, I am concerned because I have a joint family so when I return home, I’m worried about them. But I'm not scared, and the only thing that really keeps me going is that we are in essential services. I'm really proud of it. Also, the kindness that customers have been showing is overwhelming. I have a daughter, who doesn't live in Delhi and keeps calling me to find out about my well being.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/saluting-front-line-warrior-moms-on-mothers-day/articleshow/75650607.cms||Ashni. Dhaor@timesgroup.com
May 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Saluting front-line warrior moms on Mother’s Day||While everyone celebrates Mother’s Day today – digitally or in person – these moms, who are at the front line in the war against the pandemic, will probably not even get to hug their children I’M A MOTHER OF TWO KIDS, BUT I ALSO TOOK AN OATH TO PROTECT THE PEOPLE Dr Tripti Yerramilli, ICU in-charge, KGH I know I took an oath to protect people but I am a mother to a 3-year-old son and 7-year-old daughter who’re not used to staying away from me. What if I contract the virus and pass it onto them unknowingly is a question that’s always at the back of my mind. My husband is also a doctor, so we sent our kids to stay with my mother. When I see my friends resting at home and spending time with their children, I wonder if I’ll ever get that chance. But then I also remember I wanted to help people, which is why I chose this field. Taking one day at a time is all I can do now. IN THIS PROFESSION, MAINTAINING A WORK-LIFE BALANCE IS ALMOST IMPOSSIBLEShikha Goel, Additional Commissioner of Police (Crimes and SIT) I must confess, the idea of stitching up an ideal work-life balance has been elusive for me. Sometimes, work takes priority and sometimes family, depending upon the situation. Largely though, I’ve been away from home thanks to my duties as a police officer. My children — son Tavashay, 18 and daughter Yutika, 12 — are both mature enough to understand why I need to be away. I constantly worry about being exposed to the virus and infecting others, including my family, but when duty calls, you must step up. Police has always been at the service of citizens during a crisis and it's no different this time. I think in our profession, there comes a realisation that we are working towards a bigger cause, and that’s what keeps us going. IT’S PAINFUL TO NOT BE ABLE TO SPEND SUMMER HOLIDAYS WITH MY KIDSDr Rajitha Reddy, anesthesiologist Narayana Hospital, Nellore I come home once in five days just to see my 6-year-old daughter. I treat Covid-19 patients, I don’t want to take the risk of infecting my daughter, all precautions notwithstanding. It’s painful to not be able to play and do summer holiday things with my daughter. Sometimes I feel there is no point in doing my job when I cannot take care of my baby who needs me. But then I say to myself, we doctors are the first line of defence against this deadly virus, I cannot give up. STAYING AWAY FROM MY GIRLS IS TOUGH, BUT AS A COP, DUTY IS ABOVE EVERYTHING ELSESwati Lakra, Inspector General of Police (Women Safety) TelanganaI’ve been working with volunteers to ensure essential supplies reach the underprivileged. I think these volunteers are the real COVID warriors, who selflessly work to help the needy. That said, I worry that I might catch the virus and infect my family, but for a police officer duty comes first. So I take the necessary precautions and soldier on. My two daughters, Stuti and Pratiti, have been very supportive. In fact, my younger daughter Pratiti, tells me she wants to become a police officer too. So maybe it’s not so bad after all. I FEEL GUILTY FOR NOT BEING THERE FOR MY 3-YEAR-OLD SON, BUT IT IS MY DUTY TO FIGHT THE VIRUSMadhavi Arikela, nurse, Gandhi HospitalMy 3-year-old son has no clue why I am not coming home these days. I’ve been on duty at Gandhi Hospital from March 10, and I’ve been away from him ever since. Initially, he used to cry, but now he thinks I don’t like him anymore and that makes me feel terrible. My husband tried to explain to him, but to no avail. Though I get kudos from so many people, I feel guilty for not being there for my son. But then, it is my duty to do all I can in the fight against this virus. That’s what keeps me going. —Neeshita.Nyayapati@timesgroup.com and Pathi.Thadhagath@timesgroup.com||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/saluting-front-line-warrior-moms-on-mothers-day/articleshow/75652974.cms||---
May 10, 2020||India||Forces must shun imports, go for ‘Make In India’, says Gen Bipin Rawat||NEW DELHI: The armed forces have to get rid of their overwhelming dependence on exorbitant foreign weapon systems, and instead put their entire weight behind ensuring that ‘Make in India’ does not remain a mere slogan, chief of defence staff General Bipin Rawat told TOI in an exclusive interview on Saturday. “We are not expeditionary forces that have to deploy around the globe. We have to guard and fight only along our borders and, of course, dominate the Indian Ocean Region. So, we should not go in for large amounts of imports by misrepresenting our operational requirements,” said Rawat. “Covid-19 has affected everybody. We need to be realistic, start adjusting and have a major relook at our operational priorities and what we actually need. Arms imports, along with supply of spares and maintenance, have become increasingly cost prohibitive,” said the country’s first tri-service chief. His forthright remarks mean that the over 15-lakh strong armed forces have to undergo a major reorientation to wean themselves off foreign-made arms that have been their preferred option for long. The remarks are also significant in the backdrop of the temporary freeze in new major deals for foreign weapons and the possibility of the defence budget being slashed due to the enormous impact of the Covid-19 pandemic on the country’s finances. India currently languishes in the strategically vulnerable position of being the second-largest buyer of foreign weaponry after Saudi Arabia in the world, accounting for 9.2% of the total global arms imports during 2015-2019. India has in recent years signed several big-ticket purchases for defence equipment, like the ones for 36 French Rafale fighter jets (Rs 59,000 crore) and five Russian S-400 Triumf surface-to-air missile squadrons (Rs 40,000 crore), even as the government has sought to promote home-grown options. Rawat said there was no other option but to build a robust domestic defence-industrial base, even if indigenous weapon systems were initially produced with “reduced technical specifications” or GSQRs (general staff qualitative requirements) than those framed by the armed forces. “We should boost ‘Make in India’ by hand-holding our domestic industry even if they deliver weapons with only 70% of the GSQRs in the beginning…given the opportunity, they will eventually deliver cutting-edge technology,” he said. The armed forces often push for imports because they come up with “unrealistic GSQRs” for weapon systems that DRDO, ordnance factories and the domestic industry simply cannot deliver in time. “We should define GSQRs as per our own operational requirements, and not look at what the US or other advanced countries have,” said Gen Rawat. If the armed forces need some high-tech weapon systems that cannot be made indigenously, then the focus should be on tying up with foreign partners for ‘Make in India’ projects with concrete transfer of technology. “India started small with Maruti-800 but has now become a major automobile manufacturing hub,” he said. The Army, for instance, is now importing a limited number of advanced assault rifles and light machine guns for frontline troops from the US and Israel, but the bulk of its requirements will be met through `Make in India’ projects. The armed forces, while going in for genuine integration and slashing non-operational flab and manpower to reduce the ballooning revenue expenditure and pension bill, also have to better manage the financial resources available to them. “You will never have the resources you desire. Optimal utilisation of the available budget is needed,” said Rawat. There also needs to be proper prioritisation of operational requirements. The Navy, for instance, needs to decide whether it should push for a third aircraft carrier at this stage. “Anything on the surface can be picked up by satellites and knocked off by missiles. I think the Navy needs more submarines rather than aircraft carriers, which themselves require their own individual armadas for protection,” he said. The renewed thrust on ‘Make in India’, incidentally, comes after TOI last December reported that none of the major indigenous projects in the defence arena — new-generation stealth submarines, minesweepers, infantry combat vehicles, transport aircraft, fighter jets and two types of light utility helicopters for the armed forces - have actually taken off in the last six years. These seven long-pending projects, collectively worth over Rs 3.5 lakh crore, are either stuck or still meandering through different stages, without the final contracts to launch production being inked till now. Watch Forces have to get rid of their dependence on foreign weapon systems: General Bipin Rawat||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/forces-must-shun-imports-go-for-make-in-india-says-gen-bipin-rawat/articleshow/75652962.cms||Rajat Pandit
May 10, 2020||India||Mild cases can be discharged without test: Health ministry||NEW DELHI: In a move that is likely to reduce India’s need for Covid-19 testing kits, the health ministry has said that mild and moderate cases do not need to be tested prior to the discharge of patients from hospital. So far, patients had to test negative twice prior to discharge. The new directive is part of the revised policy for discharge of Covid-19 patients from hospitals. Even for severe cases, the patient would need to test negative only once, as against twice earlier. Read our coronavirus live blog for all the latest news and updates“Mild/very mild/pre-symptomatic cases admitted to a Covid care facility will undergo regular temperature and pulse oximetry monitoring. The patient can be discharged after 10 days of symptom onset and no fever for 3 days. There will be no need for testing prior to discharge. At the time of discharge, the patient will be advised to follow the home isolation for further 7 days as per guidelines,” the revised discharge policy said. Till Saturday morning, 15.23 lakh samples were tested for Covid-19. According to the health ministry, the capacity has been ramped up to test around 95,000 samples per day across 332 government and 121 private labs. Coronavirus outbreak: Complete coverageHowever, positive cases also continue to rise across the country. In the last 24 hours, 3,320 new confirmed cases have been added taking the total number of cases to 59,662. The policy also says that at any point of time, prior to discharge from Covid care centre, if the oxygen saturation dips below 95%, patient has to be moved to Dedicated Covid Health Centre (DCHC) with ICU facility. More on Covid-19 Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage Lockdown 3.0: What's allowed and what's not in the three zones It's time to mask up and stay safe: Join TOI's #MaskIndia campaign MHA's guidelines for home isolation Trust the newspaper for your daily verified news After discharge from the facility, if the patient again develops symptoms of fever, cough or breathing difficulty, he/she will contact the Covid care centre or state helpline or 1075. His/her health will again be followed up through tele-conference on the 14th day, it says. Read AlsoLockdown till May 31 can stall coronavirus pandemic, says studyA possible maximum of 3 million people will be infected by Oct if the ongoing third phase of lockdown till May 17 is "implemented with full vigour" but the absence of the two lockdowns may have seen a projected maximum that would be as high as a staggering 171 million cases, a study of theModerate cases have been categorised as those whose symptoms resolve within three days and maintains oxygen saturation above 95% for the next 4 days. “If the fever resolve within 3 days and the patient maintains saturation above 95% for the next 4 days (without oxygen support), such patient will be discharged after 10 days of symptom onset in case of absence of fever without anti-pyretics, resolution of breathlessness, no oxygen requirement. There will be no need for testing prior to discharge,” says the policy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/mild-cases-can-be-discharged-without-test-health-ministry/articleshow/75653056.cms||Sushmi Dey
May 10, 2020||India||Amit Shah, Mamata govt in spat over migrants||NEW DELHI: Tensions between the Centre and the West Bengal government flared again with home minister Amit Shah writing to chief minister Mamata Banerjee pointing out the state’s failure to make arrangements for the return of migrant workers from the state and Trinamool responding by accusing Shah of spreading lies. Shah said while migrants from West Bengal working in other states are anxious to return home and the Centre and states where they are stranded have made arrangements, including trains to send them back, there is no response from the state government. The spat is the latest after the Centre and the state clashed over allegations that numbers of Covid cases were being manipulated by a state committee and claims of non-cooperation with central teams to monitor the disease. Late on Saturday evening, the railway ministry tweeted that Indian Railways has so far run more than 300 trains mainly for states like UP, Bihar, Odisha and MP but from West Bengal till Saturday morning “we had received approval for only 2 Shramik special trains- 1 from Ajmer Sharif & other from Ernakulam”. Railways said after Shah’s letter, West Bengal approved three trains from Karnataka, two each from Punjab and Tamil Nadu and one from Telangana, which are being arranged. “However, WB has not approved any train from Maharashtra, while there is a requirement of 16 trains to WB and presently 6 requests are pending for which approval is still awaited.” Trinamool responded, with Rajya Sabha member Derek O’Brien saying, “Retract or apologise. It is part of the home minister’s DNA to play politics during a national epidemic. Sleep if nothing else.” He cited letters written by Bengal chief secretary Rajiva Sinha from May 3-7 to other states for arranging migrant workers’ return. Another TMC MP Abhishek Banerjee said in a tweet: “A home minister failing to discharge his duties during the crisis speaks after weeks of silence, only to mislead people with a bundle of lies!” In a reference to the death of 16 migrants sleeping on railway tracks in Aurangabad, he added: “Ironically, he’s talking about the very people who have been literally left to fate by his own government.” Only two days back, leader of Congress in Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhary had a discussion with Shah on the issue of return of West Bengal migrants. “He told me that he has been continuously asking the West Bengal government how many trains they need to bring back migrant workers but till two days ago state government had not sent a list,” Chowdhary was quoted by ANI as saying. The Bengal government on Friday announced eight special trains for bringing back more than 31,000 workers from Punjab, Tamil Nadu, Telangana and Karnataka, though the Centre contested as to just when the requests arrived. “We have already arranged special trains to bring migrants back. One such train will be reaching Malda on Sunday. The state also plans to help Bengal pilgrims stranded in Mathura, Varanasi and Vrindavan return home,” state home secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay said. “Our chief secretary is in constant dialogue with counterparts in other states to expedite the process,” Bandyopadhyay said, adding that the state government had already brought back thousands of migrants from Bihar, Jharkhand, Odisha and Sikkim. The state government, he said, had also agreed to help in bringing back people from Bengal stranded abroad. “The chief secretary has informed the Centre that we have a standard operating procedure for institutional quarantine in place to take care of these people,” Bandyopadhyay said. State BJP president Dilip Ghosh, however, said, “The state government should have requisitioned more trains to bring back migrant workers stranded in other states. It should also arrange for their food and shelter if they are forced to stay back there. The state BJP will arrange for food if the government does not do anything.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/amit-shah-mamata-govt-in-spat-over-migrants/articleshow/75653068.cms||---
May 10, 2020||India||Only 1.5% of 1.3 lakh beds in Covid hospitals used||NEW DELHI: Less than 1.5% of over 1.30 lakh hospital beds earmarked for Covid-19 patients across the country are currently being utilised and this could see, depending on trajectory of cases, a review of hospital preparedness plans that might free up some beds for non-Covid care, which has suffered in the last few months. “Our hospitals are not overwhelmed as we have stepped up capacity during the lockdown. Most cases are mild and very few require hospitalisation. At present, only 1,000 to 2,000 beds are utilised out of over 1.30 lakh beds earmarked with ICU and oxygen support (which are a larger proportion),” a senior official said. However, with the progress of the third phase of lockdown along with relaxations and movement of migrant workers back to their native villages, the government does not want to rush to change its plans and is likely to wait to see if there is a significant increase in the number of cases. In dedicated hospitals, 99,000 beds have oxygen support and 35,000 are in ICUs. While most of the capacity is in the public sector, around 10% of the beds are in private hospitals, mostly in metros. At present, there are around 970 Covid-only hospitals for comprehensive treatment of severe and critical patients. Besides, there are around 2,300 Covid health centres – either full hospitals or dedicated blocks with oxygen support for clinically moderate patients. “We are watching the situation very closely. A decision on escalation or de-escalation will be centered around utilisation. I think we will wait for some time and take a call on this by end of this month,” the official told TOI. The Centre has received proposals from the private sector to build separate Covid hospitals, similar to what China has done. However, the government is yet to take a call on it. “Some private players have expressed interest. But in the current situation we do not see there is need for more infrastructure. The utilisation is very low. We hope, even going forward we do not need one,” the official said. The health ministry data so far indicates less severity of the disease overall in India with only 1.1% of all Covid-19 patients on ventilators, 3.3% on medical oxygen and 4.8% in ICU beds. There are also 6.45 lakh isolation beds earmarked for Covid-19 suspected cases and patients across the country. While many of these isolation facilities are in the private sector including hotels, lodges and service apartments now joining in to utilise facilities, a lot of these facilities were initially created by governments – in both Centre and respective states. Meanwhile, both Centre and state governments are also trying to convert some of these isolation beds in hospital set up to dedicated Covid care beds with comprehensive facilities like oxygen support etc. Watch Only 1.5% of 1.3 lakh beds in Covid hospitals used||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/only-1-5-of-1-3-lakh-beds-in-covid-hospitals-used/articleshow/75653088.cms||Sushmi Dey
May 10, 2020||India||Focus on Covid spots, not broad lockdowns may be way forward||NEW DELHI: With economic activities coming to a halt for several weeks due to the nationwide lockdown, there is a thought within the government to zero in on areas with Covid-19 cases for restrictions rather than putting a blanket ban on activities across a district or the larger part of any city, sources said. TOI has learnt that discussions are on to push economic activities in a big way outside containment zones to tide over the economic losses due to the Covid-19 crisis. Though the government has announced several relaxations to kick-start construction, manufacturing and retail activities, some states have imposed restrictions over large geographical areas to prevent the spread of the virus. Construction activities are yet to pick up due to various reasons, including shortage of labourers. Read our coronavirus live blog for all the latest news and updatesSources said the movement of goods has also not picked up in a big way since manufacturing is yet to start on a large scale. The number of e-way bills per day now stands at six lakh as compared to nearly 22 lakh before the lockdown started. However, there has been nearly a 100% rise in their number in the past three weeks – from 3.2 lakh a day to 6 lakh – which is being seen as a positive trend. Read AlsoLockdown till May 31 can stall coronavirus pandemic, says studyA possible maximum of 3 million people will be infected by Oct if the ongoing third phase of lockdown till May 17 is "implemented with full vigour" but the absence of the two lockdowns may have seen a projected maximum that would be as high as a staggering 171 million cases, a study of theCoronavirus outbreak: Complete coverage “Extending restrictions that impact large areas is not a viable option. Hence, we need to adopt strategies that can deal with Covid-19 cases in a particular location and also pave the way for more economic activities,” said a source. The government has said the country has to live with Covid-19 virus and adoption of safe practices are needed to win over the health crisis. More on Covid-19 Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage Lockdown 3.0: What's allowed and what's not in the three zones It's time to mask up and stay safe: Join TOI's #MaskIndia campaign MHA's guidelines for home isolation Trust the newspaper for your daily verified news The third phase of the nationwide lockdown, which began on March 25, ends on May 17. Watch After May 17, government to focus on COVID-19 spots, not broad lockdowns||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/focus-on-covid-spots-not-broad-lockdowns-may-be-way-forward/articleshow/75653100.cms||Dipak K Dash
May 10, 2020||India||I am absolutely well: Amit Shah scotches rumours on health||NEW DELHI: Union home minister Amit Shah on Monday squelched the speculation that had swirled about his health by saying that he is fine and is free of any disease whatsoever. “I want to make it clear that I am absolutely well and am not suffering from any disease,” Shah said in a tweet, poking fun at those behind the rumours about his medical condition. “For several days, rumours have been spread about my health. Some people even took to twitter to pray for my death. I did not deem it necessary to issue any clarification at a time because of my preoccupation with my job as home minister at a time when the country is battling a pandemic. Moreover, I also did not wish to be the killjoy for those who were gloating over their imagination (about my health),” said Shah. The home minister said that he felt impelled to scotch the rumours because of the concern they sparked among BJP cadre. Rumours about Shah’s health started doing the rounds soon after the imposition of lockdown and refused to go away despite regular visuals of the home minister attending meetings with Prime Minister Narendra Modi and others as well as accounts of his long hours in the office in the North Block. He spoke during the PM’s last interaction with chief ministers. In the tweet laced with sarcasm, Shah said those fanning the rumours should desist because, as per Hindu beliefs, malicious lies about someone’s health actually work for the victim’s benefit. “I thank all those who have expressed concern about my well-being. I don’t have any ill-feeling or prejudice towards the rumour-mongers either,” said Shah.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/i-am-absolutely-well-shah-scotches-rumours-on-health/articleshow/75653111.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Kolkata||Supermoms who fight on the Covid frontline||For the nation, they are frontline workers risking their lives for the call of duty, but for their children, they are supermoms who don’t have the luxury of working from home even during a pandemic. On Mother’s Day, we bring you three Covid warriors, whose children are excitedly prepping up to surprise their mums on the occasion even when they are unsure if they will get to have them by their side. Dr Mahuya Mukherjee, deputy super of a hospitalMy only solace is that my workplace is near my house. Besides patients, the volume of administrative work has also gone up. Post duty, the cleaning and sanitising process takes hours. Additional household chores have added to the overall pressure. My husband is also a doctor and both of us are keeping very busy. We are struggling to take time out for our daughter. While it is true that I am anxious about my parents, I am also super proud of them. In this hour of crisis, like other doctors, my parents are putting up a brave fight. I know my mother is busy, but I hope she gets her day off today. I have a Mother’s Day surprise planned for her. She loves chocolate cake and I am baking one for her! — Pubali Paul, daughter and a third-year student of biotechnology Christina Mary, sub-inspectorTaking off from work is not an option for us in a situation like this. If we are off, who will ensure safety of others? My husband is also in the same profession. We are on duty 24x7. We save our off days for emergencies. My children are extremely supportive. These days, I leave home early in the morning and come back late in the evening. This schedule will go on indefinitely. Long hours of duty can get frustrating for cops. Nowadays, I see Ma getting irritable every now and then. Today, my brother and I wish to be by her side and listen to her inspiring stories. We want to comfort and calm her. We also plan to whip up some nice breakfast for her and spend quality time together. — Sofia, daughter and student Papiya Nag, nurseIn my 28 years of service, I’ve never faced a situation like this. We get a variety of patients, including Covid-19 positive cases. In fact, we send swabs for testing every day. We wear PPE throughout duty hours. After getting back home, it takes me more than two hours to sanitise myself before I can go near my son. My family has been my biggest support system. My mother loves fried rice and chilli chicken. I want to cook for her. I’ve also planned to gift her a collage of our photos. I’m very proud of what she’s doing. She leaves at 7.30 am and comes back late evening. She is really putting up a great fight in this moment of crisis. I simply salute her courage. — Srijan Nag, son and a BTech student||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/supermoms-who-fight-on-the-covid-frontline/articleshow/75653110.cms||Shamayita.Chakraborty
May 10, 2020||Surat||Covid free Bharuch battling virus spread from ‘outsiders’||Surat: After becoming Covid free with discharge of all the 27 Covid-19 patients from Jayaben Modi hospital two days ago, Bharuch administration is once again battling the spread of virus following influx into the district.Shakir Shabbir, 18, a resident of Masjid Faliya in Vad village of Bharuch’s Jambusar taluka tested positive for Covid-19 on Saturday at the Chidra village primary health centre (PHC). He had returned from Surat two days ago.Health officials said the youth had gone to visit his relatives in Surat in March. Due to the lockdown and suspension of transportation, he was stranded in Surat. After the GSRTC buses services resumed, the youth managed to travel from Surat to Jambusar on Thursday.Dr Nilesh Patel, Epidemic Medical Officer (EMO) said, “Since the youth returned from Surat, our health teams took his sample for testing. On Saturday, his report came positive. It is believed that he may have come in contact with positive person in Surat.”Immediately after the boy tested positive, the Bharuch administration declared Vad village in Jambusar as containment zone and the boundaries of about dozen of villages in the core area were sealed. The health teams have been deputed in Vad village for door-to-door survey of the villagers.Two days ago, the Bharuch administration had heaved a sigh of relief when the last three Covid-19 patients were discharged from the Jayaben Modi hospital.“People coming into the district from outside are the possible carriers of the virus. However, I had ordered all the PHCs and CHCs in the district to increasing testing facility, especially of those who have visited from other districts,” said Dr M D Modiya, district collector, Bharuch.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/covid-free-bharuch-battling-virus-spread-from-outsiders/articleshow/75650523.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Surat||1,200 Odia migrants leave in shramik train||Surat: A day after Supreme Court stayed Orissa High Court’s order directing that migrants must test negative for Covid-19 before entering the state, about 1,200 Odia migrants travelled in a shramik special train from Surat to Jagganthpur in Odisha on Saturday. Official sources said about 14 shramik special trains were operated from Surat on Saturday carrying some 16,800 migrants, which included 12 trains toward Prayagraj, Pratapgarh, Jaunpur, Lucknow and Gorakhpur in Uttar Pradesh and one train each to Jagganthpur in Odisha and Purnia in Bihar. Railway officials said frequency of trains toward Odisha will be increased from Sunday. Bhagirath Behara, vice-president of Surat Odia Welfare Association (SOWA). said, “Since all trains to Odisha were cancelled after Orissa High Court’s order, the administration could allot only one train after Supreme Court’s stay order. We have demanded increase in frequency.” Meanwhile, Gujarat State Road Transport Corporation (GSRTC) operated about 350 buses to Amreli, Bhavnagar and other places in Saurashtra, carrying about 10,500 migrants from the region. In the last three days, GSRTC has operated about 850 buses, transporting 25,500 migrants from Surat to their native places. “The buses are operated on various routes after getting clearance from the district administration. Only 30 passengers are transported in each bus to maintain social distancing norm,” said Sanjay Joshi, divisional controller of GSRTC’s Surat division. Not only Surat, Valsad administration has also started train service for stranded migrants from Uttar Pradesh. About 1,200 migrants left in a shramik special train from Valsad to Gorakhpur on Saturday. 670 MADRASSA STUDENTS LEAVE IN SHRAMIK TRAIN Following the efforts of district administration, about 670 migrant students from Bihar, who were stranded in different madrassas run by Maddrasa Islamia Wakf, were sent in a shramik special train from Surat to Bihar’s Purnia on Saturday. Official sources said 670 madrassa students were stranded in the city after lockdown was announced on March 25. The students, who were supposed to travel to their native places for summer vacation, were unable to travel due to cancellation of trains. Madrassa Islamia Wakf trustee Salim Chandiwala said, “The examinations of students were over and train tickets were booked from March 25 onwards to send them back to their native places in Bihar. However, the children got stranded due to lockdown. We requested district collector to facilitate the travel of madrassa students. He immediately arranged the travel of 670 students in a shramik special train to Purnia in Bihar.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/1200-odia-migrants-leave-in-shramik-train/articleshow/75650572.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Surat||Woman from A’bad tests positive in Bardoli||Surat: A woman tested positive for coronavirus in Bardoli town of Surat district on Saturday. She had come from Ahmedabad ad day before. She is the first Covid-19 case in Bardoli. Meanwhile, five Covid-19 patients were discharged in Surat district on the same day.According to Surat district health officials, total 48 cases were reported till Saturday evening in Surat district, of which 23 have been discharged so far while one succumbed to the infection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/woman-from-abad-tests-positive-in-bardoli/articleshow/75650545.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Help workers in Gulf return: Cong||Hyderabad: There are 15 lakh migrant workers — men and women — from Telangana working in the Gulf Cooperation Council countries, and most want to return fearing spread of Covid-19 in the region, Congress national spokesperson Dasoju Sravan said. He demanded that the Centre bear the air travel charges of bringing back the work force. The state government should take care of the expenditure of transporting them to their respective homes after completion of their quarantine period, he said in a letter to chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao on Saturday. Sravan said that due to combined shock of collapsing oil prices and the pandemic, many of the labourers are being laid off in the Gulf. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/help-workers-in-gulf-return-cong/articleshow/75652853.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Delhi||Traders in Delhi worried about return of workforce||NEW DELHI: With daily-wage earners now rushing back to their villages in special trains, there’s consternation in business circles about a manpower crunch. Assurances of continued salary till work begins in right earnest haven’t kept the migrants back, according to traders. Normally, the migrant population returns to the villages for the harvest period in late summer and comes back soon after, but this year, traumatised by the pandemic standstill, they are likely to think twice before returning to the cities. Praveen Khandelwal, general secretary, Confederation of All India Traders, said that Delhi, being the wholesale hub for markets in north India, will most feel the repercussions of a possible manpower drain. Khandelwal said, “Around 70% of the labourers have gone back. They will not return, at least not before December.” In Greater Kailash, Rajendra Sharada, who heads the local market association, was certain the migrant workers wouldn’t return any time soon. “There is no doubt in our minds that we will face a manpower shortage. Guards, movers and shop hands will be difficult to find,” he explained. The wholesale markets in the Walled City, Karol Bagh, Sadar Bazar, Wazirpur and Chandni Chowk are likely to be directly impacted. “Some of the guards, palledars, loaders have not left. If they go, our operations cannot continue,” declared Sushil Goel, president, Chemical Merchants’ Association. Since Delhi is predominantly a service sector economy, the pain is expected to be felt for a longer period. The labour-intensive sectors in Delhi’s State Domestic Product of Rs 7.8 lakh crore in 2018-19 include manufacture of footwear, bags, electrical equipment and electronics, garments and other common items. It is estimated over 35 lakh migrants help run the city’s shops and industrial units in Delhi. Sanjay Bhargava, head of Chandni Chowk Sarv Vyapar Mandal, said business revival was going to be tough. “My son-in-law had a helper from a village near the Nepal border in UP. He left with seven others despite all assistance being offered to them to stay back,” Bhargava said. “Every shop in old Delhi has 4-5 such workers.” Yogesh Singhal, president, Bullion and Jewellers’ Association in Chandni Chowk, foresaw a dismal 12 months. CAIT predicts a scenario in which factories will reopen, but production will be curbed, while shops may operate only to a quarter of their capacity. “There is going to be a massive disruption, and the government should enforce the PM’s request that people should stay wherever they were. Conditions for daily-wage workers must be improved,” Khandelwal added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/traders-worried-about-return-of-workforce/articleshow/75652219.cms||Paras Singh
May 10, 2020||Patna||Muzaffarpur enters Covid-19 map with 3 cases, Jamui lone green district||PATNA: With Muzaffarpur too entering the state Covid-19 map with three positive cases on Saturday, Bihar’s green zones is expected to shrink further in the revised list of color-coded zones likely to be released by the Centre on Monday. Jamui is now the only one out of the 38 districts with no positive cases so far. Even though the state government has only allowed red and orange zones, as per the Centre’s list, 13 districts in Bihar were kept in the green zone category. The Union health ministry had on April 30 released the color-coded classification of districts across the country. As per the letter released by Union health secretary Preeti Sudan, Bihar had five districts in the red, 20 in orange zone and rest 13 in green zone. A district is considered green zone when there are no confirmed cases or no new cases in the last 21 days. Now only Jamui has that distinction. Last week, state home secretary Aamir Subhani had announced that there will be no green zones in Bihar. Principal secretary (health), Sanjay Kumar, said, “We have already removed green zone category. Also in the new list of Centre, which is expected by Monday, there will be decrease in districts in the green zone.” In the past 12 days, 12 of the 13 green zone districts reported several cases. West Champaran, reported 11 cases in this time period, while Katihar got 10 cases, Samastipur six, Sitamarhi five, Khagaria four, Sheohar three, Saharsa two and Supaul one case in past 12 days. As per the Centre’s April 30 list, five districts in red zone are Munger, Rohtas, Patna, Buxar and Gaya. Even in the upcoming new list, these districts will not have any relaxations as all of them, except for Gaya, have reported large number of positive cases in recent days. Maximum cases in the past 12 days were reported from four of these red zone districts with Rohtas recording 38 cases in this period. Munger had 34 new cases, Buxar 30, Patna 18 and Bhojpur 16 cases in the same period. Madhubani, in orange zone, has reported 24 new cases in the past 12 days, which is fourth highest and may enter into red zone. As per the first list issued by the Centre on April 14, four Bihar districts were kept in hotspot, or red zone, and they included Siwan, Muner, Begusarai and Gaya. In the second list, Siwan and Begusarai were put in orange zone. Areas that have high case load and contribute 80% of the cases or their doubling rate is less than four days are considered red zones. On the other hand, districts which fall short of red zone criteria, but have potential to enter it, are considered orange zone. With increase in Covid-19 cases from new areas in the past few days, even containment zones have increased in Bihar. On April 27, there were around 50 containment zones in Bihar and by May 8 this figure had increased thrice and gone up to 153.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/muz-enters-covid-map-with-3-cases-jamui-lone-green-district/articleshow/75650779.cms||Sheezan Nezami
May 10, 2020||Patna||Covid-hit BMP withdraws four companies from field duty in Patna||PATNA: At least four companies of Bihar Military Police (BMP), which were deployed in Patna, have been withdrawn from field duty as a precautionary measure after six Covid-19 positive cases in the 14th battalion were reported till Friday evening. Apart from the BMP-14, the campus located near the Patna airport houses the headquarters of BMP-5 and BMP-10 battalions too. Officers’ quarters are also inside the campus spread over several acres. While the first case was that of a retired havildar, who tested positive for coronavirus on Thursday, five other personnel who came in contact with him inside the barracks also contracted the virus. The BMP premises was inspected by DGP Gupteswar Pandey, DIG Garima Malik, DM Kumar Ravi, SSP Upendra Kumar Sharma and several other senior officers to take stock of the situation as more than 500 personnel and their families live inside the campus. ADG (headquarters) Jitendra Kumar said at least four companies of BMP which were involved in regular law and order duty in Patna, have been directed to remain inside the campus. “An alternate plan would be chalked out for deployment in their place,” ADG added. He further said it was early to say if the retired havildar was the first one or anyone else to bring the infection inside the campus. “Things would become clear after further investigation,” he added. According to the Patna DM, 53 test samples were collected on Saturday of which 22 were of command hospital staff and rest were of BMP-14 personnel. “The collected samples were of those who were in contact with the five positive personnel,” he said. “First priority are those who were in direct contact with the positive patients. Those BMP-14 personnel are in second level priority who have comorbidities like cancer, kidney disease, diabetes while third are those who are aged above 50 years from the core area in and around the barrack where the retired havildar lived,” Ravi said. The DM said instructions have been issued that those BMP-14 personnel who were living in the affected barracks or nearby should refrain from going outside the campus. “Officers inside the campus have been asked to sensitize the personnel about social distancing. They have also been asked to emphasise on personal sanitization after anyone returns from duty,” the DM said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/covid-hit-bmp-withdraws-four-companies-from-field-duty-in-patna/articleshow/75650794.cms||Debashish Karmakar
May 10, 2020||Hubballi||Karnataka: With no festivities, shamiana traders hit||HUBBALLI: Over 55,000 pandals and shamiana providers in the state are staring at heavy losses after the mass cancellation of events, including weddings and other festivities during lockdown. Several of the service providers who were roped in by the respective district administration to set up accommodation for migrant labourers and quarantined people as well as frontline workers and their sound system equipment used to conduct Covid-19 awareness rallies, may not receive payment. The unexpected turn of events has left the owners struggling to pay wages to their employees. The business may not pick up immediately after the lockdown is lifted, they fear. Vishal G Wagmode, secretary, All India Tent Decorators Welfare Association (AITDWA), told TOI that the peak season for the sector in the state is usually from March to May. “Marriages, jatras, festivals were feeding us the whole year. A small shamiana shop owner usually makes a minimum of Rs 2 lakh in the peak season. This year, however, we are paying wages of workers from our pockets,” he said. “Moreover, Hubballi is the centre for pandal/shamiana manufacturing and other decorations. So, naturally Hubballi is the most affected in the sector as the lockdown has left about 7,000 workers here jobless,” Wagmode added. “Ancillary trades like flower decoration are hit too. Despite all the hardships, our counterparts in all districts are cooperating with district administrations by providing beds for quarantine facility, tents for check post, iron barricade for containment areas, mike sets for announcements. We have been cooperating with the government by accepting payment whenever they give. But now our existence itself is in trouble so we are seeking help from the government,” he added. Speaking to TOI, Bengaluru-based shamiana supplier Krishnegowda D, who is also director for Karnataka State Shamiana, Decoration, Sound and Light Welfare Association (KSSDS & LWA), said shamiana industry generates Rs 2-3 crore in Bengaluru alone during summer. “Though our business is seasonal, we have to pay wages of labourers for the whole year. We are not considered in the category of small scale industry. This is right time for government to categorise us as small scale industrialists as it will help us avail facilities announced by the government,” he said. Mahibbob Mulla, founder president of KSSDS&LWA noted, “If lockdown is withdrawn now, we will have to wait for at least a year to get orders again. Several people, who had booked pandals and decorations in advance, have asked for refunds as marriages are either postponed or cancelled. People are mostly opting for simple weddings due to financial crisis intensified after the pandemic. In this situation, the government should help us by renting its godowns for a nominal fee and extending the pension facility for our workers on the lines of construction workers. Otherwise it’s very difficult to retains workers in the sector,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/with-no-festivities-shamiana-traders-hit/articleshow/75649375.cms||Sangamesh Menasinakai
May 10, 2020||Patna||Get a slice of Bhagalpur’s ‘Lockdown’ mangoes||BHAGALPUR: Every year the unique variety of Jardalu mangoes of Bhagalpur find their way to the homes of dignitaries across the country, including the PM, the President and the Vice-President, as the flavourful fruits are selected from a specific orchard in the town and sent as gifts by the Bihar government. The man behind popularising the Jardalu variety, which got the prestigious Geographical Indicator (GI) tag in 2018, is Bhagalpur’s ‘Mango Man’ 60-year-old Ashok Choudhary whose Madhuban Farm has been yielding these juicy mangoes that are gifted to the dignitaries every year. Choudhry has now developed several new varieties of mangoes in his orchard and given them topical names such as ‘Corona Warriors’, ‘Lockdown’, ‘Jai Ho Modi’ and ‘Jai Bihar’ among others. “The new varieties of mangoes have been grown with the help of ‘Irwin’ and ‘Sensation’ varieties of mangoes from Florida, USA and several other varieties from other states in India,” said Choudhry, adding, “These new varieties are my tribute to those fighting the deadly virus in our country.” Choudhary, a mathematics and law graduate, left his job as a teacher and started working for the conservation of about-to-be extinct varieties of mangoes in 1992 in his ancestral mango orchard located at Maheshi-Tilakpur village under Sultanganj block. At his Madhuban Mango Farm, Choudhary developed new varieties of mangoes using grafting technology also known as multi-variety propagation as well as through cross-pollination methods. “Only those new varieties, which are exceptional in terms of quality- rich in pulp, juiciness, aroma, sweetness and external appearance, have high yield and sustainability are used for propagation and commercial farming,” said Choudhary, adding, more than 80 different varieties of mangoes have been grown at his farm. The annual production of mangoes in Bhagalpur, mostly Jardalu variety, varies between 85,000-1,00,000 tones.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/get-a-slice-of-bhagalpurs-lockdown-mangoes/articleshow/75650905.cms||Kumar Rajesh
May 10, 2020||Patna||Bihar rejects Delhi’s train fare demand||PATNA: The Bihar government on Saturday rejected the demand of Arvind Kejriwal-led Delhi government to reimburse fare for Shramik special train used to send back migrant workers to Bihar from the national capital. Principal secretary (disaster management) and state nodal officer for interstate movement of stranded people Pratyaya Amrit shot off a letter to his counterpart in Delhi government, stating that buying bulk tickets for Shramik special trains and seeking reimbursement from Bihar government was in violation of guidelines issued by the ministry of railways. Pratyaya quoted a section of a letter issued by ministry of railways on May 2, which reads, “The local state government shall handover the ticket to the passengers cleared by them and collect the ticket fare and give the total amount to the railways.” He added, “For the sake of clarity, the policy of government of Bihar is to reimburse the railway fare paid by the migrant workers on arrival in the state. In consonance with this policy, we shall reimburse the fare to the railway passengers and not to GNCTD (Delhi government).”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/state-rejects-delhis-train-fare-demand/articleshow/75650882.cms||Piyush Tripathi
May 10, 2020||Patna||Patna: Animal keeper treats zoo inmates as his family||PATNA: Meet Ashok Kumar, the chief animal keeper at Sanjay Gandhi Biological Park or Patna zoo, who had last seen his family members almost 48 days ago. Even though Ashok can go back home after work, he prefers to stay back at the zoo along with 150 other staff to ensure that animals, birds and reptiles get their supplements on time, remain safe, healthy and happy amid the lockdown. Fifty-two-year-old Ashok, a resident of Khagaul in Danapur, is busy managing his team of zoo keepers and reporting the health and hygiene condition of the zoo inmates to the veterinary doctors. “The staff, including volunteers, trainers, guards and heath personnel, have been provided accommodation facility on the zoo premises. We remain alert round the clock to keep the animals healthy and monitor their activities and behaviour,” he added. Ashok, who starts his day at 7am, said, “Some animals prefer the lonely environment. However, primates like monkey, chimpanzee, lion-tailed macaque and langoor enjoy people’s company. In the absence of visitors, the primates feel lonely and stressed. As the zoo is shut due to the lockdown, we give company to the animals and cheer them up by clapping, hooting and making noises.” He said the zoo authorities led by its director Amit Kumar are taking all precautionary measures as far as the big cats and other animals are concerned. “The zoo employees sprinkle disinfectant to sanitise the premises. We wear mask and gloves all the time,” he said. “As the summer season has set in, we are also making changes in the animals’ diet and supplements. Coolers, fans and water sprinklers have been placed at enclosure of inmates. Pond water in hippopotamus enclosure change accordingly as they prefer to be in water most of the time. They only come out for the food,” Ashok said. For Ashok and other zoo employees, the housed animals are like a family. “I talk to my family over the phone mainly during night hours. My wife, daughters and son are doing fine. They are proud that I’m doing my duty diligently,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/animal-keeper-treats-zoo-inmates-as-his-family/articleshow/75650843.cms||Faryal Rumi
May 10, 2020||Meerut||Unhygienic, unattended, without medicine: Covid-19 patient’s alleged ordeal at LLRM hosp goes viral||MEERUT: An audio clip from a telephonic conversation between a local businessman and his relative, who had tested positive for Covid-19 and is currently under isolation in Meerut’s Lala Lajpat Rai Memorial (LLRM) Medical College, has gone viral on social media. In the audio clip, the Covid-19 patient can purported be heard narrating his ordeal. He complained of unhygienic conditions in the isolation ward. According to him, the patients in the ward were allegedly left unattended without any proper medical attention. Chief medical officer (CMO) Raj Kumar said, “An investigation has been set up in the matter. If any negligence is found, a report will be submitted accordingly.” The businessman confirmed having spoken to his relative over the phone on Saturday morning. "The arrangements are abysmal. There is no doctor who can attend to patients here. I have complained of breathlessness but I am yet to get any medical treatment or aid,” the patient could purportedly be heard saying in the viral voice clip. Several videos of unhygienic conditions and poor arrangement at the isolation ward have also surfaced on social media. The local administration is yet to make a statement. "The timings of meals are irregular. Yesterday, we received breakfast around 11am. People who have to take medicine are facing inconvenience as meals arrive at odd hours,” the patient allegedly said. Meanwhile, distressed relatives and family members of the patient took to social media to raise their voices against the alleged unhygienic condition and mismanagement at the medical college. "My brother was admitted in the LLRM Medical College on May 7. Till now, no tests have been conducted for the rest of the family. His condition is deteriorating. No doctors are visiting the patients. They are being left to die alone,” a cousin of the patient said in a tweet. Watch Covid-19 patient’s alleged ordeal at Meerut’s LLRM hospital goes viral online||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/unhygienic-unattended-without-medicine-covid-19-patients-alleged-ordeal-at-llrm-hosp-goes-viral/articleshow/75652215.cms||Piyush Rai
May 10, 2020||Nashik||Covid-19 cases rise by 100 times, tally now 504||Nashik: The number of confirmed Covid-19 positive cases in Malegaon has swelled by almost 100 times in the last one month ever since the first five positive cases were reported from the textile town on April 8. As many as 56 new Covid-19 positive cases emerged from Malegaon on Saturday, taking the tally of positive patients to 504 in the textile town. While 18 patients from Malegaon have died of Covid-19, 41 have been cured of the infection. The total number of positive cases in Nashik district stands at 632. “The doubling of Covid 19 positive cases in Malegaon is around four to five days as against the national average of 11 days. Our apprehension is that the rate at which the positive cases are increasing, Malegaon could emerge as one of the biggest hotspots of Covid-19 in the country in the near future,” said government sources. According to the data provided by the officials, the positive cases shot up to 114 by April 24 and further swelled to 350 by May 3. “On an average, about 300 samples from Malegaon are being sent for Covid-19 analysis. We are getting reports of only 60-70 throat swab samples per day. There is a need to hasten the speed of testing samples,” said officials. Speaking to TOI, state health minister Rajesh Tope expressed concern about the rise in the number of Covid-19 cases in Malegaon. He assured that the state government would render all possible assistance to authorities in Malegaon to tackle the issue on a war footing. “I am planning to visit Malegaon soon to review the scenario,” said Tope. According to the health minister, there have been many positive developments after his previous visit to the textile town in the last week of May. “Treatment of patients suffering from other ailments apart from Covid-19 have started after I directed the clinics there to open. Even Malegaon Municipal Corporation has stepped up its activities to prevent the spread of the infection,” said Tope. In the meantime, former Congress MLA from Malegaon central Asif Sheikh discussed the surge in the number of Covid-19 positive cases with Tope over telephone on Friday. “Tope has assured me that he would send more doctors to Malegaon as the municipal corporation there is in the process of opening more Covid care centres and roping in more hospitals in the town as the positive patient count is increasing,” said Sheikh. Dhule medical college gets Rs 38 lakh The district administration has given Rs 38 lakh to Shree Bhausaheb Hiray Government Medical College, Dhule. The college will be buying testing kits with the funds that will enable the Covid-19 testing laboratory there to test up to 300 samples a day for Malegaon. Plans are also afoot to increase the testing capacity of the newly established laboratory at Dr Vasantrao Medical College Hospital and Research Centre in Nashik for which MLA Devyani Pharande has pledged Rs 25 lakh. The funds will be used to buy an automatic RNA extraction machine to handle the process prior to testing of the throat swab samples. It will expedite the pace of testing. Sources from the district administration said the college would soon get another real-time PCR test machine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/covid-19-cases-rise-by-100-times-tally-now-504/articleshow/75651230.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Surat||Covid-19 warriors spat at in Surat||SURAT: Frontline health workers of Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) were allegedly threatened with life and spat at by six persons including four women in Sanjaynagar locality on Saturday. Officials of Puna police station said the six persons spat on the health workers saying they would kill them coronavirus infection and later even threatened to torch them if they returned to the area. According to the FIR lodged, the accused allegedly even instigated other locals saying that the team were carrying out a survey for National Register of Citizens (NRC) under the garb of health. According to the complaint lodged by Dharmendra Joshi, a primary health worker posted at Umarwada health centre, he and along with four colleagues - Vidhya Gyaneshwar, Tauqir Lacewala, Maldev Vadhiya and Vaibhavi Patel, had gone to Sanjaynagar for door-to-door survey of people as mandated by the SMC. “When we entered, the six persons confronted us and asked us with whose permission did we come. They warned us to leave immediately and threatened to torch the team by dousing us with kerosene if we returned. Meanwhile few of them screamed and told others not to wait for us to return and kill them with Covid infection. Suddenly, some of them spat on us," Joshi alleged in the complaint. A health team member somehow alerted the police which reached the spot and nabbed the six persons. Sanjaynagar locality is Limbayat zone of SMC which accounts for 333 positive cases of the total 841 in Surat Police detained Siraj Shaikh, Salim Shaikh, Farida Shaikh, Julekha Pathan, Shabanabi Sha and Hussainabi Shaikh and booked them under multiple sections of attempt to murder, rioting and obstructing government official in performing duty among others. They were also booked under sections of The Epidemic Disease Act and Disaster Management Act, 2005. "The samples of six detainees have been collected and further action will be taken after the reports arrive," said a police officer at Puna police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/frontline-smc-covid-warriors-spat-at-threatened-with-life/articleshow/75650677.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
May 10, 2020||Surat||Gujarat: Migrant unrest breaks out in industrial belt of Hazira||SURAT: The migrants unrest spread to the industrial belt of Hazira on Saturday after large number of labourers came out on the road and resorted to stone pelting at the police teams. Police lobbed six teargas shells and resorted to lathicharge to disperse the migrants, who were demanding transport arrangement for going to their native states. For the past couple of days, migrants were gathering in groups in Mora to press for their demand. But the situation turned violent following an announcement made on loudspeaker by a local officer on Friday. "During representation by the workers, a junior government officer in Mora announced that trains for migrants are being cancelled due to multiple reasons. Following this announcement, the workers feared that they won’t be able to return," a top police officer told TOI. The crowd started gathering at Mora village crossroad since 7am. Initially, the crowd was small and they returned to their homes after being convinced by police. However, at around 9am, the crowd started swelling. They first went to make a representation at Mora police chowky and from there they reached the house of village sarpanch. As the number of migrants increased on the road, local police called for more deployment. Acrimony soon broke out with migrants shouting in chorus with demand to go back to their native states. Some of them started pelting stones at the cops when police tried to disperse the crowd. Meanwhile, police teams reached the spot from Surat city and brought the situation under control. Police arrested 15 migrant workers and detained over 100 for rioting. "We identified the arrested and detained persons from CCTV footages," said A K Verma, assistant commissioner of police. Mora sarpanch, Bharat Patel, said, “We have helped workers fill up application forms to return to their native places and submitted them to the district collector office. Due to some technical issue, these workers were not issued tickets. Fed up daily representation over the last few days, they turned violent today.” Over 9,500 workers from Hazira have applied for train tickets in groups. Sources in police informed that the workers are connected through various WhatsApp groups. They shared the messages to come out to protest due to which large number of them gathered on road within minutes on Saturday. Some of the top Indian corporate houses like Reliance, Essar, NTPC, Shell, Kribhco, ONGC, L&T, Adani Port have their facilities in Hazira and nearly 30,000 migrants working in these industries live in Mora. Majority of the labourers on contractual basis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/migrant-unrest-breaks-out-in-industrial-belt-of-hazira/articleshow/75650425.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
May 10, 2020||Surat||Mother's Day: Seven months pregnant woman cop unfazed by coronavirus||SURAT: She is seven months pregnant and a mother of a one-and-a-half-year-old son. However, Dipika Patel, 29, a police constable, is dedicated to her job and yet to take leave in view of fluid situation due to coronavirus. Dipika is likely to continue working till the date of delivery, which is expected in the third week of June.Dipika, who is posted at Adajan police station, leaves her son Jian in the care of her mother-in-law Bhanuben before leaving for job. Members of her family, except one, all have jobs in essential services. Her husband Vimal is an electrician in Dakshin Gujarat Vij Company Limited (DGVCL), father-in-law Maganbhai is an employee in water supply department of Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) and sister-in-law Heena is a nurse in Surat Municipal Institute of Medical Education Research (SMIMER). "I will work till the day of delivery. I don't fear infection and my work is most needed in current times," Dipika said. She is basically from Navsari and has been working in the city as a cop for the past four years. Her family members encourage her to continue working. "If she is comfortable working, she should work. Her services are most required in current times," Vimal said. Members of the family properly clean themselves before touching any person or object in home on returning from job. "It is uncertain times, but we as a family are ready to fight together any problem,” Dipika said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/mothers-day-seven-months-pregnant-woman-cop-unfazed-by-coronavirus/articleshow/75650590.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
May 10, 2020||Patna||Increase number of isolation beds: Bihar CM||PATNA: Chief minister Nitish Kumar on Saturday asked chief secretary Deepak Kumar to take necessary steps to create employment opportunities for the returnee migrant workers as per the outcome of their skill survey. He also asked the health department officials to increase number of isolation beds in each district. The CM asked the officials concerned to make arrangements for sufficient number of PPE kits and gloves for the doctors, nurse and paramedical employees engaged in treatment of Covid-19 patients. “The protection of doctors, nurses and paramedical staff is very necessary,” he said. The CM asked the officials to do the needful for establishment of manufacturing units of the related skills in Bihar, so that the migrant workers could be provided permanent employment in their home state. Holding a high level review meeting with senior officials through videoconferencing on the issues related to Covid-19 and lockdown, the CM said large number of migrant workers who have returned from a particular state know good quality of embroidery. A manufacturing unit which could provide them job of embroidery should be established in their district, he said. He further asked the disaster management department principal secretary Pratyay Amrit to ensure availability of carpets, bed sheets, mosquito nets and mosquito quails at quarantine centres. The CM asked the chef secretary to make arrangements for transportation of all those people who are returning to the state on foot. He said people returning to the state on foot should report to the nearest block or police station and the administration should make arrangement to send them home. ‘Start Covid-19 tests at Madhepura hospital’: CM Nitish Kumar on Saturday asked the health officials to start Covid-19 tests at the Jannayak Karpoori Thakur Medical College and Hospital (JKTMCH) in Madhepura so that people of neighbouring districts are not required to go to far-off places for the purpose.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/increase-number-of-isolation-beds-cm/articleshow/75650833.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Vaishali man walks 1,100km from Jaipur with wife, 2 kids||PATNA: When Mahesh Rai left Jaipur early on Monday morning with his wife Vibha and two kids, he was not sure if they would be able to walk nearly 1,100km all the way to their village in Vaishali district. It took them nearly a week, but on Saturday they completed their long march home as they entered the Vaishali district limits. Mahesh saluted his ‘motherland’ and vowed never to leave again. “Bahut hua, ab kabhi nahi (Enough is enough. Never again),” the 35-year-old migrant worker said vowing never to leave he was born and brought up for livelihood. Passing through Agra, Lucknow and Gorakhpur in UP, it took almost six days for the migrant worker’s family to reach the state’s border in Gopalganj district. “We were served meal only after we crossed Uttar Pradesh’s border and entered Bihar. We were escorted by a team to a quarantine-cum-relief camp near Jalalpur check post and served meal. We ate to our fill,” he said. Mahesh said his family covered the long distance without proper food. “We survived on water, chuda (beaten rice) and a few pieces of biscuits. We kept on walking empty stomach day and night. Nobody came forward to help us. At a few places, some people took pity on us but didn’t help,” said Mahesh, who worked as ‘helper’ at a construction firm in Kota. The family had left the village about six months ago in the hope that they would get better job opportunities in Rajasthan. “Everything was fine till the lockdown was announced on March 24 night. We survived on the money that we had saved for one and a half month. But later decided to leave for home state after finding no way out,” he said. The sores on the feet of his six-year-old son Raghuvir and his five-year-old younger son are enough to understand the plight of the family. They are being kept in quarantine-cum-relief camp at the government school in his native village. “Now I am in no hurry. I have reached my native village and will shift in the house after being released from quarantine,” Rai said. Mahesh is not alone. A migrant’s family hailing from Begusarai district was spotted near Bidupur in Vaishali district while returning home from Jammu and Kashmir on foot. “I have never come across such a bad situation in my 30-year-old career as a mason. The sufferings of the migrant workers will be reflected on the coming state assembly polls to be held later this year,” said the 55-year-old Ganga Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/vaishali-man-walks-1100km-from-jaipur-with-wife-2-kids/articleshow/75651105.cms||Ramashankar
May 10, 2020||Patna||Contractor killed in Bihar's Gopalganj||PATNA: Unidentified criminals shot dead a contractor, Shambhu Mishra at Mathia Barwa village under the Uchkagaon police station area in Gopalganj district on Saturday. The incident took place around 8am when Mishra was practising yoga on the premises of a community hall at the village. Two youths riding a motorbike reached the spot and fired at 52-year-old Mishra from close range. The assailants, who were in the age group of 18-20 years, drove towards Barosara after committing the crime. Some locals rushed Mishra to a local primary health centre from where he was referred to the sadar hospital at Gopalganj where the doctors declared him brought dead. Atul Upadhyay, an eyewitness, told police that Mishra was shot from a point blank range. SHO of Uchkagaon police station Krishna Kumar said personal enmity appeared to be the reason behind the incident. Earlier, Mishra’s 11-year-old son was strangulated to death by some anti-socials. Woman opposes hubby’s illicit affair, killed: A 25-year-old woman, who was allegedly thrashed by her husband Vinay Ram at a village under Akilpur police station area in Patna district for opposing his illicit relation with aunt and sister-in-law (brother’s wife), died during treatment at Patna Medical College and Hospital (PMCH) on Saturday. The woman was also thrashed by her in-laws. PMCH police temporary outpost incharge Amit Kumar said the victim was identified as Naini Devi. “In her statement recorded before police, Naini’s mother Rupjhari Devi (60) has named Vinay, his aunt, sister-in-law and three others. Kumar said Naini lived with her husband at Manas village. “According to Rupjhari’s statement, her daughter was thrashed on May 7 and taken to a block level hospital before being shifted to PMCH,” Kumar said, adding Rupjhari has also accused the husband and in-laws of her daughter of seeking dowry. SHO of Akilpur police station Sanjay Kumar said, “We came to know that the victim’s mother has recorded her statement at PMCH police TOP. I have sent a police team to PMCH. An FIR will be lodged on the basis of the statement of the victim’s mother,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/contractor-killed-in-gopalganj/articleshow/75650933.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Patna||Migrant workers to be given job opportunities: Bihar minister||State labour resources department minister Vijay Kumar Sinha tells Abhay Singh that there are work opportunities in the agriculture sector in Bihar for the migrant workers who have returned to the state from different parts of the country due to Covid-19 pandemic. Excerpts:How long do you think it will take to bring back the stranded migrant workers?The way migrant workers responded to the online registration, it seems their number is huge. There are lakhs of others who have not registered. Therefore, a large number of people have to be brought back. Any hesitation on this?No, there is no hesitation. Migrants’ return depends on three factors – their willingness to return, the coordination between the sending and receiving states and what the states actually want. Initially, the migrants faced several problems like food, shelter, lack of money and anxieties about their families back home. Therefore, their frustration level was high. Now, the things have begun to change. It is changing gradually. There are also openings for work and engagement now. Around 260 workers from Bihar have been sent to Telangana on the request of its government. Are there other states also? Yes, Punjab CM Amarinder Singh had requested our CM Nitish Kumar to leave the migrant workers from Bihar there. The Karnataka CM has given assurances that workers from Bihar will get proper care. In fact, workers from Bihar are hardworking, honest and sincere. As to Telangana, the workers had come home during Holi and got stuck due to the lockdown. Once the special trains started running, they chose to return to their workplace in Telangana on the demand of their employer. How about giving work opportunities to those who return to Bihar?It is not that there is no work opportunity in Bihar. With the kharif season about to begin, the migrant workers can be engaged in agriculture sector. Work has also started in the infrastructure sector. There are MGNREGA schemes and Jal Jeevan Hariyali campaign. There is talk about identifying the skilled workersYes, there could be plumbers, electricians and others who have returned to the state. In Bihar, people from Odisha have taken over the plumbing work. Those from Malda in West Bengal are engaged in the construction sector. The contract agencies employ them. Similarly, the skilled workers from Bihar can also find work.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/migrant-workers-to-be-given-job-opportunities/articleshow/75650807.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Returnees face resistance in villages||PATNA/CHHAPRA: Stranded people returning from various states in the country are getting mixed reception in their villages. While the migrant workers are required to stay in government quarantine centres at their respective block headquarters for 21 days, students are supposed to stay in home quarantine for 14 days. Amrendra Kumar Singh (32), a resident of Bhagwanpur in Vaishali district, was accorded a warm welcome by family members after he returned home from Kota in Rajasthan where he worked as a contractor. “Though my family members are scared of coronavirus after my return, I am taking all precautionary measures,” he said. However, Saroj Kumar, a native of Bisfi in Madhubani district, is not so fortunate. Kumar returned home from Mumbai on Saturday. However, he was prevented by his relatives and asked to visit the quarantine centre at Kanya Madhya Vidyalaya first for medical check-up and then enter the house. “I was in a hurry to reach home but they treated me like an untouchable,” Kumar said. Local mukhiya Vijendra Prasad said panchayat committee members have been asked to ensure that those returning home from outside are examined by health workers. A medical team led by Reyaz Ahmad later visited the camp and examined Kumar’s health. A similar incident happened with Sanjay Pathak, a resident Kamtaul village in Darbhanga district. Pathak, who returned from West Bengal, was not allowed to enter his house but put in quarantine at the initiative of local mukhiya Nagendra Sharma. Three natives of Lamichaur panchayat in Bhorey block of Gopalganj district, who used to work at Pilibhit in Uttar Pradesh, were not allowed by their co-villagers to enter the village on Saturday. They later went to the block office from where they were sent to quarantine centres. Meanwhile, the migrant workers, who are returning by special trains, could not conceal the pain of the lockdown period. After reaching Chhapra from Ghatkeshar in Telangana on Friday, Subhash of Garkha, a migrant worker, said, “I faced hardship in Hyderabad as the contractor did not support me. I remained without food several days.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/returnees-face-resistance-in-villages/articleshow/75650875.cms||Ramashankar
May 10, 2020||Patna||24 flee Nawada quarantine centre||NAWADA: At least 24 migrant workers fled the Adarsh Inter College quarantine centre under the Sirdalla police station area in Nawada district on Friday night after one of its inmates was tested positive for coronavirus. Twenty-two of them were, however, later caught by the police and brought back to the quarantine centre. The latest Covid-19 positive patient, the fifth in the district, was one of the 42 migrant workers who had arrived from Gujarat on Thursday and quarantined at Adarsh Inter College. The escape of the migrants sent the administration into a tizzy. Hectic search and subsequent pacification efforts by the civil administration resulted in the return of all but two workers. Sirdalla BDO Akhishwar Singh said efforts were on to trace the two remaing migrants as well. The Covid-19 patient has since been shifted to an isolation ward at A N Medical College, Gaya.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/24-flee-nawada-quarantine-centre/articleshow/75650688.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Four-month-old patient’s mom infected as well||KOLKATA: Barely two days after a four-month-old was diagnosed with Covid-19, along with the rare Kawasaki syndrome, and was admitted to MR Bangur Hospital, the first test of his mother came back positive. Informed over phone, the hospital authorities alerted the health department and it was decided to shift both to Medical College and Hospital’s 50-bed mother-and-child ward. The transfer was completed in the early hours of Saturday. “His mother was initially told they were being released from MR Bangur and would be taken to another one. We had thought of admitting the infant to a private hospital off EM Bypass. Since we were in home quarantine and were told our tests might take place any time soon, we decided to seek help. It was then that fire minister Sujit Bose called and assured us that the state was taking care of the shifting and the health department felt MCH would be the best option. Both Bose and PWD minister Aroop Biswas had helped us earlier and we knew the best decision would be taken. We were then told that even the child’s mother was suffering from Covid, though she looked asymptomatic. Her test was conducted on Thursday and again on Friday,” said a family member. A family friend said the transfer took place late in the night, though the mother and child have been kept together for now. “The doctors informed us that there might be a time when they have to be treated separately and they have trained nurses for this job. MR Bangur did not have the infrastructure to test the child and control his Kawasaki disease. This is available at MCH. The doctors explained everything over phone on Friday. MCH doctors spoke to us on Saturday,” she said. “We are monitoring both. We are waiting for the full report on the mother, after which we will decide on the treatment protocol,” said a doctor. Sources at MR Bangur Hospital said at least two other patients were likely to be shifted to Medical College and Hospital soon. The parents had realized the baby needed hospitalization on May 2, when he developed severe fever of 103°F and had rashes all over his body.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/4-month-old-patients-mom-infected-as-well/articleshow/75652210.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
May 10, 2020||Kolkata||Despite flight ban, Kolkata airport registers growth in 2019-20||KOLKATA: Despite a disastrous March, when air travel nosedived following the Covid-19 scare, Kolkata airport has recorded a growth over the previous financial year, taking even the airport operator by surprise. According to the provisional data, 2.2 crore people travelled through Kolkata airport in 2019-20, around 2 lakh more than that in 2018-19. The modest 1% growth is the lowest in decades, but given that flyer count had reduced by a third in March, officials at Kolkata airport are glad they finished in the black. Flight movement in 2019-20 was also higher than the previous fiscal at 1.7 lakh domestic and international departures, 4,758 more than the number of previous fiscal. This was despite the grounding of Jet Airways just before the start of 2018-19. IndiGo and SpiceJet substantially added flights, leading to the robust numbers. Unlike 2018-19, when January proved to be the busiest month with the airport handling 19.5 lakh passengers, the best month in 2019-20 was December with 21 lakh flyers. According to sources, Kolkata airport was on course to record a healthy growth when the pandemic abruptly stopped air travel in March. Airlines reported several hundred cancellations even before Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s ‘janta curfew’ call. Thereafter, people made a rush to return home and led to a short spurt in travel before all flights went off the air. While international flights were suspended on March 22, domestic flights were grounded three days later. “International travel was quite buoyant in 2019-20 with IndiGo aggressively introducing fights to destinations in South-East Asia, China and Dubai before the contagion struck. In Kolkata, the tremors were first felt in the third week of January when flights to China and different cities in South-East Asia began to get cancelled as the novel coronavirus spread. Then travel to West was affected as the virus spread to Italy, the UK and Spain. The US was just beginning to take the hit when India locked down,” said Travel Agents’ Federation of India chairman (east) Anil Punjabi. No one is quite willing to hazard a guess on 2020-21 with no flights other than special ones to repatriate foreign citizens operated in April and operations likely to remain suspended in May. Though there will be pent up demand to travel, with social distancing norms in force, only a third of 240-odd flights in Kolkata are expected to start operations after the lockdown is lifted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/despite-flight-ban-airport-registers-growth-in-2019-20/articleshow/75652855.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Kolkata||Eye hospitals in Kolkata resume surgeries, to start OPD||KOLKATA: Services are crawling back to normal at eye hospitals across the city that had been forced to suspend emergency surgeries and outpatient (OPD) services since the lockdown started. While some have resumed elective surgeries in a restricted way following screening of patients, others are on the way to reviving OPD services even as they continue telephone consultations and online advice. All units of Disha Eye Hospital have resumed services, though surgeries are restricted to emergency ones at the main Barrackpore unit. “We never stopped services entirely and have been scaling them up gradually. To begin with, our centres operated for three hours a day but now all are open for at least six hours. Emergency procedures like retina surgeries are on and by next week, we plan to resume cataract operations,” said chairman Debashish Bhattacharya. He added that though patients are being screened, Covid tests are not being done since eye patients have been exempted. TimesViewA lot of “planned procedures” may have reached a stage where they cannot be delayed any longer. Hospitals need to look at ways to come back to life. Safety protocols have to be followed but health facilities must also be prepared for temporary reverses (in the form of healthcare workers and patients contracting the virus).Even though teleconsultations will continue, outpatient services should now resume, believed Bhattacharya. “While any kind of contact could now be risky, chances of transmission were low in eye hospitals since patients are all day-care ones. Also, contact is minimum and healthworkers don’t have to handle patients like the way they do in other hospitals,” said Bhattacharya. He added that eye hospitals are among the worst-hit by Covid-19 and the resultant lockdown. “Even though our services continued and we have been serving patients even from neighbouring states, there has been a sharp drop in the number of patients,” he added. Priyamvada Birla Aravind Eye Hospital, a tertiary eye hospital in Kolkata, is now fully operational and has come forward to provide free pick-up and drop facilities for patients with eye ailments by operating buses on designated routes. New routes may be added to provide eyecare to all. The buses will run following government norms, maintaining complete sanitization, with facilities to ensure safe transfer of patients. The hospital is fully operational, providing emergency eye care and performing surgeries in vision threatening eye emergencies, at both its units in Kolkata & Durgapur. Safety norms have been stepped up for patients through separate seating zones, a triage area for isolation, access to the flu clinic run by the Group hospital, Belle Vue Clinic, for quick consultation, and many more. Sushrut Hospital, too, is crawling back to normalcy and the number of patients is rising. Even though the hospital never suspended emergency surgeries, elective operations remain suspended. Sushrut is operating its OPD throughout the day. “We are screening patients but Covid test is not possible in our set-up,” said a Sushrut representative. Another eye hospital with multiple units is planning to resume elective surgeries with screening. It is planning to collect swab samples of suspects and send them for tests. “It is difficult but we must do that for the sake of our patients. Scores are waiting for surgeries which were elective a month ago but have turned emergency now,” said a doctor at the hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/eye-hospitals-resume-surgeries-to-start-opd/articleshow/75652206.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Mumbai||No respite: 24 more Covid-19 cases, one death reported from Dharavi||MUMBAI: Dharavi reported 25 new Covid-19 cases on Saturday, which included a death. The cases now stand at 833, including 27 deaths. Of the total patients being reported from Dharavi so far, 222 have been discharged. BMC is increasing institutional quarantine facilities following instructions from the civic chief to isolate those unable to isolate themselves. Mahim reported five new cases, taking the total there to 112. The cases from Mahim include five deaths. Dadar reported 18 new cases, taking the total to 107, including five deaths. Seventeen of the positive cases from Dadar have been discharged. Richa Pinto||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/no-respite-24-more-cases-one-death-reported-from-dharavi/articleshow/75659147.cms||Richa Pinto
May 10, 2020||Hubballi||Davanagere tally spirals to 67 as six more test +ve for Covid-19||Davanagere: The upward spiral of Covid-19 cases in Davanagere is proving hard to arrest, with six more individuals testing positive on Saturday and taking the district’s tally to 67. Of the six people who tested positive for the infection, five have been found to have contracted it from the 48-year-old woman, who succumbed to Covid-19 on May 3. Davanagere deputy commissioner Mahantesh Bilagi said that the staff nurse, from whom the infection transmitted to 37 others, who worked at a primary health centre in Bhashanagar, was likely to have contracted the infection from a patient she must have attended to. “But we have been unable to trace this individual, who is likely to be roaming somewhere in the district,” Bilagi said. Meanwhile, three more tested positive for the novel coronavirus in Chitradurga, and the total number of cases in Davanagere’s neighbouring district now stands at six. All the six Chitradurga residents who have been confirmed infected are Tablighis who returned home from Ahmedabad in Gujarat. Police station shifted On the other, the Azad Nagar police station, which was located in a containment zone, has been shifted to another locality, which falls under the purview of RMC police station. Davanagere superintendent of police Hanumantharaya said that as many as 57 residents who have been confirmed infected with Covid-19 lived in Old Davanagere, within which fell Azad Nagar as well. “Cops working at the Azad Nagar, Basavanagara and Gandhinagar stations are in risk of contracting the infection. We have advised personnel at these stations to undergo medical examination every day as a preventive measure,” he said. New laboratory inaugurated On the other hand, Davanagere South MLA Shamanur Shivashankarappa on Saturday inaugurated a laboratory equipped to test samples for Covid-19. The laboratory is associated with the SS Institute of Medical Sciences and Research Institute, of which Shivashankarappa’s son SS Mallikarjun is the chairman. Davanagere district in-charge minister BA Basavaraj, MP GM Siddeshwar and medical education minister K Sudhakar were among who were in attendance at the inaugural ceremony. “sWe want to open at least 60 laboratories across the state,” Sudhakar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/davanagere-tally-spirals-to-67-as-six-more-test-ve-for-covid-19/articleshow/75651817.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Surat||‘Allow refrigeration, air conditioning shops to open for four hours daily’||Surat: Urging the state government to consider refrigeration and air-conditioning shops as part of essential services, the Surat Airconditioning and Refrigeration Engineers Association (SAREA) has demanded permission for its dealers to open their shops for four hours daily.After the lockdown was imposed, shops dealing in refrigeration, air conditioners, refrigeration gases and spare parts were shut down while it being summer, the dealers started getting enquiries from key sectors for services and repairs. The dealers have to take special permission from the police for the movement of their engineers as well for transportation of their vehicles.President of SAREA, Taurab Mandapwala told TOI, “The dealers have not opened their shops. With summer at its peak, dealers are flooded with inquiries from customers, but are unable to cater due to closure of shops. We have requested the government to allow such crucial shops to operate for at least four hours every day.”The association further stated that refrigeration and air conditioning is crucial for preservation of milk, food products, blood, as well as perishable products at supermarkets and cold chains, agricultural produce in cold storages, hospitals, pharmaceuticals, power generation, steel plants, IT sector etc and hence is very much a part of essential services.“We have given assurance to the government that all the rules and regulations will be followed,” Mandapwala added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/allow-refrigeration-air-conditioning-shops-to-open-for-four-hours-daily/articleshow/75650468.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Surat||45 discharges take Surat’s Covid-19 recovery rate to 53%||Surat: About 45 Covid-19 patients were discharged in the city on Saturday. This took the total number of discharged patients to 445 and recovery rate to 53 per cent in the city, sources said.Municipal commissioner Banchhanidhi Pani said more number of Covid-19 patients were recovering from the infection now. “Twelve patients were discharged from Covid Care Centre (Samras Hostel) and 33 from New Civil Hospital (NCH). This is an encouraging sign,” Pani said. “Now, Surat city’s recovery rate is about 53% which is very good. A lot of people want to know how the recovery rate in Surat has gone up. I will say it is primarily due to early identification of cases. Since beginning, our focus has been on testing, tracking and treating. We are pro-actively finding out cases of influenza like illness (ILI) and acute respiratory infections (ARI) from private clinics, primary health centres and community health centres in the city. These cases are tracked and monitored by our war room,” the municipal commissioner said. Meanwhile, 33 fresh cases of Covid-19 were reported in Surat city on Saturday. This took their total number to 841 in the city until Saturday evening. Limbayat zone in city continues to remain a hotspot with detection of seven more Covid-19 cases. Limbayat zone has recorded highest number of 333 Covid-19 cases followed by Central zone with 124. “Our focus is on Limbayat zone, Central zone and Varachha (A) zone as more Covid-19 cases have been reported from here. About 977 health teams are conducting door-to-door surveillance in the city. They have covered over 98,000 houses in the city until Saturday,’’ Pani said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/45-discharges-take-surats-covid-19-recovery-rate-to-53/articleshow/75650506.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Surat||Pigment worth Rs70L stolen from two consignments for export||Bharuch/Surat: Pigment worth Rs70 lakh was stolen in the second week of March from two consignments of Meghmani Organics Limited, which is located in Dahej.The company’s commercial officer lodged a police complaint at Kosmba police station in Surat in this connection a few days ago. Police said the company had dispatched 38 metric tonnes of blue pigment worth Rs1.40 crore in two consignments between March 11 and 18. One consignment had pigment of Rs58 lakh and another worth Rs82 lakh, police said. The goods were loaded in a container truck for shipment to The Netherlands and France from Hajira Port. When the consignments were checked by custom officers at the port, they found half of the material missing. The information was communicated via email to the company. The consignments had been brought to the port by truck driver Vinod Kumar Patel along with Sudhir Singh, both natives of Uttar Pradesh. They had allegedly committed the theft at Pipodara GIDC near Kosamba. The duo allegedly broke open the seal and lock of the container and stole 19 metric tonne material worth Rs70 lakh from the two consignments. They later sealed the container. Driver Vinod has been arrested by Kosamba police. He has admitted to the theft. Sudhir Singh is yet to be arrested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/pigment-worth-rs70l-stolen-from-two-consignments-for-export/articleshow/75650712.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Vadodara||Even coronavirus failed to scare this toddler’s resolute mother||Vadodara: On April 8, all hell broke loose in Khatri family of Bodeli when their two-year-old girl tested positive for coronavirus. Even though Ayesha Khatri was asymptomatic, but her reports came as a shocker to the family, especially her mother Afifa, who was inconsolable after the reports arrived.A determined mother, she immediately decided to go along with her daughter to the coronavirus isolation ward even though her own reports were negative. “I was shocked and could not accept the fact that my daughter, who did not show any symptoms of the virus, tested positive,” said Afifa, recalling the day when they went into trauma. All the family members were tested after Ayesha’s 60-year-old grandfather was the first to contract the virus. “I had to go with my child as she needed somebody to take care of her,” said the woman who took maximum risk but didn’t spare a second thought on it in face of protecting her child. The mother-daughter duo stayed on the same bed at GMERS Medical College and Hospital in Gotri. “Ayesha would play around in the ward as she was healthy and the hospital staff was also supportive,” said the mother.On the eighth day, when Ayesha’s first test in the isolation ward was taken, Afifa’s samples were also collected. It came in as mixed news for the family when Ayesha tested negative, but her mother came in the grip of the unsparing virus. The doctors at the hospital, however, did not inform Afifa that she had tested positive. “The doctors called me first to inform me about her reports and only two days later they told her,” said her husband Ahmadullah, who said he didn’t know whether to cry or laugh. “I was shattered again, but what kept me going was that my daughter had tested negative and her subsequent tests also turned out to be negative,” said Afifa, who too was asymptomatic. She was reassured only when Ayesha was discharged on April 21. “She was in the high-risk category because of her age, but thankfully she fought back and got discharged,” Afifa said, holding back her tears while talking to TOI.Like mother, like daughter. And following Ayesha, even Afifa slayed the virus, and returned home only a week ago after she was discharged from the hospital. In the meantime, while her treatment continues, the reunion of mother and child left many in the area with moist eyes. “It’s a huge relief to be back home and hold my child in my arms again,” she quietly added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/even-coronavirus-failed-to-scare-this-toddlers-resolute-mother/articleshow/75651402.cms||Jay Pachchigar
May 10, 2020||Agra||Agra district Covid-19 tally rises to 743, two workers of pvt lab test +ve||Agra: At least 37 new Covid-19 positive cases were reported in Agra on Saturday evening, taking the district tally to 743. The number of cases doubled in 15 days. On an average, one positive case was reported every 45 minutes in the past one week. So far, 24 deaths have been reported in the district. The cases which surfaced on Saturday include two workers of private laboratory testing Covid-19 samples, a 22-year old pregnant woman of Tajganj locality, and three migrant workers who had come from Delhi. The remaining cases were related to Shahganj, Wazirpura, Bagh Farzana, Khandari, Awas Vikas, Lohamandi, Baluganj, Awas Vikas Colony, Jeevani Mandi, Idgha, Nai Ki Mandi, Mantola and Trans Yamuna locality. Chief medical officer Mukesh Kumar Vats said, “Two staffers of a private lab doing testing of Covid-19 have been found positive. The lab has been directed to immediately stop its operations. All the new Covid-19 patients have been shifted to an isolation facility. A team of doctors is attending to them. People are being screened in the area around their houses and the places they had visited. Their contacts are being identified." According to health department, out of the 743 cases reported in Agra, at least 90 active cases are related to people who had attended the Tablighi Jamaat event in Delhi and their contacts, while 80 are linked to a private hospital on the National Highway-2. Another 22 are related to a private hospital in Rakabganj locality and a clinic in Ghatiya Azam Khan locality. Besides, 50 cases are related to healthcare workers and their contacts. These include a senior resident doctor and four junior doctors of SN Medical College. So far, 30 vegetable sellers have also been tested positive in Agra. District magistrate Prabhu N Singh said, “So far, 305 people have recovered and discharged from hospital. All the people who had come in contact with any Covid-19 patients are being screened as well."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/agra-district-covid-19-tally-rises-to-743-two-workers-of-pvt-lab-test-ve/articleshow/75651248.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Patna||Bihar: No Covid-19 cases so far, but para forces cautious||PATNA: Even as a large number of cases are being reported from para-military forces in other states, Bihar is yet to record any Covid-19 case among the personnel posted in the state. In Bihar, the largest deployment is of the Sashatra Seema Bal (SSB) followed by the CRPF), the CISF and the smallest contingent is that of the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP). These para-military forces are taking utmost precaution at their barracks, battalion headquarters, training centres, state-level headquarters and other installations so that their personnel remain safe. “As a precautionary measure, we have procured PPE kits for use by our men to handle situation if any suspected case arises here,” a senior SSB officer in Patna, said preferring anonymity. “Social distancing is being maintained at the barracks and the mess. Ration and vegetables brought from outside are being left idle for 72 hours before using them. All premises are being sanitised periodically where SSB personnel or officers are living,” he added. The senior officer said that more than 25 quarantine centres have been created across state where personnel returning from leave are being kept in isolation for 14 days. The SSB’s 14 battalions are deployed on the India-Nepal border in Bihar while three are involved in anti-Maoist operation accounting to almost 17,000 personnel and officers. A CRPF officer said they don’t have any cases in the state so far. “But we are taking all precautions. We have created vehicle sanitising tunnel at the Bihar sector headquarters for sanitising all vehicles entering our premises,” he said. “We have also installed hands-free wash basins at entry points of our units and offices which is used by personnel coming from outside,” the officer said, adding, the CRPF in Bihar doesn’t have to interact with citizens on a daily basis. The CRPF has deployment strength of around 7,000 personnel in Bihar for dealing with the Maoist menace. Six battalions, including one CoBRA, VIP security companies and Rapid Action Force (RAF), are active. A senior officer of the CISF said they have also procured PPE kits through headquarters and the AAI as their work profile includes close interaction with civilians at airports in Patna and Gaya. “We are also deployed at power stations at Barh and Aurangabad,” he said, adding, all training programmes are currently on hold. “Only 12-14 people are allowed on a bus. Once used, the vehicle is left idle for 24 hours after sanitisation. Till then another set of vehicle is used which also undergoes same procedure,” he said. A deputy commandant rank officer of the ITBP said all their personnel in Bihar are completely safe and following all norms and guidelines of the MHA on Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/no-covid-19-cases-so-far-but-para-forces-cautious/articleshow/75650815.cms||Debashish Karmakar
May 10, 2020||Patna||Bihar students ‘trapped’ in other states seek help||PATNA: Hundreds of students from Bihar, who are still stranded in other states, are desperate to take the first train or flight back to their native places. They stay in private accommodations and are finding in difficult to arrange for food after running out of money amid the Covid-19 lockdown. A number of panic-stricken collegians told this newspaper that they were “trapped” as no transportation facility had been provided to them yet. Begusarai native, Sumit Shaw, is stuck in his college hostel at Selum in Tamil Nadu. The final year engineering student claimed, “My parents are really worried because the number of Covid-19 cases is increasing in the southern states and I am trapped here. I have written numerous e-mails to the authorities in Bihar, but to no avail.” The railways has started running special trains to take migrant workers, students, pilgrims and tourists back home. Another engineering student, Moaz Hussain, said at least 64 other Biharis were stranded in Tamil Nadu. “Few days ago, all of us had filled up an online registration form for returning home, but nothing happened. We have refilled it and are waiting for the government to help us,” the 21-year-old added. 18-year-old Asha Kumari, a medical aspirant stuck in Kota, desperately wants to go back to her house in Samastipur. She rued, “I was told to pack my bags twice on May 6 and May 10, but I am still in Kota. It feels like I am trapped because I am not keeping well and do not even have medicines.” The uncertainty about not returning home “has started affecting the mental health” of NEET aspirant, Saurav Guha, who is also in Kota. Parents are equally distressed and worried about the safety of their kids stuck in other states. “The chances of my son coming in contact with a large number of people are high because he is stuck in his college hostel. How can I sleep peacefully at night knowing that his safety is at stake?,” asked Siwan resident, Reyazad Hussain. Samastipur resident, Preeti Mitra, whose son is stranded in Kota, said, “The government should allow us to travel so that we can bring our kids back.” Meanwhile, state education minister, Krishna Nandan Prasad Verma, pointed out that it was not possible to bring all the students back at once. “We have to look after everything — from transportation facilities to screening of the returnees. Besides, it is risky because bringing so many people back at the same time may worsen the situation and increase the number of cases,” he said. The minister urged the students and the parents not to lose calm. “Thousands of students have already returned and we know about those who are stuck. They will be back soon,” he promised. Transport secretary Sanjay Kumar Agarwal, on the other hand, claimed that almost all students stranded in Kota had returned to their native places in Bihar. “Altogether 13,473 students from Kota have been brought back. Of these, 1,250 are from Patna, 925 from Nalanda, 750 from West Champaran, 600 each from Darbhanga and Madhubani, 572 from Madhepura and the remaining from other districts,” he said and added, “Two special trains will run from Kota on Sunday and Monday. The first one will reach Siwan while the destination of the other one has not been decided yet.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/students-trapped-in-other-states-seek-help/articleshow/75650847.cms||Archi Rani
May 10, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Youth arrested for raping minor||KOTA: A 23-year-old youth was arrested on Friday for repeatedly raping and blackmailing a 17-year-old girl at a village in Khanpur police station area of Jhalawar district. He was produced before a local court on Saturday that sent him to police remand for two days. The girl along with her father met Jhalawar SP on Thursday and lodged a complaint against Saddam Hussain Pinjara for repeatedly raping her following which police lodged a case of rape under various sections of IPC and POCSO Act in Khanpur police station, DSP and circle officer Bhanwar Singh Hada, who is investigating the case, said. The victim in her complaint alleged the accused, around three months ago, took her to an isolated place and raped her at a knife point and also clicked vulgar pictures of the act in his mobile. The accused threatened her to upload the video and pictures on social media sites and threatened to kill her if he disclosed it to police or someone in family. Jhalawar SP Rammurti Joshi ordered immediate action in the matter following which police arrested the accused from his village on Friday. Police recovered the mobile which was used for clicking vulgar pictures and videos of the rape survivor, Hada added. The victim is an class 8 dropout and stays at home while the accused youth lives in her neighborhood. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/youth-arrested-for-raping-minor/articleshow/75652234.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Patna||82,000 stranded people have so far reached Bihar: ECR||PATNA: Around 82,000 migrant workers, students and others stranded at different places in the country during the lockdown have so far reached Bihar by special trains run by railways in coordination with state governments. ECR chief public relations officer (CPRO) Rajesh Kumar said railways would run at least 121 ‘Shramik special’ trains for Bihar to ferry migrant workers, students and other stranded people during the lockdown. Of them, 70 special trains have reached Bihar till Saturday. “Fifty-one more special trains will be run by the railways to bring back stranded people to Bihar,” the CPRO said, adding more than 13,000 students from Kota in Rajasthan have so far reached Bihar. About 14,000 stranded migrant workers, students and others reached different districts in Bihar from Delhi and six other states by 12 special trains on Saturday. The CPRO said the special train from New Delhi carrying about 1,100 stranded migrant workers reached Muzaffarpur early on Saturday morning. “Two other special trains from Surat in Gujarat reached Chhapra and Gaya stations, respectively, carrying about 2,300 migrant workers and other stranded people. Besides, a special train from Rohtak in Haryana reached Katihar with 1,050 migrant workers on Saturday,” he said. Another special train carrying mostly migrant workers reached Muzaffarpur from Jalandhar cantonment on Saturday, while a special train from Ambala reached Bhagalpur with about 1,100 migrant workers. The special train from Vadodara in Gujarat carrying migrant workers reached Darbhanga. Similarly, a special train from Kalyan in Maharashtra reached Araria with migrant workers while another special train from Alappuzha in Kerala reached Bettiah, carrying migrant workers and other stranded people. Two other special trains from Ludhiana in Punjab reached Saharsa and Sitamarhi stations, while another special train from Aligarh in Uttar Pradesh reached Purnia around 2pm on Saturday. “Railways provided water bottles and snacks to the passengers during journey in some of the long distance trains,” the CPRO said. The railway security and safety personnel take at least two hours to clear each Shramik special train on its arrival at station and then sanitise each coach. “Wearing mask is mandatory for all passengers,” he said. The platform number one at Sitamarhi railway station was adorned with flowers and balloons to welcome the migrants. Food packets and water bottles were also provided to them. DM Abhilasha Kumari Sharma, SP Anil Kumar, DPRO Parimal Kumar and other senior officials were present at the station. Each passenger had to undergo thermal screening at the platform. The migrant workers from Sitamarhi, Sheohar, East Champaran, West Champaran, Gopalganj and other districts were sent by buses to several block and panchayat level quarantine centres. In Saran, a special train carrying 1,206 migrants from Surat arrived at Chhapra junction. Saran DM Subrat Kumar Sen, SP Har Kishore Rai and many other senior officials were present at the railway station when the train arrived. (With inputs from Shyam Kishore Singh in Sitamarhi and H K Verma in Chhapra)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ecr-82k-stranded-people-have-so-far-reached-bihar/articleshow/75650639.cms||Kumod Verma
May 10, 2020||Patna||Patna: Youngsters plan surprises for mothers||PATNA: The city has virtually come to a standstill because of the restrictions imposed on the movement of people amid the Covid-19 lockdown. With International Mother’s Day falling on Sunday, youngsters have, therefore, decided to stay at home and plan innovative surprises for their moms. While some have made cards and written letters, others, who are not in town, have planned to organize ‘virtual parties’. Nageshwar Colony resident Rohan Sharma, who used to take his mother out for dinner every year, told this newspaper on Saturday, “My sister and I will cook ‘dahi vada’ and ‘dal makhni’ for mom. We will also bake a chocolate cake for her this time.” Due to the unavailability of decorative items in the market, Kadamkuan resident Akshat will use some DIY (do-it-yourself) tricks. He said, “My mom is not expecting me to do anything on Mother’s Day this year. She does not know that I will decorate the house using items that I made with the help of online video tutorials.” Meanwhile, those, who are away from their families in Patna, will try their best to make their mothers feel special. “I have asked my mother, grandmother, aunt and cousins to join a video call where we will cut cakes and chat with each other. I have made a virtual greeting card too,” said Kankarbagh resident Shreya Sinha, who is in Pune. To children, who live with single moms, Mother’s Day is significant. Patna City resident Shweta Shrivastava and her two sisters consider their mother the “backbone of the family”. “She looked after and took care of us after our father’s demise. We decided to write her a letter telling her what she means to us. She is no less than a hero,” an emotional Shweta said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/youngsters-plan-surprises-for-mothers/articleshow/75650866.cms||Archi Rani
May 10, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Married woman hangs self in Bundi||KOTA: A 21-year-old married woman committed suicide by hanging herself from the ceiling fan, in Nayagaun village under Kapren police station of Bundi district on Saturday early morning. Police have lodged a case under Section 176 of CrPC and forwarded the matter for magisterial inquiry to the sub divisional magistrate, Keshoraipatan. The deceased woman was identified as Uma Jangid (21), wife of Dinesh Jangid and a resident of Nayagaun village under Kapren police station of Bundi district. The woman allegedly committed suicide by hanging herself from the ceiling fan of her room early on Saturday morning while other members of the family were asleep, SHO at Kapren police station Budhiprakesh Nama said. Prima facie, the woman appears to have taken the extreme step owing to some family-related problems, however no suicide note was recovered from her possession, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/married-woman-hangs-self-in-bundi/articleshow/75652236.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Goa||Wait grows longer for Karnika crew, sign-off likely tomorrow||Panaji: It is a longer wait for the 83 crew on board Karnika who want to return to Goa. After being told they would be signed off on Saturday, the crew who have spent more than 40 day on board, have been informed that the new sign off date is Monday. “There is no commitment from them yet. The government is ready to extend all cooperation,” ports secretary P S Reddy. The crew have already been tested for Covid-19 and have been practicing self quarantine on board since March 12 when the vessel arrived in Mumbai. The seaport public health office in Mumbai has given the crew medical clearance. They crew wrote to the chief minister last month stating that they could not afford paid quarantine facilities of Rs 3,000 per head per day for 14 days as they haven’t finished their contracts and requested the government to permit them to be sent on home quarantine. Meanwhile, sixteen crew from Angriya are awaiting clearances from Mumbai for their travel to Goa. They are expected to be back in Goa in the next few days. “All the procedures from Goa are complete and cleared. We are only awaiting police clearance from Mumbai for travel. They should reach Goa by late night on Sunday or Monday morning. They will be directly disembarked into the bus and sent to Goa,” managing director of Angriya Sea Eagle Ltd, Captain Nitin Dhond said. “Although they have been in self quarantine for 40 days on board, they will undergo 14-day institutional quarantine in Goa,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/wait-grows-longer-for-karnika-crew-sign-off-likely-tomorrow/articleshow/75652846.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Kolkata||Nigerian kid gets home away from home after operation||KOLKATA: Nigerian couple Abdulwaheed Ibrahim and Rukayat Tijani Ibrahim were lucky to have reached the city before the lockdown kicked in and their eight-month-old son got operated for a congenital heart disease. With a ban on international flights, the family is now stuck in a hotel in Salt Lake. But the Ibrahims said they were touched with the help pouring in to ensure a comfortable stay. “We are keeping in touch with our embassy in Delhi and hope to be evacuated soon. We will take back lots of wonderful memories about the generosity and the warmth we have been showered upon in this foreign land,” said Abdulwaheed, who teaches technical drawing in an engineering college in Nigeria. The duo had arrived on March 12 with their son Ummukulsum, who was suffering from a congenital heart condition called tetralogy of fallot. It is a condition in which the child turns blue at the slightest physical movement, like breastfeeding, due to lean supply of oxygenated blood in the lungs. The boy was admitted to Narayana Superspecialty Hospital (NSH) in Howrah on March 13, where paediatric cardiologist Amitabha Chattopadhyay confirmed the ailment. The boy was put under the knife on March 16. “In surgeries like this, we discharge the patient in about five to seven days if the post-surgery recovery in uneventful. So the baby was discharged on March 21,” said paediatric cardiac surgeon Debasis Das, who had anaesthesiologist Manish Sharma and Rangan Koley and paediatric intensivist Subhadeep Das in the team. The Nigerian couple’s ordeal started once they went back to the hotel in Salt Lake where they had put up. They are told that no international guests would be allowed. They spoke to Das who in turn spoke to the hospital administration. The couple with the child came back to the hospital and was given accommodation without any charges till May 2. But with patients turning positive in different hospitals, doctors thought hospital was no more a safe place for accommodation. That is when Rotary Club of Belur stepped in. “We are ensuring they get whatever help they require during this lockdown. We hope they will be evacuated soon,” said Ramesh Tiwari, president Rotary Club of Belur that runs a programme to get Nigerian children operated for congenital heart conditions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/nigerian-kid-gets-home-away-from-home-after-op/articleshow/75652221.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
May 10, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Team of 12 specialists to help fight disease||KOLKATA: The state has roped in 12 community medicine specialists to help the Covid-containment teams. The expert team is expected to enhance the Covid data analysis cell with inputs on a daily basis. Working in tandem with other Covid-containment teams, the community medicine experts will have different sets of activities for containment and non-containment areas. Their work in containment areas will include keeping tabs on the number of direct/high-risk contacts, patients of influenza-like illness (ILI) and severe acute respiratory illness (SARI), healthcare workers exposed and the number of samples sent for testing. In non-containment areas they will identify clusters of ILI and SARI. “It is good to see that community medicine people are finally being consulted in the fight against Covid. It is a welcome move,” said a senior government doctor. This perhaps is the first time the health department has engaged such a number of community medicine experts in the fight against the pandemic. Many in the medical fraternity have been ruing the absence of specialists, of community medicine, virologists, epidemiologists and microbiologists, in the various committees the state has formed for tackling the Covid crisis. Some doctors’ organizations had even written to the government about the need for including these specialists. The 12 community medicine specialists have been selected from the faculty of Calcutta National Medical College, Burdwan Medical College, College of Medicine and Sagore Dutta Medical College. The team will also give their input regarding activities of frontline workers and containment measures.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/team-of-12-specialists-to-help-fight-disease/articleshow/75652264.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
May 10, 2020||India||Ahead of key WHO meet, Taiwan seeks India's support||NEW DELHI: Taiwan has donated a million surgical masks to India as it resists attempts by China to prevent it from attending a key WHO meet later this month. Diplomatic sources said the donation was made against the backdrop of Taiwan - which is claimed by China as a part of its territory and remains excluded from UN and its subsidiary bodies - calling for India's support for its participation in the WHO meet, World Health Assembly, which will be held in Geneva on May 18. China doesn't want self-ruled Taiwan to attend the meeting and said Friday that the "so-called attempts to get into the WHO and participate in the WHA are absolutely not for the health and well-being of Taiwan's people but are through-and-through political manipulation, and will not succeed". Taiwan though says that it's absence from the meeting will dent the international fight against Covid-19. With not more than 500 Covid cases, and only six deaths, Taiwan's has been one of the most successful attempts in the world to neutralise the virus. Chinese embassy spokesperson in Delhi had said last month that as a part of China, Taiwan had no right to join WHO, which is a specialised agency of the United Nations restricted to only sovereign states. It is rare for India though to accept such assistance from Taiwan with which it has no formal diplomatic ties. The government had declined an offer of assistance from Taiwan even during the Kerala floods. Of the million masks, while 50,000 were delivered to Tamil Nadu, the remaining were received by the Red Cross here. At the handing over ceremony though, no Indian government official was present. Ambassador Chung-Kwang Tien of Taipei Economic and Cultural Centre, which is the representative office of Taiwan here, said the virus recognised no national boundary or race and so assistance did not have to be limited by nations, race or gender. "Taiwan has shown to the world that due to the preemptive preparations, the right policy implemented by the government, the trust established by the people towards the government and the lesson learned after the 2003 SARS, Taiwan has been recognised and praised greatly by international communities and countries around the world in terms of fighting the Covid-19 pandemic. Taiwan will be very much like to share her experiences as well as the PPE material such as masks with all the countries in need,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ahead-of-key-who-meet-taiwan-seeks-indias-support/articleshow/75653106.cms||Sachin Parashar
May 10, 2020||Mysuru||Man who bit woman cop nabbed||Mysuru: Police on Saturday arrested a youth who allegedly bit a woman constable near a containment zone 15 days ago. The accused, Kiran from Vidyaranyapuram had escaped from the area near Srirampura. He was intercepted by police. Before escaping, he had bitten the hand of the Ashokapuram police station constable. DCP AN Prakash Gowda confirmed the incident took place two weeks back.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/man-who-bit-woman-cop-nabbed/articleshow/75650183.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Rajkot||Four docs make nCov fight a family affair||Rajkot: Dr Jaldeepsinh Gohil, his wife Dr Urvi Zala and Dr Gohil’s sisters — Dr Puja Gohil and Dr Archana Gohil — are all warriors battling the pandemic across the state in various small and big hospitals. It’s become a Gohil versus Covid affair individually for all the children of Nirmalsinh Gohil, retired principal of Sihor Kanya Shala and native of Rajpara Toda village of Sihor taluka. While 28-year-old Dr Gohil is himself working in the special Covid-19 hospital at Ahmedabad Civil Hospital, his wife, Dr Urvi, 27, serves as the health officer at the hospital of Viramgam Municipality. Dr Puja, 30, serves as the health officer with Sihor Municipality hospital, while her sister, Dr Archana, 25, serves at Pachatar village primary health centre of Bhanwad taluka in Devbhoomi Dwarka district. While Dr Gohil has studied alopathy, his wife and sisters are ayurvedic practitioners. Dr Urvi has done Bachelor of Ayurvedic Medicine and Surgery (BAMS) from Rajkot, while Dr Puja has graduated from Vallabh Vidyanagar and Dr Archana from Bhavnagar. “The fight against coronavirus is definitely a challenge from so many angles,” says Dr Jaldeepsinh Gohil, describing his strenuous work at the Covid centre as well the fight to keep an upperhand on the virus and staying away from the family. Dr Gohil is pursuing his MD in medicine from BJ Medical College, from where he done his graduation too. “Once I wear the PPE (personal protective equipment) kit, I turn ascetic in its true sense. A life consisting of prayer, manual labour and total fasting,” said Dr Godil, a smile on his lips making the the words soft. He says the adopted monkhood becomes a necessity as the PPE kit doesn’t allow the wearer to eat or drink anything, almost as rigorous as observing a ‘Nakoda’ fast, he explained, albeit humorously. “Duty demands certain sacrifices. And I am happy that our family is being able to give whatever help possible to provide succour to the needy. After shedding my special garb in the evening, I turn normal, eat and drink besides thanking God for keeping us safe,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/four-docs-make-ncov-fight-a-family-affair/articleshow/75651263.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Bareilly||BJP MLA ‘threatens to resign’ over police action against villagers, SP orders probe||Pilibhit: Bharatiya Janata Party legislature from Bisalpur constituency Ram Saran Verma has threatened to resign from the Uttar Pradesh assembly if an FIR was not registered against the police team from Bilsanda police station who had allegedly assaulted locals in Bhikampur village and vandalised their property in the night of May 6. Talking to mediapersons, the MLA claimed, “BJP UP president Swatantra Dev Singh and minister in charge for Pilibhit Swami Prasad Maurya have assured me of prompt action against the erring cops.” Verma said he had visited the village on May 7 to take the stock of the situation and found that “villagers were victimised by the police team”. “Police officials, including superintendent of police Abhishek Dixit and Bisalpur circle officer, had assured me that the FIR against villagers, 23 named and 40-50 unidentified, would be withdrawn within two days, but the villagers were not given justice,” alleged Verma. Meanwhile, Dixit ordered a probe by ASP Rohit Mishra in this connection. “If policemen are found guilty, action will be taken against them,” added the SP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/bjp-mla-threatens-to-resign-over-police-action-against-villagers-sp-orders-probe/articleshow/75651285.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Jaipur||With 59 cases in 10 days, Pali emerges as new Covid hub||Jodhpur: Pali has emerged as a new epicentre of coronavirus infection in Jodhpur division with staggering 59 cases reported in just 10 days.  A green zone district earlier, nearly 80% of Pali’s city area is under curfew now. Of the 59 cases, Pali alone accounts for 53 cases and two others had been reported from rural areas. According to an official, the administration had started planning for relaxation in lockdown conditions in Pali with the lockdown 2.0 coming to an end on May 3 with special focus on industries. “But everything changed on April 27 when a woman from Nadi Mohalla was tested positive and when her contact tracing was done, positive cases started pouring in one after another,” said district magistrate Ansh Deep. Interestingly, till April 27, Pali had reported only two positive cases and those too from rural areas, which had even recovered before the first positive case was reported from Pali city. According to the sources, failure of the administration in keeping an eye on the woman led to spurt in the positive cases in Pali. “She had come from Kolkata on April 18 and had been quarantined at home. But she did not adhere to the protocol and kept meeting others. She even tore off the notice pasted outside her house,” said a source. Ansh Deep said that out of 65 city wards, 50 are under complete curfew, which constitutes 80% of the total area of Pali. Four areas of Pali have been declared red zone that comprise all the curfew-bound wards. “Most of these cases have been reported from Nadi Mohalla. We are trying to collect samples of the entire area as soon as possible,” said Ansh Deep. So far, 1,180 samples have been collected by the medical teams from the entire district and 250 samples are being tested in Pali itself, which, however, also include samples from Jalore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/with-59-cases-in-10-days-pali-emerges-as-new-covid-hub/articleshow/75652237.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Meerut||Meerut reports two new Covid-19 deaths, toll now 13||MEERUT: Meerut reported two new Covid-19 deaths on Saturday, taking the death toll to 13. Also, there were 21 new positive cases in Meerut, and one fresh case was reported in Amroha on Saturday. Two new Covid cases were reported in Shamli as well. These included a 50-year-old woman and a 32-year-old man from Panchariyan area of Shamli. Both are contacts of earlier Covid-19 positive fruit trader. Meanwhile, with the fresh cases, the total tally in Meerut reached 231, including one admitted in Kanpur. In Amroha, the tally rose to 32. Alarmingly, out of the 21 new Covid cases in Meerut, 17 belong to one cluster of previously tested positive cases from Ravindra Puri. While 16 are his family members, one is his physician. Meerut district surveillance officer, Dr Vishwas Chaudhary, said, “Two new deaths were reported in Meerut on Saturday. They included a 67-year-old man from Budhana Gate area who died of a heart attack after receiving his Covid-19 positive report, and a 68-year-old Islamabad resident – who died at LLRM Medical College during his treatment.” Further detailing about the 21 positive cases, Dr Chaudhary said, “As many as 21 new cases were reported on Saturday. While 16 out of the 21 cases are family members of the previously tested positive case from Ravindra Puri, one is his physician and one is from Swami Pada area in Budhana Gate. Meanwhile, three are admitted at LLRM Medical College.” The death rate in Meerut is on a continuous rise as the city reported two deaths on Friday and then two more on Saturday. On Saturday, there were also various videos and audios of the patients’ ordeal at LLRM Medical College, which surfaced. Inquiries were set up. In Amroha, an 80-year-old woman tested positive for coronavirus, taking the tally to 32. Dr Megh Singh, chief medical officer, Amroha, said, “One new case tested positive in Amroha, taking the total to 32. Contacts of the 80-year-old woman are being traced now.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/meerut-reports-two-newcovid-deaths-toll-now-13/articleshow/75652226.cms||Ishita Bhatia
May 10, 2020||Goa||‘Govt should foot bill for quarantine’||Panaji: The Goan Seamen Association of India has expressed disappointment with the latest government order forcing those returning to their home state as well as seafarers to pay for quarantine facilities. Co-founder of the association Dixon Vaz said the Goa government must provide seafarers and those returning from abroad after having lost jobs with an option of paid or free government quarantine facilities. “Those returning from the Gulf have lost their jobs and the government expects them to pay for quarantine facilities? Shipping companies are not willingly paying for quarantine facilities. It is only the Goa government who is forcing the companies to pay for mandatory quarantine services,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/govt-should-foot-bill-for-quarantine/articleshow/75652857.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Varanasi||Over 5,900 migrants arrive in East UP from various states||Varanasi: Shramik special trains continued to bring stranded migrant workers from various states to cities of East UP on Saturday. Over 5,900 migrant workers were brought to Varanasi, Chandauli, Jaunpur and Ballia on Saturday. A train from Rajkot (Gujarat) reached DDU Junction in Chandauli district with 1,079 workers. Two special trains from Hyderabad and Surat reached Varanasi railway station with 2,453 migrant workers. As many as 1,200 migrant workers from Rajkot were brought to Ballia railway station. A special train from Patiala (Punjab) reached Jaunpur with 1,200 migrant workers. State buses were arranged at all the four railway stations to ferry all the returning migrant workers to their native districts. All passengers underwent thermal screening and their details were noted down before they boarded the buses. They were also provided with food packets and water bottles at all railway stations on their arrival.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/over-5900-migrants-arrive-in-east-up-from-various-states/articleshow/75651003.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Trichy||Trichy: Jewellery heist case accused gets bail||TRICHY: The prime accused in the Lalithaa Jewellery heist case, Tiruvarur N Murugan, 46, was granted conditional bail by the Trichy district court on Friday. However, he can be released only if he gets bail in several other cases. In a video-conference hearing, magistrate P Kumar in-charge of judicial magistrate court I ordered for his release on bail on condition that the accused should sign at the Fort police station in Trichy city for 30 days after the lockdown was over. Murugan’s counsel P Hari Bhaskar pleaded for his release citing declining health condition after he was arrested on November 26, 2019 and lodged at the Trichy Central Prison. The assistant public prosecutor objected to Murugan’s release citing that there are 90 cases pending against him. The prosecutor also raised apprehension that the accused may abscond and cause disruption to the investigation in the cases against him if he is released on bail. The court observed that the Fort police has not filed the final report of the case despite crossing 60 days. Police submitted that they were awaiting approval from the assistant public prosecutor before filing the report before the court. Ruling out the possibility of Murugan tampering with the evidence, the court said that he was entitled to get the mandatory bail. Police said that Murugan’s health condition was also deteriorating. “We have moved the courts in Trichy, Chennai and Bengaluru seeking bail for Tiruvarur Murugan where cases are filed against him, because his health condition is deteriorating,” said Bhaskar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/jewellery-heist-case-accused-gets-bail/articleshow/75652862.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Shutdown Sunday: State to stay at home today||Thiruvananthpuram: The state will observe total shutdown for a day on Sunday as declared by chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan. All shops will remain shut and private vehicles have been asked to stay off roads on Sunday. There would be exception for shops selling essential goods, milk collection and distribution, hospitals, laboratories, medical stores, Covid-19 work-related apartments and agencies engaged in removal of waste. Take-away services in restaurants have been permitted from 8am to 9pm, and the Sunday lockdown will not be applicable for those who are part of weddings and funerals. Those who are out on medical requirements, those engaged in Covid-19-related duties and the media have also been exempted from the lockdown on Sundays. Movement of persons, other than those who are in essential services, will be permitted only for health emergencies. For any other purpose, prior passes issued by district collector or police authorities should be obtained. The government order issued on Saturday night allowed walking and cycling on Sunday. Selected city roads in Thiruvananthapuram, Kochi and Kozhikode will be closed to traffic from 5am to 10am so that walkers and cyclists can use those freely. In Thiruvananthapuram, Museum-Vellayambalam, Kowdiar-Vellayambalam and Pattom-Kuravankonam-Kowdiar will be closed. In Kochi, BTH to High Court Jn, Manorama Jn to Panampilly Nagar and the entire stretch of Stadium Link Road and approach road to GCDA stadium, Kaloor, will be closed. In Kozhikode, Beach Road, PHED Road from Eranjipalam-Sarovaram park and Vellimadukunnu-Kovoor Road will be closed. Though the state has given several relaxations on weekdays, except public transport, public gathering, cinema theatres, religious places, events, malls, liquor shops, bars, barbershops, beauty parlours, gyms, educational institutions, etc will not be allowed to open across the state, Sundays were declared as a day for total lockdown, including for public movement outside. Though the chief minister had announced that Sundays will be shut last Saturday itself, it was not strictly imposed last Sunday in order to avoid last-minute confusion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/shutdown-sunday-state-to-stay-at-home-today/articleshow/75651295.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Kochi||INS Jalashwa to reach Kochi today||Kochi: INS Jalashwa, the naval ship with 698 Indians who embarked from Maldives, will be arriving at the cruise terminal of the Cochin Port around 9:30-10:00am on Sunday. The ship is the first one to complete the Operation Samudra Setu launched by the Indian Navy in accordance with the central government’s directions to evacuate expatriate Indians by sea. The ship sailed out of Male port on Friday night after a day-long embarkation process there. The passengers include 595 males, 103 females, 14 children below 10 years and 19 pregnant women. Of them, 440 are Keralites and 187 are from Tamil Nadu. The rest of the passengers belong to 17 other states and one Union Territory. During the ship’s passage to Kochi, the Western Fleet of Indian Naval Ships joined INS Jalashwa in a demonstration of Indian Navy’s commitment to the national effort. While INS Jalashwa sails towards the mainland, INS Magar, a ship based at Southern Naval Command, Kochi, is on its way to Male to continue the repatriation process. With few more repatriation ships expected to reach Kochi, extensive arrangements have been made at Cochin Port under the supervision of the district administration and Kochi Police Commissionerate. District collector S Suhas visited the port and validated the arrangements on Saturday. Vijay Sakhare, city police commissioner and Snehil Kumar Singh, sub-collector, Fort Kochi, earlier visited the Samudrika Cruise Terminal on Friday and reviewed the arrangements. They also held discussions with officials from the district administration, police, Cochin Port Trust, CISF, port health organization, immigration and the Indian Navy. Before arrival at Cochin, on board the vessel, the symptomatic passengers will be separated by the Navy and they will be disembarked first. Passengers will be brought to the terminal in batches of 50 to complete statutory clearances, health screening, submission of self-declaration forms, getting new BSNL sim cards, etc.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/ins-jalashwa-to-reach-kochi-today/articleshow/75651305.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Agra||Paliwal Park to get toy train, high-speed joyrides||Agra: The Agra Municipal Corporation (AMC) has prepared a plan for the development of Paliwal Park as a picnic spot in the city. The civic body has earmarked Rs 34 crore for the facelift which will include high-speed joyrides, a food court, a toy train and a laser show facility at the park. Besides this, four traffic islands will be developed on the road connecting different parts of the park. The executive engineer of AMC, RK Singh, said, “Major development and beautification works have been planned to take place at the Paliwal Park. In the 1.5-kilometre stretch, a toy train will be operated. We also have plans to set up high-speed joyrides – like a roller coaster – in the park. A laser show highlighting the heritage of Agra will also be staged daily. A Panchatatva (five elements of nature) track and a yoga hut will also developed in the park, along with a food court and modern toilets.” “Following the technical approval of the state government, we have started the tendering process for the development of Paliwal Park as a picnic spot in the city. The proposed work is likely to be completed within a year,” he said. Paliwal Park was developed during 1886-90. During the British rule, it was known as the ‘Hewitt Park’. It was later renamed in memory of Krishna Datta Paliwal, who was the first finance minister of Uttar Pradesh. On a daily basis, a large number of people – including children, women and senior citizens – visit the park.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/paliwal-park-to-get-toy-train-high-speed-joyrides/articleshow/75651281.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Jaipur||Kitchen gardens to be developed in schools under NREGA||Jaipur: In order to engage more migrant workers, who have returned from other states, in NREGA work, the state’s MGNREGA department will start developing kitchen gardens in empty spaces within the government schools in rural areas and Anganwadis centres. This initiative will ensure increasing the number of labourers working under the scheme on any given day. Moreover, the food cooked with vegetables grown at the kitchen gardens will help in improving nutrition of the students and children, who are provided midday meals at these schools and anganwadi centres . “Now, we will start developing kitchen gardens in the empty spaces of government schools and Anganwadis. We have recommended to the government of India to allow developing such gardens on individual lands (belonging to SC/ST, farmers, marginal and small farmers) as well through MGNREGA scheme,” said state’s MGNREGA commissioner P C Kishan. “We will have at least one school each in all the 10,000 gram panchayats. This initiative will also reduce malnutrition among students and children who are provided midday meals. The vegetables will improve the quality of the midday meals. We have made a classification of 53 vegetables as per the season. We have also mentioned the process of cultivation. If anybody wants to develop his/her own kitchen garden, this will also be helpful,” he added. Some of these vegetables include brinjal, tomato, lady’s finger, potato, raddish, peas, chilly, cauliflower, cabbage, onion, garlic, cucumber and others. Box 23L working under scheme Jaipur: On Saturday, there were 22.75 lakh labourers working on the ground under MGNREGA scheme. “It is a quantum jump in the number of labourers working (on any given day) from 17 lakh that worked on Thursday. Still, there is a gap of 10 lakh labourers on the ground. Under normal circumstances, there would be 30 lakh labourers working on any given day during this period of the year,” said MGNREGA commissioner P C Kishan. The number of labourers has jumped from 62,000 to 22.75 lakh labourers since April 22.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/kitchen-gardens-to-be-developed-in-schools-under-nrega/articleshow/75652865.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Jaipur||Borders sealed for systematic entry of migrants into Rajasthan: Ashok Gehlot||JAIPUR: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Saturday said the state borders were sealed not to deny entry to migrants but for their systematic entry into the state. The clarification came after many organisations, including NGOs, decried the decision of the government to seal the borders. Gehlot said entry of migrants on the borders has not been stopped but special arrangements have been made to facilitate inter-state movement. There is no restriction on entry of people who have been issued e-passes. Similarly, migrants from other states stranded in Rajasthan could also visit their place after getting permission as per the guidelines of the Central government, he said. Gehlot said the priority of the government is to save lives and prevent the spread of infection. “As per Centre’s guidelines, standard operating procedure has been issued on Friday to facilitate inter-state and inter-district and intra-district movement of people easier.” He directed to make special cells at the district level for issuing of e-passes. The chief minister said at the time of implementation of the third phase of lockdown, 10 districts of Rajasthan were in the green zone which has reduced to two now. Due to this, the process of movement of workers and other migrants has been rationalized. In case of emergency, collectors and sub-divisional magistrates have been authorized to issue passes for inter-district traffic in Rajasthan, he said. Don’t leave: Gehlot to migrant workersChief minister Ashok Gehlot appealed to the workers of other states not to leave for their home without permission. The Rajasthan government is making proper arrangements by obtaining NOC from their home states for the workers who have obtained permission by following the prescribed procedure. He said that about 18 lakh people have registered for inter-state traffic in Rajasthan, out of which 11 lakh people are coming to the state. It is not possible for such a large number of people to come here, until regular road, air and railway services are started at the end of the lockdown. Gehlot said that priority for traffic should be given to those who had travelled to another state for religious, tourism, business or temporarily and got stuck there due to sudden lockdown. The Centre had also given exemption to such people to go to their place of residence. The remaining migrants are again urged to be patient and stay in their place. Anyone who comes to another state will have to face the inconvenience of quarantine for 14 days, not be hasty.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/borders-sealed-for-systematic-entry-of-migrants-into-raj-cm/articleshow/75652859.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Bareilly||Uttar Pradesh: Seven booked for attempting to outrage modesty of 18-year-old girl||PILIBHIT: Seven persons, including an elected municipal council member, were booked for attempting to outrage the modesty of an 18-year-old girl and causing violence late on Friday evening in a locality in Pilibhit city. According to the girl’s father, “A 20-year-old youth, identified as Furqan Ahmad of our locality, was seen standing outside our main door. When our 10-year-old son asked him the reason, he said that he wanted to elope with my daughter.” “The dialogue irked my daughter and as she went outside to confront him when Ahmad held her arm and started dragging her outside, all while shouting obscene remarks. He fled the scene as we rushed to rescue her. However, shortly afterwards, he was back with six of his armed accomplices.” The complainant said that they broke into their house, hurled abuses and thrashed his 70-year-old father, mother, wife, daughter and son brutally as a result of which the entire family sustained injuries. The assailants left his house but not before threatening to kill his entire family. The injured family members were shifted to the government hospital for medical aid and injury report. Station house officer (SHO) Shrikant Dwivedi said that the seven accused were booked under sections 147 (rioting), 148 (rioting equipped with deadly weapons), 354 (applying criminal force to a woman with intent of outraging her modesty), 452 (house trespass), 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke the breach of peace) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the IPC. Of the seven accused, Sharif Ahmad is a member of Pilibhit municipal council. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/uttar-pradesh-seven-booked-for-attempting-to-outrage-modesty-of-18-year-old-girl/articleshow/75651274.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Kolkata||Jadavpur University students’ petition to women’s panel||KOLKATA: On Friday night, a group of 110 students from Jadavpur University sent a petition to Leena Gangopadhyay, chairperson of West Bengal Commission for Women, to take cognizance of the ‘Bois Locker Room’-like incident in Kolkata with alleged involvement of JU students. They said that the Delhi Commission for Women had sent a notice to Instagram and the police. Gangopadhyay said a similar notice had been sent to Facebook and cyber crime cell. According to the petition, the five men — who are former or current students of JU — had been circulating inappropriate pictures of women via Google Drive. These pictures “would be obtained through coercion or consent by one of them and then shared with other men”. Ekabali Ghosh, a JU research scholar, said, “There is silence around sexual violence, especially when women have been sexually active. In such cases, the risk of victim-shaming is more as the women themselves might have shared compromising pictures.” (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/ju-students-petition-to-womens-panel/articleshow/75652941.cms||Priyanka Dasgupta
May 10, 2020||Udaipur||After virus spike, entire Udaipur city turns containment zone till May 22||UDAIPUR: With the number of coronavirus positive cases crossing 100 mark, the district administration has declared the entire municipal area (excluding industrial area) a containment zone to arrest the community spread of Covid-19. Collector Anandhi issued the order imposing complete restrictions on movement and activities of people effective from Saturday afternoon to May 22. The decision was taken after a record 59 new cases were reported on Friday, followed by 20 more cases by Saturday morning. Of the 55 positive cases in Kanji-ka-Hata area, 26 persons are sanitation workers of the Udaipur Municipal Corporation and hence to contain the spread, UMC commissioner Ankit Singh declared holiday for all the 1,750 sanitation workers for two days. Deputy mayor Paras Singhvi said that the contact history of the 26 infected workers is being traced and all those who didn’t come in contact with them, would be called back on duty. Meanwhile, UIT too has been closed till further orders after three personnel including a revenue inspector and a driver tested positive. UIT secretary Arun Hasija said that all the staff has been home quarantined and their samples have been sent for testing. Curfew is effective under three police station areas — Surajpole, Ghantaghar and Dhanmandi — which cover a majority of the densely-populated pockets inside the Walled City comprising Mukherji Chowk, Kheradiwada, Asthal Mandir, Nayakwadi, Naiyo-ki Talai, Kalaji Goraji, Rangniwas, Amal ka Kanta, Regar Colony, Brahmapuri, JhiniRet, Kumawatpura, Nadakheda, Kumharwada, Khanjipeer, Patel Circle, Agrasen Nagar, Shivaji Nagar, Kailash colony, Beeda, Gosiya Colony, Machhla Magra, SwarajNagar etc.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/after-virus-spike-entire-udaipur-city-turns-containment-zone-till-may-22/articleshow/75652244.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Hyderabad||With cash cows contained in red zones, registrations fail to cheer||HYDERABAD: Even though the Telangana government has allowed registration offices to function even in red zones hoping to fill its coffers, it has proved a dampener in the last few days. The registration and stamps (R&S) department could just pocket Rs 20 crore in the last three days (till May 8), while it used to rake in Rs 15 crore a day before the lockdown kicked in. The contribution from the Hyderabad metropolitan area was about Rs 10 crore. The department generally sees transactions related to over 2,000 properties (documents) in the state and collects Rs 15 crore revenue every day. After the over 45-day lockdown, it is earning less than 50% of its daily revenue. The state government decided to allow R&S department to function as it has been losing revenue on registrations. Major share of revenue comes from Hyderabad and surrounding districts due to the real estate picking up pace. “Registrations happening now are mostly of agreements which happened earlier and also full payment was made by the party. In some cases, people have paid required fee for registration and could not complete the process due to lockdown,” a district registrar told TOI. Sources said officials were in a dilemma whether dip in revenue in cash-cow districts (Hyderabad, Rangareddy and Medchal-Malkajgiri) for R&S department might continue for a few more months or revive after lockdown. Major contributors of revenue were now in red zones, where people can only venture out for buying essentials or medicines Due to the lockdown, the department for the first time in the recent past had registered only 8% growth. “While the annual revenue earned in 2018-2019 was Rs 6,600 crore, it was Rs 7,061 crore in 2019-2020. Generally, the department registers growth of about 15%. This is mainly because of lockdown, which started in March, at the fag end of the financial year,” a senior registration department official said. The government had earlier planned to increase land values for property registrations from April 1, as there has been no revision since 2013. However, due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the government might just go for cosmetic change of rates from August 1, sources in the CM’s office said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/with-cash-cows-contained-in-red-zones-registrations-fail-to-cheer/articleshow/75652248.cms||Koride Mahesh
May 10, 2020||Bareilly||BMC disinfects 1,500 homes, shops in a day in ‘hotspot’ Hajiyapur||BAREILLY: The Bareilly Municipal Corporation (BMC) has set its target to disinfect maximum houses/commercial establishments in the areas identified as "hotspots". In a day, the civic authority disinfected around 1,500 houses in the hotspot, Hajiyapur, as a preventive measure against the spread of infection. Officials at BMC said that all possible measures are being taken up by the civic body to maintain cleanliness and disinfect surroundings, especially the hotspot areas of the city. Besides, small and big drains will be cleaned in a phase-wise manner. Around 40 big and small drains in parts of the city have been unclogged so far. Speaking to TOI, Bareilly municipal commissioner Abhishek Anand said, “Process of spraying disinfectants in the city has been taken up by Bareilly civic body on war footing and the areas identified as hotspots — Hajiyapur, Brahmapura — have our main focus. We have set a target to sanitise maximum public places, including petrol pumps, shops, houses, etc, located in particular areas. Around 1,500 houses, shops, etc, were disinfected by the sanitisation team in Hajiyapur. Every day, the corporation workers will be spraying disinfectants in the affected areas. All surfaces, gates, petrol pumps, religious places, etc, are being sprayed thoroughly.” Officials said that apart from spraying of disinfectants to combat spread of infection, BMC has chalked out a plan to unclog city drains to ensure cleanliness in residential areas and public places. The cleaning of drains is being carried out in phase-wise manner. Municipal commissioner Anand added, “Around 40 big and small drains in various parts of the city have been cleaned by our sanitation department and efforts are underway to unclog all the drains and pits across the city. The process of de-silting 30 other big and small drains has begun.” Moreover, Bareilly civic body has been running two community kitchens — at BMC office premises and Harunagla shelter home, to provide food packets and ration to the destitute and needy people. BMC, per day, has been distributing around 2,000 food packets among homeless and poor while helpline numbers are also being provided to local residents interested in providing food, ration to the needy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/bmc-disinfects-1-5k-homes-shops-in-a-day-in-hotspot-hajiyapur/articleshow/75651310.cms||Maria Khan
May 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Case against shopkeeper for selling hookah||Hyderabad: Task Force police on Saturday raided a shop in Himayatnagar, and booked its owner for selling hookah flavours containing nicotine, violating lockdown orders. Mohammed Amzed Khan, 44, owner of Sania perfumes in Himayatnagar and a resident of Narayanaguda, had procured and sold hookah pots and flavours in his perfume shop to customers, including minors, at a higher price in view of the Covid-19 lockdown, police said. Police have seized three hookah pots, about 700 pouches of 12 varieties of flavours, 150 pouches of coal, 36 packets of silver foil and 25 hookah pipes and Rs 150 cash from his possession and booked him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/case-against-shopkeeper-for-selling-hookah/articleshow/75652872.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Agra||Aligarh reports its third Covid death||Agra: A 60-year-old woman on Saturday died at Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College (JNMC) in Aligarh after few hours of her admission due to Novel Coronavirus, taking the toll of Covid-19 deaths to three in the district. The number of patients infected from the deadly disease has reached 56, officials said. In neighbouring district of Mathura, seven fresh cases of Covid-19 surfaced on Saturday, taking the total tally of such patients to 46, including three deaths. According to health officials, out of the seven patients, two are women aged 70 and 39 while the three others include a 16-year-old boy. The other two include a doctor and his wife of a private hospital in Mathura’s Kosikala. Confirming the woman's death, Aligarh district magistrate CB Singh said that the patient died at JNMC on Saturday. Her report however, came after her demise. He said that 22 patients have also recovered. He added that 55 migrant labourers from Maharashtra were also sent to their destinations after they tested negative for Covid-19. Mathura chief medical officer, Sher Singh, said that all the seven new positive cases were reported from areas declared as hotspots like Chaubiapara, Manoharpura, Madarsa and Bhargava lane. He said that all new patients were connected with the infected patients, who had tested positive for Covid-19 earlier. “We have conducted a health survey of these hotspots to reach each and every house to ensure that no person is left out from the medical check ups,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/aligarh-reports-its-third-covid-death/articleshow/75651290.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Varanasi||DLW resumes production as 48-day lockdown ends||Varanasi: Diesel Locomotive Works (DLW), a production unit of Indian Railways, started production of locomotives on Saturday after a 48-day closure due to lockdown in the wake of CIVID-19 outbreak. DLW chief public relations officer Nitin Mehrotra said that the production activities have been started with necessary precautions and as per the protocol of lockdown. The services of only 33% employees living in DLW township are being taken in production activities. He said that in view of the COVID-19 pandemic all employees were made to download the Arogya Setu app in their mobile phones, and all of them have been given face masks. The workshop timing has been divided into two shifts with strict following of social distancing norms. Each employee undergoes thermal scanning at the entrance. Besides, proper arrangements of sanitization and handwashing have been made at various places in the workshops. As per the guideline of the ministry of home affairs and instructions of the district administration, the working timings have been fixed from 7.30 am to 12.30 pm for first shift and from 1.30 pm to 6 pm for the second, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/dlw-resumes-production-as-48-day-lockdown-ends/articleshow/75651017.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Kozhikode||‘Red Card’ surveillance in Kannur||Kannur: After successfully containing the spread of Covid-19 in Kannur and Kasaragod, the two worst-affected districts which are now coming back to normal, authorities are exploring stringent measures to make sure there is no transmission once the expatriates come back. In Kannur, where the lockdown was stringent and the containment zones were under triple lockdown, police are exploring new possibilities to seek the support of the people to ensure those under observation at home do not step out. As part of this, district police chief Yathish Chandra G H has introduced a ‘Red Card’ with a phone number to alert the police if a person on quarantine in their neighbourhood steps out. The card would be distributed among the people with the help of the volunteers under the Janamaithri police and also the voluntary groups and volunteers under the ward-level committees. This card would be given to the neighbours of any person who is under quarantine and in case this person is found violating the quarantine rules and stepping out, it could be brought to the attention of the police. “It’s up to the neighbours and the ward member of the area. Any home-quarantined person is not supposed to go out, so neighbours could keep a watch on them and alert police if they go out,” said the district police chief. But unlike the previous cases, the scenario is much under control now, said Kasaragod district police chief P S Sabu. “Since the people coming from other states and also abroad would be put under mandatory quarantine and they would be permitted to go home only after making sure that they have no infection, there is no major concern as such,” he said. As of now, only six people, including two pregnant women, have come to the district from abroad and they are quarantined as per protocol. In the coming days, if the number increases, the facilities are in place to accommodate them and strict surveillance would be there by the police to ensure they do not violate the quarantine rules, he said. People coming from the ‘red zones’ in other states are also asked to go on mandatory quarantine and they also would not be allowed to have any physical proximity with their family members. In most of the cases, they have to be in quarantine in separate places arranged by the authorities, said Dr AT Manoj, district surveillance officer, Kasaragod. Despite all these precautions, some isolated positive cases are likely, if the latest two cases in the state are any indication, but the expectation is that it would not lead to any community transmission.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/red-card-surveillance-in-kannur/articleshow/75651342.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Bareilly||Kishanpur ranger suspended in ‘illegal tree felling’ case||Bareilly: Forest ranger of Kishanpur Wildlife Sanctuary of Dudhwa Tiger Reserve has been suspended after he failed to provide a record of wooden logs seized from his residence situated in the core area of the reserve. Ranger Rambaran Yadav has been posted in Kishanpur range for nearly four years despite the fact that maximum tenure at a range is three years. According to sources, a team of five rangers, led by deputy director of core area Manoj Sonkar, raided Yadav's house and seized sal and sheesham logs worth Rs 25 lakh on April 23.Earler, on April 13, a forest guard at Tarkoti outpost was caught while smuggling timber.g The guard had hinted at the involvement of the range officer in illegal felling of trees. After thorough investigation, Sonkar raided Yadav's residence of and recovered the sal and sheesham logs. On his part, Yadav claimed that he had purchased the timber from the market and sought time to produce the bills. However, he failed to prove his innocence and was suspended by field director Sanjay Pathak. A departmental inquiry is also going on against a few other officials. Pathak told TOI, “The raid was conducted after we received a tip-off. After recovery of forest timber, we had given sufficient time to the ranger to prove his innocence. As of now, he has been suspended. We are trying to identify if other officials are involved in illegal felling of reserve forest trees. Someone had attempted to set the forest on fire and we are probing if that incident has any link to recovery of the timber.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/kishanpur-ranger-suspended-in-illegal-tree-felling-case/articleshow/75651345.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
May 10, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Govt sets kharif target at 96 lakh MT foodgrain||Bhubaneswar: The state government has targeted to produce 96 lakh metric tonnes (MT) of foodgrains in Kharif-2020. Around 100 MT of foodgrains was produced during the kharif season last year. Though most farmers in Odisha concentrate on paddy during kharif, the agriculture department has emphasised non-paddy or cash crops for better income of farmers. The field-level officials have been asked to sensitise farmers on diversification of crops for better income. Construction of farm ponds and disbursal of crop loan are the key initiatives taken by the department to benefit farmers of the state, said a senior agriculture department officer. While agriculture and allied activities have been exempted from lockdown restrictions to facilitate smooth agricultural operations, the government has also emphasised on adequate supply of seeds, farm machineries and pesticides to farmers. With around 70% of the state’s population dependant on agriculture, the state government has asked the agriculture department to ensure smooth farm activities even during the lockdown. Nodal officers have been appointed for all districts to oversee the activities, said official sources. Meanwhile, farmers outfit Naba Nirman Krushak Sangathan (NNKS) demanded immediate lifting of lockdown. Addressing a news conference through video conference, convenor of the NNKS Akshya Kumar said the state government should give financial assistance of Rs 5,000 to all farmers, farm labourers and other affected persons.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/govt-sets-kharif-target-at-96-lakh-mt-foodgrain/articleshow/75651354.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Jaipur||Infected UIT staff had delivered groceries to thousands of houses||Udaipur: Three employees of Urban Improvement Trust (UIT) who tested positive on Friday were reportedly involved in distribution of grocery and relief material to thousands of households in the past few weeks. All of them have no travel history. Out of 102 cases in Udaipur, 79 are from epicentre Kanji ka Hata locality. CMHO Dinesh Kharadi said there are many cases but fortunately most of the cases are asymptomatic. There are lesser chance of community spread by asymptomatic people compared to those having Covid symptoms. Fifty infected persons were tested in the initial phase of the infection and hence their rate of recovery would be higher and faster compared to others. In Kanji ka Hata area, 34 infected women are from nine years to 80 years, while 21 males are in the age bracket of 19 to 55. The residents in these areas have been disallowed from stepping out of their homes, he said. “The entire area has now been cordoned off and a containment procedure is under way. Movement of people is completely restricted and we have started disinfecting the entire neighbourhood as well. Door-to-door screening is also underway,” Kharadi said. The CMHO said that it would be incorrect to say that home guard was the carrier of the disease in the locality because there are 12 members in his family and four were found positive. “We are trying to trace the source of the virus and also conducting random sampling in the 100 metre radius of the area,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/infected-uit-staff-had-delivered-groceries-to-thousands-of-houses/articleshow/75652245.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Jaipur||Pratap Singh Kachariyawas wants Bihar govt to take stuck Kota students back||JAIPUR: Transport minister Pratap Singh Kachariyawas while taking stock of the situation in Kota and Bundi districts decried the role of Bihar government in taking back their students stuck in Rajasthan. He said 15,000 coaching students from the eastern state are stuck in Kota as their government is not ready to take them home. He said Bihar government should make arrangements for their safe return. He directed the district administrations to provide all help to labourers and students who wish to go home by trains. The minister said labourers who are walking should be taken to safe places and given food and water. Pali district in-charge and agriculture minister Lalchand Kataria after reviewing issues such as water and electricity problems, locust control, medical and ration system along with prevention of corona infection, directed that migrants coming from outside the district should not face any kind of problems. He said in some villages people were not being allowed to enter. He asserted it was necessary to make arrangements for their accommodation and food. Kataria said arrangements should be made to provide ration to those who do not have ration cards. He advocated the need to maintain social distance in the ration distribution system. He said under the NREGA scheme, work should be sanctioned in villages and more and more people should be employed. He said arrangements should be made to supply water from tankers especially at villages in Rohat region where there is scarcity of water. The minister in-charge said locust swarms entered the state and there was a possibility that the pests could reach Pali district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/kachariyawas-wants-bihar-govt-to-take-stuck-kota-students-back/articleshow/75652874.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Varanasi||75-yr-old diabetic man defeats corona, discharged from hosp||Varanasi: While no new case of Covid-19 was reported in the district for third consecutive day on Saturday, defeating coronavirus the 75-year-old diabetic betel trader of Pitarkunda returned home after getting cured at SSL hospital of Banaras Hindu University on Saturday. The BHU administration also shifted all the Covid-19 related outdoor patient department, tests and isolation ward to its super-speciality wing from the SSL hospital. Chief medical officer Dr VB Singh said that on Saturday 108 test reports were received from the BHU lab and all were found negative. Before it no positive case was reported in the district on Thursday and Friday. He said that total number of Covid-19 cases in the district is still 77 out of which 22 have become cured and discharged from the hospital till Saturday evening. One infected person had died on April 3. Now, active cases in isolation wards of BHU and DDU district hospital had become 42. BHU spokesman Rajesh Singh said that after the two consecutive reports, which had remarks- `negative’, the elderly betel trader of Pitarkunda was declared cured and discharge from the isolation ward of super-speciality block of BHU. Before this trader could leave the hospital for his home, BHU vice-chancellor Prof Rakesh Bhatnagar, IMS-BHU director Prof RK Jain, medical superintendent Dr SK Mathur and other officials reached the hospital. Presenting him a bouquet, the VC boosted moral of elderly trader and asked him to take special care of him with balanced diet. This diabetic trader had been referred to BHU by a private hospital on April 17 with complication in kidney while he also suffered hyper-tension. Later, his two family members had also been tested as infected. Meanwhile, the BHU administration also made changed in the arrangements of tackling Covid-19. Singh said that apart from Covid-19 OPD the laboratory for its test and ward to keep the suspected cases were shifted to super-speciality wing from SSL hospital. He said that the IMS-BHU took this initiative to ensure availability of all COVID-19 related facilities, tests and treatment under one roof. After the discharge of elderly trader now five positive cases are being treated at BHU while 24 suspected cases are also admitted here, said Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/75-yr-old-diabetic-man-defeats-corona-discharged-from-hosp/articleshow/75651042.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Next batch of train passes to be issued after rush clears, say cops||Hyderabad: The wait to return home might just get longer for lakhs of migrant workers from Telangana, with the city police putting the brakes on travel registrations, at some of its centres in Hyderabad. Senior officials said that the move is temporary and travel will be resumed once the existing batch of pass-holders board their trains. According to the police, over two lakh migrants have registered for train passes from Hyderabad so far. However, only a limited number of trains have been made available to accommodate them. “Lakhs of migrant workers have already registered for travel passes. But in some cases, their home states have not responded to the request. Only a limited number of trains are running at the moment. So, fresh registrations will only increase their waiting period,” a senior official told TOI, adding, “Now that the construction activity in the state has resumed, we are trying to encourage the labourers to find work here till some arrangement is made for their return.” The migrant workers, with travel passes, will be sent home in a phased manner, the official said. But the police’s decision has added to the anxiety of many workers, who have been making the rounds of police stations for days. “We went to the registration centre in Gachibowli area on Saturday, but the officials said that the process has been stopped. They said that it would take at least a couple of weeks before the registration process resumes,” said Abdul Raheeq, a migrant worker from Malda district of West Bengal, staying at Financial District. “Migrant workers are very anxious and there is overcrowding at police stations...but we can begin the second phase of registration only once the rush (of those issued train passes) is cleared,” said another top police official claiming that the enrolment process for passes has been stopped, at certain centres, since Friday. “We will soon decide when the registration process will resume and inform people,” the the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/next-batch-of-train-passes-to-be-issued-after-rush-clears-say-cops/articleshow/75652880.cms||Aditi Mallick
May 10, 2020||Rajkot||15 ‘outsiders’ test positive in Saurashtra districts||Rajkot: At least a 15 people tested positive for Covid-19 virus in different districts of Saurashtra on Saturday. In majority of the cases, those testing positive had travelled from outside to the districts in Saurashtra region. Meanwhile, a 62-year-old woman with psychiatric illness succumbed to cornovirus infection at Sir T Hospital in Bhavnagar on Saturday. She was identified as Roshan Lakhani and was admitted two days back. She was found with Covid-19 symptoms during community surveillance.In Bhavnagar, of the three persons who tested positive, two were part of the group that had come from Mumbai. Seven members of the group had tested positive on Friday. The third person, a 45-year-old man from Shihor taluka, who got infected was in contact of another Covid positive person.Bhavnagar district development officer V J Baranwal said, “The group from Mumbai are Jamatis and native of Bhavnagar. They went to Mumbai for community work. They got stuck there because of lockdown and have now returned to Bhavnagar on valid passes.” According to officials, a group of 28 members had returned from Mumbai.In Botad, a 43-year-old woman tested positive on Saturday. Meanwhile, in Gir Somnath district, eight people including three children tested positive on Saturday. Of the eight, seven persons had come from Ahmedabad with a person who tested positive on Friday. A man who had come to Kodinar from Mumbai also tested positive for the virus in Gir Somnath.In Surendranagar, a 46-year-old woman and a 13-year-old boy, residents of Asundri village in Muli taluka tested positive. They both had come from Ahmedabad on May 3.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/15-outsiders-test-positive-in-saurashtra-districts/articleshow/75651358.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Agra||Uttar Pradesh: Kidnapped Mathura boy rescued in 24 hours||AGRA: Mathura Police on Saturday rescued a three-year-old boy who was kidnapped from outside his house a day earlier. The child went missing on Friday morning after he went out to play in the neighbourhood in Parasuram Colony in Raya area. A ransom note demanding Rs 20 lakh was later found near the house with the boy’s slippers. In the early hours on Saturday, police found the child at a temple in Tabaka village, around 10 km from Raya, said SSP Gaurav Grover. The child's father, who is a 'lekhpal' (revenue official), thanked police for rescuing his son, saying intensive checking forced the kidnappers to abandon the boy. The search for the kidnappers is on, said police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/kidnapped-mathura-boy-rescued-in-24-hours/articleshow/75651327.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Bareilly||Uttar Pradesh: FIR lodged in tiger death in Pilibhit’s Jari village||PILIBHIT: An FIR was lodged against unidentified persons for causing serious injuries to a tiger that died on May 3, during its rescue operation at Jari village under Gajraula police station. The FIR was filed on Saturday evening on the basis of a written complaint by Garha beat in-charge in Mala forest range of Pilibhit Tiger Reserve (PTR) Gopal Saxena. In addition, the social forestry division’s Puranpur range official has also registered a departmental case against unidentified villagers in the same matter. It is understood that action was taken after BJP MP from Sultanpur Maneka Gandhi spoke with principal secretary of forest Sudhir Garg on Friday. According to deputy director of PTR Naveen Khandelwal, the nature of animal's injuries indicated that it was brutally beaten up. Jai Prakash Singh, SHO, said the FIR was lodged under provisions of the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972. The five-year-old adult tiger had died just 15 minutes after it was hit with tranquilizing darts. “The departmental case in tiger’s death has also been registered under the Wildlife Protection Act. Further investigation will be conducted by sub divisional forest officer of PTR's Puranpur circle, Praveen Khare," said Sanjeev Kumar, divisional forest officer of social forestry division. Meanwhile, Samajwadi Party's former minister Hemraj Verma warned that he would resort to an agitation if innocent villagers were harassed by the forest department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/fir-lodged-in-tiger-death-in-pilibhits-jari-village/articleshow/75651323.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Mangaluru||Coast Guard ready to discharge duties in times of pandemic||MANGALURU: The Indian Coast Guard has a dual fight on its hands. On the one hand, it has to fight an unseen enemy who strives to undermine national sovereignty from beyond the seas, and on the other, it has to combat an enemy within, that is microscopically tiny and has brought humankind on its knees, literally. It is a combination of perseverance and following military discipline, that is helping the Coast Guard keep both these enemies at bay. Fathom this. The 500-odd officers, men, and civilians under the command of the Indian Coast Guard district headquarters (DHQ) 3 at Panambur, form the front line of the nation’s defence, for all the threats that could emanate from the sea, especially post the 26/11 terrorist attacks at Mumbai. With the Coast Guard tasked with this onerous task, the focus is on ensuring that every person vested with this responsibility is physically fit and free of Covid-19, says DIG S B Venkatesh, commander, Coast Guard, Karnataka. This heightened level of precaution is an absolute must in these testing times, when several front-line Covid-19 warriors, including police personnel, and men in the Central Armed Police Force, have tested positive for the disease, said Venkatesh. “Every officer, personnel performing administrative duties, sailing and flying duty, must be medically fit. If one of my personnel has even the slightest of sniffles, they are not allowed on active duty till cleared by the unit medical officer,” he said. In addition, the officers are required to maintain the highest level of personal hygiene at their place of work and residence. They are provided transport facilities, and social distancing is maintained at the workplace, he says. To ensure they stay physically fit for demanding flying and sailing duties, there is a proper fitness regimen that they are expected to follow, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/coast-guard-ready-to-discharge-duties-in-times-of-pandemic/articleshow/75650189.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
May 10, 2020||Bhubaneswar||55,000 returned to state in 10 days||Bhubaneswar: Over 55,000 people including migrant workers, students, professionals and those on pilgrimage have returned to Odisha in the past 10 days after the Centre allowed the interstate movement of migrants. Almost all of them have been put in institutional quarantine facilities. According to official figures, about 23,700 people returned to the state in Shramik Special trains run by the Centre, while over 25,000 workers came back in buses. This apart, altogether 6,000 persons returned through other modes of transport. About 70% of them came back from Covid hotspots like Surat in Gujarat with most headed to quarantine centres in Ganjam, the district with the highest (89) positive cases so far. Other districts such as Kendrapada, Balasore, Bhadrak, Jajpur and Balangir have also recorded the maximum return of migrants in the past one week. Subrato Bagchi, the state’s chief spokesperson for Covid-19 management, said, “Despite the increase in the number of positive cases after the return of the migrants, especially in Ganjam, the state government has adopted a very balanced approach on their return from different states.” He added that the decision has been taken keeping in mind the humanitarian, legal and practical aspects. Around 92% of the migrants are working in the unorganised sector. Bagchi said the state government has made arrangements for the returnees in all 6,798 gram panchayats where they have been kept in quarantine for 21 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/55000-returned-to-state-in-10-days/articleshow/75651377.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Allahabad||Asstt teachers’ exam final key out, results by next wk||Prayagraj: With the Lucknow bench of Allahabad High Court paving way for the recruitment of assistant teachers in primary schools last Wednesday and chief minister Yogi Adityanath issuing directives to expedite the selection process, the Exam Regulatory Authority (ERA) released the final answer key for UP Assistant Teachers’ Recruitment Exam on Saturday. The candidates can look up the answers on ERA’s official website at http://atrexam.upsdc.gov.in, said Exam Regulatory Authority (UP) secretary Anil Bhushan Chaturvedi. ERA’s UP unit’s headquarters are at Prayagraj. Now, as the answer key has been released, the final result is likely to be declared by next week. Around 4.1 lakh applicants had registered for the exam, of which 3.86 lakh candidates had appeared. The posts had been advertised on December 6, 2018 and examination to recruit 69,000 assistant teachers was held on January 6, 2019. The ERA had released a provisional answer key on January 8, 2019, and invited objections, if any, by January 11, 2019. The state government raised the cut-off for selection of assistant teachers to 65% (from 45%) for general and 60% (from 40%) for reserved category candidates which was challenged in high court. On May 6, 2020, the Lucknow bench of Allahabad High Court upheld revised cut-offs and directed the state government to complete the selection process within three months. CM Yogi then directed the basic education department to complete the process of declaring the results for recruitment of 69,000 assistant teachers in the state within a week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/asstt-teachers-exam-final-key-out-results-by-next-wk/articleshow/75651085.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Bareilly||Railway officials, staff prepare & distribute food to migrant workers on special trains||Bareilly: Since the Shramik Special trains started ferrying migrant labourers from other parts of the country, the canteen at Moradabad station has been made operational now even as cooks and other canteen staff are not available. As every Shramik Special reaches Moradabad, freshly-packed cooked food, specially prepared by senior railway officials, staff from parcel department and TTEs, is distributed free of cost to each passenger. According to railway sources, close to 2,500 passengers have been provided with food packets, so far. Senior divisional commercial manager (SDCM) of Northern Railways Moradabad division Rekha Sharma said that Moradabad station is a halt for all passenger trains that pass through. Railway officials said that after the lockdown was imposed – suspending the operation of passenger trains – the IRCTC kitchen also became non-operational as the workers moved to their respective homes. “When the Shramik Special trains were facilitated for migrant workers, it was the responsibility of the state government to provide the passengers with food and water. However, there were some reports that they were not getting any,” the SDCM said, adding that they themselves then decided to provide each and every worker with food packets and water. “The challenge for us was to figure out how to start the IRCTC kitchen without the designated manpower. That is when we decided to start on our own. Our employees from various departments including parcel, maintenance and ticket checking staff voluntarily came forward to help. Now, from washing and cutting vegetables to cooking food, packing and distributing them among passengers, everything is being done by us,” Sharma said. On Saturday, Sharma reached the kitchen to take stock of the arrangement. She also prepared puri-sabzi while motivating the staff.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/railway-officials-staff-prepare-distribute-food-to-migrant-workers-on-special-trains/articleshow/75651372.cms||Pankul Sharma
May 10, 2020||Meerut||Tale of two Sundays, 163 years apart: It's May 10 again, no bells will toll at St John's Church||MEERUT: It's a tale of two Sundays, 163 years apart. Once again, a battle has forced the oldest church of North India built by the British to shut down for almost two months, The last time, St. John's Church shut doors as the 1857 Revolt broke out. This time, the war against coronavirus has forced it to close. It was the evening of Sunday on May 10, 1857 when the Revolt against the East India Company erupted in Sadar Bazar area of Meerut. Soon, it spread across northern India. In all, 50 Europeans were killed on that day. Many of them were caught unawares as they were heading towards St. John's Church, located on the British side of the cantonment for Evening Sunday Church service. All these Europeans stayed in the civilian side and had to cross the main city drain that divided British infantries from the rest. After their deaths, the church fell silent for at least four months. It reopened in the first week of October after the fall of Delhi on September 20, 1857. According to an extract from 'The Memoir of Meerut', by Col TN Parker in 1904, "On the evening of Sunday, May 10th, 1857, a general insurrection of the native troops broke out in Meerut attended with loss of life and property to a great extent. The services in the Church were abandoned from that date, it being considered no longer safe to occupy those places during the very disturbed condition of the station and district." Amit Pathak, author of ‘1857, A Living History'. said, "In all, 32 Europeans were buried in St. John's cemetery out of which only nine graves are visible, including that of Col. John Finnis, the first European killed in the Revolt." Exactly 163 years later, its yet another Sunday on May 10. The church of has been silent for close to two months now as India fights yet another war -- this time against coronavirus. A church member, Dr. Ranji Mathews, said, "I had heard from my elders that there was a time when the church had fallen silent. I used to wonder what kind of times they must have been. But now, I am experiencing a similar thing in my lifetime. The last service was held on March 17, 2020. In 1857, we fought against foreigners and now, we are fighting a deadlier unseen foreign enemy, the virus. I hope and pray that we defeat this virus and again hear the church bells toll on Sundays."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/tale-of-two-sundays-163-years-apart-its-may-10-again-no-bells-will-toll-at-st-johns-church/articleshow/75652250.cms||Sandeep Rai
May 10, 2020||Nagpur||Motherhood more challenging now||Nagpur: Prajakta Pande became a mother of a healthy baby boy on March 24, the day on which the lockdown was announced. Her son is 45 days old, but his father Sumedh is yet to meet the baby as he is stuck in Pune. Sayali Deshmukh’s daughter Nyasa was born on February 28 and her father Ajinkya, who is in Mumbai, has seen her only once. Covid-19 followed by the nationwide lockdown has thrown many such first-time-ever challenges to would be mothers, new mothers, mothers of school-going kids, teenage kids, and even senior citizen mothers whose children are living away from them. To mark Mother’s Day, TOI spoke to mothers of different age groups and professions about the challenges they are facing. “Delivering a child during the pandemic situation was tough. Going to hospital for delivery was fearful,” said Apurva Pal, who attained motherhood on April 23. “Everyone knew that doctors were taking all necessary care, still, there was a fear somewhere in the subconscious mind,” she said. Gynecologist Dr Laxmi Shrikhande, who is Chairperson Designate of Indian College of Obstetrics & Gynaecology, said that mothers and children can stay safe from coronavirus if rules are followed. “Risk factors for expectant or new mothers and their newborns are not on the higher side, but we must make hand hygiene and covid distancing a way of life now,” she said. “Gynecologists in India are following guidelines issued by the Federation of Obstetrics and Gynaecology societies of India to avoid infections in hospitals. It’s safe for would-be mothers to visit hospitals. Nowadays, doctors are available on phone,” she said. After coming home from hospital, it becomes tougher for mothers to avoid visitors. Taking kids for vaccination safely is another challenge. “Taking my daughter to hospital might be safe but my parents are not allowing me to do so. Finally, an Asha worker said she will visit our house and vaccinate our baby,” said Priti Bhagat, whose daughter is one month old. Mothers having school-going kids are facing tough times. “Our son is 4-years-old. It was OK during the first and second lockdown but now, he is totally fed-up. He can’t go to the nearby garden where he used to play daily. He cries a lot every evening,” said Ashvini Niwal, a resident of Manewada. Rohini Hardas, who runs a kindergarten in Besa, said handling a lone kid is difficult. “At nurseries or at crèches, kids watch others and learn from them. So, it becomes somewhat easy to engage them. But at homes, they show throw tantrums in front of parents,” she said. Mothers having teenage children are having issues of increased screen time. “For my 13-year-old son, some or the other screen has become a compulsion,” said Lakshika Agrawal. Her son either watches TV or uses social media on the computer or plays online games on mobile phones. Working mothers who opted for ‘work from home’ are facing a unique challenge to balance their professional and family life. “As they are at home, kids demand food, milk shakes and juices several times a day. I was willing to give some cooking lessons to my elder daughter, but she straightway refused,” said Charu Dasgupta, who works in a software firm. Elderly mothers, who are living alone away from their children, are worried this Mother’s Day. “My engineer son is stuck and alone at his site near Ganpati Pule. He calls us daily but we are anxious about his health now,” said Madhuri Ballal from Govind Nagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/motherhood-more-challenging-now/articleshow/75652251.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
May 10, 2020||Agra||Covid-19 positive convicted prisoner dies at SNMC||Agra: A 60-year-old convict of Agra central jail who tested positive for Covid-19 died during treatment at the SN Medical College (SNMC) here on Saturday afternoon. Ever since, the convict had tested positive, samples of 12 inmates who had come in contact with him were collected. They have tested negative. The reports of 16 jail staffers, placed under home quarantine, are yet to be received. So far, 24 patients have succumbed Covid-19 in Agra district. A resident of Jhansi, the convict who died was found guilty under IPC section 506(2) (punishment for criminal intimidation) and 302 (punishment for murder). He was shifted to Agra central jail on December 14, 2019. According to jail officials, the convict was admitted to the emergency ward of SNMC on May 3. He had high blood pressure and suffered a brain stroke. His samples were collected and sent for testing on May 4. He was confirmed Covid-19 positive on the evening of May 6. VK Singh, senior superintendent of Agra central jail, said, “Around 12 noon, we were informed by the SNMC authorities about his death. We have informed the higher authorities about the matter. As the deceased had tested Covid-19 positive, we have sought directions whether a post-mortem of the prisoner should be conducted or not.” Singh added,“As a precaution, we have quarantined 14 inmates who had come in contact of the deceased in a separate barrack. Besides, 16 staff members have been home quarantined. We are ensuring regular sanitization in all the barracks and other parts of the jail premises. Suitable cleanliness is being maintained. Besides, social distancing protocol is strictly followed." According to sources, the prisoner may have got infected at the government hospital. Screening, testing and treatment of Coivid-19 patients takes place at SNMC. Earlier, 12 staff members of the hospital, including four junior doctors and a senior resident doctor, had tested Covid-19 positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/covid-19-positive-convicted-prisoner-dies-at-snmc/articleshow/75651370.cms||Deepak Lavania
May 10, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Schools closed by Raje govt to be isolation hubs||JAIPUR: The state government has identified schools closed by the previous government as quarantine centres to accommodate inbound migrant workers and for other emergency use. Over 10 lakh state migrants residing in other states have registered for homecoming. The Raje government had merged 17,000 schools, leading to the closure of 11,000 schools in 2015-17. Acting on the directions of the state government, the state education department has directed its officials to identify schools division wise. “Most of the schools are located in rural areas and small towns. Some are very huge in terms of space and can accommodate hundreds of inbound migrants,” said a government official. These schools have been closed or abandoned since they were merged into other schools due to want of students. “Once a list is prepared, the local administration will prepare the buildings for quarantine centres,” said an official. In many small towns or villages, these schools are only buildings which can accommodate these migrants who have to compulsorily spend 14 days under home quarantine. The state has stalled the arrival of migrants due to the spike in number of Covid-19 cases from May 6 onwards. Once the process starts, rural areas will be flooded with migrants. The department has also directed its officials to prepare a list of beneficiary students under the mid-day meal programme as they will be starting delivery of dry ration from mid-May.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/schools-shut-by-previous-govt-to-be-new-quarantine-centres/articleshow/75652881.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Nashik||Wedding hall owners to not refund booking amount||Nashik/ Kolhapur : The owners of wedding halls and lawns in Nashik and Kolhapur have decided not to refund the booking amount given by the clients for wedding and other functions, which have been cancelled due to the lockdown. Nashik Mangal Karyalay, Lawns and Hall Association has decided to give a credit note to the clients which can be encashed till June 2022 or get the earliest date post-Diwali for the functions which has been cancelled. The association comprising wedding hall owners in Kolhapur will give alternative dates to the clients for the function. Sunil Chopada, the secretary of the Nashik Mangal Karyalay, Lawns and Hall Association, said that the business days of these halls and lawns were limited to 60 of the 365 days in a year and the property has to be maintained at all times. “We mainly earn from January to June during which most of the ceremonies are held. But this year, the celebrations were called off from February. There is hardly anything in our accounts that can help us in maintenance, provide employment and clear the government taxes for the next entire year,” Chopada said. Sandeep Kakad, the executive president of the association, said the electricity charges are applied at commercial rates and since this year there was no business at all. “We had sought permission from the government to allow the programmes to be held in the presence of 50 people at least, but that was been rejected. The only option left is to use the funds available with us till the business resumes,” Kakad said. “We conducted an in-house wedding in the presence of five people from each family and the purpose of booking the lawns is over. However, I am ready to wait for maximum one year for the refund considering the current situation,” said Yogesh Patil, a Nashik citizen..  Vivek Pathak, who has conducted the threading ceremony of his sons in a family programme without inviting his friends and relatives, said that there will be no function soon so money should be refunded. Meanwhile in Kolhapur, some people are planning to postpone the functions to Diwali and some are conducting the function with a limited number of people, wanting to cancel the booking of halls, lawns and hotels. An owner of a wedding hall, located in Tarabai park area, said, “We generate revenue working for three months from March to May. From that, we have to pay the power bills, water bills and other expenses for the year.” “Our halls were booked till end of May and people had deposited the booking amount. Now, they are cancelling the bookings and demanding their deposits back,” he said. “Our association has decided that instead of returning their deposit amount, we will give them an alternative date for conducting the ceremony.” he said. Sanjay Pawar, a resident of Uchgaon ,whose niece was supposed to get married in the first week of May, said, “ We are now planning to conduct the wedding in presence of a minimum number of people. However, the wedding halls are not returning our booking amount ,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/wedding-hall-owners-to-not-refund-booking-amount/articleshow/75651362.cms||Abhilash Botekar
May 10, 2020||Varanasi||Dist admin orders probe into KVT Shaptarshi Aarti row||Varanasi: The district administration has ordered a probe into Thursday evening Shaptarshi Aarti row at Kashi Vishwanath temple. The probe will be conducted by a team headed by ADM City and SP Security. The investigation team has been ordered to file its report within a week. District magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma ordered the probe on Friday night after a group of priests gathered at gate-4 of the temple in violation of the prohibitory orders and performed Shaptarshi Aarti on road. Simultaneously, a separate team of priests arranged by the temple administration performed regular aarti of Lord Vishwanath at the temple’s sanctum sanctorum. Officials said a group of priests associated with the former mahant of the temple had performed the evening ‘Saptarshi Aarti’ on road on Thursday, violating the norms of lockdown in protest against denial of entry in the temple. However, the ritual was also performed in the sanctum sanctorum of KVT by other priests. The temple administration had restricted the entry of the priests, who later held the aarti on road, in the temple for their alleged involvement in spreading rumours regarding damage to a part of Kailash Mahadev Mandir in the KVT corridor area. The temple administration has alleged that this group was also spreading rumours to stir religious sentiments of the people. The DM said that as the KVT administration and former mahant’s families have their own claims, an impartial probe into the matter was necessary. The probe team have been asked to give its report on five points. “The investigation team will find out whether any damage had been done to a temple as alleged by the priests backed by the former mahant’s family,” the DM said adding, “if the damage had taken place, whether the temple administration should have taken any action for repair and avoid further losses. Apart from it, the team will also identify the persons who tried to sensationalise the issue. The issue of violation of prohibitory order and Disaster Management Act will also be covered by this team.” Earlier, taking note of the controversy the DM had made it clear that the violation of Disaster Management Act by anybody was not acceptable. Later, SSP Prabhakar Chowdhary submitted a report on the violation of section 144 during lockdown by the group of priests to the DM, which was forwarded to the court of magistrate concerned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/dist-admin-orders-probe-into-kvt-shaptarshi-aarti-row/articleshow/75651063.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Rajkot||Five men of family hacked to death||Rajkot: Five persons of a family were brutally hacked to death in Hamirpur village, 27 km from Rapar town of Kutch, as the simmering animosity between members of two communities came to a boil on Saturday. The victims, who were returning from their farm in an SUV, were waylaid on the narrow interior road by the assailants who came in two tractors. One tractor intercepted the SUV while another drove behind the car so that the victims could not take a reverse and escape. Once they were trapped, over a dozen people armed with machetes and other sharp-edged weapons launched a brutal assault on the five men, leaving four of them dead on the spot, said police. The fifth person died on way to hospital. Three other family members of the victims who were also travelling in the SUV somehow managed to escape and reach their village, screaming for help. However, by the time others could reach, the assailants had escaped from there leaving five in pool of blood. The victims were identified as Akha Jesang Umat (38), his son 18-year-old Lala, brother Amra Umat (30), brother-in-law (Akha’s sister’s husband) Petha Rathod (37) and cousin brother Vela Umat (37). Akha was the head of the family that was into farming. The assailants are from the Koli community while victims are Rajputs. Police officials said that a land dispute as well as illegal country liquor trafficking were the main reasons behind the animosity between them. Talking to reporters, Parikshita Rathod, superintendent of police, Kutch (East) said “The attackers were engaged in the illegal business of selling country-made liquor. They suspected that Umat’s family members were tipping off police about their activity.” In order to thwart any fallout of the incident, police teams lead by Rathod also held meeting with the local Rajput Samaj. “We asked them not heed to any rumours and maintain peace. They have agreed to do so.” Rathod added. The tension between the families was brewing over the last 2-3 of days. Police sources said that they had come face-to-face two days ago too, but a compromise struck. In fact, sensing trouble, police had even beefed up security in and around the villages of Rapar. KG Zala, deputy SP, Rapar, said, “Several teams have been formed to nab the assailants.” Teams of local crime branch (LCB), special operations group (SOG) and all police sub-inspectors of Bhachau police station have been dispatched in different directions to trace the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/five-men-of-family-hacked-to-death/articleshow/75651397.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Interview for Vimsar dir’s post held over Skype||Sambalpur: The interview for the post of director of the Veer Surendra Sai Institute of Medical Sciences and Research (VIMSAR), Burla, was conducted over Skype on Friday in view of the corona crisis. Official sources said five eminent doctors, including principal of Bhima Bhoi Medical College, Balangir, Lalit Meher, professor department of medicine of VIMSAR Manoj Mohapatra, professor of community medicine of Koraput Medical College Kishore Behera, head of the cardiology department of Hi-tech Medical College, professor Akshaya Samal and professor in the department of psychiatry in MGNS, Sevagram of Maharashtra Khirod Chandra Mishra appeared in the interview on Friday. A statutory body headed by the chief secretary conducted the interview. The post of director has been lying vacant since the day Dr Aswini Pujahari resigned on February 9, 2019. The state government appointed Prakash Mohapatra as in-charge director of the institution and after Mohapatra’s retirement, Dr Dhirendra Maharana was appointed as in-charge director but he did not come to VIMSAR. Later, Dr Maharana was withdrawn and Dr Prabhati Dutta of VIMSAR was appointed as in-charge director but she did not accept the post, citing medical reason. The Junior Doctor’s Association (JDA) of VIMSAR has welcomed the step of the government to hold interview for the post of director.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/interview-for-vimsar-dirs-post-held-over-skype/articleshow/75651390.cms||Subrat Mohanty
May 10, 2020||Jaipur||NWR advisory to keep tracks safe||JAIPUR: Following the Aurangabad incident in which 16 labourers were run over by train, the North Western Railway (NWR) has issued an advisory to its locomotive pilots, patrolling staff and Railway Protection Force (RPF) asking them to be vigilant. The advisory has also asked the railway staff to ensure that the tracks remain free from any human movement. STOI on Saturday spoke to railway officers to know if any specific instructions have been given to the operating staff, patrolling teams, signaling staff and others aftermath the Aurangabad tragedy. “Loco pilots have been asked to be cautious. Also, the patrolling teams should be vigulant,” said Abhay Sharma, chief public relations officer, NWR. “Also, the locomotive inspectors have been asked to go for surprise checks on tracks and gatemen on the manned level crossings have been asked to be cautious and careful,” he added. Sharma further appealed that since NWR is transporting essential commodities through goods trains, people should not have a wrong impression that trains are not moving on tracks. “We may not be having the usual passenger train movement, but goods trains with essential goods are running. Also we have been ferrying migrant workers,” he added. “If any activity is seen on tracks, appropriate action needs to be taken and nearby railway station needs to be intimated,” said a senior officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/nwr-advisory-to-keep-tracks-safe/articleshow/75652885.cms||Ashish Mehta
May 10, 2020||Agra||Uttar Pradesh: Six booked for thrashing youth, passing casteist remarks||AGRA: Aligarh police on Friday booked six persons for allegedly thrashing a 25-year-old after accusing him and his community for spreading Covid-19. According to police, victim Mohammad Samad had gone to buy medicines from a store in Shivpuri area when he was allegedly beaten by a group of persons. He was admitted at AMU’s Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College (JNMC). Circle officer Pankaj Srivastava said that medical examination of the youth has been conducted. The report stated that no serious injury was there. . He said that an FIR has been registered against the accused under relevant sections of IPC at Banna Devi police station on a complaint filed by the victim. He alleged that those who assaulted him had made casteist remarks and accused him and his community for spreading coronavirus in the district. The matter is being investigated in detail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/6-booked-for-thrashing-youth-passing-casteist-remarks/articleshow/75651388.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Vadodara||GMERS Hospital in Gotri gets ICMR nod for plasma therapy||Vadodara: GMERS Medical College and Hospital, Gotri has been given the go-ahead by the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) to start convalescent plasma therapy for Covid-19 patients.Convalescent plasma therapy involves taking antibodies from cured Covid-19 patients and injecting them in the blood of patients suffering from coronavirus.The transfusion of plasma is carried out through a machine which separates plasma from the donor’s blood, which is then retransferred into the donor. The plasmas thus obtained is injected into patients infected with Covid to help them fight off the virus. A donor supplies 300-500 ml of plasma and the transfusion process takes between 60-90 minutes.Several hospitals across the country have been given permission to conduct the trials to assess the safety and efficacy of this therapy, which has shown some promise in treating moderate to severe cases of coronavirus infection across the world.The trials will start at GMERS Medical College and Hospital, Gotri with the support of Indu Blood Bank. While the project will be handled by Dr Varsha Godbole, professor of medicine and dean of the college as the principal investigator, Dr Vijay Shah will be its co-investigator.Delhi-based Vipul Patel, who was one of the two first patients to be admitted and later discharged from Gotri hospital, has also shown his readiness to become a donor for the placid trail.Patel had come to Vadodara along with his UK-based friend Nikhil Patel for dialysis and treatment of kidney-related ailments through ayurveda at the Indu Ayurveda Hospital. Later, Nikhil developed Covid symptoms and tested positive of the virus. After treatment at Gotri hospital, both of them had fully recovered and were discharged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/gmers-hospital-in-gotri-gets-icmr-nod-for-plasma-therapy/articleshow/75651448.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Bareilly||Truck driver tests +ve for Covid-19 in Bareilly||Bareilly: A 34-year-old man, who is a native of Maheshpura area of CB Ganj locality of Bareilly, has been diagnosed with Covid-19 in the test report of a private laboratory on Saturday. The man who is a truck driver has not travelled to any other city since March 22. According to an official, the man had met with an accident on May 1 while he was on way to market to purchase some vegetables. His left leg was fractured below knee. The man later went to out-patient department of a private hospital situated at Stadium road. The doctors at the private hospital asked him to undergo Covid-19 test before his surgery. The report of private laboratory on Saturday tested him positive for Covid-19. District surveillance officer Dr Ranjan Gautam said, “The patient has been shifted to Covid-19 level 2 hospital after we received his test report. Besides, we have collected his sample on Saturday afternoon and sent it for testing at government laboratory of Indian Veterinary Research Institute (IVRI) for confirmation. The report is awaited. The patient has no travel history and he has been staying at his home since March 22.” He added, “We have home quarantined his family members and further action will be taken once we receive the report from IVRI. We have started the process of sealing 400-metre area around patient’s house and sanitisation exercise of the area. Meanwhile, the family members of a patient who died due to Covid-19 have tested negative and will be discharged from hospital.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/truck-driver-tests-ve-for-covid-19-in-bareilly/articleshow/75651383.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
May 10, 2020||Mysuru||14-day quarantine mandatory to enter Kodagu||Mysuru: Determined to remain free from Covid-19, the district administration in Kodagu is refusing entry to even those who have police passes. Only those who are officially recognised as permanent residents of Kodagu are being allowed into the hilly district. Among those denied permission to enter the district was a 70-year-old resident of Mangaluru, while a Bengaluru doctor was allowed to enter Kodagu only after he agreed to a 14-day home quarantine. However, those being issued passes are not very happy with the state of affairs. It is not the district administration in Kodagu that they are miffed with, but officials in other districts, who are issuing passes when there are such conditions in place. Subray G Hegde of Mangaluru secured a pass to enter Kodagu district on May 7, and he was allowed to enter Kushalnagar. But he was sent back from Madikeri, citing that he was not a permanent resident of the district. “Although I showed that there was a house agreement in Kushalnagar, the authorities said that it was not sufficient,” he said. Kodagu deputy commissioner Annies Kanmani Joy said that she was not aware of people being sent back. “Inter-district movement is allowed if they are residents,” she said. Madikeri MLA Appachu Ranjan said that it was the responsibility of all to ensure that Covid-19 did not spread to the hilly district, which was still in the ‘Green Zone’. “Anyone wishing to come to Kodagu must agree to stay quarantined for 14 days,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/14-day-quarantine-mandatory-to-enter-kodagu/articleshow/75650229.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Nagpur||Celebrating Mother’s Day with lots of love & warmth||Nagpur: This Mother’s Day will gave an opportunity to many outstation students and working class employees to spend quality time with their mothers. They have planned innovative ways to make their mothers feel special. Right from cooking their favourite meals to helping them in household chores, they are going to go all out to make their mothers happy and proud. Counsellor Sanket Shah feels that every day is Mother’s Day and that a day’s celebration won’t do any justice to the amount of love and warmth we receive unconditionally from our mothers. He is fond of baking and wants to surprise his mom with his baking skills. “It takes very little effort to impress our mothers and make them feel special. I think each one of us should help our moms at home. I love baking and hence, I’m planning to bake a delicious cake for my mom,” says Sanket. Many are making the most of this quarantine and lockdown time to explore their passion and love for cooking and photography. They are also posting their performances on social media and Mother’s Day won’t be any different. “As the pandemic has locked us all inside, I will be making something special for my mother. I’m planning to make her favourite dish for lunch. I may also cook something along with her. My mom and I are very close and every moment together is like the icing on the cake,” says Janhavi Jijotiya, who is pursuing her studies in Bangalore. Another student, Neha Hood, wants to engage her mother in a relaxing and pampering session in which they can watch her favourite movie and spend quality time. “Due to the lockdown, our resources are limited. But I will help my mom with all the household chores as our mothers work tirelessly. With so many online movie options, I will chill out with my mother and put on her favourite movie,” says Neha. While some are planning to plant saplings or engage in gardening with their mothers, the others are set to make gifts like greeting cards by using coloured paper and decorative material. CS student Ankita Thakre is stuck in Kamptee. Her mother stays in Madhya Pradesh. “I will start my day with a video call to my mom as I won’t be able to meet her. I will miss my parents as the day also happens to be my birthday (May 10). As soon as we meet, I will celebrate Mother’s Day with my mom as she always makes my birthday extra special,” says Ankita. Raksha Nayak is super excited because after five years she is with her mom to celebrate her special day. “My mom loves to spend time with her loved ones. And she is happy that because of the lockdown, I can spend the day with her. I will cook, clean and make my mom relax,” says Raksha. Exporter Ajinkya Ranade will cook his mother’s favourite meal. “Whenever we crave for delicious food, our mothers makes it in no time. This Mother’s Day, I’ll cook whatever she likes so that she can sit back and relax. Happiness lies in such little moments” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/celebrating-mothers-day-with-lots-of-love-warmth/articleshow/75652261.cms||Shreya Tinkhede
May 10, 2020||Meerut||Meerut: 'Clean art' campaign launched to save mongoose||MEERUT: Close to one lakh mongooses are beaten to death every year in India for their fur that are used in making paints and varnish brushes, according to Wildlife Crime Control Bureau (WCCB). The trade survived raids and seizures throughout the country due to their high demand. Now, during the lockdown, WCCB has come up with ‘Operation Clean Art’, a novel idea to kill its market. In a first such step, the WCCB will use social media platforms to reach out to students through their schools, colleges and make them aware about how paint brushes are made from mongoose fur. "Mongoose plays an important role in the food chain of ecosystem, especially in agriculture as it renders a perfect biological control over pests. More than 90% of the artist community is ignorant about the source of hair brush. Students are also unaware about the fact that the brushes could be made of mongoose. Mongoose is protected under part II of Schedule II of the Wildlife Protection Act 1972. Thousands of mongooses are poached every year to meet the demand of the high quality brushes. So, through Operation Clean Art, we appeal all to stop using mongoose hair brush and contribute in keeping the ecological balance,” said HV Girisha, IFS and regional deputy director, northern region, WCCB. Sister Gail Alfonzo, principal of Meerut-based Sophia Girls School, said, "This is indeed an eye-opener. The awareness campaign will not only expose students to animal trafficking and subsequent killing but also contribute immensely towards the conservation of wildlife by not indirectly becoming part of it." It is very easy to differentiate between the mongoose fur brushes and synthetic brushes. “If even one strand of brush is burnt and it gives the smell of burning flesh, it means it is made from animal fur otherwise synthetic strand leave smell of burning plastic, said Girisha. Although the present form of Operation Clean Art is only for the purpose of pan-India campaign against selling of Mongoose fur, it was first started as a nationwide drive to catch the poachers. More than 50,000 brushes and 113 kg of hair were seized across India after the operation began in November last year. “For every kilogram of mongoose hair that is used in brushes, about 50 animals are killed. This is because only about 20 grams of good hair comes from every mongoose,” said Girisha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/clean-art-campaign-launched-to-save-mongoose/articleshow/75652259.cms||Sandeep Rai
May 10, 2020||Nashik||208 Nashik pilgrims on their way home from West Bengal||Nashik: The 55-day ordeal for 208 pilgrims of Nashik has finally ended as the West Bengal government has arranged four buses for them to return to Nashik from Pandua Sharif in Malda district. These stranded pilgrims, including 91 women and 30 children, left for Nashik at 8 pm on Saturday. They will travel over 2,200 km to reach Nashik which would take at least 3-4 days. “It’s a huge relief that the local administration of Malda has finally made arrangements for all of us to return to our homes in Nashik. We had been requesting the local administration for help ever since the lockdown started in March,” said Sayyed Farukh Hussain, a member of the group. The local administration medically examined all of them before allowing them to travel. The pilgrims had gone to the famous dargah at Pandua Sarif in Malda and had reached their destination on March 16. The pilgrims are all residents of areas like Dwarka, Trimbak Road, Mhusrool, Satpur etc. in Nashik. “We were supposed to return within eight to 10 days. Suddenly, the lockdown was announced and the entire group got stuck. There are many elders and children in the group. Our financial resources were limited and many of us ran out of cash. Despite space crunch, we had to stay at the dargah,” Hussain told TOI. He alleged that although they explained their plight to the local authorities, not much was done to help them. “The authorities came just once to provide us with food after the lockdown. Thereafter, no one turned up. We were not even provided proper shelter so the social distancing norms could be observed,” added Hussain. With families back home getting worried about the pilgrims, a city-based senior advocate, Ejaaz N Shaikh, sent a letter to Union the home ministry on May 7, drawing its attention to the plight of pilgrims. “I pointed to the ministry’s notification of April 29, where it has allowed movement of stranded labourers, pilgrims, students, tourists etc. I requested the ministry to direct the West Bengal and Maharashtra governments to coordinate for the return of these Nashik pilgrims. One of the children in the group is diabetic and a senior member of the group recently had a paralytic attack. Things had to be brought to the notice of the MHA,” added Shaikh. The pilgrims said the local administration in Malda became pro-active in the past two days with officials visiting them to discuss and finalise the details.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/208-nashik-pilgrims-on-their-way-home-from-west-bengal/articleshow/75651380.cms||Ranjan Dasgupta
May 10, 2020||Allahabad||In times of corona, youths’ ‘designer shield’ for poor||Prayagraj: In the ongoing month of Ramzan when the family members of 17- year- old Mohammad Tauhid are busy praying and reading religious books and watching TV, Tauhid is making colourful designer face masks which he would distribute among his friends, relatives and the poor people who cannot afford to buy them. Not only Tauhid, other youngsters like Anshul, Arpita, Anjali, Poonam etc too are busy making face masks for themselves and for their relatives and friends. “Due to Covid-19 pandemic, face masks have become one of the essential items to keep people safe. As people are bored to wear the same old masks , now fashionable designer masks are becoming popular”, said Ruchi Mittal, owner of Ruchi Institute of Creative Arts in the Sangam city. Going by the trend, her institute had recently conducted an online training workshop and a follow-up competition on the concept of designer masks. Out of 150 students, 56 participated and presented their art work, she further said. Tauhid is among her students for whom this was a win-win situation. “Besides presenting my work in the competitions, this also gave me an opportunity to use old dresses of the house, from which I made the designer cotton masks which are colourful, match with different attire and washable too”, he said. He said he is making masks to be distributed among relatives, friends and the poor people as part of charity in the holy month of Ramzan. “I have even planned to gift around two dozen designer masks to my sister on Eid”, he added. Similarly, for young entrepreneurs like Poonam Rohit Garg, a local girl, now settled in Bengaluru, the future requirement of face mask among the fairer sex has shown her promising business. “I run a canvas products manufacturing unit in Bengaluru (canvas2craft). I have switched to making reusable fabric masks for adults and children”, she said. Likewise, for Arpita Singh, a resident of Dharbhanga Nagar Colony of the city said,” Once the lockdown is over, parties and gathering will be held where the girls and their family members would love to go wearing the masks, and therefore thus I have designed a mask which matches the suit of my mother”. Even the shopkeepers of readymade garments have started thinking on these lines. “I have already placed an order of 500 designer masks to a group of the local tailor because after the lockdown, my female customers would certainly ask for it”, said Golu Rastogi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/in-times-of-corona-youths-designer-shield-for-poor/articleshow/75651126.cms||---
May 10, 2020||India||3,500 fly back in 3 days, PMO monitors Vande Bharat operations||NEW DELHI: Around 3,500 Indians stranded abroad had been flown into India until the wee hours on Sunday as India’s Vande Bharat Mission motored ahead under what official sources described as regular high-level oversight. While eight flights landed across India on Saturday — Day 3 of the operation — an equal number was expected on Sunday. Principal secretary to PM P K Mishra held a meeting Saturday with top government officials to review the situation, sources here said. The meeting was attended by cabinet secretary Rajiv Gauba, foreign secretary Harsh Shringla, Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla and civil aviation secretary P S Kharola. Official sources said the operation had been conducted smoothly so far with officials tracking each flight from departure to destination and beyond. “All states have arranged very efficient reception and health scanning facilities before quarantine. Great relief for many to be back home,” said a source. An additional 1,800-2,000 people were being brought back by two Indian naval ships from the Maldives. Five of the flights which returned with Indian nationals Saturday were from the Gulf region. Four more from the Gulf are scheduled for Sunday. Apart from Gulf, repatriation flights over the weekend have been mostly from London, Singapore, Kuala Lumpur and Dhaka. The government is looking to expand the Mission to Europe and central Asian countries next week as many Indians there have registered to return. The government is using an online platform created by MEA, on which requests received by Indian missions from those wishing to return are being uploaded, to ensure better coordination between Union ministries and states. The platform has not been made accessible for all though because of privacy issues. A total number of 64 flights carrying approximately 15,000 returnees from 12 countries will land at 14 airports across India during the first week of the Mission. While two Indians who landed in Kerala in separate flights from Dubai and Abu Dhabi tested positive for Covid-19, sources here said all passengers from UAE had to take rapid antibody tests before departure. Only those found asymptomatic were allowed to board aircraft. Of all the flights in the first week, as many as 27 will be from the Gulf. Eleven of these from UAE. From the neighbourhood, seven flights are scheduled from Bangladesh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/3500-fly-back-in-3-days-pmo-monitors-vande-bharat-operations/articleshow/75653119.cms||Sachin Parashar
May 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Still time before people can return to their homes near polymer plant||Visakhapatnam: While things are gradually returning to normal at the LG Polymers plant, the ongoing counteraction efforts to completely seal the styrene monomer tank may take a couple of more days. According to a central team member working inside the plant, the temperature of the tank fell to 98°C on Saturday. LG Polymers, in a statement, said that the situation at the plant has been brought under control. Even though the air quality has been improving gradually in the five surrounding villages, officials say people will be allowed to return to their homes only after the styrene level in the air goes down to zero. The four-member chemical and biology team of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) along with a five-member team from the CSIR-National Environmental Engineering Institute are working round-the-clock to restore normalcy at the plant and in the adjoining areas. Dr Anjan Ray, director of CSIR-Indian Institute of Petroleum, accompanied with a styrene expert from a private industry visited the plant on Saturday evening to take stock of the situation and make recommendations. State agriculture minister K Kannababu said water is being sprinkled continuously to bring down the temperature of the tank. “The temperature has now reached 98.4°C. We advise people to not return home until an official announcement is made. We will assess the situation on Sunday and make an announcement,” the minister said. A four-member team of experts from the Indian Institute of Petroleum and Energy (IIPE) also visited the plant on Saturday. IIPE director Prof VSRK Prasad said things are “pretty much under control at the plant”. National Disaster Response Force commandant Zahid Khan said the NDRF team is working on neutralisation. “Currently, everything is under control. Temperature has come down to sub-100°C from the earlier 150°C,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/still-time-before-people-can-return-to-their-homes-near-polymer-plant/articleshow/75652305.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
May 10, 2020||Meerut||Walking for 5 days, hundreds of migrants go on rampage in UP’s Amroha when stopped||BIJNOR: Hundreds of migrant labourers marching from the National Capital Region to their native places, mostly in Bihar, created ruckus on the national highway in Amroha after they were stopped at the border by the local administration. According to labourers, they had been walking for the past five days and did not get any assistance from the local administration in Uttar Pradesh, which turned down their plea to arrange conveyance for them. Hundreds of migrant labourers thronged Brijghat, the bordering area of Amroha district, on Friday. Many of them were walking while a few were on bicycles. As the local administration denied them entry into the district, it led to a confrontation. It took the local police some effort to bring the situation under control. Amroha superintendent of police Vipin Tada said, “Some migrant labourers had thronged the Brijghat area and created ruckus on Friday. We stopped them and arranged buses to drop them on the UP-Bihar border. They are being sent to their destinations after thermal screening.” Nizamuddin, one of the migrant labourers from Bihar’s Kishanganj district, said, “We have been walking round the clock for the last five days." He added, "The Amroha administration did not allow us to enter the district. On the other side, Delhi policemen had forced us to leave the national capital.” Sachdev Thakur, a migrant labourer who staged a sit-in along with hundreds of others, said, “I worked in Delhi’s Karol Bagh area and am walking back to Chhapra district of Bihar. We have covered 160 kilometres and will have to travel over 750 km more to get to our state's border. The governments instead of helping us in our journey are putting restrictions on us. We are tired and hungry and we need help, not lathis.” Many of the migrants are walking on railway tracks and even taking river route to avoid policemen stopping their march. In Bijnor, hundreds of workers were recently caught crossing the Ganga to enter UP. In another incident, eight Nepalese were caught in Dhampur town of UP when they were returning from Himachal Pradesh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/walking-for-5-days-hundreds-of-migrants-go-on-rampage-in-ups-amroha-when-stopped/articleshow/75652267.cms||Harveer Dabas
May 10, 2020||Allahabad||Posted away from families, KV teachers in quandary||Prayagraj: Hundreds of Kendriya Vidyalaya teachers posted in 1,200 branches of the school across the nation are stranded in various cities away from home because of the lockdown. With flight and train operations suspended because of the novel coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic, these teachers have no option but to stay put where they are away from their families. Most of them are busy figuring out how to reach home, as KVs are set to close for a 50-day summer vacation soon. While in some states Chennai, KVs will close for summer May 3 onwards, in northern India most branches will be closing from May 11. KV Teachers’ Association has also written to the human resources development ministry and the Prime Minsiter’s Office to help these stranded teachers reach home. “Owing to a pan-India presence and transfer policy, KV teachers can be posted or employed in any of the 1,200 branches of the school, including the three international ones in Kathmandu, Moscow and Tehran. Now, that schools are going to be closed for summer vacation teachers are in a quandary”, said principal of KV’s IIIT branch in Jhalwa Vijeyesh Pandey. The All India KV Teachers’ Association has written to the commissioner of KV Sangthan, requesting him to look into the matter. “We have requested the commissioner to direct principals to sanction online permission for leaves to those teachers who have obtained a pass to travel to their home town,” said general secretary of the association MB Agarwal. Infact, taking the initiative the deputy commissioner (DC) of Hyderabad region, Sai Ranga Rao has been in contact with the local administration of 72 schools of his region, spread in the state of Andra Pradesh and Telangana. “Around 200 teachers of the schools under the region are from other districts and we have talked to local police officials and ensured that these teachers get travel passes in time and without hassle so that they reach to their destinations safe and sound” said Rao, while talking to TOI. TOI also spoke to many teachers posted at several cities of the country and heard their plight. “I am living in Chennai along with my two daughters, whereas my husband is posted in eastern UP. Our kids had been waiting for the vacations. We had even booked flight tickets four months back, but we are stuck here. My husband can’t come here to take us back. We also do not have a facility like a ‘Teachers’ special train’ to take us back to our state,” said a teacher working in a KV branch in Chennai region. There are several teachers of the branch, who are native to Prayagraj and Lucknow, but have been stuck in Chennai because of the lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/posted-away-from-families-kv-teachers-in-quandary/articleshow/75651159.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Bareilly||Bareilly: Two Covid-19 level-2 hospitals upgraded to level-3||BAREILLY: Two private medical colleges with 400 beds each have been upgraded to Covid-19 level-3 hospitals in Bareilly, while health department officials are identifying more hospitals for the treatment of Covid-19 patients. According to health officials, once the lockdown is lifted, there are chances that the novel coronavirus cases may shoot up. Director (health), Bareilly division, Dr Rakesh Dubey, said, “We are assuming once the lockdown period gets over, the numbers of cases may go up. Thus, we need more hospitals for the treatment of Covid-19 patients.” Meanwhile, the medical education department has recently upgraded two private medical colleges with 400 beds and 20 ventilators each, which were earlier designated as Covid-19 level-2 hospitals, into level-3 hospitals. Besides, another private medical college has been designated as a Covid-19 level-2 hospital. The community health centre (CHC) in Bithri Chainpur has already been designated as a Covid-19 level-1 hospital, where six patients from Bareilly division are currently undergoing treatment. Besides, the health department has recently identified an NER hospital with 60 beds as a Covid-19 hospital. Also, officials are identifying more Covid-19 level-1 affiliated hospitals with 100 beds and Covid care centres with 150 beds in Bareilly district. A senior official, who wished not to be named, said, “If we need more hospitals in the future if the cases shoot up, asymptomatic patients will be kept at level-1 affiliated hospitals and Covid care centres. The patients whose condition is stable will also undergo treatment at level-1 hospitals, while patients with severe conditions will be treated at level-2 and 3 hospitals.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/two-covid-19-level-2-hospitals-upgraded-to-level-3/articleshow/75651420.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
May 10, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Gajapati seals border with Ganjam after rise in cases||Berhampur: The Gajapati district authorities on Saturday sealed its border with Ganjam district after the latter recorded a sudden spike in Covid-19 cases. Officials have prohibited its employees from travelling to the adjoining district without obtaining the necessary permission from them. “The number of Covid-19 cases in our neighbouring Ganjam district is increasing on a daily basis. It is a matter of great concern,” Gajapati collector Anupam Saha said. “In view of the containment measures taken against the spread of coronavirus, no employees of Gajapati shall be allowed to go to the next district without permission from the competent authority,” he added. The collector said one should have a valid pass or reason if he/she wants to cross the border checkposts. Gajapati district has so far not reported any positive case and is listed as a green zone. The bordering Ganjam district, however, has been designated as a red one with 84 positive cases (highest in the state) recorded till Saturday. “Police personnel have been deployed at all border checkposts to check any illegal movement. We have strengthened our surveillance measures. We will increase patrolling at all entry points,” Gajapati SP Sarah Sharma said. Sharma added that the district has 18 border checkposts. Of them, five are with Ganjam district. “The personnel will keep a round-the-clock watch to prevent any illegal movement through Ganjam-Gajapati border points at Kamalapur, Jarau, Purunapani and Kainpur,” she said. Meanwhile, Shantilata Nayak, sarpanch of Manitara panchayat (Buguda block) in Ganjam district, said all shops under the panchayat would remain open only between 7am and 11am till May 17 (the day lockdown 3.0 ends). Sources said Nayak might be the first sarpanch in the state who exercised a collector’s power by declaring a 20-hour shutdown to prevent further spread of the virus. “We have been declared a 20-hour shutdown till May 17. We are requesting people to stay indoors and take precautions,” Nayak said. Medical stores will remain open. “All non-essential services will be suspended during this period,” Nayak said. The panchayat has seven revenue villages. Nayak said they have to monitor the quarantine centres where migrant workers have been lodged after their return from the other states. “We will ensure that no one is found near these centres,” she added. “The residents of the panchayat have whole-heartedly supported the move,” Sujata Kumari Pradhan, a samiti member of the panchayat, said. She said they would take more steps after reviewing the impact of the shutdown. The state government had in April delegated the powers of district collectors to the sarpanches in their respective jurisdictions to fight against the Covid-19 pandemic. This was granted under Section 51 of the Disaster Management Act, 2005 and Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897, coupled with Odisha’s Covid-19 Regulations, 2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/gajapati-seals-border-with-ganjam-after-rise-in-cases/articleshow/75651421.cms||Hrusikesh Mohanty
May 10, 2020||Nagpur||Being a mother and, DM & Collector is a twin honour||Being a mother is one of the most joyous experiences of life. And being a working mother there is a constant earnestness to do justice to both your job and your child. And, furthermore, being a district magistrate & collector of Buldhana, and a mother to a 3 1/2-year-old is constantly oscillating between two very important responsibilities either of which you can’t take lightly. It’s a privilege to serve in both capacities. While my son Alexander constantly keeps me grounded, my official duties urge me to stay empathetic towards whatever I do as a part of my job. Both feed on each other and is a dilemma confined not just to me but all the working mothers globally. While better systems can ease them to an extent, the emotional part of it stays pretty much the same. There are days when one emotion takes over the other but we women have some natural endowment to walk this talk with élan. My son has a habit of giving me flowers every time I return from work. It is the most soulful experience of the whole day. This Mother’s Day I celebrate my twin honour. And you? (As told to Chaitanya Deshpande)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/being-a-mother-and-dm-collector-is-a-twin-honour/articleshow/75652276.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Kochi||9 NRKs taken to institutional isolation centre||Kottayam: Nine of the 23 individuals from the district who arrived from Bahrain Friday night have been lodged in a quarantine centre managed by the government. Those who have been shifted to Thoovanisa Prayer House, a retreat centre of the Archeparchy of Kottayam in Kothanalloor, include four men and five women. They were brought to the centre around 4.15am on Saturday in a KSRTC bus. Now, there are 17 individuals under observation in the centre. The remaining 14 who arrived from Bahrain were allowed to go to home quarantine. They included four pregnant women and five children. The Air India Express flight from Bahrain with 177 passengers, had reached Kochi airport at 11.32 pm. It was the fourth repatriation flight to Kerala after the Vande Bharat mission was launched on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/9-nrks-taken-to-institutional-isolation-centre/articleshow/75651453.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Nashik||Police constable posted in Malegaon dies of Covid-19||Nashik: A 51-year-old constable attached to the headquarters of the Nashik rural police died of Covid-19 on Saturday morning. This is the first case of a policeman succumbing to the infection in Nashik district. District civil surgeon Suresh Jagdale said that the police constable was a resident of Konark Nagar in Adgaon in Nashik district. The constable was suffering from mild symptoms of Covid-19 when he was on bandobast duty in Malegaon. He was admitted to the isolation ward of Nashik civil hospital on May 2. Medical officials at the civil hospital said though the report of the constable’s throat swab samples arrived on May 8, which confirmed that he had tested positive for the contagion, they had already started treating him and his body was also responding well to the treatment. On Saturday morning, he started suffering from breathing problems and the oxygen levels in his body also dropped. “Doctors treating the constable put him on ventilator and tried their best to revive his health. However, the constable did not respond to the treatment and succumbed to the infection,” said Jagdale. So far, 104 personnel, both from the police and the State Reserve Police Force (SRPF), have contracted Covid-19 while performing bandobast duties in Malegaon. Police said that most of the personnel were deployed in the 82 containment zones of Malegaon. As many as 497 people have been infected with Covid-19 in Malegaon till May 8. Police personnel deployed in the textile town of Malegaon are performing the bandobast duties under the constant fear that they might get infected by Covid-19. Malegaon’s additional superintendent of police Sandeep Ghuge said, “We are taking all efforts to boost the moral of the policemen deployed for bandobast duty in Malegaon.” “We are getting their health checked, providing them protective gear, hygienic food, medicine, proper accommodation and immediate treatment to whosoever is not feeling well,” said Ghuge. There is a special officer of the rank of additional superintendent to address health-related complaints of the personnel on duty in Malegaon. There are four officers of the IPS cadre looking after the various aspects of bandobast in Malegaon, added Ghuge. Currently, approximately 1,000 police personnel and six companies of the SRPF are deployed in Malegoan to ensure people do not venture out unnecessarily out of their homes. Each company of the SRPF comprises nearly 90-100 personnel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/police-constable-posted-in-malegaon-dies-of-covid-19/articleshow/75651408.cms||Santosh Sonawane
May 10, 2020||Goa||Handbook for self-reliance moots revival of farming||Panaji: In order to address economic challenges that have resulted from the Covid-19 pandemic, panchayats must assess the possibility of livelihoods through agriculture and allied activities, horticulture, animal husbandry, poultry, dairy, reviving micro and small scale industries and traditional livelihood options, and artisan craftsmanship. At a time when tourism, food and hospitality sector, public transport, service industry and foreign remittances have been reduced thereby affecting income of the people and economy at large, the Goa institute of public administration and rural development (GIPARD) has stated that the time is rife to make efforts towards building a self-sustainable village. In its ready reckoner, ‘Panchayati Raj Institutions and Covid-19: Challenges and the way ahead’, GIPARD has advised panchayats to begin by identifying opportunities for agricultural and allied activities through discussions with self-help groups, farmers and unemployed youth. GIPARD has highlighted the importance of activating various committees, including the production committee which can draw up an action plan for revival of agriculture, related activities and small and medium industries with the help of experts. Self-help groups can be involved in agriculture, food processing, value addition activities as well as encouraged with income generation work so that micro and small scale livelihood activities can get initiated within the village itself. Director (Training) GIPARD, Michael D’Souza said the document only provides baby steps to help panchayats get back on track. “The ready reckoner suggests practical ways to energize youth, make self-help groups reliant and use them for village development activities. It also advises activating various village committees and highlights the importance of preparing various databases of senior citizens living alone, service providers like plumbers and electricians and essential officers and emergency services in the area,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/handbook-for-self-reliance-moots-revival-of-farming/articleshow/75652887.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Jaipur||129 fresh Covid-19 cases in Rajasthan, Churu reports first death||JAIPUR: The state on Saturday reported 129 fresh coronavirus cases and three deaths. With this, the number of positive cases rose to 3,708 and toll mounted to 106. Two deaths took place in Jaipur, while another occurred in Churu. Three persons, including two migrant labourers, tested positive in Churu who had travelled from Surat on Saturday. Churu reported first Covid-19 death when a 33-year-old person who belonged to Sujangarh area died while undergoing treatment at the SMS Hospital in Jaipur. He was admitted to the hospital on May 7. A 24-year-old woman, resident of Agarwal Farm in Mansarovar, who was admitted to SMS Hospital on May 6 died on Saturday. She had co-morbid conditions of diabetes, hypertension and chronic kidney disease. Besides, a four-year-old girl, resident of Vijay Nagar of Lankapuri slum area who was admitted to SMS Hospital on May 6 died on Saturday. She was suffering from ruptured liver abscess. Among the districts which reported Covid-19 cases are Udaipur (24), Jaipur (51), Ajmer (15), Chittorgarh (10), Jodhpur (11), Pali (5), Jalore (3), Churu (3), Rajsamand (2), Dausa (1), Barmer (1), Sawai Madhopur (1), Sirohi (1) and Kota (1). In Jaipur, eight cases were reported from Ajit Nagar in Sanganer, seven from Ramganj, three from Dadi ka Phatak in Murlipura, six from Shastri Nagar, two from Adarsh Nagar, five from Bapu Bazaar, five from Chandpole, three from Nahari ka Naka, three from Bagru, two from Gandhi Nagar, while one each case was reported from Moti Doongri, Transport Nagar, Jalupura, Mansarovar, Bas Badanpura, Galta Gate and Ghat Gate. Churu reported three cases on Saturday after a gap of 27 days. The last three cases in Churu were reported on April 22 since then no case was reported. It was in green zone. “Two persons travelled from Surat of Gujarat and reached Churu on May 5 and May 6. They were found infected with the virus,” said Bhanwar Lal, chief medical health officer (CMHO) Churu. The two are asymptomatic and they were sent to quarantine facility on Saturday. The cause of concern is that they had travelled in buses. The person who reached on May 5 travelled in a bus with 12 co-passengers, a driver and a conductor. The person who reached on May 6 had travelled with 40 co-passengers. The health department has collected samples of 32 persons from their families and relative and identified 100 more who came in contact with the two coronavirus infected person. Besides, Churu’s health department officials informed their counterparts in Sikar and Jhunjhunu that some of the co-passengers of the two infected persons had got off the bus in Fatehpur and Ramgarh of Sikar district, while some stopped their journey from Surat to Bisau of Jhunjhunu district. They were working as labourers in Surat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/129-fresh-covid-19-cases-in-raj-churu-reports-first-death/articleshow/75652890.cms||Syed Intishab Ali
May 10, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Mini chariot on standby at Koraput’s Sabar Srikhetra||Koraput: The authorities of the Sabar Srikhetra here have built a mini-chariot, to be rolled within the temple premises for the Rath Yatra, scheduled on June 23, even as the Centre has allowed the state government to start building regular chariots for the festival in Puri. The temple authorities said the mini-chariot would be pulled only if the pulling of the bigger chariot was disallowed. “Pulling of regular-sized chariot on Rath Yatra will be dependent on the situation at the time. Hence, we have kept a mini-chariot ready in case we can’t hold the festival in a bigger manner. This will ensure that tradition is maintained,” said Gadadhar Parida, secretary of temple management committee. The tiny chariot is nine feet wide and 30 feet high. It has four wheels and was constructed after measuring the space available within the temple premises. “The chariot will be pulled for 90 meters within the premises. A Gundicha temple has been built as well where the deities will stay for nine days,” said Parida. The festival would be observed without the congregation of devotees, he added. Parida, however, added that if the district administration permitted the construction of bigger chariots, those would be built from June 5, on the occasion of Snana Purnima. “Work will be completed before the Rath Yatra. In that case, we will make arrangements to observe the festival in the open,” he said. The temple administration began the use of three chariots in place of one from last year. The celebration of Rath Yatra at the Sabar Srikhetra began in 1972.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/mini-chariot-on-standby-at-koraputs-sabar-srikhetra/articleshow/75651438.cms||Satyanarayan Pattnaik
May 10, 2020||Allahabad||Quarantined with its owners, 9-month-oldpug ‘Max’ languishes because of poor diet||Prayagraj: They say dogs are a man’s best friend and it couldn’t be any more true for the Singh family, which has been quarantined in an apartment in Kalinidpuram along with their dog ‘Max’ — making him probably the first pet to be isolated in the wake of the novel coronavirus (Covid-19) outbreak. The nine-month-old pug has been quarantined with his owners, who belong to the same family as the 47-year-old civil engineer who died of Covid-19 earlier this week. The Lukerganj-based man tested positive for the virus on May 1. After the engineer was diagnosed with the disease, 10 of his family members were quarantined at a guest house and their swab samples were collected. Later, his wife, mother, mother-in-law, sister-in-law and brother also tested positive for novel coronavirus and were shifted to Covid-19 Level One Hospital in Kotwa. The remaining members, along with their pet, were later shifted to an apartment in Kalindipuram. “None of us were ready to leave Max behind as we feared he would be neglected and not eat in our absence. He is an integral part of our life,” said Anurag, one of the members of the family. However, the family is now worried about the dog’s health as he has been losing weight because of a poor diet. “We used to give him dog food, however as it is not available at the quarantine centre we feed him puri along with tomato ketchup. Sometimes, we also give him eggs with roti or curd and rice,” said Anurag. He added that his pet dog was not eating properly also because of the heat. “We don’t have an air conditioner or desert cooler installed at the quarantine centre,” said the 18-year-old. “We were looking for someone who could keep Max with them and feed him properly for just a week. We would be completing quarantine on May 15 and can take him back after that,” he said. Anurag said that he had spoken to Max’s veterinarian, who said that it was safe for anyone to keep the pug with them for a few days. “The doctor said that there was no danger of someone getting infected because of Max living with him. Despite the assurance, we haven’t been able to find any alternative accommodation for Max. We hope that his health doesn’t deteriorate any further while we are quarantined,” said Anurag.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/quarantined-with-its-owners-9-month-oldpug-max-languishes-because-of-poor-diet/articleshow/75651226.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Bareilly||Two women migrant workers give birth on Shramik trains||BAREILLY/AGRA: There was some hope in the time of Covid despair among migrant workers travelling on Shramik special trains and passing through Uttar Pradesh districts. There was good news. Actually, two of them. Two women migrant workers gave birth while travelling on separate trains on Saturday. Most of these workers have been left without work and are making desperate attempts to reach home during the prolonged Covid-19 lockdown. As soon as one of the Bihar-bound special trains reached Agra Fort station at 4:43 am, a doctor along with team of railway staff helped a migrant worker give birth to a baby girl inside a train coach. The woman, identified as Mamta Yadav of Manoharpur village, Chapra district, was on Jamnagar-Muzaffarpur Shramik express. Passengers informed the railway staff about her condition when she started having labour pain. “The coach in which the woman was travelling was made empty, and a team of doctors conducted the delivery. Both the baby girl and the woman were healthy and safe. They were allowed to move on. The train left at 6:08am,” S K Shrivastav, divisional commercial manager of Agra division, said. There was a similar story on board Akbarpur-bound Shramik express. Subhadra, a 30-year-old migrant worker and native of Ambedkar Nagar district, gave birth to a healthy baby boy. Subhadra was with her husband Durgesh, and the railway officials said that the couple had boarded the train at Jalandhar station. After successful delivery, doctors examined the woman and newborn and allowed them to leave. Rekha Sharma, senior divisional commercial manager (SDCM) of Northern Railways, Moradabad division, said that the railway protection force (RPF), deployed in Shramik special train, had informed them before the train arrived in Moradabad. It reached at 6:10 am. “Our medical team led by Dr Piyush Rana was fully prepared for the task. The team suggested that they stay here at railway hospital, but they just wanted to reach home. Since doctors were satisfied with the health of mother and newborn, they allowed them to go,” the SDCM added. With the active support of the railway officials and doctors, it was a well deserved joy for two families of migrant workers, particularly the young mothers on the eve of Mother's Day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/two-women-migrant-workers-give-birth-on-shramik-trains/articleshow/75651441.cms||Pankul Sharma
May 10, 2020||Goa||After first Shramik special, migrants hope to get on next train||PANAJI: A day after a Shramik Special train left for Madhya Pradesh with 1,196 stranded people, hope runs high among migrant workers from other states who are optimistic that it will soon be their turn to head home. On Saturday, several migrant workers gathered outside the North Goa collectorate office to register with the state government for travel arrangements. Most of the applicants are daily wage workers who eke out a living in the informal sector. Workers who have been laid off from the hospitality sector, especially shacks and small eateries, are also counting on grabbing a seat on the next train leaving Goa. “The owner of the hotel we used to work at keeps asking us when we will leave. He says he can’t afford to keep feeding us,” said Kishen Ram, who used to work as a security guard for a small hotel in Candolim. Ram has provided his details to the panchayat, police station and at the Tiswadi mamlatdar. Most of the migrant workers in the hospitality sector hail from Jharkhand, Odhisa and West Bengal, while the construction workers are largely from Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Madhya Pradesh. Around 8,000 workers from Jharkhand who are working on fishing trawlers have also expressed their desire to travel home. “After we heard that a train has left for MP, we got some hope. My parents keep calling and asking me to come home as there is work to do in our fields,” said Bunty Kara, a tile-fitter from Betim. Many of the migrant workers are concentrated in pockets of Taleigao, Betim, Porvorim, Mapusa, Calangute, Ponda, Vasco and Bicholim. “We are looking into the factors prompting people to travel at this time, and it is mostly migrant labourers who are stranded here without employment,” said a government officer who is processing the travel requests. A day ago, South Goa collector Ajit Roy had said that fear and panic about the future is compelling even migrants who have jobs to leave the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/after-first-shramik-spl-migrants-hope-to-get-on-next-train/articleshow/75652889.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Allahabad||1,300 migrants arrive in city via Shramik Special||Prayagraj: Continuing with their efforts to bring back migrant labourers, students and pilgrims stranded in various parts of the country because of the lockdown and the Covid-19 outbreak, five Shramik Special trains arrived at different stations of North Central Railway (NCR) on Saturday. One train arrived each at Prayagraj Junction, Kanpur Central Station, Fatehpur, Orai and Gwalior railway station, while carrying 6,115 passengers. According to public relations officer (PRO) of Prayagraj division of NCR SK Gupta, the Shramik Special arrived at Prayagraj Junction from Vadodara at 7.22am. The train had 18 sleeper coaches, four general and two SLR coaches. “It brought 1,301 stranded passengers to Prayagraj. After arriving at platform number one, Railway Protection Force (RPF) and Government Railway Police (GRP) personnel, and ticket checking staff dirceted the passengers to stand in queues in marked circles,” said Gupta. The passengers were then made to undergo a medically check up and provided food and water. They were then sent to their respective hometowns by 41 UP State Road Transport Corporation (UPSRTC) buses. Gupta said that in Kanpur, the train from Morbi (Gujarat) arrived at 2.30pm with 1,200 passengers. The train arrived at platform number nine and after medical check-ups, passengers headed home in 51 UPSRTC buses. In Fatehpur, the Shramik Special train from Sabarmati (Gujarat) arrived at 4.50pm with 1,200 passengers. The migrants were sent to their home towns via 48 state buses. A Shramik Special train carrying 1,200 passengers arrived at Orai railway station from Sabarmati on Saturday, while the one arriving at Gwalior railway station brought 1,214 passengers from Thivim in Goa.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/1300-migrants-arrive-in-city-via-shramik-special/articleshow/75651303.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Pune||Pune: 57% of Covid deaths in PMR occurred within seven days of symptom onset||PUNE: Many Covid-19 patients in the Pune Metropolitan Region died within a week of onset of illness, an analysis of the toll so far has revealed. A study of 134 deaths in the region, recorded until May 7, shows 77 of the 134 patients — or 57% — died within seven days of showing serious symptoms. The rest succumbed to infection after little more than a week. Among the 77 patients, 12 died within 24 hours of being admitted to a hospital — showing how the disease has had a severe progression in some. The problem of rapidly worsening conditions that eventually led to death can be attributed to pre-existing illnesses. The study — by the district administration — said 90% of the 134 individuals who died had comorbidities in their system. About 10% of the 134 were healthy individuals who had no history of serious illness other than Covid-19 infection. “Advanced age, signs of respiratory distress during admission, underlying conditions such as high blood pressure, diabetes and self-delay in seeking medical care, despite having other illnesses, were important factors in the deaths of these patients,” a senior health official said. The study also tracked how urban living conditions and awareness have influenced the spread of Covid-19 in the PMR. Most who died were residents of densely populated pockets of the Peth areas. Disease investigators said the crowded living conditions in these zones and lack of awareness combined to create a worrisome situation. Officials also said many people from these areas delayed seeking care. “Quite a few who died turned up at hospitals in a critical condition. They had the symptoms for more than five or six days. They procrastinated, despite having pre-existing conditions such as hypertension, diabetes and cardiovascular disease,” said dean of Sassooon hospital, Muralidhar Tambe. The most common pre-existing conditions in the 134 patients were hypertension and diabetes, followed by coronary heart disease. “In the first five to six days, Covid-19 is limited to the upper respiratory tract,” said senior physician Dilip Kadam. "If the infection is not treated at that stage, it reaches down to impact the lower respiratory tract, which involves the lungs. In people with co-morbidities, this progression can be sudden and fulminant,” Kadam said. Critical care expert Kapil Borawake added, "Non-survivors had higher instances of respiratory sepsis and secondary infections."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/57-of-covid-deaths-in-pmr-occurred-within-seven-days-of-symptom-onset/articleshow/75652896.cms||Umesh Isalkar
May 10, 2020||Nashik||CP warns of strict action against domestic violence||NASHIK: Commissioner of Police Vishwas Nangare-Patil has uploaded a video on social media warning Nashik residents of strict action if they are found indulging in domestic violence. In the 4.30 minute-long video, the city police have delineated how the lockdown is increasing frustration among people at the domestic level while women and children are finding themselves at the receiving end. Addressing citizens of the city, Nangare-Patil explained that the lockdown has now been a month old and it may continue even in the future, following which everyone will have to still stay indoors to stay safe from Covid-19. In the video, he said that if everyone observes patience, we all can come out of this problem soon. “While the lockdown is essential to prevent the spread of Covid-19, this lockdown is also getting on the nerves of many people, following which they are heated arguments among family members which, at times, also lead to physical assaults. Women, children and elders are facing maximum problems. However, such offences fall under domestic violence category and there is a provision of strict punishment to people who indulge in domestic violence,” he said. Nangare-Patil has appealed to the women to contact police immediately if they are facing harassment at domestic level. While cases of domestic violence are registered regularly, women may not be able to step out during lockdown to lodge complaint against their family members. However, the CP has asked women to immediately contact police if they need help. On Saturday, a 30-year-old woman from the Indiranagar area was seen waiting outside the Nashik Road railway station to take a train for Madhya Pradesh. She also had two children with her below five years of age. When asked, the woman said that she had left her husband’s house as she was being harassed. She said that her husband sold household articles to buy liquor on Friday and later beat her up. He also drove her out of the house. She said that she has also lodged a complaint against him with the Indiranagar police station. Since she could not take any more harassment, she decided to call it quits and leave Nashik by whatever means possible.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/cp-warns-of-strict-action-against-domestic-violence/articleshow/75651490.cms||Santosh Sonawane
May 10, 2020||Kochi||No letdown in customs vigil||Kochi: Though times are desperate and only those who need to reach home on an urgent basis have been flying in after the government began to operate special repatriation flights, customs officials at the Cochin International Airport (Cial) have not let their guard down. The officials who are usually seen manning the arrival gates in white and white, now sport PPE kits to protect themselves from getting infected. They say though chances of smuggling syndicates opting for special flights to transport contraband are low, they are maintaining due diligence while clearing passengers. “We check the baggage if there is reasonable cause. Our officials study the passenger manifest to make learned decisions. Then, there is the case of unaccompanied baggage. Such baggage has to be opened and checked,” said customs commissioner (preventive) Sumit Kumar. He said the custom sleuths who conduct activities like baggage checks and frisking are using personal protection equipment (PPE) kits while others have been using masks and gloves. Sources said they have not seized contraband items from any of the flights so far. “From what we know there are commodities that the syndicates have invested in and there is a likelihood of them trying to smuggle them in. However, in a special flight, the passengers are selected by the government. So, unlike a scheduled flight, they don’t get to choose their carriers. But they can offer ticket fares or other perks to genuine people who want to return home to make them carriers. Sometimes, the carrier’s application also may get approved,” said a senior customs official. “We are keeping a watch on smugglers but they too are monitoring the situation. They are watching the market as well to judge whether it is the right time to move smuggled goods,” said a customs official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/no-letdown-in-customs-vigil/articleshow/75651512.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Goa||800 labourers leave for Karnataka||Poinguinim: Around 800 migrants from Margao, Panaji and Ponda were taken in more than 13 buses to their home towns in Karnataka. At Pollem check post, registration formalities were done in a speedy manner. Buses were made to halt at least 2-km before the check post at Dapot to avoid confusion and chaos. From Dapot, police sent smaller groups to the check post for necessary formalities. The travelling migrants were from places in Karnataka such as Karwar, Yellapur, Honnavar ,Hubballi, Gadag, Bijapur, etc. Speaking to TOI, Canacona deputy collector Pritvidas Gaonkar informed that Karnataka government agreed to ferry the migrants to their respective destinations. By 7pm, 3 buses had left for their respective destinations and the procedure for the remaining was in progress, when last reports came in. Buses carrying migrants reached Dapot at 9am today. They were left in sweltering heat with no water provision even as Canacona police extended some help to them. Local residents were all praise for the good work done by Canacona police. Yesterday around 1,200 migrants had left for Karnataka, deputy collector Gaonkar informed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/800-labourers-leave-for-karnataka/articleshow/75652892.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Inspections by GHMC from Mon||Hyderabad: Extensive inspections will be conducted throughout GHMC limits by Directorate of Enforcement Vigilance and Disaster Management from Monday. Any sort of establishments/super markets/wines shops/hardware stores etc., which are found to be open under the relaxations given by the government and flouting norms, will be sealed, according to GHMC. Norms include providing sanitizers, wearing masks and maintaining social distancing. Till date 150 outlets have been sealed, according to a statement released by EVDM.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/inspections-by-ghmc-from-mon/articleshow/75652894.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Kanpur||Guard’s coach of a goods train derails as bull comes on tracks||Kanpur: A bull caused derailment of the guard’s coach of a goods train in the North Central Railway (NCR) section on Delhi-Howrah route in Auraiya district in the wee hours of Saturday. However, the other wagons of the train did not skid off the tracks. None has been reported to have suffered injuries either. The incident occurred near Phafoond railway station, when a bull came on the railway tracks and hit engine of the moving of a goods train.  Railway officials rushed to the accident site and till early morning work was underway to bring the derailed guard coach back on track and restore traffic on the Delhi -Howrah route of NCR section. According to railway officials, as the goods train was heading towards Tundla from Kanpur after loading goods, a bull came in its way causing derailment of a guard coach. However, the other wagons remained intact on the tracks. The driver after spotting bull on the tracks applied emergency brakes to halt the train, but it derailed guard’s coach. After this, the loco pilot informed station superintendent Arjun Singh of Phafoond about the incident. Soon, railway officials reached the spot.  The coach, which had derailed, was attached from the train and rushed to Tundla. Rail workers toiled hard to bring back the derailed coach wheels on the tracks. “After the coach was placed back on the tracks, the rail traffic was restored,” said superintendent Phafoond station Arjun Singh of Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/guards-coach-of-a-goods-train-derails-as-bull-comes-on-tracks/articleshow/75651367.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
May 10, 2020||Hyderabad||CM: Ensure proper treatment of animals||Vijayawada: Chief minister Y S Jaganmohan Reddy has asked officials to also focus on veterinary services in Visakhapatnam and treat the animals in the styrene-affected areas near the LG Polymers plant. The CM reviewed the relief measures initiated by the government and the treatment being provided to victims in the hospitals at his camp office on Saturday. While expressing satisfaction over the medical services being provided to the victims, Jagan also enquired about the services being provided to pets and other animals, which have also been affected by the toxic fumes. “Send more veterinary teams to the area. Open veterinary health camps and ensure that the animals are given proper treated,” he told officials. Around 13 veterinary teams have been sent to the affected villages to treat the animals, including pets. Cattle, goats and sheep are being treated and given medicine and would recover soon, the CM was informed. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cm-ensure-proper-treatment-of-animals/articleshow/75652313.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Jaipur||16 animals to be under close forest watch||JAIPUR: Apart from tigers, 16 wildlife species including pangolin and Gangetic Dolphin, which are at risk of being poached in Rajasthan, will be under the state’s forest department specific surveillance. As Rajasthan is home to many unique and endangered wild animals, chief wildlife warden (CWLW) Arindam Tomar has directed his department to closely monitor these species. The order reads, “For conservation of wild animals, it is necessary to gather information regarding their natural habitat, distribution and estimated population abundance. While tigers are closely monitored, several other species more attention.” The forest department has been conducting a population estimation exercise for wild animals by waterhole estimation method and also tracking wild animals using camera traps, radio telemetry, radio collar and through rescue operations. “For the closer monitoring of the following species, incidences of recorded presence, camera trap images, video, rescue operations and other encounters may be reported to the CWLW on WhatsApp /email upon occurrence of incidents,” states the order. A format has also been prescribed to record these wild animals in which geocooridnates (latitude and longitude) will be mentioned. Since the lockdown was imposed, poachers have become active in the reserves and sanctuaries with at least dozen of such incidents being reported in just the last 45 days. The forest department has till now identified more than a dozen species which are at risk and plans on adding those on its list depending on the population status after a survey. A forest official source said many rare species, for instance rusty spotted cat (Prionailurus rubiginosus) was sighted during this lockdown in Ranthambore National Park and other sanctuaries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/16-animals-to-be-under-close-forest-watch/articleshow/75652900.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Kanpur||‘Ensure complianceof Covid-19 protocols’||Kanpur: Nodal officer Anil Garg inspected Covid-19 hospitals and quarantine facility for doctors and medical staff on Saturday, checked the preparedness and directed the health authorities to strictly ensure the mandatory 14 days isolation of cured patients as per protocol. Garg, who is also CEO, UPSIDC, Kanpur Nagar, first visited LLR hospital and asked about red and green zone arrows installed at the entry point. LLR hospital chief superintendent Prof. R K Maurya informed the arrows indicate safe and risky zones and alert visitors so that they do not expose themselves to risk by mistake. He informed that thermal scanning was mandatory at emergency. The officer also visited the CCTV control room, checked the positions of installed cameras. He asked the employees to zoom on some points and told them to ensure the recording data is saved. Garg ordered round the clock deployment of employees at control room to monitor the ICU and other wards. He asked doctors and staff to take all preventive measures to save themselves from infection. He also inspected the Vijay Vila hotel where doctors and medical staff are being quarantined and then visited city control room at Kanpur Municipal Corporation and inquired about complaints redressal system. Garg was accompanied by DIG/SSP Anant Deo, ADM city Vivek Srivastava and KDA secretary KP Singh during the inspection. Municipal commissioner Akshay Tripathi said that KMC teams were busy in sanitizing almost entire city daily. Quli Bazaar, Hathi Wali Mosque, Khair mosque Babupurwa, Naseemabad Mosque Machariya and other hotspots of the city were also sanitized. Meanwhile, police is strictly enforcing lockdown. Police checked 4,299 vehicles in the district and realized Rs 6,000 as fine from 1,336 vehicles for flouting rules while six were seized. Police also booked 49 persons in 11 cases for breaking provisions of section 144 CrPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/ensure-complianceof-covid-19-protocols/articleshow/75651405.cms||Anant Shekher Misra
May 10, 2020||Jaipur||Over 6 lakh identified at high risk in 9 Rajasthan districts||JAIPUR: Nine areas of nine districts in the state have been identified to prevent mortality due to Covid-19. These areas consist of over six lakh people who are at high risk due to their age and comorbid conditions. With the mortality rate having shot up in May in comparison to April, the priority for the state government is to detect Covid-19 cases early so as to prevent deaths. The state has reported 103 deaths so far, 48 of which occurred in May (till Saturday). “Early detection through timely testing is the key to prevent mortality. Rajasthan has launched Mission LISA (Life Saving) in which vulnerable persons are being identified through line listing of targeted Ayushman Bharat beneficiaries who are known to have other comorbid conditions like diabetes, hypertension and coronary ailments,” said Rohit Kumar Singh, additional chief secretary (health). “Till Friday, about 6.39 lakh such persons were contacted and checked upon by our healthcare workers in nine districts,” said Singh. Among the nine areas are Ajmer’s Muslim Mochhi Mohalla, Banswara’s ward 12 in Kushalgarh, Bharatpur’s Kasai Pada in Bayana, Jaipur’s Ramganj area, Jodhpur’s Nagori Gate, Kota’s Chandraghata, Nagaur’s Basni, Tonk’s Bambore Gate and Chittorgarh’s Nimbahera. According to the health department, 70% of the Covid-19 patients are asymptomatic and do not require much treatment, they get cured on their own. The state government is worried about the rest 30%. These are the high-risk persons who are suffering from underlying diseases or comorbid conditions or are elderly. The government is taking measures to prevent mortalities by identifying these patients in containment areas. They are holding camps and asking the elderly and other high-risk group patients to get tested for Covid-19. According to Sawai Man Singh (SMS) Hospital’s death audit report, except for six patients who died till May 6, 49 had comorbid conditions such as diabetes, hypertension, chronic diseases of heart, lungs, kidney and liver and stroke. Also, more than half of the people who died were above 60 years of age. Keeping in mind the pattern of deaths, the health department has deployed teams in nine districts of the state. Till Friday, the health department had conducted check-ups of 6.39 lakh persons along with 74,595 high-risk persons. They found 95 high-risk persons who required immediate medical attention. They were referred to hospitals for further check-up and treatment. Besides, they took samples of 788 people belonging to high-risk group.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/over-6-lakh-identified-at-high-risk-in-9-raj-dists/articleshow/75652916.cms||Syed Intishab Ali
May 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Awareness through music||Hyderabad: To spread awareness on Covid-19 among people across Telangana, a song titled ‘Salute to the Real Horoes’, which was composed by Saketh Komanduri and sung by Sony Komanduri, Srinath Komanduri, Saketh Komanduri, was released in Cyberabad commissioner office on Saturday. The song highlights the importance of lockdown norms and how staying at home can arrest the spread of the virus. It also pays tribute to all the frontline warriors who have been working day in and out to keep our state safe from all forms of contamination. The song was released by Cyberabad commissioner of police VC Sajjanar in the presence of additional deputy commissioner of police (traffic) Praveen Kumar and inspector Srinath.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/awareness-through-music/articleshow/75652899.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Coimbatore||Rumours take hundreds to railway stn to buy tickets||Coimbatore: Several hundreds of guest workers thronged Tirupur railway station on Saturday after rumours spread that trains tickets would be issued to them from morning.When railway authorities and police officials attempted to disperse the crowd by convincing them there was no move to issue them train tickets, the guest workers protested. Police officials, however, held talks and pacified them.The guest workers started flocking to the railway station as early as 4am based on a WhatsApp message that special train tickets would be issued on Saturday morning.They told the media that while other district administrations have been sending guest workers home in trains, the Tirupur district administration was delaying the process.Tirupur collector K Vijayakarthikeyan, meanwhile, released an audio in Hindi seeking guest workers’ cooperation in implementing prohibitory orders in the district effectively and shared the same on his Twitter handle. “The district administration stands with the guest workers and will announce the train details officially,” it said. He also requested the guest workers not to believe in rumours.Tirupur MP K Subbarayan said the guest workers across the state have been protesting the delay in sending them home for the past 10 days. “On April 29, the Union government had instructed the state government to send the guest workers to their hometowns. So far, no train has been arranged from the district for the same. I had taken up the issue with higher officials, but I did not get any proper reply,” he said.The district administration, meanwhile, said trains would be operated from Tirupur after obtaining consent from the state governments of the stranded guest workers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/rumours-take-hundreds-to-railway-stn-to-buy-tickets/articleshow/75652311.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Vadodara||Another death, but not accounted for||Vadodara: The number of persons who died after testing positive for Covid-19 increased to three with one more death under similar circumstances here. All the three persons were elderly men staying in different localities in the city. The latest death was that of a man residing in the eastern part of the city. He tested positive for Covid-19 and died on Friday night. Excluding these three, the total number of deaths in the district, including the city, remains at 31. However, Vadodara Municipal Corporation has decided not to declare deaths of Covid-19 patients till the death audits were completed at SSG Hospital and GMERS, Gotri Hospital. This has led to the three cases of deaths this week being withheld. “We will segregate the deaths into those who died primarily due to Covid-19 and those who tested positive, but had other co-morbid conditions. The state government has already done this. A system will be in place for this from Monday,” said officer on special duty for Covid-19 and education secretary Dr Vinod Rao. Dabhoi MLA Shailesh Mehta, who is also a corporator from Waghodiya Road area in the eastern part of the city, said the family of the man who died on Friday night had doctors too. Mehta added that strict containment and extensive testing was necessary in the area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/another-death-but-not-accounted-for/articleshow/75651469.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Pune||160 people Covid-19 test +ve, four succumb in Pune region||PUNE: Nearly 130 patients tested positive for the Covid-19 contagion on Saturday in Pune Municipal Corporation limits, taking the city tally to 2,371. From the rest of the Pune region, there were seven fresh cases in the Pimpri Chinchwad municipal limits, and nine from the rural areas, taking Saturday’s tally to 160, pushing the overall tally in the Pune Metropolitan Region to 2,732. On May 7, the region had reported 161 new cases, while on May 8 about 111 fresh cases were added to the overall tally. Saturday’s deaths pushed the toll for the region 148. The report released by the district health officer stated that 110 patients were cured and discharged from various hospitals and quarantine centres on Saturday. Of the five deaths reported on Saturday — three were at Sassoon General Hospital. A 65-year-old resident of Kasewadi, who was admitted to the hospital on May 7, succumbed to the infection on May 8. A 78-year old woman from Yerawada, who was admitted to hospital on May 8, too succumbed on Saturday. She had underlying comorbidity complaints. The third fatality — a 62-year-old male resident of Ramtekdi — died on Saturday, also with comorbidity conditions. The health officials from Pune Municipal Corporation said as many as 70 patients were in a critical condition and were being treated at various hospitals in the city. Of them, 12 patients were on ventilator support. More than 1.5k swab samples collected The PMC’s health officials said they collected about 1,543 swab samples on Saturday, which they claimed was the highest so far in a day. The collection of swabs of suspected patients has increased in the PMC limits, official said. “New centres have been commissioned in the most affected civic wards. The mobile vans have been introduced for collection of swabs,” officials added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/160-people-test-ve-four-succumb-in-pune-region/articleshow/75652901.cms||Sarang Dastane
May 10, 2020||Allahabad||Aurangabad tragedy: NCR in vigil mode||Prayagraj: A day after 16 migrant labourers were run over by a goods train near Aurangabad, North Central Railway launched a safety drive on Saturday to check unauthorised movement and trespassing on tracks. Chief public relations officer (CPRO) of NCR Ajeet Kumar Singh said, “Regular train operations might have been suspended during the lockdown, but freight and parcel trains are still plying. NCR has sent around 12 lakh SMSes to the general public to inform them about the operations of goods train.” NCR has also notified the public through various mediums about the movement of these trains, he added. Apart from these, Shramik Special trains are plying daily on different routes to ferry migrant workers stranded in different states. In view of these train operations and migrant labourers walking near tracks, NCR and Northern Railway general manager Rajiv Chaudhry has directed all divisions to strictly monitor all such movements. “All loco-pilots, guards, gateman, trackman, station masters and RPF personnel have been advised to report any unauthorised movement or trespassing on railway tracks by any person. They have been directed to bring any such movement to the notice of the nearest railway station or the RPF post so as immediate action can be taken,” said Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/aurangabad-tragedy-ncr-in-vigil-mode/articleshow/75651184.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Kochi||Kodungallur man dies from Covid-19 in UAE||Thrissur: P T Abdul Razak (49) from Puthiyakavu near Mathilakam in Kodungallur died in Sharjah while he was undergoing treatment for Covid-19, said his relatives. According to the information they received, Razak, who worked as a driver in a construction company, died around midnight on Friday. He also had diabetes, said his family. He was hospitalised in Dubai after he complained of physical weakness a week ago. Razak is survived by his wife, a son and daughter. Man dies of Covid-19 in Abu Dhabi: A 45-year-old man from Pavaratty in Thrissur died in Abu Dhabi while he was undergoing treatment for Covid-19. He has been identified as Hussain, son of Paratt Veettil Ali Ahmed of Paluvai near Pavaratty. The relatives said Hussain was under treatment for 14 days in Abu Dhabi and the communication about his death was received at 1.30pm on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/kodungallur-man-dies-from-covid-19-in-uae/articleshow/75651574.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Bhopal||Containment zones up by 24 in a day in Bhopal limits, cross 200 mark||BHOPAL: With 24 more new Coronavirus patients detected in Bhopal on Friday, the total number of ‘containment areas’ in the city has gone beyond 200. Localities in old Bhopal like Jehangirabad, Shahjanabad, Aishbagh and Koh-e-fiza are pockets where containment area restrictions have failed to contain the spread of the infection , leading to more curbs being put in place by the district administration. Till Friday evening, there were 196 containment areas in the city, the highest of 21 containment areas in localities under Jehangirabad police station, which also had the highest number of 121 Coronavirus patients. Kodh-e-fiza with 60 patients has the second highest number of patients but it has only 12 containment areas as against 13 in areas under TT Nagar police station, which has 17 Covid-19 patients as on Thursday. Areas under Mangalwara police station have 44 patients but only 4 8 containment areas . Among areas under the jurisdiction of remaining police stations, Kamla Nagar has 21 patients and 10 containment areas, Ashoka Garden 24 patients and 10 containment areas, Shahjanabad 13 and 6, Aishbagh 23 and 8, Kolar has 8 patients and as much containment areas , Bagh Sevaniya 15 and 11, Govindpura 15 and 4, Nishatpura 11 and 7, Talaiya 19 and 8, Station Bajariya 7 and 5, Habibganj 8 patients and 6 containment areas, Misrod 3 patients and 3 containment areas. Areas under Avadhpuri police station have five Coronavirus patients and 2 containment areas, Hanumanganj police station 2 and 2, Kotwali 5 patients and 4 containment area , Shahpura 6 and 4, Chuna Bhatti 2 patients and a many containment areas. Areas under the jurisdiction of Piplani police station have 8 patients and 5 containment areas. District collector, Tarun Pithode said said that a new strategy is being executed in Bhopal to contain the Coronavirus infection under which not only the “first contact” persons of the infected person is being traced and quarantined but also persons with whom the “the first contact persons” had come in contact.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/containment-zones-up-by-24-in-a-day-in-city-limits-cross-200-mark/articleshow/75652312.cms||Ashutosh Shukla
May 10, 2020||Indore||2 Indore labs to conduct 1200 tests a day||INDORE: Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Medical College authority has begun installation of a new automated machine and biosafety cabinet in virology laboratory to increase its testing capacity. The laboratory has been testing 650 to 700 samples per day for the last couple of days. After installation of this new machine, the testing capacity will go well above 1000. The installation process will get completed within two to three days, MGM dean Dr Jyoti Bindal said. Virology laboratory has load of testing samples of not only Indore - the Corona hotspot- but also adjoining districts of Indore and Ujjain divisions. The laboratory has been receiving over 1000 samples per day only from Indore. On May 7 and 8, the authority sent around 1500 samples for testing to private laboratories in Ahmedabad due to high influx of samples, an official source said. On Saturday, the Central Laboratory- a private laboratory approved by ICMR two weeks ago to test Covid-19 samples - received first lot of 150 samples, lab owner Dr Vinita Kothari said. The lab has testing capacity of around 200 samples and 50 samples will be tested on urgent basis received from private hospitals, said Kothari. With Central Laboratory, now, the testing capacity in city will increase to 1200 samples per day. Kothari added, “We have also ordered one biosafety cabinet and with this our testing capacity will rise to 300 samples per day.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/2-city-labs-to-conduct-1200-tests-a-day/articleshow/75652326.cms||Antriksh Singh
May 10, 2020||Indore||Patients on average take 19 days to get cured||INDORE: City’s coronavirus patients on an average are taking 18.67 days to get cured after testing positive, data from local health department revealed. As many as 609 people got cured of Covid-19 infection in city till May 7. It has taken a minimum of three days and maximum of 58 days for males to get cured after testing positive of the infection, revealed the records. Dr Ravi Dosi, HoD of SAIMS, attributed this high average stay time in hospital to delay in getting two negative reports of patients before which a patient can’t be discharged. “There was a protocol of putting Covid-19 infected person in hospital for 14 days. After this the swab samples were collected and sent for testing. Ideally, the report should be provided within a day but it has not happened,” he said. This average stay time will definitely come down with new guidelines of Union government, added Dosi. Centre on Friday in the revised guidelines said, “There will be no need for testing prior to discharge for mild, very mild and pre-symptomatic cases. At the time of discharge, the patient will be advised to follow the home isolation for further 7 days.” Dr Anil Singh, epidemiologist with district health said average stay time of Covid-19 deceased is 5 days since testing positive. There were around a dozen out of 87 people, who died of Covid-19 before testing positive. However, symptomatic patients were admitted to hospital and then it had taken two to three days to test positive. If that is also taken into account, the average will go up further, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/patients-on-avg-take-19-days-to-get-cured/articleshow/75652319.cms||Antriksh Singh
May 10, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot to take final call on panchayati raj department’s ‘turf war’||JAIPUR: Now, chief minister Ashok Gehlot will take a decision on the order, issued by additional chief secretary (ACS) rural development and panchayati raj department Rajeshwar Singh, which stated that all files pertaining to monitoring and implementation of central and state government-run panchayati raj schemes must be sent directly to him and not through panchayati raj department special secretary Arushi Malik. Chief secretary D B Gupta has taken up the matter with principal secretary to the chief minister Kuldeep Ranka, said sources. Both the sides have been presented before the principal secretary, CMO, and the final decision on the issue will be taken at the level of the chief minister. The special secretary was also asked not to hold any meeting or video conference or participate in any of the meetings/video conference-related to these schemes. According to sources, the tipping point in the matter was when a file pertaining to promotion of engineers in the rural development and panchayati raj department was sent to the finance department (FD) by the special secretary directly without the approval of the ACS. When FD sent the file back to ACS, he was literally miffed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/gehlot-to-take-final-call-on-panchayati-raj-depts-turf-war/articleshow/75652903.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Nagpur||‘To avoid stress and fear, expecting moms must stop following corona news’||Dr Aarti Bang is leading the mental health programme at NGO Search, run by the celebrated doctor couple Abhay and Rani Bang (her in-laws) in Gadchiroli district. The initiative includes clinical care, research and community health. Being a psychiatrist and an expecting mother, Dr Aarti shares insights on the ensuing motherhood, and how pregnant women can cope with the situation amid the ongoing coronavirus scare. Excerpts from an interview... Q. What are the concerns of an expecting mother? A. What will be the implications of being pregnant in time of this epidemic, how should I take care of my baby once its born, will my baby and I have immunity and how can I safeguard myself against the infection, how exactly are things and child care going to change in time of this epidemic. These questions come to mind often. Q Is there any risk of the current situation taking a toll on the mother’s mental health? A. Constant news coverage, talk regarding corona cases etc may instill fear and anxiety in minds of expecting mothers or mothers with younger children. So, yes, there definitely is a risk. I think the uncertainty of not knowing what lies ahead is more anxiety generating. People fear the unknown and these are such unprecedented times, we were hardly prepared for such an eventuality. Its very natural to feel stressful. Q. How can pregnant women cope with these changes? A. There really is no need to feel stressed or anxious about this. One defiantly needs to chalk out a mental plan regarding the care that needs to be taken, precautions to follow etc. But, beyond this, unnecessarily going into a panic mode is not going to help a pregnant woman. In fact, it’s known that maternal mental stress adversely affects neonatal outcomes. Q. Should they stop following corona news? A. Yes. I believe that all pregnant mothers should do is not binge watch news or read articles related to corona. Even though you may think that watching and hearing constantly about corona epidemic does not make you feel fearful, it does generate an unconscious undercurrent of stress and fear. That’s not good at all. Spend this time in watching nice movies, reading good books. There’s a wonderful Netflix series called ‘Babies’. I would highly recommend watching this. Also, due to the lockdown many women may find that they actually have the opportunity to spend a lot of time with their husbands. That’s such good news. Use this time productively with your partner. I am delighted that Amrut (my husband) has been working from home and for the first time in 7 years we have spent so much time together. It’s wonderful and it’s a blessing! Q. What should a gynaecologist advise? A. I am not a gynaecologist but by virtue of being a doctor I can definitely say that women should postpone unnecessary visit exposures to even their gynaecologists unless absolutely necessary or for problems that cannot be sorted through tele-consultation. According to research done by a Harvard professor Dr Daniel Gilbert, people spend 46% of their time in mind wandering. That’s a huge waste of time. Hence, spending time in more constructive and creative pursuits can really increase joy and meaningfulness. As a psychiatrist, I would suggest plan your time during this pregnancy as it is one of the rarest opportunities where you’re expected to take rest and get lot of free time at your hands. Q. How can Covid positive mothers deal with separation from their newborn? A. Covid-19 data pouring in from other countries reveal that prognosis or mortality in pregnant women is not any different as compared to the general population. Older people are at higher risk for more serious infections but that is not the case with pregnant women. So, this news should relieve a lot of stress. Remembering this is a temporary situation, counting our blessings that both baby and mother are fine, taking all medication and following treatment protocols and optimism that ‘I am going to go home with my baby’ is what will help. Q. What is the mental health picture in a time like this? A. I keep hearing from several friends and relatives that they are feeling bored being cooped up in homes, unable to live their life as they would have normally gone about it, etc. I am saddened and a little curious as to why would people who do not have existential worries be bored of this time that they are getting. It’s also reflective of a state of mind in which we are not consciously thinking of our actions, how we would like to spend our life and what are those 1 or 2 meaningful pursuits that I would like to invest my time of life in. This vacuum that several of us may be experiencing is very telling and should be seen as a mirror. Even I worry about my old parents and parents-in-law. But taking adequate care without being careless and at the same time not escalating things to a panic mode is the way to go I believe. This is an opportunity for our mental age to grow! Q. How does it feel being a mental health professional in today’s times? A. Investing in mental health is one of the most cost effective ways for increasing well-being according to research by the London School of Economics. This is true for developed countries. We need to investigate this for India. In this context, working on mental health is a case of both moral and economic urgency. I feel fortunate to be working on this frontier. It is an amazing combination of empathy and effective altruism.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/to-avoid-stress-and-fear-expecting-moms-must-stop-following-corona-news/articleshow/75652316.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
May 10, 2020||Jaipur||Minister bats for maximum screening||Jaipur: Urban development and housing minister and minister in-charge of Jaipur Shanti Dhariwal on Saturday said to screen maximum people for Covid-19 in the district by preparing a list of those associated with the sale of milk, vegetables, and grocery items. He also expressed anger towards people roaming around amidst lockdown and called for action against them and said to put a stamp on the ration cards that are given 5 kg wheat instead of 10 kg mentioning that they would be given soon.During a video conference with the officials of the district to review the COVID-19 situation in the district, Dhariwal said a plan of action should be prepared for migrant labourers and must be implemented by giving them employment under MGNREGA. He also said proper arrangements should be made for the protection of frontline warriors, health workers, sanitation workers and pregnant women. Meanwhile, Amber sub-division officer Laxmikant Katara on Saturday imposed a fine of Rs 5,000 and suspended the license of an E-mitra centre for 15 days for filing more than 300 fake complaints related to distribution of ration by taking money from the applicants. The operator of the e-mitra centre is Aslam Khan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/minister-bats-for-maximum-screening/articleshow/75652909.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Hyderabad||400 students in UK avail coupons||Hyderabad: Over 400 students in the UK availed ‘KCR coupons’, which the TRS’ UK wing had unveiled on the occasion of the party’s 20th anniversary celebrations to help students gain access to essential commodities. Using the coupons, the students could avail benefits of anywhere between £25-100 on groceries and essential items. The QR code on the coupon can be scanned to avail benefits which promotes social distancing. NRI TRS UK president, Ashok Goud Dusari, said: “After the ‘KCR Coupons’ programme was initiated, hundreds of students approached our team for help. We have helped at least 500 students in the UK, including with medical assistance since lockdown.” TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/400-students-in-uk-avail-coupons/articleshow/75652904.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Kanpur||Hamirpur, Farrukhabad report 1st Covid-19 cases||Kanpur: A man undergoing kidney treatment at a private hospital has tested positive for Covid-19 in Hamirpur district. The district health authorities have swung into action as it was the first case in the district which came to the fore since the pandemic outbreak. Similarly, Farrukhabad reported its first confirmed case of Covid-19 after a Maharashtra returned man tested positive for coronavirus on Saturday. Administrations in both the districts was on alert mode. “A man, who used to visit a private hospital in Orai for dialysis owing to his kidney related ailment, has tested positive for Corona on Saturday. Going by the Covid -19 symptoms in the man, the authorities of a private hospital had asked him to undergo a medical test. Subsequently, doctors sent his throat and nasal swab samples to a private lab on May 6. On May 9, his sample report returned, which tested him positive,” said Hamirpur district magistrate Gyaneshwar Tripathi. The man has been admitted to L 2 hospital in Banda. “We have sealed the village and locals have been home quarantined. We have taken sample of his family members and sent to lab for test. We are also procuring the details regarding his travel history before he was tested positive. It would be further dispatched to the district administration,” said a health official. Similarly, Farrukhabad reported its first confirmed case of Covid-19 after a Maharashtra returned man tested positive for coronavirus on Saturday. The district administration has sealed the locality in Shamshabad area from where the man belongs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/hamirpur-farrukhabad-report-1st-covid-19-cases/articleshow/75651449.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
May 10, 2020||Hyderabad||LG Polymers confirms leakage of styrene||Hyderabad: LG Polymers India Pvt Ltd on Saturday confirmed that the tragic mishap at its Vizag facility on May 7, which left 12 people dead, occurred due to leakage of vapour from a styrene monomer storage tank at its facility. “Our initial investigations suggest that the cause of the incident is prima facie by the leaking vapour from the Styrene Monomer (SM) storage tank near the GPPS (General Purpose Poly Styrene) factory on Thursday, May 7,” the company said in a statement. “We are happy to confirm that the status-quo at the plant is brought under control this morning. We would like to assure everyone that the company is committed to work closely with the concerned authorities in India to investigate the cause of this incident, prevent recurrence in the future, and secure the foundation for care and treatment,” it said. Apologising for the incident, the company said it is focusing on stabilising the plant and its teams are working with the government to assess the impact of the damage caused and create concrete measures to deliver an effective care package that can be implemented immediately. It said it has also set up a special taskforce to help victims and families to resolve any issues and provide assistance to the bereaved families.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/lg-polymers-confirms-leakage-of-styrene/articleshow/75652329.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Pune||Pune: Only 0.36% tested for contagion in PMC limits||PUNE: Around 12,000 people have been tested for coronavirus infection in the PMC limits so far, accounting for just 0.35% of the total population of 33 lakh. This has been revealed in a report of Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) and Pune Smart City Development Corporation Limited, which did not include the data from the Pimpri Chinchwad municipal limits. Out of the 15 ward offices of PMC, a majority of the tests were conducted in Bhavani Peth and Dhole Patil Road ward offices, while the lowest in the Kothrud ward office area. The per ward office testing ranges from 3,00 to 1,700 people, the report revealed. “Our focus is on the densely populated areas as cases have surged in these parts. These areas have been declared as containment zones. More tests and contact tracing will be done in such areas,” PMC commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad said. He said people who might have come in contact with infection individuals should get themselves tested. The patients should also make sure that they provide detailed information about their primary, secondary as well as tertiary contacts to the health authorities as it would increase the scope of testing, the commissioner said. “On an average, we are testing around 700 samples every day. We are going to increase this number to 1,000 in the next couple of days,” Pune district collector Naval Kishore Ram said. As per the officials, government as well as private laboratories are also testing swab samples. The numbers will go up with more private laboratories getting permission for testing. Political parties have demanded that more tests should be carried out. “The state government is sending kits, which can enable the authorities to test 1,500 swabs a day. But on ground, there is a lot of gap in completing the tests,” Sanjay More, city unit chief of Shiv Sena, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/only-0-36-population-tested-for-ncov-infection-in-pmc-limits/articleshow/75652908.cms||Prasad Kulkarni
May 10, 2020||Pune||Pune: Civic body closes lanes in hotspots, steps up vigil||PUNE: The civic administration on Saturday initiated steps to close all internal streets, bylanes and smaller approaches to main roads to restrict the movement of people within the containment areas, a day after district guardian minister Ajit Pawar underlined stricter execution of the lockdown measures till May 17. Most of the hotspots to remain under the close watch for the next one week are spread in five civic wards — Bhavani Peth, Shivajinagar-Ghole Road, Tadiwala Road, Yerawada-Kalas-Dhanori and Kasba-Vishrambaug. An official of the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) said, “The measures are being taken in old Peth areas and slum pockets that have emerged as Covid-19 hotspots. In some slum pockets and densely populated areas like Tadiwala Road and Kasewadi, people were using smaller approach roads for entry-exit. Also, gathering of people on internal roads was defying the containment initiative. We are looking at plugging all such spots. Every lane, bylane or even a small approach road will be monitored.” The official said milk and medicine shops would be open within the containment zones. The distribution of grocery kits had started, and people need not come out in search of basic items, he added. The administration also increased public announcements in the hotspots, telling people to stay at home and wear masks. The civic administration said it was planning to increase the presence of police in the containment areas. The authorities are exploring the option of taking help of the State Reserve Police Force (SRPF) at some locations. Additional municipal commissioner Rubal Agarwal said rigorous contact tracing had been the top priority in the containment zones. People suspected to have been infected were being moved to institutional quarantine after their swab samples were collected, the official said. Every positive case was being monitored closely with tracing of maximum high risk and low risk contacts in minimum possible time, Agarwal said. The PMC has identified 69 micro-clusters recording the outbreak of coronavirus contagion. These pockets would remain sealed and there would be restriction on the movement of people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmc-closes-internal-roads-in-hotspots-steps-up-vigil/articleshow/75652920.cms||Sarang Dastane
May 10, 2020||Indore||PCB orders hazardous category industries to conduct safety audit||INDORE: Madhya Pradesh Pollution Control Board has directed hazardous category industries to conduct ‘safety and hazardous audit’ before resuming operations after lockdown. There are around 30 hazardous category industries in Indore, Pithampur and Special Economic Zone. The state has around 1,400 industries that falls under hazardous category. The board has mandated all industries engaged in manufacturing and handling of hazardous chemicals to ensure all safety norms ahead of resuming operations. The board has directed industries to ensure connectivity of online continuous emission monitoring system, air pollution systems and effluent treatment plants before recommencing operations. Madhya Pradesh Pollution Control Board Indore regional officer RK Gupta said, “We have issued directives to all industries falling under the hazardous category such as chemicals and others to mandatory go for audit before resuming operations.” The board has also directed industries to use only trained manpower in factories in handling hazardous chemicals. Industrial Health and Safety department has also directed divisional offices to reach out to all hazardous industries across state for review of safety norms. Jitendra Vyas, in charge director, Industrial Health and Safety department, Indore, “We are connecting with all industries in the state to direct them follow all safety norms. Divisional offices are getting in touch with industries of their region.” Advisories were issued after styrene gas leakage from a chemical plant in Visakhapatnam left many dead and hundreds affected.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/pcb-orders-hazardous-category-industries-to-conduct-safety-audit/articleshow/75652337.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Jaipur||Centre seeks reply on ex gratia plaint||The office of the chief commissioner for persons with disabilities 1(PwDs), Government of India, has asked the ministry of rural development to examine a complaint with regard to non-payment of ex-gratia to divyangjan in Rajasthan and has sought a reply within 30 days. The complaint was registered by vice-president of Divyang Adhikar Mahasangh Hemant Bhai Goyal with regard to non-payment of ex-gratia of Rs 1,000 to all divyangjan in Rajasthan (including the ones with 40% disability) on account of Covid-19 and alleged violation of Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016 (RPwD) by the ministry. Earlier, department for empowerment of persons with disabilities (PwDs), under the Union ministry of social justice and empowerment, had asked the ministry of rural development to take appropriate action in the matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/centre-seeks-reply-on-ex-gratia-plaint/articleshow/75652921.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Kanpur||Cops drop by 3-yr-old girl’s home to celebrate her b’day||Kanpur: May 8, 2020 was a day two-year-old Ayat Fatima had been planning for months. A big celebration with her friends and treats was what Ayat had in mind whenever she thought about her third birthday, which was a Friday. Even the lockdown enforced in wake of the novel coronavirus pandemic did little to mar her excitement. However, when the day arrived, it broke her heart when her father Mohammad Asif alias Munna told her about his inability to organise a birthday party. Hence, it was a surprise when Ayat saw a group of policemen standing outside her house, wishing her a ‘happy birthday’. A group of 11 cops rode to Machariya area of Naubasta to wish a three-year-old girl on her birthday with cakes and balloons on Friday, after her father approached them with a request to organise a party for his daughter. Ayat’s family lives near the Madeena mosque in Machariya area of Naubasta, which was recently declared a Covid-19 hotspot. “We told her that we cannot have a party on her birthday because of the lockdown, but she kept on insisting on having one. I went to the police picket, a few yards away from my house to seek special permission,” said Munna. He met sub-inspector Pankaj Mishra and sought his permission to celebrate Ayat’s birthday for the sake of his happiness. The SI expressed his inability to give the permission as the area was declared a red zone. “He, however, said that the police would celebrate her birthday and sent me back home,” Munna said. An hour later, a team of 11 cops, including women police officials of Garun Vahini, reached Ayat’s house on motorcycles. When Ayat, her family and neighbours came out to see what the commotion was all about, they were surprised to see the cops were carrying a birthday cake, balloons and toffees. The cops called Ayat and gave her the cake, balloons and toffees, while practising social distancing. An overjoyed Ayat saw them off with a police “thank you, police uncle”. Meanwhile, Munna was all praises for Kanpur police. “I didn’t think police would come up with such a lovely and kind gesture on my daughter’s birthday,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/cops-drop-by-3-yr-old-girls-home-to-celebrate-her-bday/articleshow/75651471.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Coimbatore||Three trains leave for Bihar, UP with 1,140 workers each||Coimbatore: Three special trains have departed to Bihar and Uttar Pradesh from the city on Saturday, carrying at least 1,140 guest workers each. According to a Southern Railway official, one of the trains is headed to Dhanapur Junction in Bihar, while the other two to Akbar Nagar and Jaunpur, respectively, in Uttar Pradesh. “The trains are expected to reach their destinations on Monday,” he said. The official said the state government has taken care of the travelling expenses of the workers and distributed them food and water. Pointing out that each train had 24 compartments, he said seating arrangements were made in such a way ensuring physical distancing among the travellers. A district administration official said about 22,000 workers have so far expressed the willingness to travel back to their states. “More than 12,000 of them are from Bihar and Odisha. The remaining are from Assam, Odisha, Jharkhand, West Bengal and Uttar Pradesh. We have already operated two trains to Bihar. Now the priority is to operate train services to other states before resuming services to Bihar again,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/three-trains-leave-for-bihar-up-with-1140-workers-each/articleshow/75652333.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Kolhapur||Three more Covid-19 +ve cases in Kolhapur||KOLHAPUR: Three new Covid-19 cases were reported in the district on Saturday. The total number of Covid-19 cases have reached 18. While 10 patients have recovered, seven are undergoing treatment and one has succumbed. According to the district health administration, among the three people who tested positive are a constable with the Mumbai police, her younger son and another youth. The constable and her son had come to their native place in Ajara tehsil to cremate her elder son who died of prolonged illness in Mumbai. Both were advised to stay in institutional quarantine. After the constable reported uneasiness, the throat swab samples of her and her son were sent for testing. According to local administration, 20 people who came into contact with both of them have been taken to institutional quarantine.  Another youth from Chandgad tehsil also tested positive. The three of them are undergoing treatment at Chhatrapati Pramila Raje Rugnalaya, the civil hospital in Kolhapur. A senior health official said that all three have a travel history. “The constable’s family live in BDD Chawl area which is a Covid-19 hotspot. We have asked the local authorities to trace the contacts. We have also communicated with the Mumbai city administration about the cases we reported here,” said the official. The places from where these cases have emerged have bee declared as containment zone, the official added. Meanwhile, the corporators during the video conference with the civic chief Mallinath Kalshetti said people arriving from other cities and towns should be kept in institutional quarantine centres. The corporators said that the instances of knowing people and allowing them to go back to their homes without proper checking may happen so to avoid such scenarios, independent observers should be appointed. Senior corporator Jayant Patil said, “Till today around 17,000 people have applied to come into the district. Many of them are likely to be from the city and could be from the hotspots of Covid cases. They should be under home quarantine for 14 days.” He said that the authority to decide whether a person will be in home quarantine or institutional quarantining should be given to independent experts instead of local ward-level committees. Corporator Murlidhar Jadhav said that people arriving in the district should be directly taken to Covid care centres and their throat swab samples should be taken for testing. Till the results are awaited, the persons should be put in institutional quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/three-more-covid-19-ve-cases-in-kolhapur/articleshow/75651571.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Hubballi||CBI interrogates politicians in Yogeesh murder case||Dharwad: As expected, the CBI team probing the murder of BJP leader Yogeeshgouda Goudar has started interrogating politicians. On Saturday, Dharwad zilla panchayat vice-president Shivanand Karigar and Congress leader Nagaraj Gouri were interrogated at the Suburban police station here for hours. Karigar and Nagaraj had allegedly tried to broker peace with slain Yogeeshgouda’s family who were insisting on a CBI probe into the case. The CBI also interrogated Basu from Narendra village and deputy superintendent of police Vasudev Naik, who was ACP, Dharwad City division when Yogeeshgouda was hacked to death at his gym on June 15, 2016. Sources said that some prominent politicians and senior police officers will be summoned for interrogation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/cbi-interrogates-politicians-in-yogeesh-murder-case/articleshow/75649581.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal: Disinfection sprayed in wards with patients in JP hospital||BHOPAL: Patients are at harm’s way during disinfection spray. The use of chemical spray, being carried out contain Covid-19 spread, could trigger worse medical conditions. The use of these chemicals on the face is even more harmful with chances of ingress into eyes, nostrils and mouth. Fumigation of a JP hospital ward with a chemical solution while patients were inside has raised eyebrows. BMC sanitisation worker claimed they were using chemicals like sodium hypochlorite and hydrogen peroxide are being used for disinfection. Disinfectants work on surfaces, not on human bodies, said JP hospital superintendent, Dr Alka Pardhaniya. She claimed that disinfection spray was only permitted in empty spaces or furniture. Sanitation or disinfection control measures are being undertaken by various government agencies including Bhopal Municipal Corporation and health department. In the above case it was not clear whether the disinfection was carried out by BMC or JP hospital appointed contractor. After reports of disinfects were being sprayed on people, in April, union ministry of health and family welfare issued a directive stating ‘praying of disinfectants on individuals is not recommended under any circumstances. spraying of chlorine on individuals could lead to irritation of eyes and skin and potentially gastrointestinal effects, like nausea and vomiting. Inhalation of sodium hypochlorite can lead to irritation of mucous membranes in nose, throat and respiratory tract and may also cause bronchospasm’. Similar instances are reported on a daily basis in containment areas. BMC disinfection spray is through handheld devices. To cover larger areas, a sprinkler is mounted on a water tanker or sewer jetting machines spray the chemical mixed with water.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/disinfection-sprayed-in-wards-with-patients-in-jp-hosp/articleshow/75652340.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Pune||Rush subsides at fuel pumps, gas cylinders delivery remains hit in Pune||PUNE: The petrol pumps across the city recorded a decline in customer footfall over the past couple of days with the initial rush to the fuel pumps in the non-containment zones having subsided, Petrol Dealers Association (Pune) told TOI. The district collector Naval Kishore Ram on Wednesday had permitted fuel sales to private vehicles in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad without any pass. The resumption of service had powered fears of fuel shortage in the face of a sudden spurt in the demand. The sources in the oil marketing company, however, confirmed to TOI that the supplies were normal. “There is no shortage of any fuel. Petrol sales in Pune in April 2020 were only about 19% when compared to the same period last year. In the current period, however, they are 35-40% of the same period last year,” a source said on Saturday. “The initial surge in demand for petrol has reduced, with the sale recording a dip in the past couple of days. On Saturday, my fuel sales were 1/4th of what they would be on a normal day before lockdown. Even the rush at the fuel stations has gone down. When fuel sales were re-opened to public in non-containment zones without requirement of passes, every one wanted to get a refill owing to the supplies having opened up after a huge gap of almost 40 days,” a source from the Petrol Dealers’ Association (Pune) said. Meanwhile, LPG deliveries in the city continue to experience hiccups with customers complaining of not getting home delivery of cooking gas on time. “In this pandemic, should we be forced to go out and collect gas cylinder instead of gas agencies ensuring home delivery? I had booked my LPG cylinder a week ago, and it is yet to be delivered. They asked me to collect it from some godown or a delivery point,” an LPG customer from Kondhwa tweeted on May 7. Another tweet read, “Booked for cylinder refill. The first time it got auto-cancelled and for the second time said they are not ready to deliver it at home. Please help! I’m attaching a screenshot for reference.” Usha Poonawalla, the president of All India LPG Distributors Federation, Maharashtra, said, “Gas agencies at present are working with skeletal staff as several delivery boys had left for their native places after the news of the Covid-19 outbreak. In the current pandemic situation, social distancing imposed by housing societies is also a huge issue, as the latter often prevent delivery personnel from entering the residential complexes.” Another source in the federation said, “Around a month ago, the delivery backlog for LPG cylinders was around five to six days, which has now come down to around two to three days. However, the delivery process in still under strain as the gas agencies are working with a skeletal staff. Making deliveries in containment zones and high-risk areas has been a huge issue,” the source said, adding that the situation had improved slightly from what it was a month ago as customers were no longer panic-booking.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/rush-subsides-at-fuel-pumps-gas-cylinders-delivery-remains-hit/articleshow/75652924.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Coimbatore||3, including minor, arrested for attacking youth||Coimbatore: Three people, including a minor boy, were arrested on Saturday for attempting to murder a 21-year-old man at Suleswaranpatti near Pollachi. They were identified as G Annadurai, 50, of Suleswaranpatti, his brother-in-law R Viswanathan, 43 and Annadurai’s 16-year-old son. The trio had attacked R Gowtham of Alagappa Colony in Pollachi. “Gowtham, a labourer, had befriended Annadurai’s 14-year-old daughter and had met her at her house when she was alone on Friday. Her mother, who found the duo, locked them inside the house. Annadurai, his son and Viswanathan attacked the boy using wooden logs, causing head injuries. The youth is undergoing treatment in the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital,” a police officer said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/3-including-minor-arrested-for-attacking-youth/articleshow/75652343.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Allahabad||14-year-old boy rapes 10-yr-old girl, case lodged||Kanpur: A 14-year-old boy allegedly raped a 10-year-old girl in Ghatampur area of the district. Police said the accused and the survivor lived in the same village in Sandh police area. “The girl had gone for cattle grazing near Rindh river on Friday afternoon,” said police on Saturday. The boy then caught hold of the girl and raped her,” said police on Saturday. The girl returned home and narrated her ordeal to family members, who alerted the local police.  The police rushed the girl to a hospital for medical examination. The police later took the boy, who was severely thrashed by family villagers and locals, into custody.  “A case under the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) has been registered,”said Circle Officer Ghatampur Ravi Kumar Singh. “The accused will be sent to a juvenile correction home,” further added the Circle Officer Ghatampur Ravi Kumar Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/14-year-old-boy-rapes-10-yr-old-girl-case-lodged/articleshow/75651506.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Hyderabad||31 fresh cases in T, bulk in Hyderabad; tally at 1,163||Hyderabad: After a brief lull, Telangana saw a sudden surge in Covid-19 positive patients on Saturday. The state recorded 31 new cases and one death. With this, Telangana’s tally now stands at 1,163. Of these, 382 people are currently being treated in various hospitals. So far, 751 people have recovered from the disease and have been discharged. According to the state health department, of the new cases, 30 were reported from Greater Hyderabad. A migrant worker also tested positive. While Telangana is still low on deaths, the number of cases in Hyderabad has seen an upward swing. Officials said Saturday’s death was the first after a week. The previous death was on May 2. Of the 24 people who were cured and discharged on Saturday, 12 were from Greater Hyderabad. State health minister Eatala Rajender said the patients being treated in Gandhi Hospital would further come down according to the revised guidelines of Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). “As per the latest guidelines people with mild symptoms would be treated at home,” the minister said. Rajender held a video-conference with officials on Saturday and said people have faith in government hospitals after the pandemic and the way they are being treated. “We should not take it easy now. Cases have come down in almost all districts except Hyderabad. Of the 33 districts, Warnagal, Yadadri and Wanaparthy did not report single case since the outbreak of the virus and another 23 districts have zero cases for the past 14 days,” he said. “The government has provided masks, sanitizers and tablets to health department staff working in the field,” he said and appealed that if there are any pregnant women in containment zones, they must get themselves checked for Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/31-fresh-cases-in-t-bulk-in-hyderabad-tally-at-1163/articleshow/75652347.cms||Koride Mahesh
May 10, 2020||Indore||No jaadu ki jhappi for frontline warriors this mother’s day||INDORE: In this pandemic, around 100 mothers working as nurses from across Madhya Pradesh have been deployed in Indore district away from their homes and kids for over a month now. Answering the call of duty, these frontline warriors have been keeping in touch with their kids via video calls as an when they get time and this mother’s day while rest of the world would still manage to make it special for their moms, it will be incomplete for some. “I have two kids. My younger one is four-year-old. Elder daughter is eight. My kids are with their father. Son keeps praying everyday asking God to send his mom home soon,” said nurse Pramila Varkhade, who has come from Khandwa. As she lives in a nuclear family, her kids who once were completely dependent on her are now hoping for her return soon. Most of these nurses have been called from small districts and are being given accommodation in city. While most of the time they’re at work, when free they ensure making a video call to keep a tab on their kids. While most of the male frontline warriors have been staying away from home for the call of duty, some of the city-based female warriors are trying to shuffle between work and home while maintaining ‘social distancing’ from the family as they don’t have an option to manage home. Kavyaa Soni, daughter of ASP Manisha Pathak Soni, who used to wake up with her mother’s hug and kiss has been missing it the most of all the things. Despite getting to see her mother every day coming home, she has been completely denied any kind of physical contact. “I am now 13 and I remember celebrating mother’s day for some years now. This year, I have decided to make a card, bake a cake for her and decorate our home so that when she comes she loves it,” said Soni who is extremely proud of her mother serving during this difficult time. Be it a broken knee or a broken heart, a ‘Jaadu ki Jhappi’ or a kiss from mom can heal it all and the kids of several frontline warriors have been missing it all. While most of the youngsters have been uploading pictures with their families spending quality time, some children have been missing the touch from their mom’s and are wanting to be able to spend quality time too. Meenal Gadoriya, daughter of DHO, Dr Purnima Gadoriya said that her dad is posted in another district and as she and her brother doesn’t know cooking, her mother is left with no choice but come home every day. “Ideally we would’ve gone out for dinner to spend mother’s day. In this given situation, she wouldn’t even have time to celebrate at home,” said Gadoriya hoping to be able to spend quality time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/no-jaadu-ki-jhappi-for-frontline-warriors-this-mothers-day/articleshow/75652342.cms||Laveena Francis
May 10, 2020||Indore||Parents’ association bats for affordable health insurance for school children||INDORE: Schools must be made mediators in providing health insurance for children at minimum rates, suggested Indore Parents Association to MP Shankar Lalwani on Saturday. The association also suggested that online school system should also be given affiliation with help of Central government so that students get world-class education without burning a hole in pocket of parents. As many as 100 parents of Indore district who have their children studying in various schools participated in the meeting via video conferencing and kept forth as many as 15 different issues related to school. “At the moment not all kids have any health insurance and most of the parents are considering now. Schools as mediators would be extremely beneficial. Moreover, online education will be the new thing hence forth,” co-founder of parents association, Jitendra Parwani said. The organization and parents kept issues such as fee and online education system, he added. Lalwani appreciated the fee suggestions and agreed to take up most of the issues with concerned authorities. The association also urged that school should give a concession of 50 % on tuition fee and the schools shouldn’t bother parents to pay the fee. Pointing towards present situation due to the pandemic, parents said that all the fee except tuition fee should be exempted as several middle class and below middle class people have been facing financial constraints. As several families are facing money crunch, the burden of fee is an additional issue. As the date to pay the fee of March-May is coming near and it would be extremely difficult for parents to be able to pay the fee. This is an important issue, said president of the association, Anurodh Jain.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/parents-association-bats-for-affordable-health-insurance-for-school-children/articleshow/75652345.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Pune||Army ropes in QRT to monitor virus spread in civil areas of Pune Cantonment Board||PUNE: In a first, the army's Local Military Authority (LMA) has roped in its quick response team (QRT) to monitor the Covid-19 situation in civil areas of the Pune Cantonment Board (PCB). The board on Friday declared its entire limits, comprising eight wards, as containment zone due to a sudden spike in Covid-19 positive cases in the last few days. Till Saturday morning, the board recorded 56 cases, of which 40 were from Modikhana area. Amit Kumar, chief executive officer, PCB, told TOI on Saturday, "The army’s QRT team and our officials along with the police will visit different areas to monitor the situation and control the crowd. This is the first time that the army personnel are on ground to help us. Their QRT personnel will visit the civil areas at least three times a day with due precaution." On Friday, Brigadier Kuljeet Singh, president of the board, senior army officers, elected board members and PCB officials held a meeting and discussed issues related to the containment zone. "We formulated a strategy to provide essential items to people so that they will not feel the need to step out of their homes. We have formed eight teams consisting of volunteers, security personnel and guards," Kumar added. The cantonment officials have started testing people with sympotms of cough and fever in the congested areas of Modikhana and Bhimpura. These localities are in the vicinity of the worst-affected Bhavani Peth in Pune Municipal Corporation limits. "Our endeavour is to carry out maximum testing of people so that we can focus on contact tracing, thereby containing the spread of the virus. We have observed that many residents of these areas do not adhere to social distancing norms. They use common facilities at many places," Kumar added. The board authorities claimed that they have received a positive response from people. "Controlling the situation in the civil area has become a crucial thing for the board as there are a number of army quarters in the vicinity. That is why the army has deployed the QRT," said a senior PCB official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/army-ropes-in-qrt-to-monitor-virus-spread-in-civil-areas-of-pcb/articleshow/75652922.cms||Sarang Dastane
May 10, 2020||Nashik||Desperate migrants start for home; some catch rides, others on foot||Hundreds of migrant workers stranded in cities and industrial pockets across Maharashtra have started leaving for their home states — many of them on foot. Migrants from Mumbai and Thane have taken to the Mumbai-Agra highway to proceed towards Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and other states. Large groups of workers had reached Dhule, on the Malegaon side, on Saturday. Some workers, on their way to Jharkhand, said they started walking from Mumbai on Friday morning. They said they did not know how to approach the authorities for a train to Jharkhand. “We would walk as far as we can. There are many hassles in making applications. We also do not know when the train for Jharkhand would leave and from where,” they said. “My cousin and I started from Kalyan on Friday afternoon. We changed three trucks to reach Nashik. Now we must find another truck to take us closer to Patna,” said Dinesh Ram, a welder. Ram said the heavy rush at railway stations and the fear of contracting the virus dissuaded him from taking one of the Shramik trains. Many are also leaving after running out of money. “What if the government extends the lockdown once again? We have spent all the money we had. How long will we live on food served by others,” asked Sugand Kumar, a migrant worker from UP, who used to work on the outskirts of Pune. Along with seven other friends, Kumar is headed to his village Meerganj near Jaunpur. The group left Katraj around 6am on Saturday and managed to reach the Katraj-Dehu road bypass in Warje by noon. “We worked at construction sites and earned between Rs15,000 and Rs20,000 per month. For the past two months, we have not made any money. Instead of wasting our time here, we want to walk to our homes,” Kumar said. They plan to walk all day and rest in open grounds at night. They aren’t carrying any food with them but hope local villagers will help them. “It may take 15 or 20 days to reach our village. If we stay back, who will take our responsibility,” said Kumar. Neelkumar Vishwas, another worker in the group, added, “We thought the government would start trains from Pune or Mumbai. But after waiting for long, we lost hope and decided to walk.” Like them, 10 others in Pune, having grown tired of the long wait, took matters in their own hands last Monday. Also from UP, this group rode on five bike to reach their hometown 1,200 km away. Calling it a drive to survive or perish, these workers were determined to leave as their rounds to the tehsildar offices had turned out to be futile. “Hamein koi umeed nahi dikhai de rahi thi, bas nikalna tha (We did not see any hope... we had to leave) Premshankar, one of the workers, told TOI after reaching his village in Agra. They started on Monday night and reached by Wednesday night. They covered the majority of their journey at night. “We were stopped by the police in some places, but we were sure we wanted to leave and kept moving ahead,” he said. Buses taking stranded people home The MSRTC has also started sending people home by buses. The state government has decided to deploy around 10,000 buses across the state for the purpose. In Nashik, the corporation is transporting 99 people. Of them, 44 have started their journey for Rajasthan. The Nashik division of the MSRTC has also operated five buses to carry workers stuck up in various talukas of the district to various destinations – including the Rajasthan border – about 720 km away from Pimpalgaon Baswant. The buses, with two drivers each, are to run end-to-end. The Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) also employed three Smart City buses to send 74 migrant workers to their villages in other districts within the state. The buses, carrying five workers each from Jalna and Buldhana, six from Akola, 13 from Washim, 19 from Bhokardhan and 23 from Jalgaon, set off on Saturday in the presence of AMC administrator Astik Kumar Pandey. The Nanded district has also sent home 940 migrant workers back to their native places using 112 vehicles. Among the 940 workers, 55 were from UP, 342 from MP, 46 from Bihar, 154 from Telangana, 206 from Rajasthan and 137 from other states. In Kolhapur, the state transport buses will start ferrying people to their hometowns from Monday. The transportation will take place from 13 centres in the district. No fare will be charged. Those who have their own vehicle are provided with the travel passes and many have already started their journeys. District guardian minister Satej Patil said: “The free transport service will be operating during the lockdown period. The stranded people can apply individually or in groups.” Meanwhile district collector Daulat Desai has made it clear that those coming into the district from the hotspots will be put in institutional quarantine centres. Swabs of such persons will be compulsorily collected. With inputs from Nashik, Aurangabad, Kolhapur and Pune||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/desperate-migrants-start-for-home-some-catch-rides-others-on-foot/articleshow/75651461.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Lockdown pathshala takes children beyond textbooks||Bhubaneswar: When some schools in the city announced online extra-curricular activities, it came as a relief for students confined to their homes by the long lockdown. With their favourite teachers teaching them everything from shaking a leg to getting their asanas right, from strumming a guitar to perfecting that drumbeat, children now have something to look forward to. Take for instance 12-year-old Ananya Priyadarshini, a Class VII student of DAV Public School, Pokhariput. She enthusiastically dresses up for her early-morning yoga and dance sessions, held on different days of the week. “These classes are important to me as I feel I need to study and relax at the same time,” said Ananya. Her school organises live extra-curricular activities for students from Class VI onwards over Microsoft Teams and Snap Homework App. For children studying from UKG to Class V, the school sends videos over WhatsApp for implementation by the parents. “We decided to conduct extra-curricular activities online because we felt that children would enjoy them. At the same time, we don’t want them to be online for too long as it can be taxing for them. Our extra-curricular activities are confined between 7 am and 8.30 am,” said Sujata Sahu, principal of DAV School, Pokhariput. The school organised an online quiz on Covid-19 and on the epics, besides competitions on slogan writing, poetry and drawing, for its foundation day on May 1. The winners were given e-certificates after an online assessment, said the principal. SAI International School organises live Suprabhat sessions, consisting of yoga and aerobics, from 6.15 am to 8.15 am, five days a week, for children from UKG to Plus II and their parents. Besides these sessions that were started in the second week of April, the school is organising hobby classes by teaching children dance, art, Origami, craft-making from waste and poster-making. The school has also provided a choice of musical instruments to its senior students to learn online. “I love to attend these classes as they take the pressure off me,” said Nishant Kartik, a Class IX student, who plays the keyboard. The school also offers Radio Orange, in which students are taught to become radio jockeys and learn video editing. While there are two hour-long hobby sessions for children up to Class V, an hour on Sundays is devoted to the seniors. “The children give expression to their creativity by making beautifully edited videos,” said Swati Sengupta, a curriculum instructional leader with the school. SAI International has also organised sessions on investments, well-being and bakery for parents by roping in experts. “We organised the sessions for parents so that they can de-stress,” said Bijay Kumar Sahoo, founder of the school.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/lockdown-pathshala-takes-children-beyond-textbooks/articleshow/75651613.cms||Arunika Mohapatra
May 10, 2020||Goa||‘Delete bogus voters from rolls’||Calangute: North Goa Tourist Taxi Owners’ Association (NGTTOA) has said the current process of identifying migrants from different states to send them home during the lockdown is a “golden opportunity” to delete names of bogus voters in Goa. NGTTOA’s vice-president Ravindra Vengurlekar said that during the registration process of migrants at different panchayats and other places, it has been found that many of them possess multiple voter ID cards. “These people who temporarily come to Goa are given voter cards by our politicians,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/delete-bogus-voters-from-rolls/articleshow/75652928.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Bhopal||25 more test Covid-19 positive in a day, Bhopal's tally crosses 700 mark||Bhopal: As many as 25 more people were diagnosed with Covid-19 in Bhopal on Saturday, taking the total number of cases to 704. One death due to Covid-19 were confirmed in the Saturday health bulletin. Two more doctors from GMC tested positive here on Thursday. So far, 14 people at GMC have tested positive. AIIMS Bhopal reported a landmark clinical care surgery of the Covid-19 patient. The first reported life-saving emergency surgery on a positive patient in the region was carried out by AIIMS Bhopal doctors late on Friday night. The patient, a 61-year-old woman with diabetes and hypertension was admitted April 28 with fever and Covid pneumonia. She also had pain in abdomen. CT scan diagnosed superior mesenteric artery thrombosis, a clotting of blood in a major blood vessel or an artery that supplies blood to the intestines and other vital organs. After medication did not improve her condition, an emergency surgery was undertaken. The surgery was successfully carried out by the surgical team comprising AIIMS Bhopal, associate professor Dr Ajit supported by SR, Dr Akash Chari and Dr Agosh. Anaesthesia team comprised of Dr SunainaTejpal, Dr Shashi, Dr Rajesh and Dr Shrinivas aided by others. The case was very challenging. Patient had Covid-19 pneumonia, the age over 60 years, co-morbidities like diabetes and hypertension along with life threatening bowel damage and bowel perforation as was found during the operation. Lifesaving procedure, involved a portion of the bowel was resected and ileostomy operation was successful. AIIMS Bhopal, director, Dr Sarman Singh said given the circumstances, it was a very challenging procedure. At the time of filing the story, the patient on ventilator in the Covid ICU under care of critical care team. There are 28 Covid-19 patients are presently admitted in AIIMS Bhopal. Two are critical condition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/bhopal-tally-crosses-700/articleshow/75652348.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Coimbatore||Tamil Nadu: College teachers praise hike in retirement age||COIMBATORE: While most of the government employees’ associations have opposed the state’s move to increase the retirement age from 58 to 59, government college teachers have welcomed it. Representatives of the Tamil Nadu Government Collegiate Teachers Association (TNGCTA) said they have been demanding it for several years, as per the norms prescribed by the University Grants Commission (UGC). TNGCTA president T Veeramani said government college teachers get recruited only when they are around 40 years old and if they are to retire at 58, they would not be able to complete even 20 years of service. “A teacher aspirant completes PG by 22, MPhil by 24 and PhD by the 30, and acquires almost a decade of teaching experience and crosses 40 when he or she gets qualified for selection as an assistant professor in a government college,” he said. As per the UGC recommendation, retirement age for college teachers is 65 in six states, 62 in 10 states and 60 in 11 states, whereas it was 58 in Tamil Nadu and Telangana, Veeramani said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/college-teachers-praise-hike-in-retirement-age/articleshow/75652349.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Chennai’s Koyambedu a threat to AP||Vijayawada: The spurt in Covid-19 cases in Rayalaseema region in recent weeks could be attributed to the Koyambedu wholesale market in Chennai, which is often frequented by farmers and traders from the state, particularly from the bordering districts of Chittoor and Nellore. The busting market was closed on May 4 after a sharp spike in positive cases in the neighbouring state. Chief minister Y S Jaganmohan Reddy, during his review meeting with officials at his Tadepalli camp office on Saturday, was informed farmers and traders from Chittoor and Nellore districts often visit Koyambedu, which is believed to have contributed over 2,000 positive cases in Tamil Nadu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/chennais-koyambedu-a-threat-to-ap/articleshow/75652362.cms||Gopi Dara
May 10, 2020||Rajkot||Man addicted to nicotine immolates self||Rajkot: Suffering from severe withdrawal symptoms, a nicotine addict immolated himself in Morbi town early on Saturday morning. Police said Suresh Rathod (35) was addicted to chewing tobacco and bidis. However, sale of tobacco products has been banned in the lockdown period and all paan shops have been closed. Rathod was depressed and suffering from withdrawal symptoms for the past one week. Rathod was rushed to Rajkot Civil Hospital, where his condition is said to be serious. In his statement, Rathod said that he had taken the drastic step as he could not fight back the urge for nicotine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/man-addicted-to-nicotine-immolates-self/articleshow/75651616.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Ajmer||Rajasthan: How tourist hub Pushkar kept coronavirus at bay||AJMER: Pushkar has become a role model for keeping foreign tourists safe and not a single person has tested positive for Covid-19 in the last two months. From the last week of March to April end, there were around 700 foreign tourists in Pushkar. After the international cattle fair in November, many foreigners remained in the town for Holi. Till March 24, around 2,000 tourists had left the holy town without proper screening. Local people were worried about the foreign tourists as most of them were from Israel, Italy, Britain and Spain. “We started confidence building and had quarantined every foreign tourist for 28 days. We got the support of hotel owners who ensured that tourists remain inside their rooms,” said RAS officer Devika. The doctors would conduct daily screening of foreign tourists. Thereafter, the administration coordinated with different foreign embassies in New Delhi to airlift their nationals. “No tourist was allowed to leave Pushkar without proper screening. If the administration sent a bus ferrying tourists to New Delhi, the driver was quarantined for 14 days,” added Devika. She added that teams were working round-the-clock to monitor the screening of tourists and locals. Collector Vishwa Mohan Sharma was monitoring and coordinating the situation along with the state government. In the last 30 days, 500 foreign tourists, 160 of whom were from Israel, were sent to New Delhi after coordination with their embassies. Around 260 foreigners are still in Pushkar. In Ajmer, small towns like Beawar, Nasirabad and Kekri are under curfew because of positive cases found there but Pushkar is still out of danger zone. The roads leading to Pushkar are sealed since a month and no stranger is allowed inside without proper screening. Other tourist cities like Jodhpur, Jaipur and Udaipur are in the red zone with high number of coronavirus positive patients. The Pushkar model became successful with the five Cs-community aid, coordination, confidence building, cooperation and continued screening. SDO Pushkar Devika Tomar said that the success could be attributed to district collector and SP of Ajmer who gave directions to safely send foreign as well as domestic tourists to their homes. Recently, minister counselor Yaacou (Kobi) Rosh of Embassy of Israel wrote to Pushkar SDO and her team expressing deepest gratitude for cooperation and timely assistance to Israeli nationals in the current pandemic situation. The embassy said that this has strengthened bilateral relations of India and Israel. Similarly, gratitude is also pouring in from foreign nationals who reached their homes safely.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/how-tourist-hub-pushkar-kept-coronavirus-at-bay/articleshow/75653543.cms||Kshitiz Gaur
May 10, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: How tourist hub Pushkar kept coronavirus at bay||AJMER: Pushkar has become a role model for keeping foreign tourists safe and not a single person has tested positive for Covid-19 in the last two months. From the last week of March to April end, there were around 700 foreign tourists in Pushkar. After the international cattle fair in November, many foreigners remained in the town for Holi. Till March 24, around 2,000 tourists had left the holy town without proper screening. Local people were worried about the foreign tourists as most of them were from Israel, Italy, Britain and Spain. “We started confidence building and had quarantined every foreign tourist for 28 days. We got the support of hotel owners who ensured that tourists remain inside their rooms,” said RAS officer Devika. The doctors would conduct daily screening of foreign tourists. Thereafter, the administration coordinated with different foreign embassies in New Delhi to airlift their nationals. “No tourist was allowed to leave Pushkar without proper screening. If the administration sent a bus ferrying tourists to New Delhi, the driver was quarantined for 14 days,” added Devika. She added that teams were working round-the-clock to monitor the screening of tourists and locals. Collector Vishwa Mohan Sharma was monitoring and coordinating the situation along with the state government. In the last 30 days, 500 foreign tourists, 160 of whom were from Israel, were sent to New Delhi after coordination with their embassies. Around 260 foreigners are still in Pushkar. In Ajmer, small towns like Beawar, Nasirabad and Kekri are under curfew because of positive cases found there but Pushkar is still out of danger zone. The roads leading to Pushkar are sealed since a month and no stranger is allowed inside without proper screening. Other tourist cities like Jodhpur, Jaipur and Udaipur are in the red zone with high number of coronavirus positive patients. The Pushkar model became successful with the five Cs-community aid, coordination, confidence building, cooperation and continued screening. SDO Pushkar Devika Tomar said that the success could be attributed to district collector and SP of Ajmer who gave directions to safely send foreign as well as domestic tourists to their homes. Recently, minister counselor Yaacou (Kobi) Rosh of Embassy of Israel wrote to Pushkar SDO and her team expressing deepest gratitude for cooperation and timely assistance to Israeli nationals in the current pandemic situation. The embassy said that this has strengthened bilateral relations of India and Israel. Similarly, gratitude is also pouring in from foreign nationals who reached their homes safely.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/how-tourist-hub-pushkar-kept-coronavirus-at-bay/articleshow/75652929.cms||Kshitiz Gaur
May 10, 2020||Kolhapur||Hotels, lodges stare at uncertainty as Covid-19 outbreak saps tourism industry in Kolhapur||KOLHAPUR: Thousands of tourists and visitors reach Kolhapur during the summer vacation, providing much revenue to the city. Mahalaxmi temple, Panhala fort and nearby scenic destinations make this southern Maharashtra city a popular tourist destination. Hotels, lodges, Kolhapuri chappal shops and tour operators are staring at many days and months without business. People from all parts of the state and country come to Kolhapur, which is also a gateway for Goa. Majority of the tourists, heading for Goa, take halt at Kolhapur. Since the lockdown was announced, Mahalaxmi temple has been closed and entry to Kolhapur has been prohibited. On an average, around 1,500 devotees visit Mahalaxmi temple every day. The temple is an ancient heritage site and one of the Shakti Peeths (a place associated with the goddess of power) dating back to the 700 AD. The Jotiba temple situated over 3,000 ft. above sea level on the Panhala hills in Wadi Ratnagiri village; around 17 km away from Kolhapur attracts around seven lakh devotees during the annual yatra in April every year. The annual yatra was cancelled this year due to the lockdown. Mahesh Jadhav, president of Paschim Maharashtra Devasthan Samiti (PMDS), which manages the Mahalaxmi, Jotiba and most other temples in Kolhapur, said, “At present we have closed the doors of the Mahalaxmi temple as a precautionary measure. We are doubtful about the number of devotees visiting the temple after lockdown is lifted. The possibility of the situation returning to normalcy is bleak. It will take time to revive the situation.” Summer vacation of schools and colleges brings in thousands of visitors to Kolhapur. Though Kolhapur district only has seven cases as of now, restrictions on travel and continuing lockdown are not going to bring any visitors this season. Anand Mane, former president of hotel owners association, said that March, April and May provide them financial security for the entire year. “We work for three months in summer, which is the peak of season. This year nothing has happened and we are in complete loss,” he said. A hotel owners from Kolhapur city told TOI that they do not expect to recover from this crisis. “With the rules of maintaining social distancing, we don’t expect the hotel industry to revive soon,” he said. Though summer is the peak season, the city’s hilly surroundings such as Radhanagari, Amboli, Gaganbawda and other ghats, which lead to Konkan region, draw many visitors during the monsoon season. However, the memories of last year’s devastating floods are still fresh in the minds of people and they are unlikely to travel in the current scenario too, industry sources said. Samrat Kerkar, who runs a tourism company in Radhanagari, said they had developed a network of local guides, hotels, local art and exhibition to attract the tourists from across the country. This was helping in generating employment in the region. “But with the coronavirus threat, we don't expect the situation will return to normalcy. People associated with us are searching for jobs to earn their livelihood,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/hotels-lodges-stare-at-uncertainty-as-covid-19-outbreak-saps-tourism-industry-in-kolhapur/articleshow/75651606.cms||Vivek Waghmode
May 10, 2020||Coimbatore||Industrialists in Coimbatore wait for ‘clear guidelines’ to resume operations||COIMBATORE: With chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami allowing private firms across the state to function from 10am to 7pm with 33% workforce, industrialists in the district are in two minds about resuming operations. Only after functioning for a week, will they come to know the practical hassles and the way forward, they said. As the announcement was general and encompassed all sectors, industrialists are mulling to open units on Monday, district president of the Tamil Nadu Association of Cottage and Tiny Enterprises (TACT) J James said. “After 45 days of lockdown, none of the micro units have funds. We will open just to keep the business running and involve our workers. Only after we function for a week, will we know what all problems we face regarding orders and workforce, and represent our issues to the state.” “Many of the guest workers want to return home. We will be able to know how many of them remain here only in the coming week,” James said. “Restrictions such as 10am to 7pm and 33% of the workforce will not be appropriate for functioning industries. The state should allow industrial units to function as usual without the restrictions.” Meanwhile, another section of industrialists said they were unsure of opening units as the announcement was not specific to the industrial sector. They will wait till there is a specific announcement or till the lockdown ends, whichever comes first, they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/industrialists-wait-for-clear-guidelines-to-resume-ops/articleshow/75652358.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Vadodara||Senior cops deployed at junctions to enforce 7pm deadline||Vadodara: To ensure that the lockdown is enforced strictly between 7pm and 7am, police commissioner Anupam Singh Gahlaut has deployed senior police officials at different traffic junctions in the city. The senior cops have begun patrolling and monitoring their respective areas over last two days. “Citizens are given time to buy essential items in day time. Any movement between 7pm and 7am has been banned except for government officials, cops and emergency. The senior police officials have been asked to implement the deadline strictly,” Gahlaut said. Police department has divided the city into 30 points that are being monitored by deputy commissioners of police (DCP) and assistant commissioners of police (ACP). Gahlaut too takes a round of different areas in the city every day. Any person found moving around without any valid reason after the deadline will be booked and arrested. “If anyone even with a pass is found travelling after 7pm, his or her pass will be confiscated. Employees, who have to work in office, should return home before 7pm,” police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/senior-cops-deployed-at-junctions-to-enforce-7pm-deadline/articleshow/75651491.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Patna||Father stuck in Gujrat, minor girl gang-raped in Darbhanga||PATNA: A 16-year-old girl, whose migrant worker father is stranded in Ahmedabad due to the lockdown, was gangraped by five youths at a Darbhanga village. The gangrape, which took place on April 25, came to light only on Friday when nude photos of the Class X girl clicked by the accused surfaced on social media after one of the attackers shared it with some of his acquaintances. The police, alerted by the local “Cyber Senani” group, arrested four of the five accused late on Friday night. Darbhanga Sadar DSP Anoj Kumar said, “Police carried out raids late on Friday night and arrested Murari Das, Ashok Das, Indrajeet Das and Rohit Mandal from a village under Jale police station. However, their accomplice Sagar Sahni managed to escape.” According to the FIR lodged by the mother, her daughter was accosted by two of the youths around 10pm while she was returning home from an errand and dragged her to a nearby mango orchard where they called in three others and gangraped her. The girl’s mother told the police that her daughter’s repeated plea to spare her went unheard and she was allowed to go home only after she promised not to disclose the crime to anybody, including her family members. Police said the girl was threatened into silence by her attackers. She kept it under wraps fearing retaliation as they live alone while her father is away in Gujarat. The SHO of Jale police station, Dilip Kumar Pathak, said the survivor’s father, a migrant worker, is currently stranded in Ahmedabad due to the lockdown. “The victim lives with her mother, grandfather and grandmother in their ancestral house,” he added. The accused have been booked under Section 376 (rape) and Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. The girl was sent to the Darbhanga Medical College and Hospital (DMCH) for medical examination. “Her statement will be recorded in court under Section 164 of CrPC on Monday,” the SHO said. Though the SHO recommended the transfer of the case to the women’s police station, his request was turned down in the larger interest of the victim. “She is a minor and will face trouble shuttling between Darbhanga and her native village in the course of investigation,” a senior police officer said. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/father-stuck-in-gujrat-minor-girl-gang-raped-in-darbhanga/articleshow/75651155.cms||Ramashankar
May 10, 2020||Patna||Acute encephalitis syndrome kills one more child in Muzaffarpur, toll four||PATNA: Acute encephalitis syndrome (AES) claimed one more life at Shri Krishna Medical College and Hospital (SKMCH) in Muzaffarpur on Saturday, taking the toll to four in the state this year. Nine-year-old Julie Kumari from Vaishali died at the SKMCH. Muzaffarpur civil surgeon Dr Shaliesh Prasad Singh said of the 21 kids admitted to SKMCH this year, 12 have recovered and four died. SKMCH superintendent Dr Sunil Kumar Sahi said Julie was suffering from high fever and seizure. “She was referred to SKMCH from a primary health centre in Vaishali on May 7,” he added. Meanwhile, health minister Mangal Pandey on Saturday flagged off 28 new basic life support (BLS) ambulances loaded with AES kits from the State Health Society campus here.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/aes-kills-one-more-child-in-muz-toll-four/articleshow/75650919.cms||Faryal Rumi
May 10, 2020||Patna||17 new cases in Bihar, tally reaches almost 600-mark||PATNA: Bihar recorded 17 new Covid-19 cases till Saturday evening, taking the total number of coronavirus patients to 595. All 17 new cases are that of migrants, who had recently returned from other states. The state also saw 12 people getting discharged from various hospitals across the state. Now with total 318 recoveries and five deaths, the number of active cases in Bihar stands at 272. According to the Patna district administration, now out of the total 52 cases in the state capital, 34 patients have recovered from the virus so far and there are 18 active case left. State health minister Mangal Pandey expressed happiness over the recovery rate of coronavirus patients which is almost 54% of the total number of cases in the state. Talking about the positive cases, state health department principal secretary Sanjay Kumar informed that all ten people who had tested positive earlier in the day are migrants and had recently come to Bihar. As per the information shared by him, three cases were reported from Mushahari in Muzaffarpur and another three cases reported from Arwal, including one each from Chamandi, Shidrampur and Kurtha. Two other cases were reported from Nalanda, including one from Ekangarsarai and another from Harnaut. One case each was reported from Sheikhopur Sarai in Sheikhpura and Barharia in Siwan. The three cases from Muzafarpur are the first ones to be reported from this district, which was listed in the green zone. “All three had come from Ahmadabad by train,” said Sanjay, adding, “Other passengers who had accompanied them will now be traced.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/17-new-cases-in-bihar-tally-reaches-almost-600-mark/articleshow/75651050.cms||Sheezan Nezami
May 10, 2020||Bhopal||Kamal Nath attacks Shivraj for opening liquor shops in MP||BHOPAL: Former chief minister Kamal Nath on Saturday launched a scathing attack on MP chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan and the BJP government on Saturday. Nath took a dig at Chouhan, who had protested against the erstwhile Congress government for permitting liquor shop licence holders to start sub-shops. “Shivrajji, in the Opposition used to hold demonstrations against liquor sale, used to give speeches and protest, would say that alcohol is a threat to sisters and daughters and accused that the state has turned into an alcohol centre,” Nath tweeted. “Today in power, when in the lockdown period all religious places of worship including temple-mosques-gurdwaras are closed, when dairy and medicine shops are shut and ration shops are closed -- in these times liquor shops have been opened,” the senior Congress leader said. The former Union minister also tweeted that common man, religious heads and even liquor dealers are demanding closure of liquor shops because of the dangers of coronavirus spread. “But Chouhan and his government have forcibly opened the liquor shops,” Nath said.  “This is the difference between his speech and action. Even if the corona infection spreads in the state, it is necessary to earn from liquor sales. Don’t know where this state is going,” Nath said. Regarding the increase in the number of corona-infected patients, the former chief minister said, “Within a month and a half, the BJP government has changed the picture of the state. The number of corona infected in the state is 3,400, number of deaths has crossed 200. MP is being discussed in the country. for the wrong reasons.” Nath further tweeted, “The situation in Bhopal and Indore is very serious and alarming.” He claimed through the tweets that the number of corona infected districts is increasing and reached more than 35, even the nine green zone districts have also reported Covid-19 cases. The calamity is now approaching the villages, he said. “Madhya Pradesh lacks protection equipment and testing kits. Corona warriors are getting infected every day. Testing reports are coming after 10 to 15 days. Daily there is an increase in sample pendency due to which the data of infection and death is increasing considerably,” the state Congress president said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/kamal-nath-attacks-shivraj-for-opening-liquor-shops-in-mp/articleshow/75652354.cms||Suchandana Gupta
May 10, 2020||Coimbatore||Koyambedu yet to make impact in Coimbatore||COIMBATORE: Koyambedu hasn’t made an impact on the district’s Covid-19 infection rate so far and all the 40 drivers, who have been to the wholesale fruit and vegetable market in Chennai, have tested negative for the virus. This is when drivers who have returned to almost all the other districts in the state from Koyambedu market have tested positive for the novel coronavirus. The district hasn’t also reported any new positive cases in the past six days. The district is, however, treading carefully and have kept all the 40 drivers in quarantine for the next 14 days. The special team that is deputed to the district has, meanwhile, instructed the health department to stick to the guidelines that were issued by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and test only the contacts of positive cases, pregnant women (a week before delivery), and those with influenza like illness and breathlessness, and not waste time on testing randomly chosen asymptomatic people in the community. The credit for tracing the truck drivers, who regularly drives to Koyambedu, in the district goes to the health department, which has been on that mission since Monday. As the drivers linked to Koyambedu market started testing positive for Covid-19 in other districts, health officials didn’t waste any time in tracing such drivers from the district and putting them in quarantine facilities. They have also tested a few truck drivers and others who have returned from Maharashtra. Dr G Ramesh Kumar, deputy director of public health, said, “We had collected samples from 225 people on Friday. At least 172 of them, including the truck drivers from Koyambedu and outside the state, have tested negative so far. None of the drivers have any symptoms. Even if they were to test positive in the coming days, we have quarantined them, limiting their contacts.” He said at least 175 samples were collected by private and government hospitals from patients with flu-like symptoms, pregnant women coming for delivery and patients with breathlessness. “Such cases are also testing negative for the contagion. We are following the ICMR’s latest guidelines.” A senior city corporation official confirmed that the special team, consisting of IAS officers and district revenue officers, have asked them to trace only the positive patients’ contacts and patients coming to hospitals with symptoms. “They have asked us to stop wasting time and kits on testing randomly chosen asymptomatic individuals in the community,” the official said. The city corporation is still screening vulnerable people in containment zones and Amma Unavagam employees, since the eateries have been open since the beginning of lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/koyambedu-yet-to-make-impact-in-coimbatore/articleshow/75652366.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Jaipur||Mercury rising across state, Churu sizzles at 45.4°C||Jaipur: Heat wave conditions aggravated in the state on Saturday when majority of the places witnessing temperatures around 42°C. Churu remained hottest clocking 45.4°C was recorded, Met reports said.Attributing the continued rise in temperatures to the vanishing of factors like western disturbances and upper air cyclonic circulation, Jaipur Met office said similar conditions would prevail in the state in the coming days. Except a few places where there is a possibility of rainfall, hailstorm and dust storms, majority of the places will witness a rise in maximum and minimum temperatures.People in Jaipur woke up a warmer morning with a minimum temperature of 27°C. It was followed by hottest afternoon of the season at 42.6°C. Since the state government has allowed shops selling and repairing air-conditioners and water coolers, people were seen flocking to such outlets.The ongoing spell of heat wave conditions has also triggered drinking water supply problems in various districts such as Tonk, Dausa, Karaul, Ajmer and Bhilwara. Churu was followed by Kota with 45°C, Bikaner (44.6°C), Sriganganagar (44.3°C), Jaisalmer (43.3°C), Barmer (43.2°C, Jodhpur (43°C), Ajmer (42.6°C and Udaipur (41.4°C). Weathermen said the weather conditions are conducive for the onset of summer. In its forecast, Jaipur Met office said in the coming days majority of the places will witness further rise in temperatures except a few spells of rainfall and dust storm in some parts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/mercury-rising-across-state-churu-sizzles-at-45-4c/articleshow/75652933.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Bhubaneswar||BMC opens transit homes at city’s entry points||Bhubaneswar: In view of the possible rush of people from outside the state to the capital city, the Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation (BMC) has opened three government transit homes at an equal number of entry points to the city — one on either end of the national highway 5 near Rasulgarh and Khandagiri and another along the Puri Road. Officials said the transit homes will not be used to keep people for a long period. They are apart from the two quarantine centres, which are located within the city to keep the neighbours and relatives of people infected with the virus. Those suspected of having contracted the virus and belonging to Bomikhal, Suryanagar and Satyanagar were put up at the two facilities. BMC deputy commissioner Pramod Prusty said those coming from the Cuttack side and stranded in the city will be put up at the transit home and not allowed to enter the city. They will be sent to their native places from there. The ones coming from the Khandagiri side of the national highway will be stopped at the transit facility opened at that end. Those coming from Puri will be kept at another transit home opened along the Bhubaneswar-Puri road, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/bmc-opens-transit-homes-at-citys-entry-points/articleshow/75651637.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Goa||Guard interest of cane ryots, BJP tells Goa CM||MARGAO: The sugarcane growers have expressed their indignation over the proposal of the government to shut down the Sanjivani sugar factory at Dharbandora. At a recent meeting of sugarcane cultivators at Vaddem in Sanguem, farmers pointed out that the factory was set up on a cooperative model through investments of shareholders across Goa, and denounced any moves of the government to take a unilateral decision about its closure. They demanded that the chief minister meet them and listen to their woes before taking any decision. Meanwhile, the state BJP has strongly urged chief minister Pramod Sawant that the interests of the sugarcane growers should be protected before taking any decision about the fate of the Sanjivani sugar factory.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/guard-interest-of-cane-ryots-bjp-tells-cm/articleshow/75652934.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Kolhapur||Deceased woman among 21 positive cases in Solapur city||KOLHAPUR: As many as 20 new Covid-19 positive cases emerged from Solapur city on Saturday. Moreover, a 48-year-old woman was tested positive for the contagion two days after her death on Thursday. The tally of Covid-19 positive cases in Solapur district now stands at 216. The woman who died was a resident of Ashok Nagar. She was admitted to the civil hospital on Thursday and died the same day. Her throat swab samples were collected and sent for Covid-19 analysis. The reports which arrived on Saturday confirmed that she had contracted the infection. Of the 20 new Covid-19 cases identified on Saturday, 12 are men and eight women. Seven of the patients were found while contact tracing and had come in contact with Covid-19 positive patients identified earlier. The 20 patients identified on Saturday are from Shastri Nagar, Kumtha Naka, Nai Jindgi, Ashok Chowk, Eakta Nagar, Neelam Nagar, Keshav Nagar, Sadar Bazar, Lashkar Nagar, Kumbhar Nagar, Saibaba chowk and Bapuji Nagar of Solapur city. The district administration received reports of 175 throat swab samples on Saturday, of which 20 returned positive. The reports of 153 throat swab samples are still awaited. District collector Milind Shambharkar has formed four teams, headed by specially-appointed government officers, which have been given the responsibility of ensuring that the lockdown rules are strictly enforced to curb the spread of the disease. The team for each containment zone comprise officials of health, civil supply, revenue and municipal corporation. Teams working in the containment zones will have to conduct door-to-door survey to identify Covid-19 suspects, increase awarenes among citizens, distribute masks, ensure smooth supply of essential commodities and trace contacts n case a patient is found. Conservancy staff have been given the responsibility to maintain cleanliness in the containment zones, regularly disinfect the areas, ensure public toilets are kept clean and make provision for hand washes at public places.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/deceased-woman-among-21-positive-cases-in-solapur-city/articleshow/75651624.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Nashik||NMC provide mobile Covid-19 clincis in containment zones||NASHIK: The Nashik Municipal Corporation has started Covid-19 mobile clinics in all the containment zones so that the locals can benefit from it. The civic body has three mobile squads visiting the slums and other areas on a regular basis providing health services to the people as a general practice. A medical team led by Nashik Municipal Corporation Commissioner Radhakrushna Game carried out an inspection in one such containment zones of the city. “There is one mobile clinic posted in each of the containment zones – in addition to the regular services which helps the doctors with all the necessary help required while surveying the areas in the city. The NMC commissioner has also visited several of the containment zones and interacted with the people getting the feedback of the people,” a senior an official from health department said. These are basically part of the Urban Primary Health Centres (UPHC) which have been deployed in the containment zones on rotation basis providing necessary healthcare services. “When containment zones are announced the people are not allowed to travel outside and hence the clinics are present there. All establishments are closed down except the milk and essential services,” the officer added. When containment zones are announced there is a social group of NMC officials and police officials that supply vegetables, groceries, and milk to locals. “When people want anything they can ask for help from them. The vendors make it available outside the containment zones from where the things are carried to the customers. However on the health issues, the mobile clinics are the ones who provide the services,” the officer added. The medical treatment is free of cost. The clinics further add to the surveillance activities by segregating the persons with symptoms of temperature, cough, headache, and other issues that define the likelihood of Covid-19 infection. The mobile clinics are thus helping the system to pick up early signs of the patients with infection and even help the non-covid patients to get medical treatment from other hospitals and specialists as required. “With this, we have been able to help the people with even heart ailments get the time treatment as in such cases they are quickly referred to concerned hospitals,” the officer added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nmc-provide-mobile-covid-19-clincis-in-containment-zones/articleshow/75651620.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Nashik||MCI nod to PG medical courses from other varsities||NASHIK: The ministry of health and family welfare of the Central government has released a corrigendum stating that students who have obtained a post-graduate degree from any other university in the state other than medical colleges will be recognised by the Medical Council of India (MCI). Vice-chancellor of Maharashtra University of Health Sciences (MUHS) Deelip Mhaisekar said, “Our university was formed in 1998, after which the medical courses from the other universities were shifted to MUHS. We started the post-graduate courses in 2006. Before that, students who had obtained a post-graduate degree from other universities were facing difficulties in getting registration from the MCI.” Mhaisekar had submitted a proposal to the Central government and the MCI to clear the confusion and recognise the students who had taken a post-graduate degree from other universities apart from medical colleges. According to sources in the university, students who were pursuing a post-graduate medical course from other universities were not being recognised by MCI. “Students who wanted to go to any other state to practice medicine or join a medical institute were not able to do so without MCI recognition,” said the sources. Now, even these students are set to benefit against the earlier instructions of the Central government which mandated that only a medical university was authorised to provide a medical degree. The corrigendum lists 19 such postgraduate courses of traditional universities which are now recognised by MCI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/mci-nod-to-pg-medical-courses-from-other-varsities/articleshow/75651639.cms||pragya jain
May 10, 2020||Bhopal||Strewn currency notes create panic in MP's Chhatarpur district||BHOPAL: Quite a sensation was created in Harpalpur town of Chattarpur, after currency notes were found scattered there on some road trisections on Saturday. These new Rs 20 denomination notes were later picked up by the cops, who immediately started the investigations. This small town is surrounded by a few districts of Uttar Pradesh, which have reported positive cases of coronavirus. So far, Chattarpur is a green zone with not a single Covid-19 case. Because of ongoing relaxation in lockdown, markets open early in Chattarpur. Around 7 am on Saturday, some people noticed brand new currency notes scattered around in market place. A resident informed the police. “ I had read in newspapers that in some places where positive cases of coronavirus were found, people were creating mischief by throwing infected currency notes to further spread the virus”, the resident told the cops. By the time cops reached the spot, panic had already gripped the small market place and many shop keepers had pulled down their shutters. Sources said, police reached the spot and one of the cops,wearing safety gloves, started picking up six notes, one by one. When people informed the police that there were more notes lying on the streets earlier, cops started looking for people who had picked up the remaining currency notes. Six People were identified and were quarantined at a hostel in Harpalpur, said the local tehsildar. A public announcement was also made in the market, asking the shopkeepers not to accept the new Rs 20 currency notes as a precaution for four-five days, said sources. Cops are scanning the CCTV footages of nearby shops to identify the people who had thrown the notes. Dilip Pandey, SHO Harpalpur police station, said, “We have started the investigations. If we find any conspiracy, we will register a case. We have also identified some people who had picked up some of these currency notes; they have been quarantined.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/strewn-currency-notes-create-panic-in-chhatarpur-district/articleshow/75652365.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Vande Bharat: First flight with 163 lands in Hyd from Kuwait||Hyderabad: The first flight to Hyderabad, organised as part of the Vande Bharat Mission, landed at the city’s Rajiv Gandhi International Airport from Kuwait, late on Saturday night. The A320 Air India aircraft, AI 988, that departed at 3.26pm (local time) from Kuwait with 163 passengers on board, touched down at the city facility around 10 pm (IST). From there, the passengers were ferried to quarantine centres identified by the government. “About six or seven star hotels in various parts of the city have been turned into quarantine centres, where stranded passengers, being brought to Hyderabad from various countries, will be kept for 14 days,” said an official. “The passengers are being provided this facility at a nominal rate.” Those unable to pay for the hotels, were accommodated in government hospitals for free. “Though there are three categories of paid quarantine, the least of them of Rs 5,000 has been removed, and instead free quarantine has been assured for workers arriving from the Gulf depending on their financial status. Workers from Kuwait have been made eligible for that,” Emigrants Welfare Forum president Mandha Bheem Reddy told TOI. Airport sources said all safety precautions were adhered to while facilitating the movement of passengers. “All arriving passengers and aircraft crew were escorted out of the aircraft in batches of 20 to 25 people. Each passenger was screened by thermal cameras positioned at the aerobridge exit by airport health officials as per the directives of the Ministry of Health & Family Welfare prior to immigration formalities. The entire airport was sanitised, including the conveyor belt and trolleys. Social distancing was maintained at every step,” a source said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/vande-bharat-first-flight-with-163-lands-in-hyd-from-kuwait/articleshow/75652377.cms||Sudipta Sengupta
May 10, 2020||Coimbatore||From pregnancy seminars to zumba classes, events move to virtual space||Coimbatore: The city residents are increasingly warming up to the idea of hosting events online as gatherings of more than 50 people are unlikely to be allowed for another six months. Event organizers, who initially decided to postpone the plans to June by when they thought the situation would return to normalcy, have now decided to go ahead and conduct the events online, despite technical difficulties. From weddings to education sessions for children to art, embroidery and special dance classes to pregnancy seminars, there are a plenty of events waiting to take place. Online platforms include zoom, MS Teams and Google Meet for more interaction, and Zoho, Airmeet and Webex for webinars. People have also realized that online classes don’t come free and are ready to pay for them. The Coimbatore Parenting Network (CPN), which conducts a popular seminar titled “heart in the tummy” once a year, had initially decided to wait until things returned to normal to announce this year’s event. Minu Gnanamoorthy, managing trustee of the network, said, “However, after the second phase of lockdown was announced it became clear that gatherings were not going to be safe or be allowed for a long time. Hence, we have decided to go ahead and organize the seminar online on May 9 and 10.” She said the cost would be higher as they don’t have any sponsors. “While we won’t have to spend on event venue, food, transport and accommodation, costs are still incurred as we have to improve some people’s net connections and pay for the event software.” Zumba instructor Shabhna Ramakrishnan, who organized a couple of free virtual sessions for her regular students in the initial phase of lockdown, has decided to make her sessions paid ones. “I pay a subscription fee for zumba playlists and programmes. A lot of time also goes into choosing a playlist and choreographing that. This is our way of working from home and like all other professionals we expect to get paid.” Event organizers said there won’t be many takers for paid online events. “The takers will definitely be lesser than that for free events or physical events,” said a source. While CPN’s “heart in the tummy”, which usually sees around 150 attendees, has so far seen only 50 or so registrations, Shabhna’s zumba sessions too has recorded a drop in attendees to 25 from 150 when she began charging for sessions. The city-based Mango Education, which introduced paid webinars and online seminars for children from 2018, said the number of takers for paid online sessions has increased comparatively. S Arumugam, its co-founder, said, “A paid webinar will work only with an extremely specific topic and the resource person.” According to organizers, online events have advantages and disadvantages as well. “Online gives us a lot of timing flexibility, allowing us to start a conference at 7am and go on till 7.30pm, giving long breaks in between for attendees to refresh physically and mentally,” Gnanamoorthy said. Arumugam, meanwhile, said it would also allow easy access to an expert from abroad or within the country. “Suddenly, any expert is accessible to you, because you don’t need to fly them down and accommodate them.” People too can access sessions right from mandala drawing basics classes, to bow making classes online, he said. One of the disadvantages is that online sessions never really could replace the energy of a personal interaction. “It makes a difference, especially for workout sessions,” said Nithyanandhini Manoharan, head coach, 45 Degree Fitness. Arumugam said educators on webinars was likely to get more exhausted conducting a 90-minute session online, compared to offline sessions. “Children won’t also be able to attend the session with full attention so long.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/from-pregnancy-seminars-to-zumba-classes-events-move-to-virtual-space/articleshow/75652384.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Cong seeks probe into Kaleshwaram project||Hyderabad: Telangana Congress will seek a probe in the Rs 1 lakh crore Kaleshwaram project, said the party floor leader in assembly, Mallu Bhatti Vikramarka, on Saturday. “Is it right to invite Rs 21,000 crore of tenders for the project when lakhs of people, especially migrant workers, are going wirhout food. Telangana state is already burdened with Rs 3.21 lakh crore debts,” Bhatti said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cong-seeks-probe-into-kaleshwaram-project/articleshow/75652380.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Rajkot||2 killed in accident||Rajkot: Two persons were killed when the car they were driving in lost control crossed into the opposite side of the road after breaking the divider and collided head on with a tanker on Rajkot-Bhavnagar Highway near Jangwad village of Jasdan taluka in Rajkot district on early Saturday morning.The deceased were identified as Vishal Mehta (45) and Hitesh Dabhi (40).“The accident appears to have occurred after the car had a tyre burst or its steering wheel got locked,” said an official from Atkot police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/2-killed-in-accident/articleshow/75651645.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Goa||With too few commuters, motorcycle pilots struggle to make a living||Panaji: Despite the lockdown travel curbs being relaxed, things have not begun to look up for the group of 75 motorcycle pilots who operate at the Panaji bus stand . The pilots derived their income mainly from bus commuters who moved through the terminus, and had lost their livelihood during the lockdown. Their business has not picked up even after the resumption of transportation of services due to fewer people using public transport. “The footfalls on the bus stand have drastically lowered,” pilot, Suresh Vernekar said. “Very few people are taking a bus to travel, now. Due to the fear of the virus, people also prefer to travel in their private vehicles instead of public transport. The only business we’re currently getting is people going to work and leaving from home,” he said. The pilots are therefore receiving a call-of-duty only in the mornings and evenings. “Most of us don’t even see a point in being stationed at the bus stand for the entire day,” another pilot said. The Panaji-based pilots are not the only ones that have been hit. Pilots across the state who ran the two-wheeler taxi service at various bus stops, railway stations and popular nooks are also in a fix. The Goa motorcycle taxi riders’ association, under which over 400 pilots are registered, is therefore seeking to meet with chief minister Pramod Sawant to provide financial relief to help tide over the crisis. “The pilots come from low-income groups, most of whom are the sole breadwinners of their families. Many of them have exhausted their savings while others are living on the mercy of borrowed money. It is therefore necessary for the government to intervene and help the pilots financially,” president of the association Suresh Thakur said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/with-too-few-commuters-motorcycle-pilots-struggle-to-make-a-living/articleshow/75652938.cms||Nida Sayed
May 10, 2020||Kolhapur||Pandemic creates opportunities for realtors to find potential buyers||KOLHAPUR: Developers and builders got a ray of hope this week when many of them received queries from citizens from Mumbai, Pune and even abroad keen on buying ready-to-possess housing units in the city. Due to coronavirus pandemic, the citizens, who have shifted to megacities, are keen on returning or at least want to shift their families to Kolhapur. They are making enquires about the available flats and row houses, developers said. Vidyanand Bedekar, president of Credai, Kolhapur, said they had received at least 10-15 queries every day over the past week regarding purchase of ready-possession flats. “We have discussed it and what we can for those who want to buy properties. We have started deliberations so that we can get out of the slow down caused due to the coronavirus pandemic,” he said. Bedekar said developers have been told to keep a list ready of the projects and housing units available so that those making enquiries can be assisted properly. The coronavirus crisis came as a double whammy for the developers, who are already reeling from the ban on construction activities in large parts of the flood-affected areas of the city last year. The ban has been lifted but many constructions have been affected due to redrawing of the flood lines. Several housing units have remained unsold and the construction sector is looking at a setback due to shortage of labourers. The sector employs around 70% of migrant labourers and most of them have signed up to return to their hometowns. Currently, permissions have been granted to take up the projects which were stalled midway or those sanctioned before the lockdown began. “Considering that the sector employs large number of people we expect several policy measures to be adopted to boost buying power. The interest rates and taxation should be lowered for next three years,” he said. Recently the developers through video conferencing raised their concerns and made some suggestions to district guardian minister Satej Patil. Patil also suggested them to tap potential customers, who want to return to the city. The developers suggested that the allied services such as airport, training for local labourers and setting up the network of business should be harnessed. This, they said, would convince buyers about making property purchases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/pandemic-creates-opportunities-for-realtors-to-find-potential-buyers/articleshow/75651647.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Coimbatore||Tamil Nadu: New Covid-19 case reported in Nilgiris||UDHAGAMANDALAM: The Nilgiris district registered a new case of Covid-19 on Saturday, after a gap of four days. A 24-year-old woman, a primary contact, has tested positive, authorities said. Four truck drivers who had returned from the Koyambedu market had tested positive on May 5. Subsequently, health officials lifted samples from the primary contacts of the drivers and sent them to the Pasteur Institute of India in Coonoor for test. While two truck drivers hail from Kilkozhikarai in Nanjanadu panchayat in Ooty taluk, the third one is from Kakkanji Nagar in Nanjanadu panchayat and the fourth is from Selas in Coonoor taluk. As many as 77 throat swabs and blood of the primary contacts were sent for lab test, Nilgiris collector J Innocent Divya said. “Only one primary contact, a 24-year old woman, tested positive for the novel coronavirus,” she said. “The woman hails from Kilkozhikarai in Nanjanadu panchayat. She has been sent to the ESI hospital in Coimbatore for treatment.” The three areas the four truck drivers hail from have been declared containment zones. “The places are being strictly monitored. Fumigation is done on regular intervals. All essential items, including vegetables, are supplied at doorsteps,” said the collector. Two of the four truck drivers who were under treatment at ESI hospital were discharged on Saturday. “The duo are admitted to the Ooty Government Hospital and are under observation,” said deputy director of public health Dr P Balusamy. With the new case, the district has 14 Covid-19 cases. Three are active.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/new-covid-19-case-reported-in-nilgiris/articleshow/75652389.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Relief for Telangana farmers as state procures 36 lakh MT paddy||HYDERABAD: Amidst complaints and allegations of rice millers harassing farmers on the pretext of discolouration and increase in moisture content in paddy due to unseasonal rains, the Telangana government has procured nearly 35.74 lakh metric tonnes of paddy from farmers in the last one month. It is for the first time that the state government has decided to procure 1 crore metric tonnes of paddy, but also sun flower, jowar, bengal gram and maize produced by farmers in Telangana. Normally, the government procures certain percentage of paddy for distribution through fair price shops. Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao announced the procurement of these agriculture products to protect farmers from exploitation by middlemen offering low prices as there are no marketing facilities for the farmers due to lockdown. As on date, the government has established 6,262 paddy procurement centres near the villages in the state as against the target of setting up of 6,570 centres. With the arrival of hamalis and work force from other states, the procurement of paddy and other agriculture products has been expedited and will be completed by the month’s end. As on Saturday, Nalgonda district topped the list with 5.50 lakh metric tonnes of paddy being procured followed Nizamabad at 3.28 lakh metric tonnes and Suryapet at 2.78 lakh metric tonnes. The state spent Rs 45,000 crore to purchase these agricultural products from farmers. The amount towards these products is being deposited directly into the bank accounts of the farmers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/relief-for-t-farmers-as-state-procures-36-lakh-mt-paddy/articleshow/75652400.cms||Roushan Ali
May 10, 2020||Indore||Water bodies get cleaner during lockdown||INDORE: Quality of water bodies in Indore has improved significantly in lockdown period amid reduced industrial activity making water much clearer and transparent. Confined movement of humans in lockdown has made Bilawali, Sirpur, Yeshwant Sagar and Pipaliyapala more suitable for aquatic life. MP Pollution Control Board chief chemist Dr DK Waghela said, “Almost all basic parameters that makes water pure and suitable for aquatic life has improved. This is due to less human interference due to lockdown and a sharp decline in industrial activity.” Turbidity in water bodies has reduced to as low as 3.8 NTU, the laboratory report issued by pollution control board showed. Samples taken from water bodies of Indore in lockdown period were compared with the levels in early march. As per findings of the board, pH levels in most water bodies have gone up with lowest recorded at Yeshwant Sagar at 8.2 and highest at Pipaliyapala at 8.26. Levels of dissolved oxygen has also improved in water bodies with Bilawali recorded 7.6 mg/L, Sirpur 7.5 mg/L, Yeshwant Sagar 7.6 mg/L and Pipliayapala 7.8 mg/L, showed study by Pollution Control Board. Experts said as basic parameters defining water quality has improved it will support aquatic life and aid in breading of fishes. Total Coliform has also reduced in water bodies indicating supporting system for aquatic organisms. In Bilawali, Total Coliform have dropped to 70 MPN/100ml as against 120 MPN/100ml calculated before the lockdown. Lowest level of Total Coliform was recorded at Sirpur Lake, where it dropped to 48 MPN/100ml from 84 MPN/100ml recorded earlier in March. The biological oxygen demand (BOD) in water has also dropped in most water bodies of Indore, according to study done by the pollution control board.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/water-bodies-get-cleaner-during-lockdown/articleshow/75652388.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Nashik||Nashik college gets NBA accreditation||NASHIK: For the third year in a row, the city-based Guru Gobind Singh Polytechnic College received an accreditation from National Board of Accreditation (NBA), which make the students eligible to take admission in any of the colleges accredited with Washington accord across the world. The accreditation is given by NBA which is responsible for the accreditation of higher technical education institutions across the country. Chairman of Guru Gobind Singh foundation Gurudev Singh Birdi said, “Through this achievement, the college has once again proved its excellence in academics as well as for the overall development of the students in Nashik district. The students will definitely get better placement opportunities due to institute’s NBA accreditation.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/city-college-gets-nba-accreditation/articleshow/75651650.cms||pragya jain
May 10, 2020||Coimbatore||Guest workers in dark about pass system to catch train back home||Coimbatore: Chaos prevailed at the city railway station on Saturday as guest workers hurried to catch a train back home without the mandatory passes. Gloom engulfed them, as they were denied entry. Among the disheartened was Umesh Kumar, a guest worker who walked almost 20km to reach the railway station from Sangothipalayam in Sulur block, along with six of his friends. He said, “We started from our place as early as 3am, carrying luggage on our shoulders. We didn’t take any break. While we managed to reach the railway station on time to catch the special train to Bihar that leaves at 8am, we were denied entry as we did not have passes.” Like him, many were not aware of the procedures to collect passes from local authorities. And they were all stranded at the railway station. Several group of guest workers from across the district had walked all the way to the railway station on Saturday after they came to know about the train services. While most of them had registered on the state government’s website to travel back to their native places, none of them seemed to be aware of the procedures that followed. They were under the impression that they could get into the train if they managed to reach the railway station on time. Umesh said, “My brother, who was staying at Ganeshapuram in the city, had travelled back home on Friday night. It was he who informed us about the train services. He told us that we could collect the train ticket and passes at the railway station itself if we have had registered on the website. That’s why we walked all the way.” According to him, while police officials kept them away from the railway station, they were not provided any guidance as where to go, whom to meet or what to do. Having no other place to go, they waited on the platforms until the evening. Around 6pm, the district administration arranged a bus to transport them back to their locality. Another worker, Chotu Kumar, said they had registered on the website. “It was some police officials who informed us that there was a train service to Bihar sometime in the evening and asked us to collect tickets at the railway station.” When he reached the railway station all the way from Kalapatti by walk, there was no train to Bihar in the evening. Nor they were issued train tickets at the station. A government official, who didn’t want to be identified, said, “At times, we are also admitting the guest workers without passes in trains on humanitarian grounds by issuing them one at the spot. But for that seats should be available in the trains.” Acknowledging that the guest workers have come walking to the railway station, district collector K Rajamani said they were convincing them to go back to their houses as everyone could not be accommodated in the trains. “Our priority is to transport the workers who are actually stranded without any contact with their employers and are under the direct supervision of the city corporation and revenue department,” he said. Watch Guest workers in dark about pass system try to catch train back home||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/guest-workers-in-dark-about-pass-system-to-catch-train-back-home/articleshow/75652391.cms||Nivedha Selvam
May 10, 2020||Rajkot||Cops tackle Jangleshwar labourers’ mutiny tactfully||Rajkot: While dealing with labourers fleeing from Ekta Colony in Jangleshwer locality, a Covid hotspot of Rajkot on Friday night, the police could sense the sticky situation they were in and adopted a suitable stance to avert crisis. While on one hand cops were dealing with some 200-odd hungry migrants who were desperate to go home, on the other hand they also needed to stop them for fear of spread of coronavirus as well as for lockdown rules. The cops therefore adopted a benign stance and dealt with them with kids gloves. Cops first spotted a group of about 25 to 30 men on the Aji River bridge on 80 Feet Road and stopped them. They identified themselves as labourers who were facing starvation and said they wanted to go back to their natives. “While we were persuading them to return to their locality, we saw a group of another 150 labourers, who had broken the barricades put up on the bank of the river, coming towards us,” said V K Gadhvi, inspector with Bhaktinagar police station. All of them said they were in search of food as they have ran out provisions as well as the means to procure more. “We first provided all of them with meals and thereafter assured them that we will arrange for some transportation as soon as possible to take them back to their natives. Appeased, the labourers agreed to return to Jangleshwer and bide time till we arranged something,” added Gadhvi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/cops-tackle-jangleshwar-labourers-mutiny-tactfully/articleshow/75651671.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Kolhapur||Dist collector for action against those flouting travel rules, prohibitory orders||KOLHAPUR: District collector Daulat Desai on Friday wrote a letter to the chiefs of all local authorities, including police, asking them to take strict action against those flouting travel rules and prohibitory orders. In his letter, Desai mentioned that conditions imposed after the relaxation in the lockdown rules are not followed by many people. Though restrictions are placed on the number of people travelling by two-wheeler or four-wheeler, they are not followed. Only one person can travel by two-wheeler at a time and not more than three people will travel in a car along with the driver. However, these rules are clearly not followed by people, Desai wrote. “In last four days, it was observed that a large number of people are not following travel rules. All the necessary action along with penalising them should be initiated immediately. The transmission of Covid-19 is possible when people gather in large numbers or travel in large numbers. To avoid the rise in the number of Covid-19 cases, local agencies and police should ensure that people follow rules,” Desai wrote. He also said that many shops in commercial markets and complexes are now opened following relaxation in lockdown norms. As per the new rules, only standalone shops, and that too 50% shops in a lane or a particular road, are allowed to operate. He also wrote that many non-essential standalone shops remain open after 7.00 pm which is against the rules, adding that prohibitory orders are in place between 7.00 pm to 7.00 am everyday. “We have observed that most shops stay open even after operating hours. Also, social distancing is not followed at most shops. Take immediate action against such shops. Even during late evening hours, people are seen gathering on roads. The roadside eateries are not allowed to open. We have observed that at some places eateries have opened and people were seen gathering around it. Police should ensure strict action against them as well,” Desai wrote in the letter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/dist-collector-for-action-against-those-flouting-travel-rules-prohibitory-orders/articleshow/75651659.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Goa||Farmers fear agri sector paralysis due to exodus||Panaji: Agriculturists in the state fear that the exodus of migrant labourers from Goa to their native states would paralyse all farming activities this season. More than 80,000 migrant workers have registered with the government to return to their home states after the centre offered ‘Shramik’ trains to ferry migrants stranded across the country. “We are dire need of labourers,” said Suraj Naik Gaonkar, a farmer from Canacona. “They plan to leave the state despite us requesting them to stay back.” Many farmers in the taluka are completely dependent on migrant workers, especially in areas where polyhouse farming thrives. The harvest season is ongoing amidst the lockdown and farmers still don’t have access to their entire workforce to continue harvesting. Even if they manage to accomplish their harvest goals with a week or two, going forward, they require workers in June for the cultivation of paddy in the field,s and vegetables in polyhouses. “There is no scope for mechanised farming in Canacona because most farmers are engaged in terrace farming on sloping terrain. We don’t have access to local labourers and will not be able to function without migrant farmhands,” Gaonkar said. In some other parts, like Bicholim, agriculturists do not feel the pinch as they mostly employ local workers. “Only the carpenters, masons and others involved in the construction industry are leaving Bicholim. As a result, the agriculture sector of Bicholim is not adversely affected,” said Rohan Joshi, who has a farm in the taluka. Farmers are of the opinion that the workers are safer in Goa compared to the red and orange zone areas that they originally come from. Despite this, they want to return to their hometowns. “We can manage for a month or two without them, but we’re worried they won’t be able to return to Goa if the Covid-19 situation doesn’t improve in the red and orange areas,” another farmer said. Farmer and lawyer SN Joshi said that it is the fundamental right of the migrant workers to go home. “It may be a green zone here, but they wish to be close to their families and therefore they must be allowed to leave the state. For our selfishness, we cannot force them to continue to live here,” he said. Goa’s construction industry, fishing industry and agriculture sector are largely dependent on the migrant workforce.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/farmers-fear-agri-sector-paralysis-due-to-exodus/articleshow/75652939.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Nashik||Nashik: Wait gets over as CBSE-XII board exams to be held in July||NASHIK: The Class XII students of the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) schools in Nashik heaved a sigh of relief after the board declared the examination dates on Saturday. The remaining board exams would now be conducted between July 1 to July 15 and the schedule of the same would be declared in the coming days. A Class XII student Charya Patni said that she was expecting the dates to be declared sooner or later. “I knew that the examinations will be conducted but the wait was making me restless. The announcement came as a big relief as I am thoroughly prepared for the one paper I am left with,” said Patni. Chairperson of English Medium Schools Association Himgauri Aher-Adke said that the board had made it clear that the examinations will be conducted soon. “Now, we have to see that the evaluation process goes smoothly and the result is declared in time for the next academic calendar. Also, more teachers will have to chip in for the evaluation of answer sheets so that it can remain centralised and mishandling would be avoided,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/wait-gets-over-as-cbse-xii-board-exams-to-be-held-in-july/articleshow/75651660.cms||pragya jain
May 10, 2020||Kolhapur||Kalamba jail on alert after Covid-19 positive patients found in other jails||KOLHAPUR: The Kalamba central jail is placed on high alert after the administration reported that 103 prisoners from Arthur Road jail tested positive for Covid-19. The Kalamba jail administration has already taken steps to curb the spread of Covid-19 by reducing the contact of jail inmates with people from outside. They have also barred the entry of visitors and relatives of inmates to prevent the entry of Covid-19 in the jail premises. According to jail authorities, the Kalamba central prison premises is already crowded after the undertrials from the Bindu chowk sub-jail were transferred to the facility as a precautionary measure to avoid contact with new entrants in the prison. The capacity of the Kalamba jail is of around 1,700 prisoners. However, at present, there are more than 2,400 prisoners lodged in the jail, including those from the Bindu chowk sub-jail. As per the new arrangement, the new prisoners will be kept at the Bindu chowk sub-jail after shifting the undertrials to the Kalamba prison. Jail superintendent of Kalamba Sharad Shelke said, “As a precautionary measure, we have started daily health check-up of prisoners to ensure that they are fit and noone has developed any symptoms related to novel coronavirus. We have set up a quarantine centre in the jail premises. If we notice anyone showing Covid-19 symptoms, they will be immediately moved to the quarantine facility.” “As per the instructions issued by higher authorities, we are granting parole to prisoners to reduce crowd in the jail. Till date, 120 prisoners have been released on parole and the proposals for others are in process,” he said. “We have provided face masks and hand santisers to prisoners,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/kalamba-jail-on-alert-after-covid-19-positive-patients-found-in-other-jails/articleshow/75651684.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Delhi||Woman held in Delhi for selling e-cigarettes to minors||NEW DELHI: A woman was arrested from northwest Delhi’s Mukherjee Nagar on Friday for allegedly supplying e-cigarettes and other psychotropic substances to the minors during the lockdown . DCP (northwest) Vijayanta Arya said that the woman Pooja Sawhney was arrested and three nords, juul pods and nicotine salts were seized from her. A juul is a type of portable “nicotine-delivery device” designed to mimic the physical and sensory experience of a cigarette. While being questioned, police said that Sawhney admitted that she had gone to Mukherjee Nagar to deliver these to a minor customer. “It was found that the woman is operating a cartel that was targeting the minors from well-off families,” said Arya. The accused received the payment for her products via e-commerce portals or UPI mediums. The entire operation took place through WhatsApp. Police said that Sawhney operates four shops in Delhi by the name of “Panwadi” through which she contacted potential customers. The accused would first chat with the customer to establish whether they were genuinely interested in procuring her products and then start her supply chain. The payment had to be made beforehand after which she would give a date, time and place to the customer to collect their products. A large amount of tobacco and rolling paper were also seized from her. She has been sent to 14-day judicial custody. Efforts are being made to track down her suppliers as well. Police said that Sawhney is a resident of Rajouri Garden and is married to a businessman. Watch Delhi: Woman arrested for selling e-cigarettes to minors||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/woman-held-for-selling-e-cigs-to-minors/articleshow/75652940.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Hyderabad||FCI procures highest quantity rice from T||Hyderabad: Union consumer affairs, food and public distribution minister Ram Vilas Paswan on Saturday tweeted that the procurement of wheat and paddy by the central government through Food Corporation of India is in progress and about 50 lakh metric tonnes paddy has been procured for rabi season 2020-21. Of the total 50 lakh MT of paddy, 34.36 lakh MT of paddy has been procured from Telangana alone and another 10 lakh MT paddy from Andhra Pradesh. The two Telugu States put together have given 44.36 lakh MT of paddy to FCI, which is supplies to various states through public distribution system. Responding to the Union minister’s tweet, Municipal minister KT Rama Rao tweeted that Telangana has topped the country’s paddy procurement in rabi season (known as yasangi in Telangana). “I’s moment of pride for the farmers of Telangana and people of the state. What a turnaround in a span of less than six years under the leadership of chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao,” KTR tweeted. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/fci-procures-highest-quantity-rice-from-t/articleshow/75652419.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Indian students left in lurch as embassies stay mum on travel||Hyderabad: Hundreds of Indian students stuck abroad are desperate to return home. In spite of applying for the Vande Bharat Mission to bring Indians back, many say they have not received any positive response. “I used to work as a part-time bartender and would get around 1200 euros a month, but lost my job after the Covid-19 outbreak. Now, I have bills amounting to 1000 euros, but no means to pay it,” said Shashidhar Rao Uppuganti, who is pursuing Masters in Corporate Financial Management from Skema Business School in Paris. Shashidhar is to graduate in September, but says this will get delayed. “There are at least 300 students like me who want to get back to India immediately. We have applied to the Indian embassy, but haven’t received any reply regarding evacuation.” In Manchester, the UK, Ajay (name changed) faces a similar problem. “None of us has got any update from the High Commission of India,” he said. The High Commission in London tweeted that due to the limited number of flights priority would be given to the most vulnerable categories. “Elderly people, pregnant women, people facing medical emergencies, people who have bereavements or illnesses in their families in India, ” it said. Not far, in Ireland, K Jaswanth Naidu, who arrived at the Dublin Business School in January, said, “I want to come back to India as there are no part-time jobs here and our monthly expenses amount to almost 700 euros. Unlike those who lost jobs, we are not eligible for benefits.” In their desperation, many students have not chalked out a clear plan of what they would do when they return. Ajay and Jaswanth have both taken loans to pursue their dreams. Asked how they would manage once they are back in India, the former said he would ultimately head back once the situation improves, while the latter said his school had started online courses, which could be accessed from anywhere. In the Philippines, some students were lucky enough to get confirmations and would start their journey back home on Sunday. Explains Upendra Singh, who lives in Metro Manila, “Students from Mumbai and Delhi are getting confirmations first. There are thousands of Indians stuck here which means many of us will be left behind. While on the one hand we do want to return, on the other, the travel and quarantine costs equal a semester’s cost, making the choice a tough one.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/indian-students-left-in-lurch-as-embassies-stay-mum-on-travel/articleshow/75652404.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Salem||Tamil Nadu: Ostracized, two Covid-19 patients move to hospital in Hosur||KRISHNAGIRI: Two Covid-19 patients were shifted to the ESI hospital in Hosur from home quarantine after they said they were ostracized by the fellow residents. According to a source, the two, along with one of their friends, had come to the district from Maharashtra on Monday. “One of them is having an apartment in a gated community in Mathigiri near Hosur. As soon as they reached there, other residents alerted district health officials, who collected throat swabs and blood samples from them the same day.” While two of them tested positive, they were allowed to remain in home quarantine as they were found to be healthy and asymptomatic. “Health officials have been visiting them twice a day and taking care of their medication and diet,” the source said. Meanwhile, the patients informed the health officials that they were ostracized by the fellow residents and that members of the welfare association of the gated community had disallowed food delivery to their house. The health officials took up the issue with deputy director of health Dr V Govindan, who held talks with the association members on Friday. “They said they have disallowed the food delivery and other services to the apartment out of fear of local transmission of the virus,” he told TOI. The patients requested the official to shift them to a hospital. Subsequently, they were taken to the ESI hospital in Hosur the same evening.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/ostracized-2-covid-patients-move-to-hospital-in-hosur/articleshow/75652403.cms||Senthil Kumaran
May 10, 2020||Nagpur||SARI patient from Jawahar Nagar among 13 to test +ve||Nagpur: A 51-year-old patient of severe acute respiratory illness (SARI), who was admitted at the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), was among the 13 people to test positive for Covid-19 on Saturday. The patient is a resident of Jawahar Nagar near Manewada which is another new area of spread. The number of cases from new areas has increased to eight in the last four days. With Saturday’s cases, the total positives in the district is 283.Eight more persons from Mominpura, the city’s second hotspot, tested positive pushing the cases from this locality to 132. Samples of one person from Satranjipura, the first hotspot, too tested positive taking the area’s tally to 116.The remaining three positives are from Parvati Nagar from where a 22-year-old football player tested positive after death. One of three new patients is a 24-year-old man. He was admitted at the GMCH as a SARI patient.Two people — a 46-year-old man and 31-year-old woman — are among the 261 people quarantined from Parvati Nagar. The two are neighbours and were residing in the same building on rent, which is two lanes away from the building of the deceased.An NMC official told TOI that the woman’s old house was adjacent to the residence of the deceased. “She was constructing a new structure,” he added.An NMC team, led by assistant commissioner of Dhantoli Zone Kiran Bagde, quarantined more than 80 persons from Parvati Nagar taking the total from this area to 341. The quarantined people are from Tambaku Gully from where the group engaged in ‘kabootar baazi’ like the deceased football player.The total number of positive persons from this area increased to five including the deceased.The 13 policemen, who too were quarantined, reportedly tested negative. The paternal uncle of the deceased is a policeman.Municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe is likely to notify Jawahar Nagar as a new containment zone on Sunday, the 15th in the city. Also, the civic body is yet to establish source of the deceased man’s infection.It is the second case from South Nagpur after a homeopathy practitioner from Bada Taj Bagh tested positive on Wednesday.The number of quarantined people from Pandhrabodi slum increased to 27 on Saturday. A 29-year-old comorbidity patient from Trust Layout here tested positive on Thursday. Three members from his family — brother, mother and father — were quarantined on Friday.Also quarantined were family of the uncle of the positive person and a few of his friends. “The patient and two friends boarded an auto-rickshaw to reach GMCH on May 5. We have traced the auto driver and friends,” said Warhade.Meanwhile, on Saturday, the police control room received information about a few people from Mominpura hiding in Kalamna. “We traced six people. Totally 11 people were quarantined. An offence will be registered if NMC complains,” said Kalamna PI Vishwanath Chauhan.Mundhe said, “Preliminary investigation revealed six persons from Mominpura went to Kalamna after we started mass quarantine in the area. First they will be tested and a decision on police complaint will be taken later.”Earlier, 10 from a family from Satranjipura were found hiding in a godown at Kalamna for avoiding quarantining and testing for Covid-19.In a positive development, 14 positive persons from Satranjipura were discharged from GMCH and IGGMCH as they have recovered. A 77-year-old is among them. The total number of recoveries from the district increased to 80.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/sari-patient-from-jawahar-nagar-among-13-to-test-ve/articleshow/75652461.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
May 10, 2020||Hubballi||Davanagere tally spirals to 69 as six more test +ve for Covid-19||DAVANAGERE: The upward spiral of Covid-19 cases in Davanagere is proving hard to arrest, with six more individuals testing positive on Saturday and taking the district’s tally to 67. Of the six people who tested positive for the infection, five have been found to have contracted it from the 48-year-old woman, who succumbed to Covid-19 on May 3. Davanagere deputy commissioner Mahantesh Bilagi said that the staff nurse, from whom the infection transmitted to 37 others, who worked at a primary health centre in Bhashanagar, was likely to have contracted the infection from a patient she must have attended to. “But we have been unable to trace this individual, who is likely to be roaming somewhere in the district,” Bilagi said. Meanwhile, three more tested positive for the novel coronavirus in Chitradurga, and the total number of cases in Davanagere’s neighbouring district now stands at six. All the six Chitradurga residents who have been confirmed infected are Tablighis who returned home from Ahmedabad in Gujarat. On the other hand, the Azad Nagar police station, which was located in a containment zone, has been shifted to another locality, which falls under the purview of RMC police station. Davanagere superintendent of police Hanumantharaya said that as many as 57 residents who have been confirmed infected with Covid-19 lived in Old Davanagere, within which fell Azad Nagar as well. “Cops working at the Azad Nagar, Basavanagara and Gandhinagar stations are in risk of contracting the infection. We have advised personnel at these stations to undergo medical examination every day as a preventive measure,” he said. Three discharged from hospital in MandyaThree Covid-19 patients were discharged from the hospital in Mandya on Saturday. With the discharge of these three patients, the number of active cases in the district has come down to14. A total of 28 patients had contracted Covid-19 in the district. No new cases have been reported in the last couple of days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/davanagere-tally-spirals-to-69-as-six-more-test-ve-for-covid-19/articleshow/75650129.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Coimbatore||Tamil Nadu: NTK chief booked for sedition||COIMBATORE: Naam Tamilar Katchi chief coordinator Seeman was booked for sedition on Friday. Seeman, who addressed CAA protesters at Athupalam here on February 22, had used offensive language against the Union government for implementing the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, 2019, police sources said. “He challenged Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Usnion home minister Amit Shah, cabinet ministers and MPs to furnish proof of citizenship. He also blamed Congress and DMK,” a police officer said. The intelligence wing of the city police had recorded the speech.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/ntk-chief-booked-for-sedition/articleshow/75652417.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Salem||Man stabbed to death in Salem, 11 arrested||SALEM: A 28-year-old man was stabbed to death by a gang of drunk men near Omalur here on Friday night when he asked them to drive slowly. The Omalur police have arrested 11 people in connection with the incident. A police officer identified the deceased as M Vishnupriyan, 28, of Pudukadai Colony in Chakkaraichettipatty village. An engineer with a private firm in Chennai, he had returned home following the lockdown. According to the officer, Vishnupriyan had got married to 24-year-old Deepa Sri just two months ago. The incident, the officer said, took place when Vishnupriyan was chatting with his friends at Pottiyapuram bus stop around 10pm on Friday. “More than 20 people came speeding their bikes under the influence of alcohol. Vishnupriyan asked one of the bikers to drive slowly. Irked, all the bikers surrounded him and started arguing with him. At one stage, they started assaulting him. Suddenly, one of them stabbed Vishnupriyan with a knife,” the officer said. Hearing him cry for help, Vishnupriya’s brother M Navin rushed to the spot and he was also attacked by the gang, which fled as villagers reached the spot. They rushed the duo to the Salem Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College and Hospital. “But Vishnupriyan succumbed to his injuries on the way to the hospital. His brother’s condition is stable,” said district superintendent of police Deepa S Ganigar. Meanwhile, the kin of the deceased managed to nab one of the bikers and tied him to a tree. With his help, police identified the other members of the gang. “More than 20 people are involved in the case. Four special teams have been formed to nab them. We have arrested 11 of them so far. It was V Karthi, 23, of Chakkaraichettipatty, who stabbed Vishnupriyan,” the SP said. On Saturday morning, the SP handed over a cheque for Rs 4.25 lakh as a compensation to the wife of the deceased under the SC/ST Act. All the arrested have been lodged in the Salem Central Prison under judicial custody. The Omalur police have registered a case under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code read with Prevention of Atrocities of SC/ST Act, 1989.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/man-stabbed-to-death-11-arrested/articleshow/75652420.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Coimbatore||Residents of de-contained wards heave sigh of relief||Coimbatore: Twelve wards of the Mettupalayam municipality were removed from the list of containment zones on Thursday after completing 28 days without a new Covid-19 case. The last recorded case was on April 10.Mettupalayam, which is considered the gateway to the Nilgiris and is the main market for vegetables coming from the hill station, was a village caught in fear in March, when 21 people who had a travel history to New Delhi, tested positive for the virus. “It was very scary to see the highest number of cases in the entire district coming from our municipality, which is also densely populated,” said S Basha, a resident of ward 15, which bordered two containment zones.As fear began to spread, even residents outside the containment zones choose to remain indoors. “Even before masks were made compulsory, we began stepping out wearing masks. Despite this being the holy month of Ramzan, none of us visited each other’s homes or conducted get-together. Women did not cook together, because of the rules. All of us were afraid,” said another resident.They heaved a sigh of relief after learning that all the 21 people had no symptoms, not even sore throat, and were recovering fast. “All the patients who tested positive were depressed. A man who was discharged learned that his wife tested positive, making them stay apart for 28 days,” said Basha. “But all of them made complete recovery and were discharged.”Many residents queued up to click pictures and videos when the barricades were removed on Friday. “We had made a small opening on the barricade for sanitary workers to go in and clean the place and to collect garbage. To ensure that people didn’t run out of provisions, we stuck notices with phone numbers of people delivering eggs, meat, milk and vegetables,” said municipal commissioner S S Suresh. “Since even two wheelers could not be allowed outside, we had to walk to visit ailing family members and to buy medicines,” said Basha.On Saturday, barricades were lifted from Anamalai, Vilankurichi, Suleswaranpatti and a ward of Madukkarai. Another two areas remain in containment zone list — Maniakara Street and Ramdas Layout.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/residents-of-de-contained-wards-heave-sigh-of-relief/articleshow/75652406.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||ITC scam a pre-meditated loot of public money: Gujarat HC||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat high court termed a Rs 60-crore Input Tax Credit (ITC) scam in the goods and services tax (GST) regime, involving a city-based businessman, “a well-designed pre-meditated plan to loot the exchequer”, and denied him bail. The HC also felt the need for a thorough investigation of the scam. The case involves Paresh Nathalal Chauhan, who is facing allegations of having secured ITC of Rs 60 crore through fictitious firms in connivance with other persons. The complaint against Chauhan said that fake and bogus invoices were raised in 35 firms to cheat the exchequer. The goods never passed to these firms but a turnover of Rs 350 crore was artificially shown. Several firms have benefited from these fake transactions and Rs 14 crore has been recovered so far. On this, the HC said, “The loss of Rs 60 crore to the exchequer so far cannot be considered a small amount. It appears that it is only owing to timely detection of the crime that the loss so far is Rs 60 crore. It is not as if the petitioner stopped at Rs 60 crore; in all probability he would have continued the racket in absence of its detection. Therefore, what is relevant is not the quantum, but the well-designed pre-meditated plan floated by the petitioner to loot the exchequer.” While rejecting Chauhan’s arguments for bail earlier this week, Justice G R Udhwani said, “It appears that the case would require thorough investigation with the possibility of addition of more accused to the array, as 406 summonses have been issued and 92 beneficiary firms are under scrutiny.” The HC further said that the complaint may have been filed in a hurry but “that would not preclude the investigating agency from investigating what could be a huge racket and under such circumstances placing the petitioner out of jail would be a potential threat to the investigation; inasmuch as, the manipulation of the evidence at the hands of the petitioner cannot be ruled out.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/itc-scam-a-pre-meditated-loot-of-public-money-hc/articleshow/75652478.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Kolkata||Bangladeshi hitch ride to Kolkata from Vellore||KOLKATA: Two Bangladeshi families stuck in Vellore since the start of the lockdown hitched a ride on a special bus carrying 24 people from Bengal and reached Kolkata on Saturday travelling 1,800km. They are still 390km away from home and need to cross the India-Bangladesh border at Petrapole. This will be the main hurdle as movement across the border has been suspended. Monir Hossain (50), a functionary of Bangladesh Football Federation, was among the six Bangladeshis, who reached Esplanade from Vellore, with his 27-year-old wheelchair-borne son. The Bangladesh deputy high commission’s office near Park Circus allotted them vehicle permits till the Petrapole border and the two families hired two yellow taxis, paying Rs 7,000 for each vehicle for the journey. “We have been stuck in India for the last two months. We were here for my son’s treatment and got stuck in the lockdown. Now that we have managed to come so far we will try our luck in crossing the border and attempt to reach our home in Dhaka,” said Hossain. Hossain, an assistant referee with Fifa said they had reached Vellore on March 11 for the treatment of his son, who had suffered a spine fracture and brain haemorrhage in a bike accident last year. The surgery was slated for March 30, but it couldn’t take place due to the lockdown. “We tried to return home by air, rail and road but failed. We even tried to get tickets for the special US-Bangla flight, on which each ticket was priced at Rs 32,000. But even those were sold out. Finally, a group of Bengali men, who were in the same lodge where we stayed, came to our rescue,” said Hossain. Hossain said, he paid Rs 15,000 per head to book three seats on the special bus that started on May 6 night and reached the city on Saturday afternoon. “The journey was tough as we were left with little food. But cops helped us all through,” said Imran Billa, another Bangladeshi national and a businessman.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bdeshis-hitch-ride-to-kol-from-vellore/articleshow/75652950.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Nizamabad judge comes to rescue of infant||HYDERABAD: Nizamabad judge and secretary of district legal services authority (DLSA) M Kiran Mahi’s visit to the state’s Sishu Griha in Nizamabad town last week saved the life of a 30-day-old baby girl, who is lactose intolerant and fed with expensive substitutes which ran out of stock. Nutricia neocate milk powder, a substitute for milk, is the life-saving powder that keeps the infant alive. Doctors told Kiran Mahi about the problem and explained to her the urgent need to get some packets to keep the baby alive. Following her appeal, four donors — Kiran, Sanjay, Santhosh and Srinivas — from Nizamaba, came forward and arranged sufficient stocks for the next one month. The baby may not need the powder after she is a few months old. “Principal district judge Sri Sudha asked us to visit all the homes,” Kiran Mahi said. “Wherever we come across people caught in lockdown-related problems, we are mobilising the state machinery and ensuring that the required help reaches them,” she told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/nzb-judge-comes-to-rescue-of-infant/articleshow/75652449.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Delhi||On the plate: Technology-aided dining and sparser eateries||NEW DELHI: From booking tables and ordering dishes on apps to accessing live feed from the kitchens to find out how what you ordered is being prepared, contactless dining appears to be the way forward in the post-pandemic era. Sanitisation of diners on entry into a restaurant, transparency about food and ingredients and servers in masked and gloves, their body temperature on display, could mark a night out. As social distancing and hygiene become the norm — and an effective way of beating the novel coronavirus — restaurateurs are working on reduced seating, sanitation protocols and kitchen tours to earn diners’ trust once business resumes after the Covid lockdown. Ankit Mehrotra, co-founder and CEO, dineout, said technology will pave the way for contactless dining. Restaurateur Umang Tewari plans sanitation tunnels at the entrance to his outlets, while Sagar Daryani wants to reassure his customers with kitchen tours. And yet restaurateurs say there’s a big if about their establishments opening again. An industry that employs over 72 lakh people, serves the same number every day and is a major contributor to the government’s coffers is bleeding. The current business model involving high fixed cost like rent, salaries and taxes, has boosted the real-estate market and neighbourhood commerce, but may no longer be sustainable. Unappetising: Anurag Katriar, president of National Restaurant Association of India and CEO of deGustibus Hospitality, describes all plans and predictions as “educated guesses” because the industry and associated businesses are actually staring at an existential crisis. Reopening a restaurant at 30% capacity just doesn’t make business sense. “A certain expected volume helped determine the number of work positions, salaries, rent agreements and payouts to vendors,” he explained. “If that basic volume reduces, there will be no option but to trim expenses and cut every possible cost. Many owners may simply shut shop.” There are dire estimates that 40% of the eateries might never open. One restaurateur confessed to running his lounge bar despite high costs and low returns under societal pressure. He says the Covid pandemic is a perfect excuse to exit the business without the stigma of failure. Katriar added that associated business such as valet services, security, raw material vendors, liquor and architects for designing outlets would be adversely impacted too. No cash on the card: Restaurants are seen as cash-rich organisations but staying afloat requires cash-intensive inputs. That is why Kabir Suri of Azure Hospitality says during the lockdown, restaurants were the first to shut and will be the last to reopen. In the first quarter of 2020-21 (April-June), the entire industry recorded zero sales. On top of this, said Suri, no one knows how long the fear of the coronavirus lasts and consumption and confidence pick up. At the moment, most establishments are using their reserves to pay salaries. Don’t cook our goose: NRAI has requested the Union government for industry-specific relief, such as unemployment pay cover to employees under the ESIC Act, increase in provident fund withdrawal limits and extended moratorium on loans taken by employees. It has requested the waiver of licence fees and minimum rent as well as easy availability of working capital loans without asset collateral and early settlement of insurance claims. Among necessary policy initiatives, NRAI has listed its long-standing demand for restoration of income tax credit on GST and an e-commerce policy where prices are not determined by the online platform. Katriar was of the opinion that it would take around a year after the lockdown was lifted for the industry to stabilise. Changed menu: While many cafes might adapt to home delivery way in the expectation that people will prefer ordering in to on-site eating, fine-dining would have to continue. As A D Singh of Olive Group, observed, “The fine-dine experience is not easily replicated at home. So, experiential dining places will probably be in demand. But for us to tide over these tough times, we need subsidies, official support and loans at lower rates.” Chef Manish Mehrotra of Indian Accent agreed that restaurants as places for celebratory family meals will remain in vogue. But, he felt, people would now venture out only for special occasions. Tips for surviving: Rohit Aggarwal, director of Lite Bite Foods, is working on new strategies for progress and survival. He is investing in his own delivery service. His plan is to set up multiple kitchens for everything from baked good to multi-cuisine meals and subscription-based meals and use his own staff, packaging and delivery agents. Dineout’s Mehrotra reasoned that the fewer tables in the restaurant could be compensated by reduced costs in staffing, paperless menus and faster turnaround time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/on-the-plate-technology-aided-dining-and-sparser-eateries/articleshow/75652951.cms||Amin Ali
May 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||Moms anxious for kids stranded abroad||Ahmedabad: Reshma Kathi, a resident of Ahmedabad, is extremely nostalgic on Mother’s Day. “My son Mazhar and daughter Zeba brought me a diamond ring last year on Mother’s Day. I was happy but concerned too because they spent so much money over a little gift. I miss them both so much this year as they’re not here,” said Reshma, whose kids are in San Francisco and stranded there due to the ongoing coronavirus pandemic. “My daughter studies there and Mazhar had gone to meet her and is now stranded. As soon as the flights resume or flights are arranged, I hope he is able to return,” said Reshma. Being indoors during the ongoing lockdown, this year’s Mother’s Day will surely be a subdued affair for all mothers and their kids; but for some mothers, whose kids are stranded abroad amid the Covid-19 pandemic, it will also bring nostalgia and anxiety. Similar is the story of Manisha Shah, whose daughter Mansi – a medical student – is stranded in Belarus. “The cases are on the rise in Belarus and I am extremely worried because there is no lockdown imposed over there and thus, the risk of infection is even higher. Moreover, Belarus does not even figure in the recent list of flights announced by the government of India,” said an anxious Manisha. “Mansi’s a brave girl and she has never fretted over the phone about returning home, but I’m worried about her well-being and it is best if she returns home soon.” While most mothers are used to staying away from their kids, especially those who are out of the city for work or education, in times of the pandemic, the only hope for most is that their kids return safely. “My son is in San Jose and stuck there due to the lockdown. We want him to return as soon as his term ends because there is a great deal of uncertainty and we don’t really know how things will progress in the days to come. His next semester is also likely to be online and if that is going to be the case, it is only better if he pursues it from here,” said Priya Bose, a resident of Ahmedabad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/moms-anxious-for-kids-stranded-abroad/articleshow/75652477.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Coimbatore||Tasmac shops welded shut to keep miscreants away||Coimbatore: Following the Madras high court’s direction to close liquor outlets, officials of the Tamil Nadu State Marketing Corporation (Tasmac) on Saturday started to take precautionary measures to safeguard liquor stored in the shops.The HC had on Friday directed the state government to close all liquor shops till the lockdown is lifted. The order forced Tasmac officials to close the shops within two days after they were opened. “We are not sure when the shops will be reopened. So, we have taken precautionary measures to safeguard the liquor bottles stored in the outlets. At some outlets, we welded iron rods to the shutter to stop miscreants from forcing it open. We deployed employees on shift basis at the remaining outlets,” a Tasmac official said.“We took the step after a few incidents of looting of liquor bottles were reported from other districts. No such incident was reported in the district,” he added. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/tasmac-shops-welded-shut-to-keep-miscreants-away/articleshow/75652432.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||Confusion reigns at Samras hostel||Ahmedabad: Overstays at Samras hostel Covid-19 care centre, names of patients not figuring on the latest patient’s list are some of the issues that are being faced at the Covid-19 care centre. Sarfaraz Chippa, 32, presently quarantined at Samras hostel in Navrangpura, had applied for home quarantine on May 1. He has tested negative twice for Covid-19 already but yet he has not been allowed to go home. He is at Samras hostel in Navrangpura for the past 22 days. What surprises him is that his name now does not figure in the latest list of patients at the facility. "Have they misspelt my name or have discharged me is yet not clear to me. Since there was confusion, I had applied for a home quarantine option," says Sarfaraz. He was among the 90 patients who are awaiting their turn since May 1. Rizak Chippa, another patient at the facility, has been at the centre for more than 25 days now and was at the helpdesk checking for his name on the latest patient’s list on Thursday evening. "We have requested the helpdesk for some clarity on the issue and have applied for home quarantine. The hospital authorities have promised us to get back soon," says Chippa. There is 27-year-old Yamin Lakdawala, who has shown no symptoms since the day of admission in the mid-April. He too had opted for home quarantine, but the municipal corporation is yet to process his application. On Wednesday, there were 90 people who wished to go home. Most of these individuals are women and men from areas lin Walled City. AMC health officials claim home inspections are taking time due to shortage of staff.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/confusion-reigns-at-samras-hostel/articleshow/75652474.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Mangaluru||Quarantine facilities set up for repatriates||Mangaluru: The Dakshina Kannada district administration has fixed charges for quarantine facilities starting from Rs 1,200 up to Rs 4,500, including food per day, for those being repatriated to Dakshina Kannada. The first repatriation flight to Mangaluru International Airport is expected to land on Tuesday from Dubai. The quarantine facilities include lodges, hostels and service apartments. Rates are fixed based on four categories: basic, economy, medium and premium. The basic facilities are mainly hostels of educational institutions, and the rest are budget and star hotels, said Rahul Shinde, probationary IAS officer, who is in charge of the quarantine facilities for those being repatriated. The Dakshina Kannada district administration has kept close to 1,000 rooms ready for quarantining. When asked whether hotels with centralised air-conditioning are allowed or not, Rahul said there was no issue in quarantining people in such hotels. Sources who are making arrangements to receive those who are being repatriated, said that all the hotels which will be used as quarantine facilities, will be certified by a doctor, for its suitability. Further, the name of the hotels will not be revealed. Once the people land in Mangaluru, they will be given the option to choose their accommodation, according to their wishes and budget. They will then be transported to the facility. Each quarantine facility will have a doctor, who will monitor the health of inmates on a regular basis. Many working in the energy-rich Gulf countries, USA, UK, France, Italy and from South-East Asia, are expected to be repatriated to Dakshina Kannada. Apart from taking the air route, some of them will sail to Mangaluru. According to an estimate, as many as 3,000 Indians from Dakshina Kannada and Udupi are seeking to be repatriated, from the world over, and will be landing either at the Mangaluru International Airport (MIA) or at the Mangaluru Port.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/quarantine-facilities-set-up-for-repatriates/articleshow/75649680.cms||Kevin Mendonsa
May 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Electrical shops to open tomorrow||Hyderabad: Secunderabad Electrical Trade Association (SETA) will open their shops from Monday after getting a verbal assurance from concerned police stations of Mahankali, Gandhinagar and Market. “We will be opening our shops from a 10 a.m to 4 p.m as per the state guidelines with 30 percent staff. We will take all precautionary measures like sanitising the incoming and outgoing material from the shops,” SETA president Ajay Sethia told TOI. The association was earlier worried about the risk of operating with staff amid lockdown as there was no government order (GO) regarding functioning of electric shops across the twin cities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/electrical-shops-to-open-tomorrow/articleshow/75652466.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Trichy||Spike in Covid cases: Containment zones in 115 villages in Ariyalur dist||Trichy: With the sudden spike in Covid-19 positive cases in Ariyalur district attributed to the Koyambedu cluster, the district administration has established containment zones in 115 villages. Around 150 people who tested positive in the past few days but were asymptomatic have been accommodated at isolation centres in Ariyalur, Jayankondam, Rayampuram and Andimadam. Until April 30, Ariyalur district was maintaining the Covid-19 positive cases in single digit only. But the outbreak of the Koyambedu market cluster has increased the positive cases in the district to 271 as on Saturday. District collector D Rathna told TOI that 200 beds in Ariyalur GH and 250 in Ariyalur slum clearance board facility have been kept ready to handle the fresh infections.Native villages of Koyambedu returnees in Jayankondam, Andimadam and Sendurai were put on alert and colleges and school buildings readied. “We have adequate beds to deal with the fresh Covid-19 positive cases. The number of returnees from Koyambedu has come down in the past few days,” the district collector said. A week ago if hundreds of workers were returning to the district, the number has come down to 30 as on Saturday. It is estimated that around 2,500 labourers from Ariyalur district were employed in Koyambedu market. The district administration maintained that a majority of them have been traced while some have returned to the villages before Koyambedu became a hotspot. As the people in containment zones are cooperative with the police, official sources said that the complete lockdown being implemented in Ariyalur district for the past three weeks has been relaxed on Sunday (May 10).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/spike-in-covid-cases-containment-zones-in-115-villages-in-ariyalur-dist/articleshow/75652465.cms||Deepak Karthik
May 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Hopes rise for Trimulgherry lake rejuvenation||HYDERABAD: There might finally be some hope for the rejuvenation of Trimulgherry lake with the Secunderabad Cantonment Board (SCB) reviewing its condition late last month. In a meeting, officials decided to raise funds for its restoration, but citing “lack of expertise” agreed that the water board will handle the project for the most part. The problem — as stated in a note prepared on April 28 and made available by SCB sources — was sewage from surrounding habitations was getting mixed in the lake and deposition of silt was reducing its water retention capacity, resulting in water-logging of surrounding areas. “The Board has decided to raise a grant of Rs 2.9 crore, including Rs 18.3 lakh for consultancy charges to be paid for the HMWSSB,” said N Venkat Ramana, an activist. The review follows a tweet by SaveTrimulgherryLake (@SaveTrimulgher1) used by Ramana to Union defence secretary, Ajay Kumar, in March about the deplorable state of the lake. Kumar tweeted back: “Can you please send an email with what is the requirement”. Later adding: “CEO Secunderabad is trying to find a solution to this old problem.” For its part, the SCB (@SECBADCANTT) confirmed on April 15 that “HMWSSB has been requested to study and prepare estimates for rejuvenation of the Trimulgherry Lake. The project would include diversion of sewerage, construction of STP and its maintenance, de-silting, construction of bund and beautification.” As per documents, an estimated 1.5 metre of silt needs to be excavated, which means approximately 54,621 cubic metre of silt needs to be removed. Speaking to TOI, an SCB official confirmed that discussions had taken place on the matter, but said they were in preliminary stages and were not allowed to speak about it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hopes-rise-for-trimulgherry-lake-rejuvenation/articleshow/75652503.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Delhi||Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal and BJP spar over facilities to corona warriors||NEW DELHI: Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday alleged the rival parties were criticising his government’s move to provide frontline Covid warriors treatment in five-star hotels-turned-hospitals, evoking a sharp reaction from the opposition BJP. Demanding apology from Kejriwal, Delhi BJP chief Manoj Tiwari said the chief minister was trying to divert attention from discrepancies in the death toll by levelling frivolous allegations against the opposition party. Kejriwal earlier said it was the responsibility of Delhi government to care for the people who were risking their lives and he was disappointed that the opposition ridiculed the provision of special arrangements. He also alleged that the opposition was mocking at the government’s decision to give a compensation of Rs 1 crore to the kin of a corona warrior in the line of duty. “I want to ask them (opposition), what is the harm in spending funds on the care and health of these people? What is the harm in giving Rs 1 crore as compensation on the death of a Covid-19 warrior? Recently, constable Amit Rana lost his life due to corona and Delhi government gave Rs 1 crore as compensation to his family. What is the problem with that?” Kejriwal said. Doctors, nurses, teachers, civil defence volunteers, and ASHA and Anganwadi workers were risking their lives to work for the people, the chief minister said. “It is our responsibility to do whatever we can for all of them,” he emphasised, asking the opposition parties to rise above politics. Delhi government on Friday attached five-star hotels with the Rajiv Gandhi Super Specialty Hospital to treat government officials and their families affected by novel coronavirus. Justifying the decision, it said on Saturday, “This facility is for all our frontline corona warriors... be it health department officials or sanitation workers. They are no less than our doctors who are also being put up in top hotels.” The Delhi BJP chief, however, claimed that Kejriwal was trying to cover up the discrepancy in the corona death toll by telling another lie. “BJP supports Delhi government’s decision to give corona warriors the best possible arrangements, five-star hotel stay and Rs 1 crore compensation to the family in case of death. Kejriwal has proved that he can never rise above his petty politics by telling this huge lie,” Tiwari alleged. “A chief minister, who has taken oath of the Constitution, is falsely accusing the opposition and misleading people,” he claimed. Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor also wrote to Kejriwal demanding that he either substantiate his allegations or apologise to BJP and the people of Delhi for lying.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cm-and-bjp-spar-over-facilities-to-corona-warriors/articleshow/75665615.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Nagpur||Aapli buses working 24X7 to move corona suspects||Nagpur: The Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) transport department has doubled the number of Aapli Buses to ferry suspected Covid-19 patients to quarantine centres. On directives of municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe, the department has made the buses available 24X7. “Now, 60 buses are ferrying citizens from containment zones to seven quarantine centres,” a senior official from NMC transport department told TOI. The NMC has deputed over 474 drivers in four shifts for the task, the official said and added that a maintenance staff of 145 people from the four bus operators is ensuring that no snag develops. The NMC through three red and one ‘women’ only bus operators is ensuring disinfection of the buses after every trip. About 35 employees are deployed for spraying disinfectants in buses, especially on surfaces such as handrails, doorknobs, seats etc. “Drivers and conductors have been instructed to always wear mask,” the official said. The NMC has also deployed 44 controller and 57 operational staff from DIMTS and four bus operators. Every staff member has been provided with masks, sanitisers and hand gloves. Apart from 60 buses, the NMC had also converted three red buses — two midi and one mini — into ambulances. Ten buses have been engaged to provide food packets and ration kits to the needy people, stranded migrants in shelter homes and quarantine facilities set up across the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/aapli-buses-working-24x7-to-move-corona-suspects/articleshow/75652481.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
May 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: 29 held for Shahpur violence||AHMEDABAD: Shahpur police, on the intervening night of Friday and Saturday, detained 29 persons in connection with the violence which erupted on Friday evening in the area. Deputy commissioner of police, Zone-2, Dharmedra Sharma said all 29 have been sent for Covid-19 tests. “We are awaiting the reports before making arrests,” he said. Apart from various sections of the IPC, police have invoked the Disaster Management Act and the Epidemic Act against a 2,000-strong mob. The FIR lodged by sub-inspector H B Chaudhary of the Shahpur police station names 17 persons and mentions that the mob pelted stones, injuring three policemen including Shahpur police inspector R K Amin and four others. The FIR says that while cops were patrolling with the jawans of the Rapid Action Force on Friday at about 6.15pm, they spotted two or three persons sitting outside their homes. When the persons were told to go indoors, they started arguing with the cops. Subsequently, a scuffle broke out between the cops and the three locals. Soon a mob gathered and began shouting that the cops were harassing them daily. The FIR says that soon people from Dodiyawad, Sagarwad Pol, Rajaji Pol, and from near Patthawali Masjid and started heavy stone-pelting. Police sources said as the situation worsened, reinforcements were called in. According to the FIR, soon other teams of police and crime branch personnel and officials reached the spot. But the stone-pelting continued. The FIR mentions 40 tear gas shells were lobbed to disperse the crowd. One rubber bullet was also fired. The mob started to retreat but continued to pelt stones. Amin was injured in the head and police inspector R J Chudasama’s knee was injured. Surveillance PI S R Balat and constables Atulkumar Jayendra, Shailesh Govind, and Divyaraj Neerubha were also injured. Police have cordoned the whole area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/29-held-for-shahpur-violence/articleshow/75652473.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Bhopal||166 new Covid-19 cases in Madhya Pradesh, 11 more die of virus||BHOPAL: As many as 166 new cases of coronavirus were reported across Madhya Pradesh on Saturday. Eleven people lost their lives due to the deadly virus and 133 patients were discharged from various hospitals who were undergoing treatment for Covid-19 and declared recovered, according to the health bulletin. Indore, Ujjain and Bhopal continued to be major epicentres in the state for corona infections. Indore recorded a jump of 53 positive cases in a single day. So far, Madhya Pradesh has recorded 211 deaths and 3,494 positive cases till Saturday. As many as 39 districts have reported Covid-19 cases in MP. Neemuch reported a sharp jump of cases from five to 10. Most of the cases are linked to a medical practitioner’s family. The elderly member of the family was taken to Ahmedabad for treatment. Others are placed in quarantine and some are getting medical treatment at the district hospital, according to local residents. The district first reported cases earlier in March. Those cases were linked to a medical practitioner in Rajastan’s Bhilwara district. Then a doctor who tested positive was contact traced with over 1,200 people. Two children died in Jabalpur Medical College. They went in acute respiration shock. Samples have been sent for testing. However, they have been cremated as per Covid-19 protocol, according to reports.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/166-new-covid-cases-in-mp-11-more-die-of-virus/articleshow/75652458.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Mysuru||Nurses away from home to serve expectant mothers||Mysuru: Jyothi has not met or held her nine-month daughter and four-year-old son since seven weeks.  She is a staff nurse in the isolation ward at the general hospital in Cheluvamba, the facility with the busiest maternity ward in southern Karnataka where nearly three dozen deliveries are conducted every day. Jyothi is a staff nurse at the maternity ward and says the last few weeks have been the busiest. “I held them on March 25 and have not met them since then,” she said. Although she is permitted to return home, she is reluctant and the reason is obvious. “I could have chosen to travel everyday to work from my home in Yelandur in Chamarajanagar district like how I used to before the lockdown, but it’s not safe in the current context. I have decided to continue staying at the hospital till the lockdown is lifted,” she said. And Jyothi is not alone. As many as 17 other nursing staff at the hospital are staying in hospital facility and working round the clock doing selfless service to the community in the hour of crisis. Nagarathna, a nurse from Kollegala, some 65km from Mysuru, would earlier commute to work everyday, but now she too hasn’t seen her kids — 8-year-old Akshay and 6-year-old Ashwini since seven weeks. Her husband, who works as a homeguard takes care of the children. However, she speaks to the children during her free time over video call. Padmavathi’s tale is different. Her elderly parents are diabetic and her mother was recently hospitalised, but she couldn’t visit her due to restrictions. She is, however, confident that her 17-year-old son and her husband can manage the household affairs. Speaking to STOI, Cheluvamba hospital’s medical superintendent Dr Pramila appreciated the service of the 18 staff nurses and other staffers working tirelessly to take care of new mothers and mothers-to-be.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/nurses-away-from-home-to-serve-expectant-mothers/articleshow/75650559.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Rajkot||24-year-old man kidnapped, assaulted for ‘matri karar’ with woman||Rajkot: A couple who signed ‘maitri karar’ (friendship contract) with each other and the cousin brother of the youth who had signed the contract were allegedly kidnapped and badly beaten up by the woman’s family members in Morbi on Friday night.Police said a group of 10 assailants led by Suresh Sarala, his wife Madhu Sarala, and his cousins — Hardik Sarala and Naresh Sarala — had barged into the house of Avinash Agechania (24) and allegedly had kidnapped him. Along with Avinash, they also took Sonali Sarala, the daughter of Suresh, and Avinash’s cousin Sagar Agechania in cars. When Avinash’s uncle Rajesh Agechania tried to intervene, the accused allegedly dealt him a blow with a sword, injuring him seriously. “From Avinash’s house in Trajpar locality of Morbi, the accused allegedly took the victims to a waste land on Lagdhirpur Road. The accused allegedly dragged Avinash out of the car and broke his leg by hitting it with a rock. They also beat up Sagar with iron pipes and bats. They also took Sonali along with them, they fled in their cars,” said R C Ramanuj, sub-inspector with Morbi B division police station. The family members of Sonali were particularly angry with Avinash as he had eloped with Sonali and had done 'maitri karar' with her. The couple eloped on the night of May 1. After signing ‘maitri karar’ in Rajkot, they returned to Avinash’s house. When Sonali’s family members learned about this, they decided to teach Avinash a lesson.Avinash and Sonali had been in relationship for the past one and a half years.Meanwhile, the police have launched a manhunt for the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/24-year-old-man-kidnapped-assaulted-for-matri-karar-with-woman/articleshow/75651755.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Goa||‘GMC doc suspension revoked on BJP order’||Panaji: The suspension of the senior resident doctor attached to the radiology department of Goa Medical College (GMC) and Hospital, for alleged negligence in connection wtih the death case of former MLA Jitendra Dehprabhu, has been revoked after pressure from CM Pramod Sawant and BJP’s central leadership, Congress said on Saturday. State Congress president Girish Chodankar said that the doctor is related to former chief minister Manohar Parrikar and that the directives have been issued from Delhi to protect the doctor. Congress also questioned the outcome of “the two inquiry committees” set up by GMC and the government to probe Deshprabhu’s death. The former MLA died of pneumonia at GMC and a resident doctor was suspended for negligence. Several others have also died of respiratory illness since the lockdown was imposed on March 22. “We reiterate our demand for independent judicial probe into the death of our two-time MLA Jitendra Deshprabhu and also the deaths of others in the isolation wards of GMC,” he said. “It is now more than clear that the Sawant-led government is trying to cover up its wrongdoing, which has led to deaths of innocent patients due to gross negligence of the authorities including some doctors. The facts and figures are being manipulated to create a fake feeling that all is well in Goa,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/gmc-doc-suspension-revoked-on-bjp-order/articleshow/75783179.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Mumbai||As 70% staff at Mumbai petrol pumps are migrants, owners are a worried lot||MUMBAI: Petrol pumps, an essential service, are facing the brunt of the migrant exodus. Several pump owners complain their migrant staff have stopped coming to work, are not responding to phone calls, or are not traceable. Venkat Rao, president, Petrol Pump Dealers Association, said the extent of the problem would be known after the lockdown ends. “Petrol pump staff were waiting for their April salary and have now left or are in the process of leaving,” said Ravi Shinde, former president, Petrol Pump Dealers Association. Fatima Khan, a petrol pump owner in south Mumbai, said three of her staff members from Uttar Pradesh have already left. “They want to be with their families. I have staff from Mumbai so I do not have a problem, but there are others who are facing a shortage.” Almost 70% of the staff in the city’s 200 petrol pumps are migrants. Ever since the lockdown, owners have been deploying minimal staff to enable social distancing. “My pump in Mahim is close to Dharavi. A large number of two-wheelers come here for petrol. There are two or three people in a shift. This morning I was informed by one of my staff that he has left for UP by bus,” said an owner. Getting a replacement is next to impossible, he added. Pump owners have been paying the entire salary, though staff is called on alternate days and some have even been giving daily allowances as an incentive, though sale is down to 10%. “They fear for their lives and there is pressure from home to return. We can’t force them to come to work because that would be inhuman and we can’t shut down because we are an essential service,” said an owner. Shinde said they can manage for now as they operate only from 7am to 7pm. Asked if locals would be hired, Shinde said, “These jobs were on offer earlier too. Locals are not keen. It will be difficult to get back on our feet".||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/as-70-staff-at-petrol-pumps-are-migrants-owners-are-a-worried-lot/articleshow/75652501.cms||Clara Lewis
May 10, 2020||Rajkot||Attacks on cops will be strictly dealt with: Gujarat DGP||AHMEDABAD: While speaking to reporters this Saturday, Gujarat DGP Shivanand Jha said once again that the administration will deal most strictly with those who attack police and Covid frontline warriors. Informing that until now 68 such miscreants in 28 cases have been jailed under PASA for attacking police and Covid warriors, Jha said, “Attacks on police will not be tolerated and anyone involved will not be spared.” “Two persons who mobbed a PSI in Sola and one who attacked a policeman in Rajkot rural have already been sent under PASA to different jails across the state,” Jha said. Referring to the issue of migrant workers, Jha said the government is acting with speed to send them to their home states, but the workers will have to keep patience and cannot take law into their hands. Jha urged migrant workers not to pay heed to rumours. “Migrant workers gathered in Gota in Ahmedabad and Icchapor in Surat after being misled by rumours. We cannot send anyone back without approval from their home states,” Jha said. He added, “A man in Mehsana was booked for spreading rumours and held under PASA.” He added rumourmongers can create rift between communities and cause greater spread of Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/attacks-on-cops-will-be-strictly-dealt-with-dgp/articleshow/75655015.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Goa||Church turns ‘Good Samaritan’ in Sanguem||Quepem: The Our Lady of Miracles Church in Sanguem has come to the aid of a poor family and helped renovate its long-dilapidated house after neither the administration nor local bodies took note of their plight. A 70-year-old woman, Maria Mascarenhas, lives here, along with her unemployed son. With the other members now separated and living elsewhere, the two have found the going tough, without any source of income. Parish priest Fr Tadeo D’Silva said the church was unnecessarily criticised on social media after an individual posted a video of the family's living conditions. Their dilapidated house had a crack in the wall and the entire roof was damaged. “The family never approached the church for help, nor approached our parish members or any government authority. Society should act responsibly before making any announcement on social or print media,” Fr D’Silva said. After meeting the family on Friday, the parish priest commenced renovation work a day later through the ‘Good Samaritan Fund’ of the church. Assistant parish priest Fr George Nandiyala is supervising the work.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/church-turns-good-samaritan-in-sanguem/articleshow/75652954.cms||Johnny M
May 10, 2020||Nagpur||Despite challenges, 1,200 cops guarding city’s 14 containment zones||Nagpur: Not allowing their morale to dip despite corona threat, criticism from administration, non-cooperation from people, court’s lashing and the scorching sun, the 1,200-odd police personnel from city are guarding 14 containment zones round the clock.City police and the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC), in order to strengthen the security around containment zones, have started replacing the bamboo barricades with tin shades, stones, boulders, concrete slabs and iron nets to block the lanes local residents are using to sneak in and out of the restricted areas. City police chief BK Upadhyay said that there would be only one exit and entry points in smaller containment zones and two for bigger ones. “Movements for essential commodities and emergency services cannot be curtailed but there will be strict monitoring. With limited number of entry and exit points, police would be now able to manage the movements more effectively,” he said referring to the meetings with municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe. Upadhyay, extolling Mundhe’s efforts, said the civic body’s support to block the lanes would augur well. “We have to stop people from venturing out of the containment zone, except for genuine reasons and only through the police guarded entry and exit points,” he said. “In the lockdown’s third phase, city police are focusing on breaking the chain of corona infection with strict monitoring of containment zones, security arrangements at quarantine centres and facilitating safe passage of migrant labourers,” said Joint CP Ravindra Kadam. With Mundhe allowing shops of essential commodities only between 7am and 1pm in containment zones, Zonal DCP Rahul Maknikar said that such measure would now help police to restrict movement of the local population. Meanwhile, a section of police department has voiced resentment over deployment in the narrow lanes of containment zones where the corona threat is higher. “In places like Satranjipura and Mominpura, there are a number of lanes not even five-feet wide from where only two persons can pass at a time. Working in such lanes is life threatening for not only us but also our families. Yet, people expect us to enter such places,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/despite-challenges-1200-cops-guarding-citys-14-containment-zones/articleshow/75651783.cms||Soumitra Bose
May 10, 2020||Surat||Attacks on cops will be strictly dealt with: Gujarat DGP||AHMEDABAD: While speaking to reporters this Saturday, Gujarat DGP Shivanand Jha said once again that the administration will deal most strictly with those who attack police and Covid frontline warriors. Informing that until now 68 such miscreants in 28 cases have been jailed under PASA for attacking police and Covid warriors, Jha said, “Attacks on police will not be tolerated and anyone involved will not be spared.” “Two persons who mobbed a PSI in Sola and one who attacked a policeman in Rajkot rural have already been sent under PASA to different jails across the state,” Jha said. Referring to the issue of migrant workers, Jha said the government is acting with speed to send them to their home states, but the workers will have to keep patience and cannot take law into their hands. Jha urged migrant workers not to pay heed to rumours. “Migrant workers gathered in Gota in Ahmedabad and Icchapor in Surat after being misled by rumours. We cannot send anyone back without approval from their home states,” Jha said. He added, “A man in Mehsana was booked for spreading rumours and held under PASA.” He added rumourmongers can create rift between communities and cause greater spread of Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/attacks-on-cops-will-be-strictly-dealt-with-dgp/articleshow/75655016.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Vadodara||Attacks on cops will be strictly dealt with: Gujarat DGP||AHMEDABAD: While speaking to reporters this Saturday, Gujarat DGP Shivanand Jha said once again that the administration will deal most strictly with those who attack police and Covid frontline warriors. Informing that until now 68 such miscreants in 28 cases have been jailed under PASA for attacking police and Covid warriors, Jha said, “Attacks on police will not be tolerated and anyone involved will not be spared.” “Two persons who mobbed a PSI in Sola and one who attacked a policeman in Rajkot rural have already been sent under PASA to different jails across the state,” Jha said. Referring to the issue of migrant workers, Jha said the government is acting with speed to send them to their home states, but the workers will have to keep patience and cannot take law into their hands. Jha urged migrant workers not to pay heed to rumours. “Migrant workers gathered in Gota in Ahmedabad and Icchapor in Surat after being misled by rumours. We cannot send anyone back without approval from their home states,” Jha said. He added, “A man in Mehsana was booked for spreading rumours and held under PASA.” He added rumourmongers can create rift between communities and cause greater spread of Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/attacks-on-cops-will-be-strictly-dealt-with-dgp/articleshow/75655014.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||Attacks on cops will be strictly dealt with: Gujarat DGP||AHMEDABAD: While speaking to reporters this Saturday, Gujarat DGP Shivanand Jha said once again that the administration will deal most strictly with those who attack police and Covid frontline warriors. Informing that until now 68 such miscreants in 28 cases have been jailed under PASA for attacking police and Covid warriors, Jha said, “Attacks on police will not be tolerated and anyone involved will not be spared.” “Two persons who mobbed a PSI in Sola and one who attacked a policeman in Rajkot rural have already been sent under PASA to different jails across the state,” Jha said. Referring to the issue of migrant workers, Jha said the government is acting with speed to send them to their home states, but the workers will have to keep patience and cannot take law into their hands. Jha urged migrant workers not to pay heed to rumours. “Migrant workers gathered in Gota in Ahmedabad and Icchapor in Surat after being misled by rumours. We cannot send anyone back without approval from their home states,” Jha said. He added, “A man in Mehsana was booked for spreading rumours and held under PASA.” He added rumourmongers can create rift between communities and cause greater spread of Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/attacks-on-cops-will-be-strictly-dealt-with-dgp/articleshow/75652499.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Video of MLA visiting village on horseback goes viral||Visakhapatnam: Video of YSRC MLA Kotugulli Bhagyalakshmi travelling to the remote hill top village of Chittamamidi on horseback went viral on social media. Many lauded the first time MLA’s efforts and enthusiasm to reach out to the people to understand their needs during the lockdown. The MLA spoke to the villagers and assured that all essential commodities will be supplied to them and their grievance will be redressed. The MLA on her part noted that this would at least bring to notice the condition of the people living in remote areas of the Agency.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/video-of-mla-visiting-village-on-horseback-goes-viral/articleshow/75652507.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Vijayawada||Chennai’s Koyambedu market newest Covid-19 threat for Andhra Pradesh||VIJAYAWADA/TIRUPATI: The spurt in Covid-19 cases in Rayalaseema region in recent weeks could be attributed to the Koyambedu wholesale market in Chennai, which is often frequented by farmers and traders from the state, particularly from the bordering districts of Chittoor and Nellore. The bustling market was closed on May 4 after a sharp spike in positive cases in the neighbouring state. Chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy, during his review meeting with officials at his Tadepalli camp office on Saturday, was informed farmers and traders from Chittoor and Nellore districts often visit Koyambedu, which is believed to have contributed over 2,000 positive cases in Tamil Nadu. The CM asked officials to keep an eye on the Koyambedu returnees and their contacts in the two districts. “Conduct tests on those who have been to Koyambedu market and quarantine them if the results return positive,” Jagan said. He also asked officials about migrant labour returning to the state and cautioned them against negligence. “Open test centres at all the border check-posts and ensure that every one coming to the state is tested,” he said. When told that around 700 migrant workers have entered the state without tests and without informing the officials, he directed the officials to take the help of village and ward volunteers to identify them and subject them to tests immediately. Meanwhile, Chittoor collector Narayana Bharat Gupta said the 11 new cases in the district have links to Koyambedu vegetable market. The district, after a week’s lull, has been witnessing a spike in the last two days. “We have identified and isolated the truck drivers, cleaners and all those with travel history to Koyambedu. Screening of all suspects, their primary and secondary contacts is being carried out. Out of 160 suspects, screening was done for 80, of which 11 tested positive. The remaining 80 would be screened soon,” Gupta said. Screening of nearly 1,000 contacts of those with travel history to Koyambedu would also be done in the next couple of days, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/chennais-koyambedu-market-newest-covid-19-threat-for-ap/articleshow/75651802.cms||Gopi Dara
May 10, 2020||Delhi||Covid-19: School teacher, husband die within a day’s gap||NEW DELHI: A municipal primary school teacher and her husband died of Covid-19 within a gap of a day last week. The family was informed about their test results on May 7, after their death. The husband, a physician who ran a private clinic in Jahangirpuri, died last Sunday, while the woman died on May 4. The deceased couple, who were residents of Rohini Sector 28, is survived by two sons aged 23 and 17, who are still studying. The test results of the children are still awaited. The elder son said his mother (45) was tasked with distributing food at the school near Adarsh Nagar metro station 2-3 times between April 17 and 22. “On April 22, she suddenly developed breathlessness, vomiting and diarrhoea, following which we took her to GB Pant Hospital,” he added. The family was allegedly not given proper information about her condition. “My mother was discharged on May 1, but the same night her condition worsened and she was rushed to RML on May 2 where she died two days later,” the son said. The family said they were informed about her test results after the death. “On May 7, we were told that she was Covid-19 positive,” the son said, adding that his father too died of the infection. “Since the lockdown began, my father had not been to the clinic. The entire family remained indoors and the only time he stepped out was to drop my mother at the school,” the son said. On May 2, when the son returned home after admitting his mother to the hospital, he found his father extremely weak. “He could barely walk. We called an ambulance, but it took 6-7 hours to arrive. He was finally admitted around afternoon the next day and was not treated until late at night. He died around 10pm the same day,” he added. Meanwhile, teachers’ unions have been demanding that they not be deployed for ration distribution. They added that the kin of the deceased teacher should be paid ex gratia of Rs 1 crore under the corona warrior scheme of Delhi government. A North Delhi Municipal Corporation official said the teacher had last come to work on April 18. “Her next duty was on April 25, which she did not attend. It’s unfortunate that even her husband died of Covid-19 on May 3. Their home has been sanitised twice. The civic body is sending the file requesting compensation.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/school-teacher-husband-die-within-a-days-gap/articleshow/75665623.cms||Paras Singh
May 10, 2020||Nagpur||Rebel leader was spreading Covid-19 awareness when killed: Maoists||Nagpur: The banned Communist Party of India (Maoist) has claimed that Gadchiroli police’s C-60 commandos shot dead divisional committee (DVC) member Srujan Akka alias Jaini Arka at Sinbatti village when the woman rebel leader was spreading awareness on Covid-19. The Maoists have also called a ‘bandh’ in Gadchiroli on May 20 to protest the alleged killing. Srujan Akka had nearly 146 offences against her and a reward of Rs16 lakh. Currently, Maoists are observing Tactical counter offensive campaign during which they step up violence. In a statement released by the North Gadchiroli division committee, Maoists have alleged Srujan Akka was killed in a cold-blooded manner and not during combat. SP Shailesh Balkawade said that the administration and police department are engaged in strategic information dissemination and creating awareness about Covid-19 among tribals. “The Maoists neither have resources nor awareness to give tribals information about coronavirus,” he said. The SP said that Maoists are visiting villages to disrupt ongoing infrastructure development works and also targeting contractors for extortion. “It is common for Maoists to target tendu contractors, road and construction companies for extortion. Sinbhatti villagers had requested the Maoists to allow the contractors to build roads citing hardship faced during monsoon. The Maoists were trying to convince them to set vehicles of contractors on fire,” said the SP. According to a source, Srujan Akka was at the village to meet an agent of the contractor who has already paid some amount to Maoists. There was pressure for coughing up few more lakhs for allowing the work to continue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/rebel-leader-was-spreading-covid-19-awareness-when-killed-maoists/articleshow/75652512.cms||Soumitra Bose
May 10, 2020||Nagpur||1160 migrants leave by Lucknow train||Nagpur: On Saturday, 1,160 migrants boarded the Nagpur-Lucknow ‘Shramik Special’ train. The migrants were from the city and rural areas and Wardha and Chandrapur districts.The district administration is maintaining complete secrecy on information about shifting of migrants. District collector Ravindra Thakre did not respond to calls. Central Railway officials said 1,160 boarded the train which left at 10pm. “We charged Rs505 per passenger,” they said.Sources close to energy minister Nitin Raut said, “Nagpur District Congress Committee paid fare for 689 migrants from the districts. Fare for remaining migrants was paid by respective district Congress committees.”This is the second train to Uttar Pradesh and third from Nagpur. The first train carrying 977 migrants to Lucknow had left on May 3. This was followed by another train on May 6 to Muzaffarpur (Bihar) carrying 1,000 migrants. The same day, one more train left Wardha for Barauni (Bihar) in which 1,019 migrants travelled.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/1160-migrants-leave-by-lucknow-train/articleshow/75651809.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||Around 75% pharma units operational in Gujarat: FDCA||AHMEDABAD: After encountering teething problems initially, nearly 75% pharmaceutical units in Gujarat have now managed to become operational. With government support, these manufacturing plants are currently operating at a capacity of more than 70%, said government officials and industry experts. “Gujarat has some 1,100 pharma units. About four weeks ago, only 300 to 350 units were operational,” said H G Koshia, commissioner, Gujarat FDCA. Being essential items producers, the pharma industry is exempted from the lockdown. However, several pharmaceutical firms were not able to run their plants when the first lockdown was imposed. The pharma units were largely non-operational because of issues related to movement of raw materials and workforce. “Central and state government reviewed the situation, identified the bottlenecks and speedily removed them to ensure steady supply of drugs, especially lifesaving drugs such as antibiotics, anti-diabetes and blood pressure pills,” Koshia added. Pharma companies were supported not just to resume operations but also scale up production with all precautions in place. Passes were made available for ferrying their employees and they were helped in procuring raw materials. “As a result, around 60% units became operational two weeks ago and nearly 75% units are currently functional across the state. These units are also operating at 75% of their plant capacity,” he added. According to industry players, Gujarat has a lion’s share in India’s pharma output. If production is hampered in the state, it affects supplies of drugs in pan-India market. “Overall, there has been a lot of improvement now. As many as 762 plants are currently working at the moment. When the first lockdown was imposed, pharma manufacturing units were operating at only 30% capacity,” said Viranchi Shah, national senior vice-president, Indian Drug Manufacturers’ Association (IDMA). “The state government supported the pharmaceutical industry in resolving several problems like transportation, and helped the industry scale up production. The proactive steps were taken to ensure that medicine supply, especially lifesaving drugs, is not hampered,” Shah added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/around-75-pharma-units-operational-in-gujarat-fdca/articleshow/75652522.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Vijayawada||No let up for Krishna district, 16 new cases||Vijayawada: There was no respite for Krishna district administration as on Saturday it reported 16 new Covid-19 cases. Despite measures eight new cases were registered at Krishna Lanka, alone. Ajith Singh Nagar registered two new cases and Tikkle Road, Winchypet, Durgapuram, Kandrika, Machilipatnam and Vijayawada city registered one new case each. The Vijayawada Municipal Corporation (VMC) head office is on high alert as two employees working there tested positive. Officials closed all blocks except for emergency services and initiated sanitisation measures. All primary contacts of the positive patients were identified and shifted to quarantine facilities. Special testing drives were conducted at Krishna Lanka and Machavram where around 130 people have tested positive so far. VMC has been focusing on implemeting social distancing measures in city. VMC commissioner Prasanna Venkatesh has deployed special teams to impose penalties on those ignoring social distancing. Joint Collector Madhavilatha urged people to wear masks and maintain social distancing. The increasing recovery rate of patients has been a source of relief for the district administration. In all, 134 patients have recovered of the 338 who had tested positive. Another 191 patients are being treated at Vijayawada Government General Hospital (GGH) and Pinnamaneni Siddartha Medical College.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/no-let-up-for-krishna-district-16-new-cases/articleshow/75651823.cms||Venu Lanka
May 10, 2020||Delhi||Doctor suicide: AAP legislator held in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Delhi Police has arrested AAP MLA from Devli Prakash Jarwal and his aide, Kapil Nagar, for allegedly abetting the suicide of a doctor who used to run a water tanker business in the area. The doctor, Rajender Singh, had accused Jarwal and Nagar of extorting money from him for letting him run the business. Jarwal and Nagar were detained in Saket and taken to a Delhi Police office in Pushp Vihar. They were questioned over the allegations made against them by Singh. Singh committed suicide by hanging on April 18. A diary was found in which Singh had written that Jarwal, Nagar and some of their associates had already taken Rs 60,000 from him and were demanding more money. Singh’s family members also gave the cops a phone recording allegedly of Jarwal in which he was heard threatening to kill Singh. On the complaint filed by Singh’s son, Hemant, an FIR under sections of abetment to suicide, extortion and threat to life was registered at the Neb Sarai police station against Jarwal and his associates. The family members told the cops that apart from running an Ayurveda clinic in Durga Vihar, Singh also owned a tanker that was used to supply water to some parts of Devli where there was no DJB pipeline. The DJB had taken his tanker on contract for the supply. In his diary, Singh alleged that after he refused to pay extortion money to Jarwal, the payment of his dues was stopped. A non-bailable warrant was issued against Jarwal on Friday. Police sources say that Jarwal and Kapil had not appeared before them for questioning despite being summoned several times, after which they had approached the court for the warrant. Jarwal’s father and brother were questioned regarding the incident on Thursday night. They were asked to furnish some documents related to the running of the water tanker business in the area. In a statement, Jarwal had claimed that registration of the FIR against him was political vendetta.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/doc-suicide-aap-legislator-held/articleshow/75652967.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Vadodara||New cases raise alarm around Nalanda slums||Vadodara: The total number of Covid-19 cases in the city reached 528 with tests since Friday evening revealing that 28 more had tested positive. As many as 52 persons were also discharged from various facilities in the city. According to details shared by the Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) the 28 fresh cases were from 165 samples that were tested since Friday evening. The VMC did not report any deaths as it was awaiting death audit reports. Fresh cases reported in the south and east zones of the city remained a cause of concern. Ten cases were reported in the east zone, 14 in the south zone and the remaining four were from the north zone. A major cause of concern were cases from the slum quarters near Nalanda in the Waghodiya Road area of the city. Nine persons here tested positive on Saturday even as two others had tested positive earlier. Dabhoi MLA and VMC corporator Shailesh Mehta said that the tests in the slum quarters were conducted after a lot of insistence by him. “Two persons from here had tested positive earlier and I had sought for tests. There was reluctance, but eventually the samples were collected. Those affected are relatives,” Mehta said. He added that a man from a nearby area had also died. The 52 persons discharged on Saturday include five from the SSG Hospital and 47 from the Covid Care Centre at the Ebrahim Bawani ITI on Ajwa Road.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/new-cases-raise-alarm-around-nalanda-slums/articleshow/75651538.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Nagpur||No clarity over fitness cert leaves many in lurch||Nagpur: Stranded persons continued to reach municipal clinics in the city on Saturday to get a fitness certificate for their travel back home. As they were turned away, confusion remained over the latest state government order on exemption from getting individual fitness certificates before travel.As TOI called up some of the zonal health centres of the NMC, the doctors in-charge said all those who came to get a fitness check-up done were sent back. The order on exemption from getting a certificate was issued on May 7 and it reached the zonal clinics late in the day.Doctors at the zonal clinics said the rush continued on May 8 and also on Saturday in some of the centres.However, Dr Prashant Gantavar, assistant medical officer (health) of the NMC, said that the exemption is only available for persons travelling in large groups like migrant workers being shifted in trains or buses by government. They can be scanned for fever before they board and will be granted a fitness certificate right away. Those having fever can be excluded from the group. The rest going by their own means still need to a get a certificate after getting a police permission to travel. This can be done at any NMC clinic or by an registered medical practitioner.However as TOI made random calls at the zonal clinics, the doctors in-charge gave different versions.“The crowds have receded but there was a huge rush a day before,” said a doctor at one of the NMC’s zonal clinics. He said now any traveller can simply pass after getting a thermal scanning done at the check-post while exiting the district. This will be enough for the entire travel.”Due to the huge rush of stranded persons, regular patients could not be attended, said the doctor.A doctor at another zonal clinic said that the numbers were almost the same on the second day after the order was issued. However, the persons were turned away from the gate itself. The doctor suggested that the staff from the railway hospital should be deployed for check-ups before the stranded persons boarded the trains.The district health officer Dr Yogendra Savai accepted that there was a confusion in the zonal clinics but a clarification was issued soon. He said that the certificates are still needed for individual travelers going on e passes. Even the private registered medical practioners can issue a certificate but it has to be free of charge. The doctors have to also get enlisted with the NMC before that. The certificates have to be issued in dates soon after the e pass is issuedOn the other hand, the state government order issued on May 7 says a single list of all passengers, indicating that they have been screened and found to be not displaying any influenza like illness, can be issued. There will be no need for individual certificates. It also says that the persons should be examined by digital thermometers at the start of journey.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/no-clarity-over-fitness-cert-leaves-many-in-lurch/articleshow/75651851.cms||Shishir Arya
May 10, 2020||Bengaluru||BJP functionaries fight over ration distribution in Bengaluru||BENGALURU: Political one upmanship over ration distribution saw two local BJP functionaries getting into a war of words at Doddagollarahatti in the city. NC Kumar, president of BJP Youth wing in Ullal ward, has filed a complaint against Prema Nagaiah, secretary of State BJP OBC Morcha and several others for taking objection to distribution of ration kits by him. Police sources said on May 5, Kumar distributed rations kits provided by BBMP corporator Sharada Muniraju among the poor in Doddagollarahatti. The next day, Prema along with 20-25 supporters, barged into Kumar’s office and abused him for distributing the kits without her permission. Kumar filed a complaint with Kengeri police and provided the CCTV footage of Prema’s visit. Police have filed a case against her. Kumar told STOI, “Poor people were requesting us to provide ration kits. We asked them to meet Prema but nothing came of it. Eventually, we distributed the kits which angered Prema. She called me over phone on the same day and abused me. The next day, she attacked me in my office.” Prema said it was Kumar who abused her in filthy language when she went to question him. She said, “Kumar distributed ration kits in our area without bringing it to our notice. After giving away a few kits, he posted it on social media trying to depict that he was serving the entire area. Locals questioned us why we were not distributing kits. When I called him over phone, he abused me. I have filed a complaint with Jnana Bharathi police station against him.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bjp-functionaries-fight-over-ration-distribution/articleshow/75652519.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Vijayawada||Young innovator builds robot to help Covid docs||Tirupati: Thirty-seven-year-old K Pavan, a class 7 dropout from Palamaner, Chittoor district, has developed a robot, which can serve Covid patients with least human intervention. Thus mitigating the risk of doctors and paramedic staff contracting the disease. Speaking to TOI, the young innovator said he was moved by the plight of doctors and paramedic staff who were falling prey to the virus while attending to Covid-19 patients and decided to develop the robot. After facing challenges in procuring all the necessary material amid the lockdown, Pavan’s robot was finally ready. It passed the healthcare tests on Saturday. He said it cost him Rs 22,000 to develop it. “The Covid-19 robot, which has a two-way voice and video command protocols and can rotate 360 degrees, can be remotely operated by doctors from a distance of 100 meters. They can use their smartphones to instruct the robot. Doctors can provide medication and food to patients and communicate with them with the help of the robot,” Pavan told TOI. Pavan plans to donate the robot to the Chittoor district administration so that it can be used at state Covid quarantine facilities. He appealed to the state government to adopt advance technology to mitigate the risks posed by the virus to the doctors and paramedics on duty. Pavan is known for applying principles of basic science to address various pressing problems in the rural areas. He has come up with 30-odd innovations in the last two decades, which has earned him the monikar of a ‘‘rural innovator”. His first major innovation was a remotely operable water pump, which helped farmers avoid wastage of water besides helping them save their lives from electric shocks and snakebites. Some of his other innovations include, a home burglar alarm, farm alarm to ward off tuskers, which is a perennial menace in Chittoor district, a rural FM station, heart rate monitoring system, two-wheeler security system, power generation from ceiling fan and self operating street light systems for civic bodies. They have been developed under the Pavan Empower Solutions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/young-innovator-builds-robot-to-help-covid-docs/articleshow/75651813.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
May 10, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Popularity of unknown liquor brands soars||Visakhapatnam: Ever heard of Boom, Old Admiral, Royal Green and Marific XO? If you are not from AP, it’s unlikely you have have come across these names. But if you are a local, you must have come across these never-heard-of liquor brands, many of which came into spotlight in the state in October last year. What was good about these brands was that, despite a hike in prices they were affordable. The demand for these brands have now surged after the government hiked the prices by 75%. “A 750ml bottle of Sterling Reserve K7 now costs 1,000 and Blenders’ Pride costs 1,910. On the other hand you can get Royal Green for 370. More importantly, government-run liquor stores rarely have stocks of popular brands,” says P Siddharth, a call centre employee who stays at MVP Colony. “In the last few months we observed that many regular drinkers were switching to unknown brands. But now, I think they will become household names,” said B Venkateshwara, owner of a bar-cum-restaurant. Officials from the excise department refused to comment on the new pricing and promotion of known brands. An excise official said they can’t do much about it. “It’s the government’s decision and we are only executing the orders,” he said. Some few bar owners said the government might be promoting such brands to get higher commission besides credit facilities from the manufacturers. “The sale commission on these brands are higher than known brands. But it’s not the reason for not stocking known brands. Usually, even if we place order, the stocks for known brands are unavailable with the wholesaler. And the wholesaler for the entire state is Andhra Pradesh Beverages Corporation Limited, which is owned by the state government,” added Venkateshwara.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/popularity-of-unknown-liquor-brands-soars/articleshow/75651846.cms||Arpit Basu
May 10, 2020||Vijayawada||Lupus patients more vulnerable to nCoV||Amaravati: The protracted lockdown could make patients with lupus, a chronic autoimmune disease, more vulnerable to coronavirus, fear doctors. Lupus weakens the immune system, which could make them prone to coronavirus. Experts noted that the governments should set special focus on such patients and allow them to get treated on war footing as neither the lockdown, nor Covid-19, are likely to end soon. “Lupus attacks healthy tissues. This can make the immune system less effective at fighting infections. Medications that suppress the immune system, which people with lupus often take, might also limit the patients’ ability to respond to infections. As a result, people with lupus are less able to fight bacteria and viruses, like Covid-19,” observed noted rheumatologist Dr Manukonda Muralikrishna of Guntur Rheumatology and Immunology Center. He explained that when people with lupus may also have other ailments such as diabetes, cardiovascular disease, kidney disease, which put them at higher risk from coronavirus. According to Muralikrishna, the number of people with lupus have been growing. “Studies showed that people with an inherited predisposition for lupus may develop the disease when they come into contact with something in the environment that can trigger it,” said Dr Muralikrishna.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/lupus-patients-more-vulnerable-to-ncov/articleshow/75651842.cms||Samdani MN
May 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Government extends early bird scheme to commercial establishments||HYDERABAD: In a move that would augment the depleted coffers of the government, the municipal administration and urban development department (MAUD) has decided to extend the early bird scheme (EBS) to commercial properties as well. The scheme offers 5% rebate on property tax to commercial establishments. So far, EBS for the year 2020-21 was applicable only to residential properties. It was reported in these columns on May 5 about the dip in property tax collection due to government’s decision on rolling back discount given to commercial properties. “The decision to extend the tax rebate to all property owners across the state was taken following news reports,” acknowledged a GHMC official. Till May 9, Rs 162 crore was collected under EBS in the GHMC limits. In April, Rs 137.93 crore property tax was collected from 2.95 lakh households under the EBS scheme. Usually, the discount is offered only for the month of April but due to the pandemic situation the government extended it to two months i.e up to May 31. Last year GHMC collected Rs 535 crore from 4.92 lkah households. After the offer was rolled out to commercial properties, GHMC is expecting a huge hike in property tax collection. “As per our estimates, we will cross the Rs 500 crore mark this year too as the offer is extended to commercial properties,” said a GHMC official. Under EBS, residents of GHMC Khairatabad zone which includes Banjara Hills, Jubilee Hills and central parts of the city are the highest property tax payers (Rs 34.87 crore) followed by Serilingampally zone (Rs 31.15 crore) which covers the city’s IT corridor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/govt-extends-early-bird-scheme-to-commercial-establishments/articleshow/75653004.cms||Nabinder Bommala
May 10, 2020||Nagpur||State board principals’ association leading a ‘tech revolution’||Nagpur: Aided schools in Nagpur are aggressively ramping up their teachers’ tech-friendly quotient to ensure that they do not lag behind their private unaided counterparts at a time when everyone is relying on technology for teaching. The Schools Headmasters’ Charitable Association (SHCA) has started holding webinars for its teachers on making YouTube videos for subject lectures. Zafar Khan, president of SHCA, said, “So far, 2,000 teachers from Nagpur district have taken part and soon they will be starting their own YouTube channel. The idea behind this is to give them exposure to a larger audience and also to benefit students at large.” SHCA is a group which represents principals of aided schools. These are privately managed, but salaries are paid by the state government. In return, these schools have to provide free education to children. Khan said, “Teachers will record their classes and then put it up on their own channels. This way not only their students, but others from the district or state or even country will be able to watch them.” SHCA hopes that the talent of their teachers will shine. “Teachers in our schools are very talented and senior people. Their teaching methodology is time tested and there is no reason why the benefit of this should go only to a few children. Education is for all, without barriers. I think technology has broken the last barrier for them,” said Khan. SHCA has been also conducting webinars for principals about how school administration will change in the post-lockdown scenario. Khan said, “We are constantly keeping our members engaged in various activities so that we are ready to deal with the new order that will definitely confront us once everything is normalized.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/state-board-principals-association-leading-a-tech-revolution/articleshow/75652518.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
May 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||Lockdown effect: Retailers eye renegotiating contracts at malls||Ahmedabad: With malls remaining shut since the lockdown and both organized and unorganized retail getting adversely affected, retailers at malls are considering renegotiating their renewal contracts. Mall owners indicate that several retailers are proposing to go by the revenue sharing model instead of paying fixed rent because revenue projections for retailers appear weak in the coming months. In fact, malls are also anticipating a huge drop in footfall at the malls owing to social distancing norms made more stringent.Retailers are reeling from severe revenue crunch with many of them failing to pay the rent for April. “We have received requests from several retailers to renegotiate the rental contracts and shift to a revenue-sharing model. We understand it is a tough time for retailers with zero revenue and we have assured to support them in whatever way possible. Summer months also coincide with school and college vacations and therefore the footfall is usually higher. However, with the lockdown, we have completely lost out on this business,” said Aditya Shah, CFO, Gulmohar Park Mall in Ahmedabad.Mall owners estimate that revenues will be dented by at least 40% for the year 2020 not only due to the impact of closure but also due to a likely decline in footfall even after the malls open.“Footfall will remain low-key even when the malls open as consumer behaviour may change and people may be wary. These are very uncertain times and we cannot really predict how the situation will unfold,” said Jayen Naik, senior vice president, Ahmedabad One Mall.Industry players say sales will remain lukewarm because people will prioritize essential requirements over binge shopping. Mall owners also said that a number of small retailers and local brands are mulling over shutting down as they are unable to sustain operating costs in absence of revenue.“Retailers are facing major revenue problems. Some 30% of small retailers and stores are considering shutting down. While prominent brands have not decided to shut down as yet, smaller ones are considering that option,” said Jayesh Kotak, managing director, Iscon Group, which manages Iscon Mega Mall.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/lockdown-effect-retailers-eye-renegotiating-contracts-at-malls/articleshow/75652521.cms||Niyati Parikh
May 10, 2020||Trichy||Govt to rent out 207 shops at Kallikudi market to farmers||Trichy: The pressure tactics by farmers in Trichy to commission the Kallikudi integrated vegetable market on Trichy-Madurai NH seems to have yielded results as the agricultural marketing and agriculture business department has floated an Expression of Interest (EoI) inviting farmers to occupy 207 shops in the market. The move is seen as an attempt by the district administration to encourage Farmer Producer Organisation (FPO) and Farmer Producer Group (FPG) by utilizing the market facility, which has been unused for two years after its inauguration.Kallikudi integrated vegetable market was established to relocate the wholesale vegetable market from the Gandhi market in Trichy city. As the wholesale traders resisted the move, the district administration allocated a few shops in the market to FPOs and FPGs for direct sale of agriculture produce and value-added products. The stakeholder department on Saturday floated an EoI inviting farmers’ groups to rent out the shops at Kallikudi market. “As many as 207 shops including those on the first floor will be allocated for the farmers to market their products. Banana and guava farmers have already expressed their willingness to occupy the market,” an official source said. Interested farmers were told to apply before May 22. Once the applications were received, authorities will scrutinise the documents to award rental agreement for occupying the shops.“It’s a much-needed development. As the Kallikudi market has the potential to attract the inter-state trade due to its proximity to reach Chennai, Madurai and Coimbatore, farmers are eager to take the shops for rent,” said, Ku Pa Krishnan, Trichy-based former state agriculture minister. Farmers opined that even the minimal operation in Kallikudi market will encourage retail vegetable traders to go for bulk purchase of vegetables and fruits from farmers bypassing the wholesale traders to benefit the consumers. The market in Kallikudi can also be used as a stockyard for domestic and international air cargo operations, officials added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/govt-to-rent-out-207-shops-at-kallikudi-market-to-farmers/articleshow/75652534.cms||Deepak Karthik
May 10, 2020||Vijayawada||Central team in Kurnool to take stock of situation||Tirupati:The central public health team appointed by the Union government to investigate 20 districts spread across 10 states with the highest incidence of Covid-19 cases arrived in Kurnool to study the coronavrius scenario in the district on Saturday. District collector G Veerapandian, SP Kaginelli Fakeerappa and other officials of the district administration met the team comprising of Dr Madhumitha Dubey, director at the All India institute of hygiene and public health and Dr Sanjay Sadhukhan, and briefed them on the outbreak of the virus in the district, as well as on measures taken by the administration to contain the spread of the virus. The central health team will inspect various red zone and containment zones across the district and interact with officials of the district administration, doctors and paramedic staff and ground-level workers during their six-day-long study. Meanwhile, six new COVID-19 cases were reported in Kurnool district, taking the overall number of cases in the district to 553 on Saturday. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/central-team-in-kurnool-to-take-stock-of-situation/articleshow/75651830.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
May 10, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: 500 land at IGI on fourth day of Vande Bharat Mission||NEW DELHI: Close to 500 Indians landed in Delhi on Sunday, the fourth day of the Vande Bharat Mission, in three flights from Tashkent, Riyadh and London. Air India also operated three repatriation flights from the Indira Gandhi International Airport (IGIA), taking stranded Indians to Chicago, London and Riyadh. The first flight landed around 1pm with 21 passengers from Uzbekistan’s Tashkent while the second flight came from Saudi Arabia’s Riyadh around 8pm with 138 passengers. A late-night London flight is to bring close to 313 people, but all of them board a connecting flight to Bengaluru. After landing, clearing the immigration and health checkups takes two-three hours, said an airport official. After each special flight lands, airport staff have been told to sanitise each and every equipment, he added. All passengers will have to undergo a 14-day mandatory quarantine as part of the new standard operating procedure released by Delhi government. Resident commissioners and nodal officers are transporting the passengers from outside Delhi to their respective states for the quarantine period. The residents of Delhi are staying in 8-10 paid quarantine facilities in several hotels in New Delhi, south and southeast Delhi, and Aerocity. Under the central government’s seven-day Vande Bharat Mission, 64 flights will be operated, out of which 14 are meant to land at IGIA. The first flight reached IGIA from Singapore on Friday, followed by another from Dhaka on Saturday. Air India is also opened for booking to fly people out of India to the US, the UK and Singapore on these special flights. The UP residents who have come on these flights are being put up at a private hotel on City Park Road in Greater Noida while six people have been staying at a similar facility in Bajaria in Ghaziabad. Medical teams will visit the hotels on Monday to check them before carrying out the virus-related tests. Two days ago, 35 people who came from Singapore were allotted another hotel in Greater Noida. On Monday, another flight from Manila, the Philiplines is expected to bring some more Uttar Pradesh residents . A team of five senior officials from the Gautam Buddh Nagar district administration and the health department has been set up to make arrangements for the people being brought from other countries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/500-land-at-igi-on-4th-day-of-vande-bharat/articleshow/75665626.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Leopard drags, kills boy sleeping next to mother||BENGALURU: A three-year-old boy, who was sleeping next to his mother in their house near Magadi, was dragged out and killed by a leopard on Friday midnight. The child’s family had kept the door open as it was too hot when the leopard sneaked in. The incident occurred at Kadaraiahanapalya in Ramanagara district. C Hemanth, was the second son of Chandrappa and Mangala Gowri from Dodderi near Kumbalagodu. Chandrappa is an agriculturist while Gowri is a homemaker. Following relaxation of lockdown curbs, Gowri along with Hemanth had come to her parents’ house in Kadaraiahnapalya on May 5. Chandrappa had dropped them on his motorbike and returned on May 6. According to forest officials, the leopard entered the house post midnight through the main door. “Due to the heat, occupants of the house house had opened the main door in the night. Gowri’s parents slept near the kitchen while Gowri and Hemanth slept near the door,” a forest official said. During the early hours, the leopard is said to have sneaked in, grabbed the sleeping boy by his shoulder and disappeared into the shrubs. “Around 5am, Hemant’s mother noticed his absence. First she searched for him in and around the house and later alerted her parents. Sensing something amiss, Gowri’s father alerted the villagers. A search party was formed in less than 30 minutes, which recovered the boy’s half-eaten body near a bush around 300 meters from the house. Pug marks of the leopard confirmed the act,” a forest official said. “We are combing the vicinity and have placed cages in four different spots,” said another official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/leopard-drags-kills-boy-sleeping-next-to-mother/articleshow/75652537.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh: Toddlers miss vaccinations, experts warn of outbreaks||VISAKHAPATNAM: Paediatricians across AP are being flooded with calls from worried parents as toddlers miss their scheduled vaccinations due to the lockdown. Experts warn that delays may lead to the outbreak of preventable diseases in the later part of the year. Mother of a 17-month-old girl, Padma (name changed) is looking for a paediatrician who can administer Varicella, vaccine for chicken pox, to her daughter. “The vaccine was due in April. The doctor who administered the previous vaccines has shut his clinic. When I called, he said he will not open the clinic till the lockdown is officially lifted,” Padma said. Karuna (name changed) from Seethammadhara is also worried as her 10-month-old daughter is yet to get the MMR-I vaccine, for protection against measles, mumps and rubella. The vaccine was due in April. Consultant paediatrician in Vizianagaram Dr Srikant said that rural patients are unable to come to town for medical advice due to travel restrictions. “Any disruption in the vaccination schedule will result in rise in susceptible individuals and increased chances of an outbreak of preventable diseases,” city-based paediatrician Dr Kandula Radha Krishna said “Vaccines for influenza and pneumonia also should not be delayed as weak lungs will make a baby more vulnerable to Covid-19,” he added. “Kids must receive primary vaccines like BCG and OPV before leaving the hospital. These ward off rotavirus, whooping cough, tetanus and polio. Vaccines like triple antigen and polio, due in the first few months, are also needed,” said senior paediatrician Dr Ch Vishnumurthy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/toddlers-miss-vaccinations-experts-warn-of-outbreaks/articleshow/75651856.cms||Reshma Jain
May 10, 2020||Vijayawada||Close to 20,000 NRIs set to return to the state soon||Vijayawada: Transport principal secretary and Covid-19 Task Force committee chairman MT Krishna Babu on Saturday cited the external affairs ministry’s estimates and said that around 15,000 to 20,000 non-resident Telugus (NRTs) are expected to return to the state under the ongoing repatriation processes. Babu explained that almost 65% of the NRTs that would be coming in are from the gulf countries and will land directly at Vijayawada, Vizag and Tirupati. The other flights coming from North and South America will mostly be landing at Chennai, Bangalore and Hyderabad. “The external affairs ministry will make the flight manifest data available to us and depending on where they belong, we will be arranging buses for them,” Babu said. Any symptomatic person identified will be taken to a Covid isolation centre nearby for testing and treatment, while those who are asymptomatic will be transported to the state. The state government will be offering free quarantine facility. However, the government is also tying up with hotels to provide paid quarantine facility for those who can afford it. “There will be three categories of paid quarantine facility – medium, luxury and star hotels ranging from Rs 1,500 to Rs 4,000 depending on the service they choose. District collectors will be tying up with private hotels to set up these facilities,” Babu said. Meanwhile, the ministry of external affairs appointed Harish Kumar, an IFS officer, as the nodal authority to exclusively overlook the repatriation of NRTs to the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/close-to-20000-nris-set-to-return-to-the-state-soon/articleshow/75651857.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
May 10, 2020||Madurai||Tamil Nadu: Two dalits killed as monetary dispute leads to caste clash||TUTICORIN: A man and his son-in-law from the dalit community were hacked to death by a gang belonging to the thevar community near Nazareth in Tuticorin district late on Friday night. Tuticorin SP Arun Balagopalan said three people have been arrested and they were on the lookout for at least nine others. Preliminary inquiries by the police revealed that the murders were a sequel to a complaint lodged by the dalits which led to the arrest of a man from the other side. A Palavesam, 60, and his son-in-law R Thangaraj, 26, were in their hut at Udayarkulam with their relatives when the gang hacked them to death. A few hours earlier, Shanmugasundaram, a moneylender of Vaithiyalingampuram village belonging to the thevar community, was arrested based on a complaint from Palavesam. Palavesam had pledged his property documents with Shanmugasundaram about a year ago and borrowed money. According to the police, the victim’s kin claimed that he had repaid the principal along with the interest that Shanmugasundaram demanded, while the latter denied it. On Thursday, Palavesam had asked Shanmugasundaram to hand over his property document. However, Shanmugasundaram and his accomplices assaulted Palavesam and also verbally abused them mentioning their caste. On a complaint lodged by Palavesam, Nazareth police booked Shanmugasundaram under sections of the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act on Friday evening. He was arrested and lodged in the jail under judicial custody. Based on a counter-complaint, a case was also registered against Palavesam. Police said Shanmugasundaram’s brothers and a few others wanted to avenge the arrest and plotted the murder of the man and his son-in-law. Bodies of the duo were sent to the Thoothukudi government medical college and hospital for autopsy and handed over to their kin. As tension gripped the village, police were deployed to keep the situation under check. “Hundred personnel and officers have been deployed for security arrangements during the final rites,” SP Arun Balagopalan told TOI. A case was registered under sections 302 (punishment for murder), 147 (punishment for rioting), 148 (rioting, armed with deadly weapon) and 506(ii) (punishment for criminal intimidation of the IPC and under the SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/two-dalits-killed-as-monetary-dispute-leads-to-caste-clash/articleshow/75652531.cms||---
May 10, 2020||India||Lockdown till May 31 can stall coronavirus pandemic, says study||NEW DELHI: A possible maximum of three million people will be infected by October if the ongoing third phase of lockdown till May 17 is "implemented with full vigour" but the absence of the two lock downs may have seen a projected maximum that would be as high as a staggering 171 million cases, a study of the Mumbai-based International Institute for Population Sciences has said. The study makes its projections while noting that the lockdown has succeeded in significantly reducing the burden of infections in India. The analysis shows that if the ongoing third phase is implemented effectively and the lockdown is extended until May 24 the reproduction rate is likely to become less than one (0.975) and if further extended till May 31, the RO will be 0.945. In this scenario, the Covid-19 pandemic may begin to recede and infected cases shall start to decline and less than 0.01% (0.14 million) of the India’s population is likely to be infected by July 2020. “These estimates clearly suggest that the two lockdowns have played a key role in reducing the number of (maximum projected) peak infections by about 140 million,” said Professor Abhishek Singh from IIPS. The researchers arrive at this conclusion after analysing data on RO of infection prior to the lockdown and the following two phases of lockdown from March 25-April 14 and April 15 to May 3. However, if the third phase does not deliver requisite results and the RO of infections remains at what it was in the second phase of lockdown from April 15 to May 3, then the number of people estimated to be infected with Covid-19 could go up to a high 20 million by October. These are the findings of a study on the future projections of Covid-19 infections in India based on RO of infections till May 3. In the study steered by researchers at the department of public health and mortality studies at IIPS, it is pointed that the strategy of lockdown has contributed in flattening the curve of infection and is also likely to reduce the burden of infection tremendously in India. Covid-19 infection started in India by the end of January 2020 and spread across all the states by April 2020. As on May 5, 2020, the total number of active cases was 32,138, cured and discharged were 12,726, deaths were 1,568, and one person had migrated. The infection was spreading at a much faster rate before the lockdown (R0 = 1.862) and if the same situation would have prevailed then an estimated maximum 12.9 % of India’s population would have got infected by the first week of June 2020. The R0 1.862 declined to 1.455 and 1.200 during the first and second lockdown periods respectively. The combined R0 for the two lockdown periods was 1.258. “For a given recovery rate (0.363), as R0 reduces from 1.862 to 1.200, highest estimated prevalence reduces from 12.9% to 1.5%. At the same time, the corresponding duration of pandemic increased from two months to more than 6 months,” it is pointed by the authors of the research paper. However, Covid-19 case recovery rate in India is a matter of concern as it is comparatively very low. This may be due to the early stage of the infection in the country. However, the researchers point that the government must take measures to try to push the case recovery rate, in the absence of which the chance of re-occurrence of infection is very high.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/lockdown-till-may-31-can-stall-coronavirus-pandemic-says-study/articleshow/75653149.cms||Ambika Pandit
May 10, 2020||Goa||Benaulim MLA wants trees at Colva children’s park felled||Colva: Citing the safety of children, Benaulim MLA Churchill Alemao has called for the 15 tall coconut trees in the children’s park near Colva beach, to be cut down. The Goa Tourism Development Corporation (GTDC), however, has said that there is no proposal for the felling of these trees. Alemao visited the park on Saturday to inspect the newly-installed play unit when he noticed that the equipment has been set up amidst the coconut trees which, he said, would pose a threat to the children once it was commissioned. He told the contractor that the trees would have to be cut. GTDC’s executive engineer Kiran Kumar said that neither was he aware of any coconut trees that need to be cut, nor has his office received a request for the same. A Colva pancha, on condition of anonymity, said that there is no sanction or permission from the forest department to cut the coconut trees and that such a step would result in it being “a park without any trees”. Further, he said that since the play equipment is made of fibre, it can easily be shifted to the southern side of the park where the tourism department has an area of 80,000sqm, thus saving the coconut trees. Criticising the decision to fell the coconut trees, former Colva pancha Calvert Gonsalves said that for decades, this shady grove, measuring approximately 2,000sqm has been the prime picnic spot for Goans, young and old. It is a particular favourite of those coming from hinterland to bathe in the sea as part of their annual summer ritual of salt water baths, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/benaulim-mla-wants-trees-at-colva-childrens-park-felled/articleshow/75652977.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Migrant workers continue to bear the brunt of lockdown||VIJAYAWADA: Continuing their protest for the fourth consecutive day, around 200 migrant workers from Odisha and Jharkhand in Satish Dhawan Space Centre – Sriharikota Range (SHAR) protested demanding food, transportation back home and their pending wages from the contractors in Nellore on Friday. Protestors said that the officials at SHAR had already sent several migrant workers back to Bihar but neglected other state workers. Soon, tension prevailed after cops reached the spot and tried to control the situation. Tempers flared as some of the migrant workers allegedly vandalised window panes of a bus. Cops then lathicharged the workers and later brought all of them outside SHAR. The situation still wasn’t under control as heated arguments continued between them. The workers alleged that they are yet to receive four months of pending wages. The space centre employees had taken suo moto cognisance and took care of their minimum needs. Gudur DSP B. Sriharsha, circle inspectors from Sullurpet, Naidupet, and sub-inspectors from Sriharikota and Tada are monitoring the situation. The protests have been going on since May 6 when almost 1,000 workers staged a dharna at the space centre. Overall, 2,000 migrant workers—from Odisha, Jharkhand, and a few other states—are working at SHAR, where many of them have already had their travel arrangements sorted and are heading home. “The lockdown took a toll on our livelihood and our life. The management has completely ignored us, has failed to provide proper food, and has not taken any steps to send us home,” said a migrant worker while addressing media during the protest. Meanwhile, National Highway 16, which passes through the city, is seeing hundreds of migrant workers walking hundreds of kilometers to their hometowns. “I never thought that I would walk for 880 kilometers to meet my beloved family at my native place in Vizianagaram. This is the toughest challenge of my life. I have no alternative except to accept it,” said Janni Kumar, a migrant worker walking to his home town in Vizianagaram district from Chennai city in Tamil Nadu. Janni Kumar and five of his friends, who work in a small scale industry in Chennai, lost their jobs due to the lockdown. They managed to stay for forty days in Chennai without any income, but problems arose after their savings started to drain. “I migrated to Chennai a couple of years ago. I’m happy there and am sending some money to my parents and family. But the lockdown has drained me of all my savings. The Tamil Nadu government failed to provide transport for us, so we started walking on May 4 and reached Vijayawada today,” Kumar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/migrant-workers-continue-to-bear-the-brunt-of-lockdown/articleshow/75651868.cms||Venu Lanka
May 10, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: On an average, lockdown saw 12 road accidents each day||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: No peak time office rush, unavailability of liquor, almost-nil traffic on roads after dark and yet Kerala witnessed 483 road accidents during the first two phases of the lockdown that lasted only 39 days. From March 25 to May 3, 64 lives were lost and 482 individuals were left injured in these 483 accidents. The figure, which comprises only 11% of the cases reported during the corresponding period last year, baffled road safety experts. Many assumed that reckless driving could have led to these accidents as traffic law enforcement was hit with many policemen imposing lockdown restrictions. In phase-I from March 25 to April 14, 26 persons were killed in 173 accidents while 184 others were injured. In phase-II from April 15 to May 3, 310 accidents were reported, which is almost double the number that happened in phase-I. Also, 38 persons were killed in these accidents and 298 were left injured. It must be noted that while phase-I (of lockdown) lasted 21 days, the second phase lasted just 18 days. Kerala road safety commissioner N Shanker Reddy said that it was too early to comment on possible factors that could have led to these accidents. Road safety experts said the high volume of vehicles on roads, night-time driving and drunk driving mostly led to accidents under normal conditions. “In this case, these three factors were absent. There were less vehicles on roads and night driving was nil as police were strictly enforcing lockdown after the evening deadline. There was no alcohol availability and that eliminates the possibility of drunk driving,” said Sony Thomas, a road safety expert and project consultant at World Bank. He said that police need to take these cases seriously, conduct a thorough probe in each case and finding factors that led to these cases so that the data could be used by experts to conduct studies in future.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/on-an-avg-lockdown-saw-12-road-accidents-each-day/articleshow/75650700.cms||Rejith Balakrishnan
May 10, 2020||Nagpur||Collaborative videos, games keep people together in times of social distancing||Nagpur: Isolation and quarantine are bringing out the creative side of citizens. Many are taking up on the latest internet trends and following fun creative challenges at home. A trend of making fun and innovative video challenges is going viral these day, and citizens are making the most of it and posting their own videos from the comfort of their homes. Right from food and lifestyle bloggers to long distance friends to employees and theatre artistes in the city, all are hooked to making these creative videos.Kalabhinay Nagpur, a theatre group, has made such an innovative video with the help of other theatre artistes in the city. Abhishek Kane wrote a beautiful poem and each one recites one or two lines one by one, connecting the videos smoothly. The tag line of the video is ‘Kahi diwas gharich kadha’.Aishwarya Dorle, one of the participants in this video, said, “We made this poetic video as we wanted to spread some positivity and cheer amid such negative times. Our video was well-appreciated and we all recited these lines which rhymed. We did not step out of our houses,” she said.The video was inspired by the latest short video made by Bollywood celebrities, where Amitabh Bachchan and others are seen. Shubham Sapre, a theatre artiste, said, “We wanted to make a video like the Bollywood celebrities, but we tried to make it as appealing as it can be. The writer wrote the poem and we all lent our voices to make it musical,” he said.Bloggers too are going all out and brainstorming on how to make the most entertaining and catchy content for their audience. In this challenge, each blogger had to pass on an ingredient to the second, and all of them make something from that ingredient, and so on.Initially, all female food bloggers made such a video, before it picked up pace in the city. “It was so much fun to shoot this video at home. Challenges like this are trending on the internet and we wanted to be a part of it too. All the food bloggers showed their unity and actively participated in the video,” said Ruchika Asatkar.“We are now coming up with ‘Muskurayega India’ to support the government. We are also giving a message to everyone to fight against corona,” she said.Staff from various organizations are also making such viral videos with office mates to keep boredom away and showcase unity amid such times. “Making such fun videos are a source of connection with everyone in this pandemic, where people are not able to meet. It is helping us to create new content and also keep people engaged, and at the same time provide some entertainment. Connecting us to different bloggers and audiences all over India,” said Sanskar Khemani, a food blogger.People are using classic shots, editing apps and are also making various hilarious memes as part of the content. “I have started to share videos and memes where I am showcasing life before and after lockdown by making memes out of it. I have also made ‘Expectations v/s reality’ videos and pictures. Everyone can relate to this and I get a good response,” said Pratiksha Jaiswal, a blogger.Some people are also using multiple video calling services to talk to their relatives, friends and play group games online such as antakshari, dumb charades etc. “Video calling is an important part of my day as I am distanced from my parents. It’s like our own time, where we spend and talk about our day,” said Aditi Ghorate, an IT engineer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/collaborative-videos-games-keep-people-together-in-times-of-social-distancing/articleshow/75651891.cms||Shreya Tinkhede
May 10, 2020||Vijayawada||13 arrested for smuggling liquor bottles from Telangana to Andhra Pradesh||VIJAYAWADA: Police arrested 13 persons and seized more than 150 bottles of liquor, bought from Telangana, on Saturday in Gurazala mandal. And this is not an isolated incident. A number of similar cases have been reported in Guntur district, which shares its border with Suryapet district in Telangana. Two factors — the opening of liquor stores in Telangana and the hike in prices of liquor in Andhra Pradesh — have fuelled illegal liquor trade along the borders of the two state. And the River Krishna, which separate the states, has emerged the chosen pathway for the trader. Palnadu, Daida, Samdhanampeta and Gottimukkala areas under Gurazala mandal have emerged as smugglers’ favourite as they can cross the river on foot. Gurazala excise inspector Devara Srinivasa Rao, who conducted search operation in the villages along the Krishna River bank, said a few crooks are crossing the river into Telangana, buying liquor from there and selling it in Andhra Pradesh. Most of the liquor shops in Palnadu are still closed owing to the Covid outbreak. Given the demand, smugglers are getting the stock from Telangana, he said. In Krishna district, illegal liquor cases have been reported in Nandigama, Jaggaiahpet, Mylavaram and Tiruvuru mandals, which share their borders with Telangana. In these areas, the traders are impersonating as either farmers or farm labourers and gaining access to liquor stores in Telangana. Although the police has set up checkposts on highways and even on the smaller roads, the traders are avoiding them by walking through fields.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/smuggling-of-liquor-from-t-into-ap-picks-up/articleshow/75651886.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Nagpur||‘Shift wholesale goat market out of Wathoda’||Nagpur: NCP corporator Duneshwar Pethe on Saturday threatened to launch an agitation over Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) move to shift the wholesale goat market from Mominpura to Wathoda.After spike in Covid-19 cases in Mominpura, the NMC had shifted the wholesale goat market there to an open space in Wathoda. “This has caused resentment among east Nagpur residents,” said Gaurav Gupta, Nagpur district president of Hindu Sena which has raised objection over shifting the market.Pethe alleged that the NMC shifted the market at the behest of local MLA. “The residents have submitted a memorandum to deputy mayor Manisha Kothe to shift the goat market elsewhere, but to no avail,” Pethe said and added that residents from this part of the city are already facing issues due to Bhandewadi dumping yard, sewage treatment plant, slaughter house and dog shelter.“Shifting the goat market here and converting Symbiosis College premises into quarantine centre has increased threat of coronavirus infection for the local residents,” he said. He demanded that NMC should shift the wholesale goat market to agriculture produce market in Kalamna. If the NMC failed to take corrective measure, the NCP corporator threatened to launch an agitation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/shift-wholesale-goat-market-out-of-wathoda/articleshow/75651870.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
May 10, 2020||Madurai||Tamil Nadu: First Covid-19 death in Ramnad, 8 new cases in Tirunelveli||MADURAI: One more Covid-19 related death was reported from the southern region from Ramanathapuram on Saturday, taking the total in south Tamil Nadu to six. With 13 new cases reported on Saturday, of which eight from Tirunelveli, the total number of cases in the region has climbed to 541. A 50-year-old woman from Keelakarai in Ramanathapuram district died on Saturday at Sivagangai Government Medical College Hospital. An 85-year-old neighbour of the patient has also been tested positive for Covid-19. Ramanathapuram district collector Veera Raghava Rao said that the district currently has 25 confirmed cases, 15 discharged cases, one death and nine active cases. “We are doing all we can to trace all contacts of the Covid-19 patients and test them. In Ramanathapuram, around 250 people are being tested every day, including frontline workers. Around 1,200 frontline workers who were deployed in containment zones across the district have been tested for Covid-19,” he said. In Tirunelveli district, eight fresh Covid-19 cases were reported, which include four men, two women and two girl children under 18. “They were all primary contacts and family members of a Covid-19 patient who tested positive on Thursday. They all had returned from Chennai and Tiruvannamalai. While testing all the primary and secondary contacts of the patient, eight of them tested positive on Saturday. Contact tracing of all Covid-19 patients is being done actively,” said Tirunelveli district collector Shilpa Prabhakar Satish. Meanwhile, Theni reported two more cases and Dindigul reported one case, all contacts of Covid-19 positive patients. According to Theni district officials, the district is set to permit all hotels and stand-alone shops outside the containment zones to open as per the prescribed timings from Monday allowing only take-away orders. In Madurai district, during the past three days, two Covid-19 positive pregnant women gave birth to babies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/1st-covid-death-in-ramnad-8-new-cases-in-tirunelveli/articleshow/75652533.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Kozhikode||Plant quarantine licence boost for Kial||Kannur: After Covid-19 cast a shadow over the revenue of recently-opened Kannur international airport (Kial), authorities are trying to generate revenue through cargo exports as Kial received plant quarantine licence, which is a major step for the export of fruits, vegetables and other perishables.A few days ago, the ministry of agriculture and farmers welfare issued a gazette notification in this connection and this is a major achievement because export of perishable cargo like fruits and vegetable requires this licence, said Kial MD V Thulasidas. "With this notification, Kial has crossed a major milestone towards export of fruits and vegetables, which are expected to be main cargo from Kannur and surrounding areas. The next step is custom clearance which is expected very soon," he said. Amid concerns about passenger traffic to the Gulf after Covid-19ends, export will be a source of revenue said Kial authorities. The work of two cargo complexes are going on at the airport and one with 1,200 sq m area is almost ready for operations. An examination by bureau of civil aviation security (BCAS) and Airports Economic Regulatory Authority of India (AERA) are over and with custom clearance it would become fully operational. The work of 1.05L sq ft cargo complex is going on and once this is ready, the smaller one could be used for domestic cargo. Apart from Kannur and Wayanad, the facility would help cargo exports from Coorg and Mysuru, which is likely to boost agri sector as well. Since many small-time farmers are involved in different kinds of farming in Kerala and Coorg, it will help them export their products and help entrepreneurship in the field of food parks, said people in the field. However, in order to boost exports, more flights, especially wide-bodied aircraft should be operating from here. But that requires permission for foreign carriers to begin operations from here because most Indian carriers, except Air India, do not have wide-bodied aircraft.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/plant-quarantine-licence-boost-for-kial/articleshow/75650720.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Vijayawada||Special bureau to look into sand, liquor smuggling in Andhra Pradesh||VIJAYAWADA: The state government has decided to set up a special enforcement bureau to look into address illegal manufacture and transport of liquor and sand smuggling. The decision has been taken in anticipation that crimes will rise as the government continues to phase out liquor from the state. Chief minister Y S Jaganmohan Reddy has directed officials to come up with the blueprint of the special enforcement bureau. The special enforcement bureau will be within the purview of the DGP and will be headed by a commissioner. An ASP rank official will head the district units and they will report to the commissioner of enforcement. As all the wine shops are now under government control, most of the excise officials will come under the enforcement bureau along with the officials from police department as well. The main responsibility of the bureau would be to prevent smuggling of alcohol, manufacture of illicit liquor and irregularities in sand transportation. In the present mechanism, the excise director is responsible for enforcement when it comes to illegal sale, manufacture and transportation of liquor. There is no dedicated mechanism to deal with illegal sand mining and transportation. The revenue, mining and police officials are addressing the issues related to sand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/special-bureau-to-look-into-sand-liquor-smuggling/articleshow/75651894.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Nagpur||NMC-OCW plugs 730 leakages without affecting water supply||NAGPUR: The water works department of Nagpur Municipal Corporation and Orange City Water (OCW), taking advantage of what can be called a blessing in disguise in the time of the pandemic, managed to plug over 730 major and minor leakages in pipelines supplying potable water and resolved complaints. From the time lockdown was clamped in the city, the NMC-OCW attended and resolved almost 2,500 complaints or an average 70 to 75 complaints per day across the city. Sushant Sourabh of OCW technical team said, “We all technical team members in OCW are working round-the-clock to maintain major feeders lines as well as plugging leakages. These come under essential services so we feel proud that we are contributing and working to provide safe and clean water at every tap in the city during these difficult times. NMC superintending engineer (water works) Shweta Banerjee said the NMC-OCW zonal teams deployed for maintenance and leakage repair works are working in coordination with the NMC-OCW technical team in resolving no-water or polluted water complaints of consumers. The team not only attended to complaints in non-containment areas but also acted swiftly in hotspots like Parvati Nagar. Recently a major leakage on Shanti Nagar feeder line was plugged by the NMC-OCW without affecting water supply. Normally, a 12–hour shutdown is required to do the job, but the team completed it during lean period working in scorching summer heat. Similarly, many such leakages were plugged and defunct valves replaced or repaired. The technical team worked overnight to replace Binaki ESR defective sluice, plug leakage on 700mm dia main distribution line at Prajapati Nagar and while a major leakage opposite Mayo Hospital. OCW main line technical team, OCW zonal technical teams and OCW maintenance team are on high alert and are working in full swing to plug major and minor leakages that develops in the system.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nmc-ocw-plugs-730-leakages-without-affecting-water-supply/articleshow/75652545.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Nagpur||‘Different vaccines being tried out, will take at least 6 months’||Shekhar Mande, director general of the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR), speaks to TOI on how the country is combating Covid-19, progress made towards vaccine and other initiatives. Has CSIR been assigned a specific role by government in combating Covid-19? What is the contribution of different CSIR labs?Being a premier research and development organization of the country, it is natural that CSIR would take a lead. We are working on five different pillars. The first one is surveillance which includes digital and molecular. The work has started and large-scale mapping of population is being done. The second pillar is diagnostics and the country’s first paper-strip test for rapid diagnosis of Covid-19 is set to get commercial soon. Pharmaceuticals is the third pillar under which we have already started trials of Mw (Mycobacterium w) vaccines and few others. The fourth pillar is hospital equipment and we have been making around 30,000 personal protective equipment (PPE) per day. And the last pillar is supply chain logistics which we are handling across India.Are CSIR laboratories also contributing in testing?Yes, around 15 laboratories are carrying out testing for coronavirus. But, more than that, they have taken a lead in training. The CSIR’s Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology in Hyderabad has trained around 100 personnel so that they could start rapid testing in their respective talukas in Telangana. The National Environmental Engineering Research Institute (Neeri) in Nagpur has been appointed as a model for other testing laboratories.How is India progressing in finding a vaccine for coronavirus?A number of vaccines are being tried out in India. The lead has been taken by major manufacturing companies. Apart from developing monoclonal antibody-based vaccine with Hyderabad’s Bharat Biotech, Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) in Indore and other institutes, CSIR has also begun clinical trials for Mw. It is based on an immune boosting molecular formation which will boost the immunity of an infected person, thereby enabling him to fight the virus effectively.By when can we expect a vaccine to be ready?Even in the best possible scenario, I don’t think any of the vaccines are going to be ready in another six months.There are speculations regarding a rise in Covid-19 cases in the country. How can we prepare for it?Speculation is the right word as all these talks are based on different models. But we should always be prepared for the worst to implement needed actions effectively. As of now, the testing rate in the country is sufficient. Apart from this, multiple testing strategies are coming up which will hopefully be implemented in the future.There has been an obvious improvement in environmental parameters during lockdown. How can this be maintained while ensuring economic growth?It is for everyone to see that the impact of lockdown on the environment has been positive due to a reduction in anthropogenic activities. It is obvious that when all of us get back to work, the environmental conditions will go back to being the same old. It is in our hands to be careful and have the necessary restrictions to maintain a healthy environment.Do you think science and technology will get higher priority and better funding in post-Covid scenario?This is wishful thinking. However, I do hope that the larger section of the society recognizes that science and technology alone can ensure well-being of human beings. It can do wonders for humanity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/different-vaccines-being-tried-out-will-take-at-least-6-months/articleshow/75651900.cms||Manka Behl
May 10, 2020||Delhi||Delhi corporations ramp up steps to tackle mosquitoes||NEW DELHI: Declaring malaria to be a notified disease and diverting 50% of the field staff from Covid-related duties to anti-mosquito drives are some of the new steps that the municipal corporations have recommended to keep the mosquito-borne diseases under control. The city will also see localised drives in vulnerable areas in the coming days. Seeing the early trend of heavy mosquito breeding concentration and higher dengue, malaria cases, a new public health crisis in the form of mosquito-borne diseases might be staring at the capital during the summer months. Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan recently undertook a review meeting with the three municipal corporation commissioners, lieutenant governor and senior state officials to ramp up anti-mosquito efforts. This year pan-India dengue cases had allegedly doubled compared with last year, officials said. A senior public health official from south corporation said that during the review meeting civic bodies recommended that the pending process of declaring malaria a notified disease should be immediately completed so that reporting and mapping could be improved and targeted counter actions could be taken in areas where vector-borne diseases emerge. “The south civic body would divert 50% of the malaria control force back to its original task. This could reduce the magnitude of corona disinfection drives but we had to curb the mosquito-borne diseases early in the season to avoid a two-side fight in July-September,” the official remarked. “Once a disease was declared a notified disease it became the responsibility of all clinics and hospitals to send reports regarding any patient of this disease that they received.” “Another major problem was that most of the anopheles mosquito breeds in clean water inside homes. People would not allow domestic breeding checkers to enter the houses due to the fear related to Covid-19. We would start a sustained campaign appealing to people to take care of any accumulated water inside their premises,” official said. An east corporation official said that 16 vulnerable areas in terms of water-borne diseases had been identified and campaign in these spots had already been initiated. North and south corporations, too, were identifying the vulnerable locations in their jurisdiction areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/corpns-ramp-up-steps-to-tackle-mosquitoes/articleshow/75652978.cms||Paras Singh
May 10, 2020||Madurai||American College observes Earth Day with drawing contest||Madurai: Over 1,500 participants of different age groups took part in the drawing competition organised by the Green club of The American college, Madurai, recently. The convenor of Green club, M Rajesh, said that the competition was held to commemorate the golden jubilee of the Earth Day (which falls on April 22). He said that the competition was held annually and that this year they had planned to organise it in a grand manner but had to tone it down owing to the Covid-19 outbreak.Hence, the American College invited the participants to join the digital Earthrise movement and participate in the drawing competition, to show their support for climate action. The competition was held on the theme ‘Earth day and climate action’. Rajesh said that not just people from Tamil Nadu but even foreign nations like Dubai and USA participated in the competition and sent their drawings to Green Club through email. The participants were categorised into different sections based age groups. Over 600 students falling in the 10-12 years age group, over 500 in the 13-15 years age group and 400 in the 16-18 years category took part in the competition. More than 100 participants took part in the open category for people above 18 years of age.Principal of American College, Dr M Davamani Christober, announced the results in which 100 winners were declared.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/american-college-observes-earth-day-with-drawing-contest/articleshow/75652561.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Bengaluru||Top bureaucrat sustains minor injuries in accident||CHITRADURGA: LK Atheeq, principal secretary, rural development and panchayat raj department, sustained minor injuries after a truck rammed his vehicle near Madara Chennaiah mutt on the outskirts of Chitradurga on Saturday evening. According to Chitradurga rural police, Atheeq was on his way to Belagavi from Bengaluru when the incident happened. "The truck hit the SUV in which the officer was travelling. As the airbags opened, Atheeq and the driver escaped without any injuries," said police. Atheeq said he was fine and didn't suffer any major injury.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/top-bureaucrat-sustains-minor-injuries-in-accident/articleshow/75652560.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Vadodara||Three labs get permission for Covid-19 tests||Vadodara: With three private facilities getting nod for Covid-19 testing, the city will have the capacity to perform 140 more tests. But there is still no clarity if these testing facilities would help increase the tests being conducted by Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) and Vadodara district panchayat health officials. Sources said two private laboratories – Toprani Advanced Lab Systems (TALS) and Divine Lab – as well as Bhailal Amin General Hospital (BAGH) have been granted permission for conducting the tests. The laboratories have got clearance from National Accreditation Board for Laboratories, Indian Council for Medical Research and state government. VMC’s medical officer (health) Dr Devesh Patel said TALS had a capacity of doing 50 tests, Divine Lab for 75 tests and BAGH for 20 tests. He, however, said the testing facilities could be used by VMC only if tests were performed for free. The facilities would, however, increase the overall number of tests performed in the city even if VMC or district health officials don’t use them. Parul Sevashram Hospital, Dhiraj General Hospital and GMERS, Gotri Hospital have also applied for performing Covid-19 tests. GMERS, Gotri Hospital being a government hospital can conduct tests of samples collected by VMC and district health officials. This will increase the testing in the city significantly. SSG Hospital – the only testing facility in the city – can conduct around 250 tests. It is burdened with samples from other districts too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/three-labs-get-permission-for-covid-19-tests/articleshow/75651569.cms||Sachin Sharma
May 10, 2020||Nagpur||Parents not ready to send kids to school ‘too soon’||Nagpur: Even after schools reopen, parents say they may not be too enthusiastic about sending their wards for the opening day. Though there is no clarity yet as to when schools will actually open, parents say they will decide based on the prevailing situation and on precautions being taken by the school.Yogesh Pathare, a parent, said he will send only after October and that too if things seem to be under control. “School will never take responsibility of our child if anything happens due to the virus. It’s too early to send kids to school and in fact even government should change the academic session from October to March. There are over 2,000 children in every school so how do you expect them to keep an eye on everything,” said Pathare, who is also the national convener of Rashtriya Shikshak Palak Sangh.Another parent, Haris Khan, said, “I won’t send my child to school till the authorities say it is safe to do so. Also, I will check whether or not my school is following all guidelines mandated by the World Health Organization (WHO).”Parent Girish Palod said a joint survey by authorities should be done for every school. “They must check provision of RO water, sanitation, covid distancing arrangements, waste management facilities, environmental cleaning and decontamination procedures etc,” said Palod. He added that in the initial stages, school buses must not run. “In schools buses, there is a chance of infection spreading as children touch bars, seats and also they are in a closed confined space. Also, strict screening of all staff members must be done to ensure that none of them have come in contact with a Covid19 positive patient,” Palod added. Another parent, Kailash Choudhary, differed in his view, saying parents should go by what the education department says. “If the education department says it is safe to send kids to school, then we should follow their guidelines. The government is on our side. We simply have to trust them,” said Choudhary.Parent Mukesh Tellawar said if the school follows basic safety measures then there is no problem. “They should start classes with alternative batches. Also e-learning should be stressed upon, just like the study-from-home concept,” said Tellawar.Parent Snehal Lanjewar feels it is better to walk on the side of caution. “No question of sending kids to school unless Nagpur is declared a green zone. Even after that I will wait for 15 days and ensure that schools take care of hygiene and have medical strategies in place,” said Lanjewar. Another parent, Pradeep Doijad, said it will be too early to send children soon after schools reopen. “It is not possible to send our child after lockdown is over because the impact of coronavirus remains for a long time. Sending kids to school even though the virus has not been eliminated will be risky. I believe schools must think of going on the online teaching route more,” said Doijad.Parent Ramesh Thakre said lot of thought needs to be put in. “This question is a bit difficult to answer because the spread is at its peak. Once it settles down, maybe in August, I will differently send my child to school. But school needs to follow all necessary guidelines lines laid down by the government and precautions of covid distancing,” said Thakre. Kshitij Ingle, a parent, said, “Schools need to ensure that masks are compulsory for students and hand sanitizers are available at various places on the premises.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/parents-not-ready-to-send-kids-to-school-too-soon/articleshow/75651920.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
May 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Lockdown helps officials put road works across Hyderabad in the fast lane||HYDERABAD: The lockdown has been a blessing in disguise for the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), which is expediting the Strategic Road Development Plan (SRDP) works. Absence of heavy traffic in the past two months is facilitating the speedy completion of works. According to GHMC officials, the steel bridge at Panjagutta will be inaugurated on June 2. The flyover work at Rd No.45, Jubilee Hills and the cable stayed bridge at Durgam Cheruvu could see completion by July. The officials are expecting level-I flyover at the Bio-Diversity Junction to be put to use by the end of this month. In the eastern part of the city, Kamineni flyover will be ready by June and the underpass near LB Nagar will be constructed by August, while the Bairamalguda flyover can be used by June. While works in the Charminar zone are under rapid progress, construction of Bahadurpura flyover and Owaisi Hospital flyover is also underway at a brisk pace. “The works pertaining to Panjagutta steel bridge will be completed within a month, and the government is planning to inaugurate it on Telangana Formation Day (June 2),” said a GHMC official. The government had sanctioned the construction of steel bridge and the road widening (two way) at Panjagutta graveyard at an estimated cost of Rs 23 crore under the SRDP. Hyderabad mayor, Bonthu Rammohan, and principal secretary of municipal administration and urban development (MAUD), Arvind Kumar, had inspected the steel bridge on Friday. Another SRDP project to extend the Tolichowki to Gachibowli main road up to Malkam Chervu is also under progress.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/lockdown-helps-officials-put-road-works-across-city-in-the-fast-lane/articleshow/75652563.cms||Nabinder Bommala
May 10, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal: GMC outsources pathology tests to private lab||BHOPAL: Largest tertiary care hospital in the state capital, Gandhi Medical college (GMC) has outsourced all pathology tests to two private laboratories. It is an unprecedented move by the institute which has a multicore Biosafety Level 3 (BSL3) laboratory and authorised to test for Covid-19. “The private laboratories have been entrusted to provide complete range of tests for patients admitted to Hamidia hospital. In some instances, all tests were not being conducted in the GMC laboratories. All tests have been outsourced. It would be better for patient care,” said GMC dean and Hamidia hospital superintendent, Dr AK Shrivastava. Covid-19 test is being conducted at the hospital, he added. It is not clear, if moving laboratory test outside the hospital would delay and increase in getting test reports. BSL3 laboratory in Hamidia hospital is one of a kind facility in Madhya Pradesh. It cost the state government over Rs 20 crore to develop. BSL-3 which involves research using agents that are associated with serious or lethal human disease for which preventative or therapeutic treatments. Department of microbiology has denied reports that some of its staff tested positive for Covid-19. In a similar instance, where person was Covid-19 positive, it led to temporary shutdown of Covid-19 laboratory in Indore. The review finding state that recently a doctor tested positive after it would found that the medical practitioner was ‘not wearing protecting gear in high risk wards of the hospital’. It has been brought to attention through CCTV footage that some paramedics and medical staff ‘moved outside the protected parameter/campus while wearing PPE suits and other protective gear. In effect becoming carriers of the infection’. Sensitisation of best practices, like removing PPE and other gear as per protocol. Moreover, no-movement of patients, suspected to be forced quarantined till Covid-19 test result clears them. GMC best practices under scanner Bhopal: State government requested review of best practices to avoid unintentional spread of Covid-19, was undertaken here on Saturday. A team of experts from AIIMS Bhopal reviewed the hospital and GMC campus. “There have been some inputs from the experts, which are welcome and would be implemented,” said GMC dean and Hamidia hospital superintendent, Dr AK Shrivastava. More than 100 people have been quarantined and over a dozen have tested positive in the hospital. Experts have also recommended to place high-risk suspected patients in quarantine after their samples are collected. Till now, such patients are free to go home and advised to remain in isolation. That said the experts is leading to more infection. A forced quarantine of such patients with the help of district administration has been recommended, he added. The report is expected to be submitted to to Bhopal Divisional commissioner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/gmc-outsources-pathology-tests-to-private-lab/articleshow/75652555.cms||Jamal Ayub
May 10, 2020||Hubballi||KIMS gets ICMR nod for plasma therapy trials||HUBBALLI: The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has permitted Karnataka Institute of Medical Sciences (KIMS), Hubballi, to conduct clinical trials for plasma therapy. KIMS is the state’s second institute after Victoria Hospital in Bengaluru to get the approval. KIMS director Dr Ramlingappa Antartani said the main objective of the trials is to check whether convalescent plasma limits progression to severe diseases among Covid-19 patients. He said that the trials will be conducted as per the conditions laid down by ICMR. “We will draw blood from a person who must have recovered from Covid-19 14 days before the trial. The plasma will be separated from such blood, of which some specified dose will be given to the patients,” he said. Dr Antartani said KIMS is in touch with people cured of Covid-19 who are ready to donate convalescent plasma, if needed. He said KIMS has adequate infrastructure to conduct the trials. He said pathologists from private medical colleges and hospitals will be roped in for the trials. An MoU has been signed with SDM College of Medical Sciences and Hospital in this regard, he said. “The trials will be conducted to save the lives of critical patients. Now, in our hospital or other part of the region, there are no patients in critical condition. If we come across any patient in critical condition, we will begin the trial for plasma therapy,” he said. According to sources, about 13 medical colleges and hospitals in the state are awaiting the ICMR’s approval to conduct clinical trials for plasma therapy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/kims-gets-icmr-nod-for-plasma-therapy-trials/articleshow/75649792.cms||Basavaraj Kattimani
May 10, 2020||Kolkata||Universities in West Bengal to hold end-semester exams in a month after lockdown is lifted||KOLKATA: Universities in Bengal would hold undergraduate and postgraduate end-semester examinations within a month of the lockdown being lifted, education minister Partha Chatterjee said on Saturday after a discussion with vice-chancellors of state varsities. An official said the terminal exams would be held between June 25 and July 7. “We also plan to hold the second, fourth and eighth semester exams after July 15. All will be tested on the syllabus taught till March 15,” he said. A senior Jadavpur University official said the final semester exams for the engineering faculty would be held in June. “From July 1, our engineering students will have to report to their jobs,” he said. But exams will, however, not involve traditional question papers and answerscripts in some universities. Universities have been allowed to use their discretion in altering the evaluation pattern and type of questions to fit the changing needs. Some universities, including Maulana Abul Kalam Azad University of Technology, will conduct the exams online. The rest, except Presidency University, will hold the end-semester exams—sixth semester for UG and 10th semester for PG —in batches at home centres. Presidency will not have any practical or written tests. The last-semester evaluation will be replaced with weightage on cumulative grade points average (CGPA) in the earlier semesters, viva voce, project and internal continuous assessment. It also plans to begin classroom studies only when the new session resumes on September 1. Presidency, Rabindra Bharati University and JU will not open hostels in a hurry. Calcutta University has sought a month’s notice before reopening the 16 hostels. But RBU VC Sabyasachi Basu Ray Chaudhuri said, “Our priority are the visually impaired students who may be given access to hostels.” But campuses are set to look different when they reopen. Canteens, union rooms, common rooms and other hangout zones, will be shut temporarily. Universities will be open six days a week. All universities will sanitize classrooms, compounds and hostels. Sanitizer dispensers will be installed, Students, teachers and staff will have to wear masks. Security staff will screen entrants with thermal guns. Universities will have to keep PPE suits ready. Classes will be held in batches to maintain social distancing. CU VC Sonali Chakravarti Banerjee held a meeting with registrar and pro-VC on Saturday, when they conveyed the decisions to principals of affiliated colleges. Minister Chatterjee said, “Each university has the autonomy to chalk out a plan to reopen campuses and hold exams. The VCs have to update their decision to higher education secretary Manish Jain.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/univs-to-hold-end-semester-exams-in-a-month-after-lockdown-is-lifted/articleshow/75652573.cms||Somdatta Basu
May 10, 2020||Mysuru||Karnataka: Indian grey wolf spotted in Cauvery Sanctuary||MYSURU: In a rare finding, an Indian grey wolf (Canis lupus pallipes) was documented for the first time in Cauvery Wildlife Sanctuary in Chamarajanagara district. The wild animal was documented by Sanjay Gubbi of Nature Conservation Foundation, and his team, while camera trapping for studying leopards. The wolf, which is a male, was camera trapped in Kothnur Range of CWS, in the early morning of April 7. This is possibly the first-ever photographic evidence of the prescence of a wolf in Chamarajanagara district. This record also documents the southern-most limit of wolf presence in Karnataka. Sanjay Gubbi told TOI that in Karnataka, the wolf was sighted in isolated pockets in the drier areas, including Haveri, Koppal, Tumakuru, Raichur, Ballari and other districts. “With this, all the four large canid species found in Southern India, like dholes, Indian wolves, jackals and Bengal foxes have been documented in Chamarajanagara district. We are surprised by the sighting,” he said The Indian gray wolf mostly survives in grasslands, scrub forests, and rarely in dry deciduous forests. Though the species is distributed widely, it is threatened largely due to habitat loss and retaliatory killing. Indian wolf numbers are suspected to be less than that of tigers. They are protected under Schedule - I of the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972. Previous studies in Chamarajanagara districts in Cauvery and MM Hills Wildlife Sanctuaries, BRT Tiger Reserve, and Bandipur Tiger Reserves have also not documented the Indian grey wolf. This study on leopards has yielded very valuable information about other species. For the first time in Karnataka, the study documented the presence of honey badger in 2014. In 2015 the study also recorded a new population of chinkara in Tumakuru district which was later notified as Bukkapatna Chinakara Wildlife Sanctuary. In 2018 this study documented the easternmost limit of brown mongoose in BRT Tiger Reserve. In Karnataka brown mongoose was never recorded outside Virajpet taluk, before this study by Sanjay Gubbi documented it in BRT Tiger Reserve. The study team consists of Sandesh Appu Naik, Girish M N, Gnanendra, Poornesha H C and others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/indian-grey-wolf-sighted/articleshow/75650748.cms||Lakshmikantha BK
May 10, 2020||Madurai||RWAs get hand pumps for disinfection drive||Madurai: The Madurai Corporation has purchased 250 hand pumps to distribute them to residential associations in the city so that they can carry out disinfection measures by themselves. Corporation commissioner S Visakan said they have already started distributing the pumps to the associations. Royal Garden Residents Welfare Association in Karuppayurani was the first to receive the hand pump. S Malaisamy, secretary of the association said a security personnel has been given charge to cover all the 200 houses in the complex. “Importance is given to hand rails, door handles and gates. Disinfection is being carried out both inside and outside houses,” he said. Although the pump has 16 litre-capacity, only 10 litre liquid is used for easy mobility. The associations are also given required disinfection materials. Visakan said that hundreds of sanitation workers, involved in disinfection activities in each containment zone, cover every house at least three times a day. In some houses, the interiors are also covered with permission from the residents. Residents are also given bleaching powder packets, so that they themselves can carryout disinfection activity, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/rwas-get-hand-pumps-for-disinfection-drive/articleshow/75652566.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Madurai||Female jumbo found dead||Tenkasi: A female elephant aged around 13 to 15-years-old was found dead in an interior forest near Karupanadhi Dam in Tenkasi district on Saturday. Since the carcass had started decomposing, the forest department officials suspect that it could have died about two days ago due to injuries caused by a tusker. The carcass was spotted by forest guards in Vairavankulam Beat close to the water spread area of the dam on Saturday morning. “Injuries on the body reveal that it could have been an unsuccessful mating attempt by a tusker,” divisional forest officer (DFO) for Tirunelveli forest division N Senthil Kumar for who visited the spot said. According to the DFO the animal had two old injuries and around four fresh injuries that were caused two to three days ago. An autopsy was conducted by Manoharan the forest department veterinarian attached to the Kalakkad Mundanthurai tiger reserve and Muthukrishnan from the veterinary college and research institute in Tirunelveli. The carcass was then buried as per protocol. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/female-jumbo-found-dead/articleshow/75652567.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Madurai||Fire erupts at Tasmac outlet, put out by locals||Madurai: A fire broke out at a Tasmac shop in Thabal Thanthi Nagar in Madurai city on Friday night. However, residents doused the flames themselves without waiting for fire tenders to arrive. The fire gutted a few carton boxes kept outside the shop. Luckily the fire was doused before it spread inside the shop which was under lock and key. Liqour bottles worth lakhs of rupees kept inside the shops were not damaged by the fire. The incident took place soon after the verdict from the high court ordering Tasmac shops to shut down until the lockdown period came to an end. Police sources from Tallakulam station said while they initially suspected that someone could have set the shop on fire, inquiries revealed that it was not the case. They suspect that a cigarette butt thrown unintentionally could have triggered the fire. By the time a fire tender from Tallakulam fire station reached the spot, the fire had already been put out by people, police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/fire-erupts-at-tasmac-outlet-put-out-by-locals/articleshow/75652576.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Online courses on software security soon||Hyderabad: The Centre for Development of Advanced Computing (C-DAC), Hyderabad will be conducting online courses — ‘software security and secure coding guidelines’ and ‘IoT Bootcamp’ for engineering students. Third and final year engineering students and postgraduate students with electronics/computer science specialisations will be eligible for these courses, which will be conducted in May. On successful completion of the course, students will be given a certificate of participation. “These courses will be conducted by R&D engineers of C-DAC. Two online sessions are planned per week for four weeks’ duration. Students would be provided with assignments,” said A Govardhan, registrar, JNTUH.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/online-courses-on-software-security-soon/articleshow/75652609.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Kolkata||West Benagl: IIT Kharagpur offers in-house internship to students||KOLKATA: Undergraduate students in their the pre-final year at IIT Kharagpur will not have to look for internship in companies or universities outside their campus this year. As venturing out is out of the question during the lockdown, the institute has floated in-house internship projects, asking students to take their pick, either from a topic within their departments or from anything offered by another department that interests them. The move has come as a big relief as internship for eight weeks is compulsory for all pre-final year student. The office of the registrar has instructed departmental heads to pay the interns allowances once they successfully complete their projects. A large number of the UG students are on the campus due to the lockdown. Those who have gone home are also within the fold of the in-house internship; all models are being created online, to be converted into real models once the lockdown is over and components are available. Going by the rules, internship has to begin in April and end by July-end. Students usually take up assignments in companies, not only for the experience and the pay, but also for the fact that many of them are eventually selected during campus placements. Many move to universities in other cities or even abroad. By August, students bring their assessment reports from their supervisors. “Internship cannot be waived off. But given the extraordinary circumstances, all the 19 departments as well as the interdisciplinary schools of studies have been asked to float internship projects. This has started and students are taking them up,” said Debashish Deb, dean, undergraduate studies. The faculty is happy because this system will help “plough back” the manpower it usually loses to the industry. For example, in the civil engineering department, a group of students had taken up desalination of sea water through osmotic/membrane distillation as a project, explained a faculty member, Shirshendu Dey. Another student, Dhruv Saha, has taken up a project to build electromagnetic strips that could remove protein from blood and body extracts, too, he said. At the electronic engineering department, three interns have started on a project to develop an autonomous vacuum cleaner. “This would be very useful for the elderly, especially in lockdown,” said faculty member Prabir Biswas. Another intern is working on error minimisation of outdoor videos by applying his machine-learning skills.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/iit-kgp-offers-in-house-internship-to-students/articleshow/75652595.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
May 10, 2020||Hubballi||8 test +ve in Bhatkal||Karwar: The total number of Covid-19 cases in Uttara Kannada district went up to 33 on Saturday, with 8 more people testing positive in Bhatkal town. This includes the 21 active cases and 12 patients who have been discharged. Uttara Kannada deputy commissioner Harish Kumar K and ZP CEO Mohammad Roshan said that the number of cases may go up, as the test reports of family members of the affected people are awaited. On Saturday, the district administration confirmed that a two-and-a-half-year-old girl, two people aged 65 and 68, a 50-year-old woman, a one-and-a-half-year-old child, a girl aged 17 and woman aged 25, and a 32-year-old woman from Bhatkal, tested positive for Covid-19. The DC said that all these patients will be shifted to the Karwar Institute of Medical Sciences (KIMS). Officials said that it is not a case of community transmission of the virus, but that these patients are the relatives of a woman, who tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday. Addressing the media, Harish Kumar said that the sources of all the active Covid-19 cases in the district are known, and that the people need not worry on this count. Reacting to the opposition by locals in Karwar, to shifting of Covid-19 patients to Karwar from Bhatkal, the DC said that people need not worry, as all the necessary precautions have been taken to prevent the spread of the virus. Roshan said that he had visited the 13 Covid-19 patients admitted in KIMS, and that all of them are stable. Superintendent of police Shivaprakash Devaraju, who is in Bhatkal, addressed the media through video conferencing. He said that the containment areas in Bhatkal town have been sealed, and that no one will be able to come out of their houses there. Drones are being used for surveillance in the town, and the strength of the police has been bolstered there, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/8-test-ve-in-bhatkal/articleshow/75649827.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Goa||Temperatures in normal range, may rain today: IMD||PANAJI: The sweltering heat experienced by Goans this week is still within the normal range according to the India meteorological department (IMD). With the maximum temperature being at 35 degrees Celsius, IMD said that the state has not been hit with the heat wave. “There are no indications of any change in temperatures and they are in the limit of normal value,” IMD scientist M Rahul said. TOI had earlier reported that the maximum temperature during the week will be between 35-36 degrees Celsius and the minimum temperature will vary from 27 to 28 degrees Celsius. The meteorological department has forecast dry weather during the next five days, with the highest temperature likely to prevail between 11am and 3pm. IMD said that the temperatures may not necessarily meet the meteorological criteria for declaring “heat wave” since it needs to cross 37 degrees Celsius. A rise in temperatures and discomfort due to the heat and humidity, however, was anticipated. A trough formation on the other hand, may even make the hot weather bearable as parts of the state is likely to experience light rainfall on May 10 or 11. “There are chances of light rain or thundershower in both districts of Goa. We will issue a nowcast accordingly,” Rahul said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/temperatures-in-normal-range-may-rain-today-imd/articleshow/75652990.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||RT-PCR test not must to discharge mild cases||AHMEDABAD: The state health department on Saturday announced that they will be following the revised ICMR guidelines for discharge of Covid-19 patients with immediate effect. Jayanti Ravi, principal secretary (health and family welfare), on Saturday said that patients with mild and very mild symptoms and pre-symptomatic patients will not require the RT-PCR test. Earlier, the discharge protocol mandated two consecutive negative tests within 24 hours. While discussing the recovery rates and improvement in the number of discharged patients, Ravi said that society will have to learn to live with Covid-19 without fear in the light of the improved recovery rate. About the visit of AIIMS Delhi director Dr Randeep Guleria to Civil Hospital, Ravi said one of the observations made by Dr Guleria was about late reporting of cases to the hospital. Experts pointed out that several callers have not-so-good experiences with helplines run at the city or state levels when they call for potential cases. In fact, several government employees got themselves tested and turned out to be positive even when they were advised not to go for testing. The principal secretary said that 1.09 lakh RT-PCR tests have been conducted so far in Gujarat of which 4,263 were in the 24 hours ending 5pm on Saturday. Senior health department officials, who were part of the meetings with Dr Guleria, told TOI that the emphasis was on identification of early signs of distress and addressing them with standard protocols. “Gujarat has been following the protocols issued by ICMR from time to time and has also taken the lead in some of the experimental treatments, which have yielded good results internationally and in some Indian states,” said a critical care specialist. Experts also said that the condition of critical patients tends to deteriorate very fast and those with co-morbidities have extra caution taken, as the immune response of the body tends to flare up in the presence of the Covid-19 infection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/rt-pcr-test-not-must-to-discharge-mild-cases/articleshow/75652584.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Mumbai||PM must ask CMs to let in migrants: Pawar||Mumbai: A day after 16 labourers were run over by a goods train near Aurangabad, political parties quickly swung into action. NCP president Sharad Pawar sought Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s intervention for safe travel of migrants, opposition leader Devendra Fadnavis took up the issue with railway minister Piyush Goyal, and deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar said the state should bear their travel cost or corporate social responsibilty (CSR) funds must be made available for the purpose. Pawar tweeted that Modi should ask the chief ministers to allow migrants entry into their home states. Pawar also raised the issue with Goyal and CM Uddhav Thackeray, who assured that state transport buses will be made available for migrants. Goyal, too, promised all possible help. Fadnavis suggested to Goyal that a time-bound plan be drafted to shift migrants. A senior NCP minister said it was high time Thackeray personally took up the issue with Goyal as well as general managers of the central and western railways. — Prafulla Marpakwar||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/pm-must-ask-cms-to-let-in-migrants-pawar/articleshow/75652607.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Mumbai||Covid-19: Centre eases discharge rule, BMC scraps strict test order||NEW DELHI/MUMBAI: In a move that is likely to reduce India’s need for Covid-19 testing kits, the Union health ministry on Saturday said mild and moderate cases do not need to be tested before discharge of such patients from hospital. So far, patients have had to test negative twice prior to discharge. The new directive is part of the revised policy for discharge of patients from hospitals. Even for severe cases, a patient would need to test negative only once, as against twice earlier. Testing rules were eased in Mumbai too as the BMC on Saturday revoked a change in protocols ordered by ex-civic chief Praveen Pardeshi on Thursday. The change had meant patients had to go to a BMC quarantine centre to give swab samples and stay there till test results were out, and tests could be done only if routed through BMC’s medical health officer. AMC Suresh Kakani said the order requiring patients to get admitted for tests stood revoked. “Private doctors too can write prescriptions as long as the patient has symptoms,” he said. (See P 2) Case severity to be decided by oxygen saturationThe Union health ministry, outlining its revised discharge policy, said, “Mild/very mild/pre-symptomatic cases admitted to a Covid care facility will undergo regular temperature and pulse oximetry monitoring. The patient can be discharged after 10 days of symptom onset and no fever for 3 days. There will be no need for testing prior to discharge. At the time of discharge, the patient will be advised to follow home isolation for further 7 days as per guidelines.” Moderate cases have been categorised as those whose symptoms resolve within 3 days and where patients maintain oxygen saturation above 95% for the next 4 days. “If the fever resolves within 3 days and the patient maintains saturation above 95% for the next 4 days (without oxygen support), such patient will be discharged after 10 days of symptom onset in case of absence of fever without anti-pyretics, resolution of breathlessness, no oxygen requirement. There will be no need for testing prior to discharge,” stated the policy. The policy also stated that at any point of time, prior to discharge from a Covid care centre, if the oxygen saturation dips below 95%, the patient has to be moved to a Dedicated Covid Health Centre (DCHC) with ICU facility. After discharge from the facility, if the patient again develops symptoms of fever, cough or breathing difficulty, he/she will contact the Covid care centre or state helpline or 1075. His/her health will again be followed up through tele-conference on the 14th day, the policy stated. Till Saturday morning, 15.23 lakh samples were tested for Covid-19. According to the health ministry, the capacity has been ramped up to test around 95,000 samples per day across 332 government and 121 private labs. However, positive cases also continue to rise across the country. In the last 24 hours, 3,320 new confirmed cases have been added, taking the total number of cases to 59,662.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/centre-eases-discharge-rule-bmc-scraps-strict-test-order/articleshow/75652997.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation takes over 12 more hospitals||AHMEDABAD: The Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation has taken over 12 other hospitals in the city which will be Covid care centres. In-charge municipal commissioner Mukesh Kumar has declared these 12 hospitals as designated containment units for isolation of Covid-19 cases for AMC. Kumar said the deputy municipal commissioner (health) Ahmedabad will execute an agreement with the hospitals according to the referred resolution. The hospitals will be be eligible for reimbursement according to the terms and conditions. The staff will be at disposal of the AMC for administration of the concerned area in implementing containment measures. The AMC has said that any person, institution or organization violating the AMC order regarding Covid care centres shall be booked under Section 188 of IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/amc-takes-over-12-more-hospitals/articleshow/75652597.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Mysuru||Mysuru: Childline team stops child marriage, rescues teen||HASSAN: Child rescue team stopped the wedding of a minor girl from Arkalgud village after a whistle-blower dialled the child helpline. According to the team, the girl lost her father eight years ago. After her mother, a daily wager could no longer support her education, the girl dropped out of school last year while she was in Class 9. Soon after, the relatives allegedly forced her mother to marry the girl off to 28-year-old Chandru from Belavadi village in Arkalgud taluk. An engagement ceremony was held on May 3 at the girl’s house despite the mother’s opposition. The marriage was scheduled on May 24 at Eshwar temple in Konanuru of Arkalgud. However, a villager tipped off the child helpline about the child marriage on May 7 following which a team arrived at the girl’s home. After the wedding was called, the girl’s family was threatened by the groom and his family with dire consequences. The groom also demanded the girl’s mother to pay him Rs 50,000 that he had spent for the engagement. Speaking to TOI, coordinator of the rescue team Mallikarjun said, “The team members have taken the mother into confidence following a counselling and the girl has been relocated to government girls’ home. Legal action will be initiated against the the groom and his family.” Child protection officer Kantharaju said the government will take take care of the girl and fund her education till she is 18.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/childline-team-stops-child-marriage-rescues-teen/articleshow/75650789.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Madurai||Salon owner spends Rs 5L savings to gift essential kits to poor||At a time when millions of people are prompted to save their hard-earned money for the uncertain times ahead, a barber shop owner in Madurai city has pulled out his Rs 5 lakh savings to help more than 600 people in his locality who were struggling to stay afloat during the lockdown.C Mohan, 47, who has a salon at Melamadai, spent the money he had saved for his daughter’s education to bring succour to 615 families with a kit each containing 5 kg rice, vegetables and groceries including cooking oil in the last one week. He got assistant commissioner of Anna Nagar range Lilly Grace to hand over the welfare measures.A native of Melasirupothu village in Ramanathapuram district, Mohan arrived in Madurai 20 years ago in search of greener pastures. The unlettered man started a salon and has been running it successfully. With the lockdown keeping his shop shut so far, he has not been earning a pie, but that did not stop him from helping others. Mohan stays at Nellai Thoppu, the first containment zone in Madurai city. Although restrictions have been lifted in the street following completion of treatment to Covid-19 patients, people can start working only after the lockdown is lifted. “Many people came to me seeking help. Some even broke down as they narrated their difficulties, which pained me a lot. I thought there is still time to save for my only daughter’s future. So I withdrew the money from the bank to help these people,” he said.His daughter Nethra, who is studying in class IX, wants to be a civil servant to serve the poor. Mohan says more people are now knocking on his doors for help after word spread about what he did. “There are around 400 families still out there in need of help. I am discussing with my family as to what can be done. We are planning either to pledge my wife’s jewellery or a housing plot that I purchased earlier. I am pretty confident of earning back the money with the help of my customers,” Mohan said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/salon-owner-spends-rs-5l-savings-to-gift-essential-kits-to-poor/articleshow/75652596.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Dehradun||4 new Covid-19 cases found in U’khand, state tally now 67||Dehradun: Uttarakhand reported four new Covid-19 positive cases on Saturday, taking the total number of coronavirus patients in the state to 67. All the new cases are migrant workers based in Udham Singh Nagar, who were returning to the state from other places. Dr Shailja Bhatt, chief medical officer of Udham Singh Nagar, told TOI that all the four persons were caught by city police deployed at district borders while they were attempting to enter Udham Singh Nagar to reach to their homes in Kichha, Rudrapur, and Khatima areas. “Of the four new cases, two were coming from Haryana while one each was coming from Gujarat and Mumbai. The one coming from Gujarat boarded several road transport vehicles to reach Udham Singh Nagar while the other three arrived in their own vehicles. All of them came from hotspot cities but we are still tracing their movement history to ascertain the exact time and cause of infection,” she added. The patients were shifted to Dr Susheela Tiwari Medical College in Haldwani. Notably, Udham Singh Nagar district has reported five new positive cases in last five days after the government allowed industrial activities and movement in various green and orange zones across India. At present, Udham Singh Nagar has the maximum nine active Covid-19 cases in Uttarakhand, followed by Dehradun with seven cases, Haridwar with three cases, and Nainital with one positive case. Meanwhile, one more patient — a staff nurse at AIIMS Rishikesh — recovered fully from the virus on Saturday. Staff members along with the director of AIIMS Rishikesh Dr Ravi Kant greeted the nurse who had recovered, with flowers.With this, the total number of recovered cases has shot up to 46 in Uttarakhand and the recovery rate in the state has become 68.66%. The state has so far tested 9,683 samples, among which only 0.76% has tested positive, as per data provided by the health department. The rate of doubling of Covid-19 cases in Uttarakhand is 38 days, according to the health bulletin released by the department on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/4-new-covid-19-cases-found-in-ukhand-state-tally-now-67/articleshow/75651955.cms||Ishita Mishra
May 10, 2020||Vadodara||Gujarat: Five days to delivery, she kept working on||VADODARA: Much before the pandemic mayhem and lockdown happened, Vanita Rathod, 32, a godown manager at Petlad town of Anand district, was sanctioned maternity leave. But first ‘janta curfew’ took place and then lockdown and Rathod saw things going beyond her personal discomfort. The state government’s food and civil supplies department employee cancelled her leave on March 22, ready, as she says, “ready for the long haul”. In fact, to ensure that the fair price shops in the town continue to witness steady supply of essentials, Rathod worked at her office till the last days of pregnancy. Saluting Rathod’s zeal, Gopal Bamaniya, district supply officer of Anand, said, “After the janta curfew on March 22, I convened a meeting with all the godown managers of Anand asking them to stay prepared for any exigencies. Rathod immediately responded to the call by cancelling her already sanctioned leave. In fact, with her delivery due in April end, I again asked her to reconsider sometime in mid-April, asking her to take it easy. But she put her foot down and continued to work shoulder to shoulder with others, five days before she delivered a baby boy!”. As Rathod continued to do her work diligently, 103 fair price shops in the town distributed ration to the cardholder through the public distribution system. The mother of a four-year-old girl, Rathod travelled 22kms daily from Anand to Petlad, her workplace. Even her husband, who works as instructor at ITI Palana in Kheda district, supported his wife throughout. “I gave birth to my son 10 days ago. Both of us, are extremely happy and healthy. But I can’t wait to get back,” said Rathod, who has finally taken a break for her post-partum care.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/five-days-to-delivery-she-kept-working-on/articleshow/75651599.cms||Prashant Rupera
May 10, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Short-staffed KPC Medical College starts PG admissions||KOLKATA: KPC Medical College started post-graduate admissions on Saturday even as the authorities strived to keep the hospital functional after three patients in the obstetrics section tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday and consequently, 59 staff members had to be quarantined. At 10am on Saturday, post-graduate admissions started with three students. “Two of them took admission in general medicine, while the third joined psychiatry,” a hospital spokesperson said. The new mothers, who turned out to be infected, and their babies were sent to MR Bangur Hospital and the OT, where the deliveries took place, was shut for fumigation and sanitization. But C-sections and other emergency treatment are on, while around 100 patients are currently admitted to the 650-bed hospital. KPC medical director Sourabh Ghosh said, “We are following all safety protocol, samples are being sent for RT-PCR tests every day. Many more might be diagnosed with Covid-19, but that does not stop us from serving hapless patients. It is wrong to assume that the hospital’s functioning has been disrupted.” A team from the health department, which visited the hospital, reportedly expressed satisfaction over the safety arrangements against spread of the novel coronavirus. “Many pregnant woman had not come here for antenatal check-ups but still, we are taking them in,” Ghosh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/short-staffed-kpc-medical-college-starts-pg-admissions/articleshow/75652611.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
May 10, 2020||Mangaluru||Quarantine: Lodges fear losing their brand image||MANGALURU: Many lodges in the city are hesitating to rent their properties to the Dakshina Kannada district administration for institutional quarantine of Indians scheduled to return from foreign countries. They fear stigma and losing brand reputation, leading to financial loss, if their facilities as used as quarantine centres. The district is expected to see the flow of stranded Indian expatriates – mostly from middle east Asian countries – from next week. They are expected to land at Mangaluru International Airport and NMPT before being sent on 14-day quarantine to hotels, service apartments and hostels of education institution. However, about 40-50% of lodge operators are not willing to offer their facilities due to various reasons, including opposition from nearby shops, stigma and bad reputation. According to a data available with STOI, the Dakshina Kannada district administration has kept ready close to 1,000 rooms. Asked about turning down the government’s request, Chandrahas Shetty, president of Mangaluru Hotel Association, said there are several factors. “First is stigma. For example, if there is any positive case reported from a lodging property, it will be sealed off and lead to bad brand image. Secondly, some of the lodging facilities are located near other commercial establishments and they have reportedly objected. Yet another reason is that lodge operators are not sure if all their rooms will be filled up or not. In a lodge, which has about 50 rooms, if only 10 go for quarantine facility, one cannot rent the rest to others and it is a huge loss,” he said. Another hotelier said the district administration had said the area around the property will not be cordoned off if any covid case was reported. “Sealing off the area or making it containment zone, especially in the heart of the city, will affect other commercial establishments which provide essential services. It is better for the administration to focus on hotels and hostels outside city limits and away from residential areas,” said a hotelier.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/quarantine-lodges-fear-losing-their-brand-image/articleshow/75649849.cms||Kevin Mendonsa
May 10, 2020||Madurai||Tamil Nadu: Guest workers protest at Kudankulam||TIRUNELVELI: A section of construction workers at Kudankulam Nuclear Power Plant staged a protest on its premises and attacked Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) personnel and police. The guest workers were protesting the delay in sending them back to their home states. They were also demanding payment of pending wages. A woman police inspector and a constable sustained injuries in the incident. These workers from north Indian states were engaged in the construction of units 3 to 6 of the nuclear power plant. L&T is their contractor. Tension gripped the premises as the protest lasted over two hours. The protesting labourers dispersed only after Tirunelveli district superintendent of police (SP) Omprakash Meena and Cheranmahadevi subcollector Pratik Tayal promised to fulfil their demands. The officials said they would coordinate with nodal officers in other states. Guest workers, who were staying at the site, have not been working since lockdown came into force in March. A police official said, “They were frightened over news reports on the increasing Covid-19 cases in Tamil Nadu and wanted to return home. There has been tension on the campus for the last few weeks. On May 4, they staged a mass sit-in protest asking the contractors to send them home.” The SP said, “There are nearly 4,850 contract workers at the site and only around 800 took part in the agitation. They were armed with clubs and stones and started attacking police. There were only 15 police personnel as against 800 protesters.” The protesters attacked Kudankulam inspector Jegatha Antony with sticks. Constable Sakthivel tried to protect her and sustained a head injury. The inspector too suffered injuries on her right hand and shoulder,” the SP said. Efforts were on to identify the accused as police officials shot videos and photographs of the attack, he said. The SP added that cases would be registered against all the accused. Around 100 police personnel have been deployed at the periphery of the plant. CISF personnel are on guard on the high security premises. Radhapuram MLA IS Inbadurai, who took part in the talks with the officials and L&T representatives, said, “As many as 3,344 guest workers applied to return to their native village during the lockdown. They include 1,100 from Jharkhand and 800 from Bihar. The rest are from other states, including Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh. L&T reportedly has no objection in the labourers leaving for their home town.” The MLA said the state government was coordinating with the nodal officers of the respective states.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/guest-workers-protest-at-kudankulam/articleshow/75652606.cms||M K Ananth
May 10, 2020||Madurai||Madurai: Pastor, 12 others held for conducting prayers, released||MADURAI: The SS Colony police on Saturday arrested 13 people, including a pastor for conducting a prayer on the premises of a church of a private school in the city in violation of curfew rules. They were later released on bail by the police. SS Colony station inspector Arunachalam said the prayer was carried out on Saturday morning in the small church inside a private school campus in Kochadai. The pastor has conducted prayers the last two Saturdays as well. But police teams let him off with a warning. But he has not learnt from it. There were more than 20 people who took part in the prayer including children. They were asked to go home and only men were taken to task, police sources said. The 13 people, including pastor Justin were booked under various sections of the IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/pastor-12-others-held-for-conducting-prayers-released/articleshow/75652610.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Dehradun||Over 25k stranded locals reach U’khand, 503 held for violating lockdown curbs||Dehradun: More than 25,000 persons, who were stuck in different states of the country, were brought back to Uttarakhand, state government officials said on Saturday. Secretary (transport) Shailesh Bagauli, who is also the nodal officer for the process of bringing back locals, said in a media briefing during the day, “A huge number of people have registered themselves on our website. We are checking the capacity of each district in the state before bringing them back. Mainly, the healthcare and other facilities available in the districts are being checked. We are proceeding in a planned manner and a timetable has been chalked out for the exercise.” The stranded people are currently being brought in buses but special trains would soon be run to bring them too, Bagauli said, adding that the efforts to use special trains for bringing back people from distant states are underway although the dates are yet to be officially announced. The state government has also worked out a plan for the next three days to bring back people. According to the plan, 9,300 people are expected to arrive from Uttar Pradesh in the next few days. 173 people are to come from Patiala (Punjab) on May 11, 167 people from Madhya Pradesh on May 10, and 290 people from Punjab on May 10. According to officials, 34,886 people have so far moved from one district to another, and around 6,378 people have gone to other states. Additionally, 27,717 people have registered themselves so that they can be sent to their home states from Uttarakhand. Over 1.7 lakh had registered to be brought to Uttarakhand from other states. Meanwhile, police have registered 52 cases and arrested 503 people on Saturday for allegedly violating lockdown norms in the state. With this, the total number of such cases have soared to 2,800 while the arrests touched 15,651. Similarly, police have also issued challans to 35,329 people and seized 6,335 vehicles for violation of traffic rules. DG (law and order) Ashok Kumar said, “Our teams are vigilant and checkposts have been set up within the city limits, and along district and state borders. We plan to take strict action against any kind of violation of norms.” Ever since the nationwide curbs were imposed on March 25, the state government has earned a total revenue of Rs 1.83 crore through the crackdown on both traffic and lockdown violators.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/over-25k-stranded-locals-reach-ukhand-503-held-for-violating-lockdown-curbs/articleshow/75651966.cms||Kautilya Singh
May 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||Western parts of city report 14 fresh cases||Ahmedabad: The western parts witnessed a relative increase in the number of fresh Covid-19 cases, with 14 reported on Saturday including cases from Shrinandnagar from Vejalpur, Takahi Apartments in Jodhpur Gaam and Radhe Apartments near Sachin Tower in Satellite. The city reported 269 fresh cases and 20 deaths in the 24 hours ending 5pm on Saturday. Fresh cases were reported from Shivanand Flats in Ramdevnagar and a fresh case was reported from Goyal Plaza on Judges Bungalows Road. Goyal Plaza had earlier reported two cases. Cases were also reported from Kasturi-3 on Thaltej-Shilaj road and Garden City in Gota. Fresh cases also reported from Setu Vatika and Badrinarayan Society in Sola. The virus has reached Ranip, New CG Road and Motera, with one case each reported from these areas. Also, one was reported from Das Bungalow in the Polytechnic area. Meanwhile one more corporator from Maninagar and two others from the family were tested positive of corona and the mother and son were admitted to SVP hospital. The western parts of the city now have 653 cases, with 386 cases in the Stadium, Naranpura, Ghatlodia, Paldi and Vasna areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/western-parts-of-city-report-14-fresh-cases/articleshow/75652624.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Madurai||People spotted sans mask inside containment zones||Madurai: While wearing masks when stepping out of the house has been made mandatory, many people in containment zones like Melamadai, Yagappa Nagar and Mapalayam are seen going to shops without covering their faces. Some of them leave the masks hanging near the chin and do not wear it properly. In Anna Nagar, a man without a mask was chided by his fellow shopper on Saturday, but he claimed that he had forgotten to wear it. “It is not something that you can afford to forget as you are putting yourself and us at risk,” said K Arunkumar, another resident of Anna Nagar. Owners of few smaller shops insist people to come with masks. “Please wear masks and maintain a safe distance,” owner of one such small shop, Malliga Store in Gomathypuram, tells his shoppers. Meanwhile, there are many, who cannot afford to buy a mask. Yasoda, a fruit vendor, who comes from Chinthamani, said that she had found that a basic mask is priced at Rs 40. “It is half the profit amount that I make and now business has been very dull, so I use my saree and wrap it around my face when some people ask me to wear it,” she said. A Police official on duty in West Masi Street said that he warns people, who come out in this containment zone that they would be fined if they failed to wear masks. Madurai district collector Dr T G Vinay has warned of strict action against anyone found to be roaming without masks in public places. On Friday, vendors and loadmen, who were not wearing masks, were fined in the Paravai market.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/people-spotted-sans-mask-inside-containment-zones/articleshow/75652608.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Goa||Trekkers alert officials to another tiger kill in Sattari||Keri: A buffalo grazing in the forests of Nanoda in Sattari was recently attacked and killed by a tiger. Forest officials confirmed the incident after trekkers alerted them. Various indicators inside the Mhadei Wildlife Sanctuary and the forested areas of Keri and Valpoi pointed to the presence of two tigers and one tigress. A villager going to his relatives’ house recently from Codal to Satre spotted a tiger crossing the road, towards the Nanoda river. This tiger has been sighted repeatedly by villagers of Satre, Derode and others in the vicinity. Range forest officer (RFO) of Mhadei wildlife sanctuary, Vilas Gawas, told TOI, “When we got information about a buffalo being killed, we visited the spot in Nanoda. The evidence we have indicated that the buffalo was killed by a tiger. However, nobody so far has claimed for compensation for the dead buffalo. Seems like the tiger went into the forests of Bhimgad wildlife sanctuary in Karnataka.” Villagers from Surla have noticed the presence of another male tiger in the area. A fortnight ago, a tiger killed a buffalo in the hilly areas of Charavane, on the way to Ponsuli in Sattari. Employees of the eco-resort situated along the Goa-Maharashtra border told TOI that they repeatedly hear the roar of the tiger in the forested areas. Vivek Gaonkar, RFO of Keri said, “Recently, we found pugmarks of a tiger near the Anjunem reservoir. Though, we have installed cameras, so far, no images have been trapped. Our guards have been patrolling these areas.” The Bhimgad sanctuary which shares boundaries with the Mhadei sanctuary has noted presence of 16 tigers, as per the information provided by T Amrut, RFO of the Bhimgad sanctuary. Subodh Naik of Vivekanand environment awareness brigade, who works in these areas, says, “There is need for coordinated efforts from the forests officials of Goa, Maharashtra and Karnataka for the protection of the big cats. All these areas are habitats for tigers as well as corridors. The Union ministry of environment, forests and climate change should take necessary steps by taking forest departments of Goa, Maharashtra and Karnataka into confidence.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/trekkers-alert-officials-to-another-tiger-kill-in-sattari/articleshow/75653006.cms||Rajendra P Kerkar
May 10, 2020||Delhi||Technology to help Delhi Police breach iPhones, get back deleted data||NEW DELHI: Delhi Police is going to procure a technology which will help the cops extract data from iPhones seized by them from suspects. The software can even extract deleted data and data from installed applications on the phones. Also on its shopping list is mobile phone imaging and data extraction software using which the Cyber Cell can decode and extract password screen locks for devices and a software for unlocking the phone using brute force method, documents reviewed by TOI show. “It can even decrypt WhatsApp’s new encrypted chat history database i.e. Crypt8 and support iCloud Backup to decode the iCloud backup obtained from Apple devices,” reveals one of the documents. The data acquisition device being procured will allow the police officer to preview active files on the suspect’s drive prior to seizing the data. It will also feature a built-in audio system for discreet listening. “It will analyse registry of Windows-based machines to extract vital information like a typed web address, USB device information, saved passwords, etc. It will also have a built-in module to recover passwords from over 100 applications,” reads the document. The mobile phone imaging and extraction software will allow Delhi Police to perform extraction across versions of iPhones, starting from iPhone 4 to IOS 10. It will also work on iPod touch and iPad. The programme will also allow Delhi Police to retrieve and analyse GPS data. “It will provide the support for extraction from Chinese phones too. The tech will provide investigators and analysts an immediate visual picture of the communication methods of the suspects so that the relationship between the entities can be understood,” it adds. The tech will reveal communication links between multiple mobile devices based on a complete range of existing, hidden and deleted data types, such as mutual contacts, calls, SMS, MMS, emails, chats, app messages and locations. Police are also procuring a ‘bundle software’ which will help it recover deleted data from applications like Facebook, Facebook messenger, Chrome, LinkedIn, WhatsApp, Kik and Whisper. The software for extraction of data from SIM cards will have support to read from multiple languages like Arabic, Chinese and Russian.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/tech-to-help-police-breach-iphones-get-back-deleted-data/articleshow/75652998.cms||Raj Shekhar
May 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||IIM-Ahmedabad introduces 10 EWS seats for this academic year||AHMEDABAD: Following guidelines from the ministry of human resource development (MHRD), IIM Ahmedabad (IIM-A) from the academic year 2020-21 has introduced 10 seats as a quota for economically weaker sections (EWS). The admission process for IIM-A’s flagship PGP MBA course this year will reflect these seats, said B-school officials. Officials added that the institute had already made a representation to gradually increase such seats corresponding to infrastructure to reach the 10% mark. On Friday, IIM-A issued 430 admission letters to the successful candidates. Officials said that this year’s batch size would be 395. Officials said that they are yet analyse how many aspirants from Gujarat made it to the premier institute. Engineering students continued to dominate the batch. Of the successful candidates this year, 79% have engineering backgrounds. The number was similar last year, said officials. Similarly, the gender ratio has not improved much compared to past years with women forming 23% of those selected. The average work experience of successful candidates is about 22 months. Prof Vishal Gupta, chairperson (admissions) at IIM-A, said that admission letters have been sent to 430 candidates for the PGP course and 47 for PGP-FABM. “IIM-A has over the years been trying to promote diversity in its PGP cohort. We are happy that this year also we have a healthy mix of engineering and non-engineering students and a good male to female ratio,” he said. IIM-A officials said that the admission process remained largely unaffected by the Covid-19 epidemic and on the lines of previous years, this year also the selections have happened considering candidates scores in the CAT, application rating (that included performance in Classes X, XII and their Bachelor’s degree), personal interviews and analytical writing tests. All interviews were conducted face-to-face before the lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/iim-a-introduces-10-ews-seats-for-this-academic-year/articleshow/75652623.cms||Parth Shastri
May 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad youth offers model for quicker detection||AHMEDABAD: For Ujjawal Panchal, a 21-year-old undergraduate who is in his final year at a college in Chennai, getting stuck in his hometown of Ahmedabad due to the lockdown seems to have opened new doors. At a time when the country is grappling with the shortage of Covid-19 testing kits, this city-based youth has set up a model where chest X-ray scans can detect SARS-Cov-2 infection. And the cost is about one-tenth of a regular Covid-19 test. Panchal has put this technique online for free and people can upload their X-ray images and within seconds, the results flash on the screen. The idea came to him recently when he was studying time frequency analysis to improve computer vision for recognizing characters. He came across a few articles on medical imaging using computer vision. This was a few days ahead of the nationwide lockdown announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in March. The artificial intelligence-powered model utilizes convolutional neural networks used in chest X-ray which are useful in detecting Covid-19 when there are not enough number of radiologists or when the number of cases go too high. “For a data scientist, the main power of every AI model is data and the quality of data,” says Panchal who is studying at SRM Institute of Science and Technology, Chennai. “I started collecting data ahead of the lockdown. So, at a time when there is concern about genetically mutating coronavirus, we have used a robust dataset for our model with inputs from China, Italy, Spain, Canada and several other places.” Many radiologists and doctors have shown interest in his work. Recently, a private hospital used Panchal’s method and achieved about 84% accuracy in the results. Presently, he is working in association with his mentor from Stanford University Manny Ko to further enhance the AI model, says Panchal. Dr Deepak Vohra, an Ahmedabad critical care specialist, said that the model prepared by Panchal is very effective and it should be extensively used for the detection of Covid-19. Over the past few days, many such models have come on the internet which claim to achieve high classification accuracy. “However, these models can only classify correctly for healthy patients and patients with Covid-19,” according to Panchal. “The problem is many of the symptoms seen in Covid-19 are also present in patients with other diseases. The accuracy of these other models falls drastically when given such cases. This renders these models unusable.” What makes Panchal’s dataset unique is that along with samples of Covid-19 it contains images with other similar diseases including pneumonia, chlamydophila, fungal pneumonia, klebsiella, legionella, MERS, SARS and others, he adds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/city-youth-offers-model-for-quicker-detection/articleshow/75652620.cms||Bharat Yagnik
May 10, 2020||Dehradun||Adi Kailash Yatra unlikely in June, may be held in Sept: Officials||Pithoragarh: Like the Kailash Mansarovar Yatra, uncertainty also looms over the Adi Kailash Yatra on whether it will take place this year in the wake of the novel coronavirus pandemic. Officials of the Kumaon Mandal Vikas Nigam (KMVN), nodal agency for the yatra, said that they are yet to start the preparations for the pilgrimage, adding that they may consider organising it in September now. The yatra traditionally begins in June every year along with the Kailash Mansarovar Yatra and goes on till October. KMVN managing director Rahul Meena told TOI, “We are waiting for the lockdown to end on May 17 after which a suitable decision will be taken.” Meanwhile, KMVN chairman Kedar Joshi said that the government is likely to consider holding the Adi Kailash Yatra if the coronavirus situation in the country improves as the religious site is located in the Indian territory unlike Mount Kailash which is in Chinese territory. “We can consider starting the pilgrimage in September if the conditions are favourable,” he added. Meanwhile, tour operators said that some pilgrims have already cancelled their bookings for the Adi Kailash Yatra. A local tour operator Basu Pande said, “Three groups from Pune have already cancelled their bookings. At least 10 other private tour operators have also informed us that their bookings are being cancelled.” Adi Kailash peak, situated 6,000 metres above sea level in Dharchula tehsil, is considered a sacred peak by many and closely resembles Mount Kailash in appearance. When the India-China war broke out in 1962, the Rung community of Dharchula started performing rituals at Adi Kailash as they could not go to Mount Kailash. Subsequently, when the Kailash Mansarovar Yatra was started through the Lipulekh Pass in 1981, Adi Kailash Yatra also gained popularity among the pilgrims.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/adi-kailash-yatra-unlikely-in-june-may-be-held-in-sept-officials/articleshow/75651971.cms||Prem Punetha
May 10, 2020||Mysuru||37 people return from Maha & Gujarat, detained||Shivamogga: Nearly 37 people, who returned from Maharashtra and Gujarat to Shivamogga late on Friday, have been detained by police. The police and health department officials are collecting their details. They entered Shivamogga through Chitradurga-Shivamogga Road and were detained at Holehonnuru check-post on Friday night. Most of them had valid passes to cross the border district. On March 5, nine persons from Shikaripura travelled to Ahmedabad by train for a Jamaath congregation. Due to lockdown, they got stranded in Ahmedabad and quarantined. The Gujarat government sent them back to Shivamogga by private vehicles and they reached here on Friday. The remaining 28 were working in Maharashtra and they too reached Shivamogga on same night. District health officer Rajesh Suragihalli told TOI that the group which reached Shivamogga was from Maharashtra and Gujarat. They have been taken to a private college ground and their background information including travel history have been collected. The health department officials collected their throat swabs and sent to laboratory for examination. They will be quarantined at a separate facility in a private college hostel, the DHO said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/37-people-return-from-maha-gujarat-detained/articleshow/75650811.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Hyderabad||College educators likely to be paid 50% less in Telangana||HYDERABAD: Following the footsteps of the state government, technical colleges including those teaching engineering and pharmacy, have decided to pay faculty members only 50% of their salaries for April, May, June and July. Citing severe financial crisis, the managements said they would be able to clear the deferred salary only after the state government clears fee reimbursement dues. In an online meeting, which was attended by 80 engineering college managements, they passed a resolution on salary cuts and have decided to communicate their decision to the officials of the education department and universities. “Most of the managements said that they are not in a position to pay salaries at all. However, we have requested that they pay at least 50% of salaries,” said a founder of an education group, which also runs an engineering college, during the meeting. He said that colleges would be imposing 50% or more salary cuts starting from April’s salary. Managements said that most of them had planned their finances until March 31 and were banking on clearance of fee reimbursement dues to pay salaries and run their colleges from April. Hardly 1% of technical colleges in the state are said to have paid 100% salaries to their employees for April. They have also informed the All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) about their financial condition. “We did not even receive a single rupee from the state government towards fee reimbursement for the academic year 2019-20. We expected that at least 40% of the amount will be paid by March 31,” said K Ramadas, president, Telangana Private Pharmacy Colleges Managements Association. He added that managements were hoping the state would clear dues in July. Faculty members, meanwhile, said that many colleges have announced deferments either through internal circulars or online meetings. “We were not informed about the percentage of salary cut or when the deferred amount would be paid, but were told that we won’t be getting our salaries in full,” said a faculty member working in an engineering college in Medchal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/college-educators-likely-to-be-paid-50-less/articleshow/75652642.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
May 10, 2020||Delhi||Sex chatroom: Delhi Police not happy with Insta reply||NEW DELHI: Delhi Police claimed to be dissatisfied by the response it got from social media platform Instagram in the case of ‘Bois Locker Room’, where a group of male students made sexual threats to girls and carried on salacious conversations about their female schoolmates. On Saturday, Delhi Commission for Women also sent a second notice to police on the case after a girl student alleged receiving threats. Police sources said that Instagram had shared details of only three accounts so far. “With this information, it is only possible to confirm if the account was used by any of the students identified by police. Even the other details only show when the user was registered and nothing more than that,” a source claimed. Delhi Police’s Cyber Cell has rewritten to Instagram for more details. So far, the cops have examined 24 members of the group. Apparently, the investigators haven’t yet found any direct link of students with other groups on the platform. “Some of the students who were questioned knew the members on the digital group,” the source added. Meanwhile, a minor girl related to the case told DCW that she had been receiving death and acid attack threats and submitted screenshots of the threat messages. After finding police’s response to the first notice on the case, the commission has now issued a second one, seeking action from both police and Instagram on these threats. Responding to DCW’s notice in the Bois Locker Room case, Delhi Police reported to the panel that an FIR was registered and some boys involved had been rigorously interrogated. However, the cops did not provide a copy of the FIR to the commission, resulting in a new notice being issued. DCW has also asked Instagram again for information on the process of dealing with sexual harassment complaints. DCW chairperson Swati Maliwal, who claimed to have herself received threats and complained to police, said, “The girls who exposed this case have received death and acid attack threats, which is very scary. The police should take immediate action on all such threats. Instagram also needs to tell the process they adopt to deal with such complaints. Do they automatically take cognisance and report to police or wait for police to approach them in such matters?”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/sex-chatroom-police-not-happy-with-insta-reply/articleshow/75652644.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Surat||April power bills can be paid by May 30 in Gujarat||GANDHINAGAR: The deadline for payment of electricity bills for March-April has been extended till May 30, the state government took the decision on Saturday. This is for power customers of all electricity distribution companies in the state. Chief minister Vijay Rupani has decided to provide financial relief to small and middle class traders, shopkeepers and industries in the state by exempting all such LT customers from fixed charge on their April electricity bills. Earlier, the state government had decided to exempt only closed units from fixed charge exemption. It has been decided not to charge the fixed charge from HT customers in the state whose power consumption during lockdown was less than 50% of the average consumption of the previous three months. This exemption will not apply to bank, telecom companies, petrochemical complex refineries and dairy as well as hospitals. Hospitals whose power consumption is 50% less than the average of the previous three months of lockdown are also exempted from fixed charge, the state government has decided.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/april-power-bills-can-be-paid-by-may-30/articleshow/75654954.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||More than half of all Shramik trains departed from Gujarat||Gandhinagar: Gujarat has topped the country in terms of sending migrant workers back to their native states by special trains. Of the total 251 trains that have departed from across the country, carrying migrant workers back to their homes, 136 or 55% of the total trains, have departed from cities of Gujarat. Official data says that after Gujarat, Maharashtra has sent about 40 trains, Punjab 37 trains and Telangana has sent 23 trains carrying migrant workers to their respective states. Vipul Mittra, additional chief secretary, labour & employment and the nodal officer for the migrant workers movement through trains, said that over 2.20 lakh migrant workers have boarded special Shramik trains from Gujarat since the Union government allowed migrant workers to go back to their respective states from May 1.Mittra added that beginning with two trains a day, the number of trains being operated today has been scaled up to 50. “We are working closely with the railways and receiving states to arrange at least 50 trains on a daily basis for the next few days. As many as 180 trains have been finalised already,” he said, adding that this feat has been made possible because of constant monitoring and coordination of the entire team comprising collectors, DRMs and other officials. “This is unprecedented, even as government offices are presently working with one-third strength,” he said. The number of special trains run in the last eight days will cross 180, and the number of passengers ferried in excess of 2.20 lakh, said Mittra, adding that Gujarat is way ahead of other states as far as the number of trains run, and the number of workers transported. Of the 130 Shramik special trains run as of Friday, 85 were to Uttar Pradesh, 21 to Bihar, 16 to Odisha, and four each to MP and Jharkhand. While the majority of the trains have departed from Ahmedabad (23) and Surat (22), special trains have also been run from Vadodara, Anand, Bharuch, Nadiad, Palanpur, and other cities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/more-than-half-of-all-shramik-trains-departed-from-gujarat/articleshow/75652627.cms||Kapil Dave
May 10, 2020||Delhi||Students write to Delhi CM for rent relief||NEW DELHI: Ever since the coronavirus-induced lockdown has started, Delhi government has repeatedly asked landlords not to demand rent from students. Kejriwal had even recently asked students to complain to the district magistrates against erring owners. But with many students still being forced to pay the rent, they have written a letter to chief minister Arvind Kejriwal. In the letter sent on Saturday, a group of students from different organisations urged the government to add “students” along with “migrant workers” in the rent waiver order. In the order issued on March 22, the government had only said that “under Section 22 of the Disaster Management Act, wherever the workers, including the migrants, are living in rented accommodations, the landlords of these properties shall not demand payment of rent for a period of one month”. “The order doesn’t specifically mention students and landlords are taking advantage of this loophole,” claimed Anmol Singh, founder of United Students’ Forum. “The capacity of the government order seems to be binding from March 29 to April 29. Since the lockdown has been extended nationwide, there is an urgent need for clarification. Many students are struggling to pay and are being threatened with eviction,” the students wrote in the letter to the CM. Amol Kadam, a civil service aspirant from Maharashtra, said his father couldn’t withdraw his pension this month. “But when I cited the government order to my landlord at Rajendra Nagar, he told me that students weren’t mentioned in it.” “My landlord has also given me an ultimatum despite being told that my father’s business has suffered huge losses due to the lockdown,” rued Upasana, another UPSC aspirant from Uttar Pradesh. “Students are not complaining to authorities as they are scared of losing their accommodation,” claims Maithry of Kerala Students’ Association. “Women students are more scared of getting evicted,” claimed Amal K Simon, president of the association. House owners, meanwhile, have their own concerns. “I am dependent on the monthly income from the rent. Will the government compensate if it’s asking me to give relief?” asked a PG owner in north Delhi’s Hudson Lane. BS Vohra, president of East Delhi RWA Joint Front, said while landlords had been requested to waive off the rent on humanitarian grounds, the government needed to help those who relied solely on rent. Reiterating that errant landlords will be punished, a Delhi government official told TOI there was no provision to compensate them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/students-write-to-cm-for-rent-relief/articleshow/75652999.cms||Mohammad Ibrar
May 10, 2020||Dehradun||Stranded in Haridwar, tourists who can bear the cost start journey to home||Dehradun: Around 173 tourists from West Bengal and 30 from Jharkhand left for their homes from Uttarakhand in buses and taxis on Saturday. Haridwar district administration had set up camps for the stranded tourists who were willing to return to their homes at their own expense after a proper health check-up. Around 1,100 tourists had been stuck in Haridwar for more than a month-and-a-half due to the lockdown. Among them, as many as 800 tourists were natives of West Bengal, according to officials. Seema Nautiyal, a district official, told TOI that a list of tourists stranded in Haridwar has been prepared by the administration after visiting all hotels and ashrams. However, a number of tourists who said they had run out of money told TOI that they have no other option but to wait for some arrangement by either the Uttarakhand government or their respective state governments to bring them back home. KS Dastidar, a tourist, told TOI, “We e-mailed nodal officers of West Bengal but in vain. We even didn’t get any response at helpline numbers released by Bengal government.” “We had come to Uttarakhand on a seven-day trip on March 18 but got stuck here due to the lockdown. We are running out of money and other essential items. My 75-year-old mother-in-law is also stuck with me. We request the West Bengal government to help us and ensure our return,” said Anup Kumar Pal, a tourist. He had come with a group of 18 tourists from Madhyamgram, Fulia, Chakda, and Siliguri towns of West Bengal. Similarly, 48 migrant workers, who were employed with various hotels in Haridwar, have urged officials to ensure their return. They all are residents of West Bengal’s Bankura district. Arun Chatterjee, one of the workers, told TOI, “Besides contacting Bankura’s district magistrate, we also sought help from Haridwar police station and SDM but no one is helping us.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/stranded-in-haridwar-tourists-who-can-bear-the-cost-start-journey-to-home/articleshow/75651978.cms||Sukanta Mukherjee
May 10, 2020||Rajkot||April power bills can be paid by May 30 in Gujarat||GANDHINAGAR: The deadline for payment of electricity bills for March-April has been extended till May 30, the state government took the decision on Saturday. This is for power customers of all electricity distribution companies in the state. Chief minister Vijay Rupani has decided to provide financial relief to small and middle class traders, shopkeepers and industries in the state by exempting all such LT customers from fixed charge on their April electricity bills. Earlier, the state government had decided to exempt only closed units from fixed charge exemption. It has been decided not to charge the fixed charge from HT customers in the state whose power consumption during lockdown was less than 50% of the average consumption of the previous three months. This exemption will not apply to bank, telecom companies, petrochemical complex refineries and dairy as well as hospitals. Hospitals whose power consumption is 50% less than the average of the previous three months of lockdown are also exempted from fixed charge, the state government has decided.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/april-power-bills-can-be-paid-by-may-30/articleshow/75654953.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Vadodara||April power bills can be paid by May 30 in Gujarat||GANDHINAGAR: The deadline for payment of electricity bills for March-April has been extended till May 30, the state government took the decision on Saturday. This is for power customers of all electricity distribution companies in the state. Chief minister Vijay Rupani has decided to provide financial relief to small and middle class traders, shopkeepers and industries in the state by exempting all such LT customers from fixed charge on their April electricity bills. Earlier, the state government had decided to exempt only closed units from fixed charge exemption. It has been decided not to charge the fixed charge from HT customers in the state whose power consumption during lockdown was less than 50% of the average consumption of the previous three months. This exemption will not apply to bank, telecom companies, petrochemical complex refineries and dairy as well as hospitals. Hospitals whose power consumption is 50% less than the average of the previous three months of lockdown are also exempted from fixed charge, the state government has decided.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/april-power-bills-can-be-paid-by-may-30/articleshow/75654951.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||April power bills can be paid by May 30 in Gujarat||GANDHINAGAR: The deadline for payment of electricity bills for March-April has been extended till May 30, the state government took the decision on Saturday. This is for power customers of all electricity distribution companies in the state. Chief minister Vijay Rupani has decided to provide financial relief to small and middle class traders, shopkeepers and industries in the state by exempting all such LT customers from fixed charge on their April electricity bills. Earlier, the state government had decided to exempt only closed units from fixed charge exemption. It has been decided not to charge the fixed charge from HT customers in the state whose power consumption during lockdown was less than 50% of the average consumption of the previous three months. This exemption will not apply to bank, telecom companies, petrochemical complex refineries and dairy as well as hospitals. Hospitals whose power consumption is 50% less than the average of the previous three months of lockdown are also exempted from fixed charge, the state government has decided.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/april-power-bills-can-be-paid-by-may-30/articleshow/75652628.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Dehradun||How ‘mother’s teaching’ is helping women deal with Covid lockdown||Dehradun: The Uttaranchal Mahila Association had organised an online essay competition for women in times of the Covid-19 lockdown recently on the theme of ‘Lessons from your mother which came handy during the lockdown’. The response revealed some interesting experiences shared by women, including how they are tackling increased load of household chores by remembering the lesson of patience taught by their mothers. The other experiences shared by women include how sewing and stitching taught by their mothers helped them make face masks for their family members using cotton cloth, when the market price of masks had soared up to several hundred rupees. Talking to TOI, Sadhna Sharma, president of Uttaranchal Mahila Association, said, “Since the lockdown was announced, a lot of women associated with us shared about their increased workload at home and how their mothers' advice given at some point in life is helping them cope with different situations now." Kalpana Sharma from Dehradun who received the first prize said, “We get so engrossed in our daily duties looking after the family that we hardly get to do something of our choice. Since the lockdown was announced and wearing mask had become compulsory, I used my skills taught by my mother to stitch masks at home. Writing about the experience was very special as it reminded me of the time I spent with my mother." Another winner of the competition, Sonia Srivastava said, “My mother was very particular about washing our hands before entering the house. The outbreak of coronavirus has re-emphasised the habit taught by my mother long back. I am ensuring the same for my family." “It was really tough to choose the winners as each entry carried an important message in itself. Women have tried to make most of the competition by writing about their real life experiences," Sadhna Sharma added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/how-mothers-teaching-is-helping-women-deal-with-covid-lockdown/articleshow/75651997.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Kolkata||No new patient in hosp||Kolkata: Two women, who gave birth at Chittaranjan Seva Sadan, tested positive for Covid-19, following which the Hazra Road government-run hospital decided to suspend new admissions. The two women and their newborns were shifted to Medical College and Hospital. Last week, three other women there had tested positive after delivery. “We will keep our emergency services open. This closure is only temporary as we have to sanitize the gynaecology ward thoroughly,” said a hospital official. Six patients were on Saturday discharged from Desun Hospital, the latest private hospital to be turned into a Covid facility.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/no-new-patient-in-hosp/articleshow/75652632.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Hubballi||Economic activities in Hubballi to resume tomorrow||DHARWAD: Dharwad district minister Jagadish Shettar on Saturday announced that Hubballi city will open its door to financial activities from Monday. Excluding the shops and establishments coming under containment zones, all others providing essential commodities can open from Monday, he said. After holding a meeting with district officials at the deputy commissioner’s office to review the situation, Shettar said that except in Hubballi, economic activities have gained momentum in other parts of the district. “From Monday onwards, all the shops including provision stores, hotels (only takeaway facility) and others registered under the Shops and Establishment Act will resume their services. These shops can continue to operate on all the seven days from 7am to 7pm,” he added. However, he cautioned people not to misuse this relaxation and take all precautionary and safety measures to avoid getting infected. “People have to maintain social distancing, wear mask compulsorily and stop venturing out unnecessarily,” he said. Shettar said that malls, shopping complexes, temples, gyms, bar and restaurants will continue to remain closed. People cannot come out of their house from 7pm to 7am as prohibitory orders are in force. “The industries which are working on night shifts should make temporary staying facility for their workers on their premises,” he added. To prevent rush in market areas and provision shops, the process of delivering fruits, vegetables and grocery items at people’s doorsteps will continue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/economic-activities-in-hubballi-to-resume-tomorrow/articleshow/75650837.cms||GURURAJ JAMKHANDI
May 10, 2020||Trichy||177 stranded in Malaysia arrive in Trichy||TRICHY: It was a much-awaited touch-down for 177 Indians who were stranded in Malaysia when an Air India Express flight carrying them landed at the Trichy international airport on Saturday night under the Vande Bharat mission. Employees of private companies, businessmen and students were among the 109 men and 68 women passengers who were natives of various districts including Trichy. District collector S Sivarasu and other officials were at the airport to receive the passengers when the flight landed at 10.20 pm against the scheduled arrival of 9.40 pm. The pictures of passengers on board the flight before take-off from Kuala Lumpur were already tweeted a few hours ago. The flight had left Trichy for Kuala Lumpur in the afternoon to bring back the returnees. The passengers were put through screening test before being taken to the quarantine facility at the Sethurapatti government engineering college or hotels of their choice. The buses of the college were stationed at the airport for the transportation. Those with Covid-19 symptoms will be taken to the isolation ward at Mahatma Gandhi memorial government hospital (MGMGH). The district administration was yet to release the details of the number of quarantined and isolated passengers till the time of going to press. Collector S Sivarasu was in engaged a series of discussions with airport director K Gunasekaran and health department officials since morning with regard to the arrangements for screening the passengers. The team also carried out a mock exercise of the protocol at the airport before the flight arrived. The district administration had decided to choose the already identified boys and girls hostels of government college of engineering at Sethurapatti for quarantine facility as soon as word came about the special flight to Trichy. An official source said the 600 beds were arranged at the hostels which were equipped with necessary facilities to cater to the basic needs of the passengers. A couple of tahsildar-level officers were assigned the task of coordinating with the stranded passengers in Malaysia. The officials created a WhatsApp group with all the passengers as members to apprise them of the mandatory procedures to be followed on their arrival at Trichy. They were told that they will be quarantined for 14 days at the institutional facility as mandated by the Centre. They have also been given the option of choosing between the government-provided free facility at the engineering college and self-paid hotel facility. The room tariff of some of the hotels was also conveyed to them on the WhatsApp group.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/177-stranded-in-malaysia-arrive-in-trichy/articleshow/75652630.cms||R Gokul
May 10, 2020||Mangaluru||Three test +ve for Covid-19, connected to First Neuro Hospital cluster||MANGALURU: Even as health authorities are scrambling to find answers on who P-0 is, as far as the First Neuro Hospital cases are concerned, three more people tested positive for Covid-19 in Dakshina Kannada on Saturday. The trio were primary contacts of P-578, a 69-year-old man from Kasba village in Bantwal taluk, who in turn was a primary contact of P-390, the first victim of Covid-19 in the district. P-390 is among the three people who succumbed to Covid-19 in the district. P-390 was the daughter-in-law of P-432. P-432 was treated at First Neuro Hospital in Padil. The hospital has been designated a supervised isolation centre. While P-390 died on April 19, P-432 died four days later. District health authorities maintain that P-390 had visited the hospital on April 2 to inquire about her mother-in-law’s health, and could have contracted the disease there. Saturday’s positive cases are all members of a family, who are related to P-390, and lived in the same neighbourhood in Kasba village. Designated P-777, P-778 and P-779 in the state bulletin issued at 12pm on Saturday, P-777 is a man aged 30, P-778 is a woman aged 60 and P-779 is a woman aged 70. P-578, who tested positive on May 1, is being treated at Wenlock Hospital, the designated Covid-19 hospital for Dakshina Kannada. Eight family members of P-578 were quarantined after the 69-year-old tested positive, and three of them have tested positive for Covid-19. The three patients who tested positive for Covid-19 on Saturday, as well as the 14 other patients afflicted by the disease, can be traced back to P-390, and her link to First Neuro Hospital. With this, the total active cases in the district has gone up to 15, and a total 25 people in the district have been afflicted by Covid-19 so far. Six people from outside the district were successfully treated for the disease here, and discharged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/3-test-ve-for-covid-19-connected-to-first-neuro-hosp-cluster/articleshow/75649877.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Dehradun||Small businesses dependent on tourism stare at bankruptcy, seek govt bailout||Nainital/Mussoorie: As tourism, the mainstay of Uttarakhand’s economy, came to a grinding halt due to the coronavirus outbreak, small business owners dependent on tourists now stare at long-term losses. TOI spoke to several shopkeepers and restaurant owners in the hill state, who said business wasn’t likely to pick up in the coming months and with their savings running out, they are now on the brink of bankruptcy. They said that it was time the government extended financial help to revive businesses. Raees Ahmed, a restaurant owner in Nainital’s Mall Road said, “We have not opened our shop for almost 45 days. We haven’t made a dime of profit but are still paying our bills as usual. I don’t know how much longer we will be able to sustain ourselves.” Mukesh Kumar, a shopkeeper from Nainital’s Bara Bazaar area said, “Most of us make almost half of our profits in these three to four months of summer. Now, that looks next to impossible. Even if the lockdown is lifted in a week, the hospitality sector will take months to recover.” Other than the summer holidays, hill stations receive the most footfall around Christmas and New Year’s Eve. “We lost business in December and January due to the protests against CAA and NRC. Even if the restrictions are lifted, we would still need help from the government to get back on our feet,” added Kumar. Virendra Dobhal, who owns a small photo studio in Mussoorie, said, “Our business in entirely dependent on tourism. We don’t know how we will ever tide over this crisis.” Close to hundred shopkeepers in Mussoorie town, who had rented out their shops, say their tenants have either cancelled the lease or are demanding a substantial cut in the rent. Rajat Aggarwal, the president of Mussoorie Traders’ Association, sought a government bailout to deal with the crisis. “The government must subsidize salaries of our staff and waive interest on loans for the next six months, waive electricity bills and municipal charges for one year and also defer loan installments,” he said. Shopkeepers also demanded that a fund must be created using GST collected in the town for the welfare of its traders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/small-businesses-dependent-on-tourism-stare-at-bankruptcy-seek-govt-bailout/articleshow/75652033.cms||Prashant Jha
May 10, 2020||Madurai||Textile traders keen to open wholesale shops||Madurai: The Tamil Nadu textile merchants’ association has urged the Madurai district collector to allow them to open wholesale shops, from 10pm to 5am in the city, as they are heavily stocked and are facing losses. In the representation made to the district collector, Asraf Tayub, secretary of the association, said that Madurai is the textile hub for the southern districts in the state. As it is the month of Ramadan, they had stocked up before the lockdown period. Tayub said that Madurai has over 1,000 wholesale shops. He added that following the lockdown to contain the spread of Covid-19, many traders are facing losses and said that only if the shops, which are standalone, open up, they will be able to overcome these losses. He said that they had assured the collector that they would deal only with wholesalers, which would be a small group and they would ensure that all the communication is done through phones. “We also sell material used for making masks, bedsheets, pillow covers and this is also in demand and if the shops are closed, the manufacturers would face a shortfall,” he said. These merchants said that they have come to know that many small textile shops in places like Chennai, Karaikudi, Tirunelveli and Nagercoil are open and operating and hence, they want similar permission from the Madurai district administration. Madurai district collector Dr T G Vinay has assured them that their grievance would be taken to the Tamil Nadu government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/textile-traders-keen-to-open-wholesale-shops/articleshow/75652641.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Kolkata||‘Familiar’ faces turn out to be snatchers||Kolkata: Two teenagers on a scooter, whom cops stopped for riding aimlessly in Lake Town on Friday evening, turned out to be snatchers, who had robbed an elderly person outside his home in Salt Lake last Wednesday. When cops spotted Mukesh Singh (19) and another youth (16) riding near Golaghata, they stopped them. Even as the two fumbled for an explanation, one officer thought the two resembled the faces caught on a CCTV camera for snatching a gold chain last Wednesday. Upon interrogation, Mukhesh broke down and admitted to the crime. “The two Girish Park residents don’t have a long criminal record. We have traced the gold chain,” said a Bidhannagar officer. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/familiar-faces-turn-out-to-be-snatchers/articleshow/75652643.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Trichy||Trichy cops don role of counsellors, help solve marital discord||TRICHY: Efforts by the Trichy range police to check domestic violence against women during the lockdown have yielded results as it has led to reunion of some separated couples apart from compromises and solving problems. While the objective of the plan was mainly to save such women from domestic violence, it also gave an opportunity to reunite 15 couples. The All women police stations (AWPS) in Lalgudi and Musiri in the district have reunited two and one couples respectively. AWPS in Pudukottai reunited three couples, while AWPS Karur and Kulithalai reunited seven and two couples respectively. “Yes, in some cases the lockdown helped separated couples reflect upon their mistakes and reunite,” said DIG V Balakrishnan. Instead of ignoring the unauthentic messages of domestic violence fuelled by the lockdown, Trichy range police consisting of Trichy rural, Karur, Pudukottai, Perambalur and Ariyalur chalked out a plan to verify whether innocent women were really subjected to harassment. Under the scheme, launched on April 14 by the DIG, the police followed up on 14,930 complaints of domestic violence from 2017 in the five districts to get to know their status. Police officers from 15 AWPS in the five districts would call up the victims and ask them if they are facing any trouble. The data shows that the police contacted 13,587 complainants over the phone and met some of them directly till May 8. In some cases, suspicions of harassments turned true. Some women even faced harassments from husbands and in-laws over financial issues. On finding the complaints genuine in 11 cases, the police gave a strong dressing down to husband and in-laws. The police also played the role of advisors. In some cases, women raked up some issues about the husband and in-law. In 51 cases, identifying such issues as trivial, police advised the women to adjust, which led to compromise of both parties. Some poor women also made use of the calls from the police to get their groceries. As many as 21 families were provided with such items with the help of good Samaritans. To be extra careful to ensure that their calls should not trigger any fresh trouble in the life of the women, they camouflaged their enquiry as if creating awareness on Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/cops-don-role-of-counsellors-help-solve-marital-discord/articleshow/75652638.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal govt revises protocol to discharge Covid-19 patients||KOLKATA: From now on, only those with severe Covid-19 symptoms will need to undergo RT-PCR tests, that too only one and not two consecutive tests that were mandatory earlier, for their release from the hospital after treatment. Covid-positive patients with mild and moderate symptoms will no longer require the mandatory negative confirmatory tests before they are sent home. So far, a Covid-positive patient had to test negative twice in two consecutive tests conducted within 48 hours for release from the hospital. But the policy to release patients has been changed in the new guideline that the state health department, in sync with the Union ministry of health and family welfare, has issued. The revised policy, doctors said, will help in saving a lot of resources, that is, the RT-kits to be precise. For example, a doctor from Medical College Hospital, Kolkata, who got Covid-19 infection about three weeks ago, kept testing positive even as he had become asymptomatic during his treatment ID&BG Hospital. Consequently, he had to undergo several rounds of tests before two consecutive swab samples tested negative before he was discharged from the hospital. “The follow-up tests lead to massive wastage of resources. In many cases, patients keep testing positive through several follow-up tests even after they have become asymptomatic days ago. Now, these resources can be utilised in diagnosing new cases,” said a doctor involved in the treatment of Covid patients in the state. For the purpose of the new discharge policy, Covid patients have been divided into three categories — mild/very mild/pre-asymptomatic cases, moderate and severe cases. All categories of patients will have to be monitored in hospitals. For the mild category, doctors will continue to monitor fever and pulse oximetry. According to the revised policy, a patient can be discharged after 10 days of symptom onset if he/she has not had fever for three days, without undergoing the mandatory negative confirmatory test. The patient needs to be in home isolation for seven days. In moderate cases, a patient can be discharged after 10 days of symptom onset if his/her fever subsides within three days and maintains an oxygen saturation above 95% for the next four days, without any external support. In severe cases, that include immune compromised patients, they can be discharged only after clinical recovery and after testing once by RT-PCR. According to doctors, they could not discharge even mild or asymptomatic cases even as they did not need further hospital care because of the mandatory negative confirmation. Now, in addition to saving resources, the new policy will also allow them to free beds for those who need it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/govt-revises-protocol-to-discharge-covid-patients/articleshow/75652029.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
May 10, 2020||Chennai||Four women die, Tamil Nadu coronavirus count hits 6,535||CHENNAI: Four women died and 526 more people from 20 districts tested positive for Covid-19 as Tamil Nadu’s tally mounted to 6,535 on Saturday. Five days after a 73-year-old woman with comorbidities died at the KMC hospital, the state included her name on the Covid-29 death list on Saturday. “Her first sample tested negative, but the sample that came after that was positive. We released the body as per standard protocol with disinfectants and in a body bag,” said hospital dean Dr Vasanthamani P. In the same hospital, a 58-year-old woman died on Friday. A 67-year-old woman, who was admitted to Rajiv Gandhi GH on May 1, and a 70-year-old woman from Ramanathapuram district, who was admitted to Sivaganga Medical College Hospital, died on Saturday. The death toll due to the pandemic rose to 44, the highest single-day spike in deaths. Chennai reported 279 cases including a 5-day-old child, and the total number of cases in the city reached 3,390. While 40% of cases reported in the city were linked to the Koyambedu cluster, Chennai, Cuddalore, Ariyalur, Villupuram, Tiruvallur and Perambalur, top six districts in infection, had 88% of their cases linked to the cluster. Of the 526 people who tested positive, 278 were a part of the Koyambedu cluster, taking the total number of people in the cluster to 1,867. While three people in Chennai have infected at least 735 others, the cluster lead to 317 cases in Cuddalore, 239 cases in Ariyalur, 177 in Villupuram and 124 in Tiruvallur. On Saturday, Villupuram reported 67 cases, Ariyalur had 16 and Perambalur reported 31. Most cases in Chennai’s neighbouring districts Chengalpet (40), Kancheepuram (17) and Tiruvallur (26) continued to be from the cluster.  “Koyambedu is a problem that has cropped up over the last one week. But we continue to deal with the swelling clusters in crowded areas such as Royapuram, Tiru-vi-Ka Nagar and Pulianthope,” said Greater Chennai Corporation special nodal officer J Radhakrishnan. “We see people walking on the streets with masks inside their pockets, or wearing them around the neck. Today, I saw a guy sharing his mask with another man when they saw a policeman approaching them. What we need to do now is to ensure people understand that mask will prevent illness. They need topractice social distancing norms willingly,” he said. In an attempt to improve the urban strategy for containing Covid-19, officials and public health workers at the Greater Chennai Corporation decided they will not be able to do two things—ensure stringent lockdowns with force or achieve a zero corona status. On Saturday, they spoke to more than 50 NGOs that have been working with people on TB, HIV/AIDS, nutrition, maternal and child health, and non-communicable diseases. The civic agencies will deploy NGOs to create awareness among the people. “We want people to volunteer of testing if they have symptoms of fever. In many cases people were scared we will lock them up in a quarantine centre for two weeks. When they delayed coming to the hospital they infected many others in the family and neighbourhood,” said Joint Commissioner (health) Madhusudhan Reddy.  A total of 1,824 patients have recovered so far. As many as 219 patients were discharged on Saturday and were still being treated at various hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/four-women-die-tn-virus-count-hits-6535/articleshow/75652646.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Dehradun||Ranikhet man grows 6 feet tall coriander plant, gets place in India Book of Records||Dehradun: A Ranikhet-based horticulturist, Gopal Upreti, got a special mention on Twitter by Narendra Singh Tomar, minister of agriculture and farmers welfare, rural development and panchayati raj, after his 6.1 feet tall coriander plant got registered with a record book earlier this week. Upreti, who shifted to farming from real estate business around a decade ago, is now planning to apply in Guinness Book of World Records. Talking to TOI, Gopal Upreti said that he cultivates organic apples in his village in Ranikhet area of Almora district along with vegetables. He also grows avocado, peach, apricot as well as garlic, pea cabbage and fenugreek. “My farmhouse is the first farm of organic apples in Uttarakhand with the capacity of 2,000 fully grown apple trees of various varieties. My annual turnover from apple business was around 6 to 10 lakh for past few years,” said Upreti, who claimed that he grows coriander for his personal consumption and keep the seeds of last year’s plant for next season. “Even last year, we had a very tall coriander plant. But this time, the size was beyond my expectations. When I spoke to some horticulture experts, they encouraged me to go for a record,” said the farmer who had applied for Guinness Book of World Records last week and is hopeful of getting a call. TN Pandey, chief horticulture officer of Almora, who certified the length of the plant alleged that Upreti’s plant is the tallest coriander plant — with 185 metres in height — in the world. In his tweet, minister Narendra Singh Tomar congratulated Upreti for his achievement and maintained that he will surely break the world record of 5 feet 11 inch tall coriander plant - tallest in the world till now. “He has created a benchmark in organic farming and his methods must reach to all farmers,” tweeted the Union minister.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ranikhet-man-grows-6-feet-tall-coriander-plant-gets-place-in-india-book-of-records/articleshow/75652022.cms||Ishita Mishra
May 10, 2020||Vadodara||Staying away, mom keeps her child safe||Vadodara: She is mother of a 14-month-old baby girl. But on this Mother’s Day that falls on Sunday, she will be 90km away from her daughter. Nayna Rathwa had last held her child – Gargi – in her hands on April 29. As nurse at GMERS Medical College and Hospital, Gotri she has been assigned duty at Covid-19 hospital where she attends both Covid-19 positive and suspect cases. Her seven days duty on rotation at Covid-19 hospital has ended but her seven days home quarantine has not. “Earlier, my mother used to stay with me at the staff quarters assigned to me while I used to handle the duty at hospital. But my mother is not in a condition to handle my daughter,” said Rathwa, who has sent her daughter to her grandfather’s house at Puniyavant village in Chhotta Udepur district. “When I am preaching social distancing to others, I too have to follow social distancing and hence I am preferring to stay away from my daughter and other family members,” said Rathwa, who has no complaints about the duty that has been assigned to her on rotation basis. Rathwa says she takes enough precautions during her duty. “Whenever an assignment is given to me by my in-charge sister, I handwash, wear personal protection equipment kit and 2-3 sets of gloves,” she says. But she equally adds that there is no discrimination when it comes to patients. “Whether a patient is a suspect or positive, we have to check his or her BP, sugar levels, temperature among others,” says Rathwa, whose husband works at government hospital at Raisingpura near Puniyavant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/staying-away-mom-keeps-her-child-safe/articleshow/75651631.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Dehradun||Rudraprayag forest division launches app to tackle forest fire||Dehradun: Rudraprayag forest division has launched an app to tackle forest fires. Available for download from Google Play, the app’s users can alert the administration about a threat to the forest by uploading photos. The app is the brainchild of divisional forest officer (DFO) of Rudraprayag Vaibhav Singh. “It is important to know the location of an impending disaster at all times. The app is designed to reduce response time, increase reporting of fires as well as public participation in tackling them and better allocation of resources while fighting multiple wildfires,” Singh explained. The app uses geo-tagging, which helps people find categories of green cover based on density, plantation, sensitive areas as well as nurseries. Contact details of Van Panchyat heads are also there. There is also an option for people to submit their feedback on the app’s functions. CCF of Uttarakhand forest department and nodal officer (forest fires) BK Gangte said, “It is an exemplary idea and we have launched the app on pilot basis in Rudraprayag. Based on its success, it will be launched in other areas as well.” The Rudraprayag forest division had earlier come up with another innovative idea of making warning posters against forest fires by wittily rephrasing iconic Bollywood scenes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/rudraprayag-forest-division-launches-app-to-tackle-forest-fire/articleshow/75652010.cms||Shivani Azad
May 10, 2020||Madurai||Tanker truck pipelines to be modified to ensure social distancing while filling water||Madurai: In order to help people follow social distancing norms while collecting water from tanker trucks, Madurai corporation is the process of modifying pipeline outlets in the vehicles in such a way that more number of people can draw water at the same time without bumping into each other.While only two outlets are available in a vehicle, once the modification is done there will be additional five to six outlets. Officials said that they took a cue from Chennai metro water, which has implemented recently. As a pilot test, one of the vehicle suppliers has been asked to fit extra outlets in one vehicle. Recently, Madurai corporation commissioner S Visakan checked the modification and its functioning. The owner was asked to make an improvement so that water is delivered with the same pressure through all the outlets. Madurai corporation has engaged more than 60 vehicles including 30 tractors to deliver water, especially in the 28 newly added wards where there is limited number of piped drinking water connection. Vehicles are also being used in tail end areas in the rest of 72 wards forming core city. More than 60 lakh litre water is being delivered, with each vehicle making at least 10 trips a day. A tractor’s capacity is 6,000 litre, whereas a truck can carry 10,000 litre. Madurai corporation commissioner S Visakan said that multiple outlets in a vehicle will help deliver water to many in a short period. People can also spread out. Once modification of pipeline has attained perfection, all the vehicle owners will be asked to adopt the new model. The expenses for the modification will be borne by the vehicle owners themselves, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/tanker-truck-pipelines-to-be-modified-to-ensure-social-distancing-while-filling-water/articleshow/75652634.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Dehradun||Probe begins in case against Gayatri Parivar chief||Haridwar: After receiving the FIR filed against Gayatri Pariwar chief Pranav Pandya in Delhi for allegedly exploiting a woman sexually in 2010, Haridwar police has begun probe in the case. Senthil Abudai Krishnaraj S, Haridwar’s senior superintendent of police, told TOI, “Circle officer Poornima Garg and inspector Meena Arya have been tasked with investigating the matter. An FIR will be registered here on the basis of the “zero FIR” received from the Delhi police. Further action will be taken on the basis of the outcome of the preliminary investigation.” Notably, the FIR is registered under POCSO Act and the investigation will have to be completed in 60 days, the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/probe-begins-in-case-against-gayatri-parivar-chief/articleshow/75652062.cms||Sheo S Jaiswal
May 10, 2020||Dehradun||Former minister sits on dharna in US Nagar, demands arrest of those who shot at his uncle||Rudrapur: Former Congress minister Tilak Raj Behar sat on a dharna (protest) outside the SSP office in Udham Singh Nagar on Saturday to demand the arrest of the accused persons who shot at his uncle in his native Malsa Girdharpur village (located on Kichha Road) late on May 4. Behar’s protest received support from several Congress leaders, including former chief minister Harish Rawat and leader of opposition Indira Hridayesh who spoke out against the police ‘targeting the Congress leader.’ On May 4, a group of miscreants had fired shots at Behar’s uncle Madan Lal Khurana but he escaped unharmed. Subsequently, the gang fled the spot. On getting information of the crime, Behar had gone to the village. “I went there to pacify the villagers who were furious with the attempt to murder my uncle. The locals could have taken law in their own hands to punish the criminals that night but I tackled them somehow. However, the city police booked me and 20 other villagers the next day for violating lockdown norms,” Behar claimed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/former-minister-sits-on-dharna-in-us-nagar-demands-arrest-of-those-who-shot-at-his-uncle/articleshow/75652056.cms||Aakash Ahuja
May 10, 2020||Dehradun||Rail ministry approves special trains to bring U’khand locals from Delhi: CM||Dehradun: In a welcome news for 40,000 people of Uttarakhand who are presently stuck in New Delhi, the ministry of railways has approved special trains to bring them back to the Himalayan state. CM Trivendra Singh Rawat said that he spoke to rail minister Piyush Goyal regarding this on Saturday. “I told him that we need to bring back around 40,000 of our people who are stuck in the national capital. After a detailed discussion, he asked to hand over the details to the railway board and has agreed to provide us the required number of special trains,” CM Rawat said. He added that while only one stop is permitted for special trains, he had sought permission for two halts. “As a special consideration for us, the rail minister has agreed to allow two stops for the special trains which will benefit people who are travelling. In one bus, we can bring just 25-odd people but with the help of trains, we will be able to bring back people in bigger numbers,” the CM added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/rail-ministry-approves-special-trains-to-bring-ukhand-locals-from-delhi-cm/articleshow/75652066.cms||Kautilya Singh
May 10, 2020||Pune||Pune: Fed up of wait for e-passes, stuck migrants ride to Agra||Desperate times call for desperate measures goes the adage. Ten migrant workers in the city just did that. Tired of waiting for mandatory passes to go to their hometown Agra in Uttar Pradesh, the 10 masons in their mid-30s hit the highways on two-wheelers on Monday night. They had to cover 1,200km. The mission was accomplished in three days, oops nights. They were in their “home-sweet-home” in Agra on Wednesday night. Left with no ration and no source of income, these workers decided to “vroom”. Calling it a drive to survive, they started for home after their rounds to the tehsildar’s office on Monday morning proved a futile exercise. “Hamein koi umeed nahi dikhai de rahi thi, bas nikalna tha (We did not see any hope in these rounds and we decided we had to leave),” Premshankar, one of the migrant workers, told TOI over the phone after reaching his village in Agra. The 10 masons stocked up dry snacks, water and headed home on five bikes. Sleeping through the day at petrol pumps and dhabas, they covered the maximum distance at night. “We were stopped by police at some places, but we were determined to keep moving,” Premshankar said. Using Google map, Premshankar and his peers managed to reach their hometown. “We can do farming here and be with our family. In Pune, we were left begging for food and ration,” said Premshankar, audibly happy to be with his family. Premshankar’s friend, Mahendra Sinh, could not leave Pune because his wife and children were with him. “We do not know if the administration will take note of our situation. We do not have any ration left,” said Sinh. Fearful that the government could extend the lockdan again, Sugand Kumar, a migrant worker from UP, and his seven friends, are headed to their village Meerganj near Jaunpur. They left their room in Katraj around 6am on Saturday and managed to reach the Katraj-Dehu road bypass in Warje by noon. The group of men worked on construction sites in the city as painters, centring workers, etc. “We have spent all the money we had. How long will we live on food served by others,” Premshankar said. It was a similar story across the state, with migrants from Mumbai and Thane taking to the Mumbai-Agra highway to proceed towards M, UP, Bihar and other states. Large groups of workers had reached Dhule, on the Malegaon side.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/fed-up-of-wait-for-e-passes-stuck-migrants-ride-to-agra/articleshow/75653008.cms||Nisha Nambiar
May 10, 2020||Mysuru||2 arrested for coffee estate labourer’s murder||MADIKERI: Gonikoppal police on Saturday arrested two coffee estate workers for allegedly killing a 65-year-old labourer in a nearby estate. Jenukurubara Raju was found murdered in the coffee estate belonging to Kalengada Prabhu Achaiah in B Shettigeri village near Virajpet. The accused Ravi, 22, and Vinod, 25, regularly visited Raju at the estate where he worked. Raju was opposing the duo’s entry into the estate. Despite warnings, Ravi and Vinod continued their visits to the estate. Finally, Raju warned them that he will complain to his owner. Agitated by the warning, Ravi and Vinod went to the estate on Saturday and attacked Raju in sticks, killing him on the spot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/2-arrested-for-coffee-estate-labourers-murder/articleshow/75650878.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Filled travel forms week ago, can’t wait, say fresh migrants on Eastern Express Highway||MUMBAI: Fed up of waiting to be accommodated on trains or buses for their home states, a fresh sea of migrant labourers took to the Eastern Express Highway (EEH) on Saturday in a bid to cover the arduous journey on foot. Some labourers said they had no roof over their heads in Mumbai and would sometimes go to bed on the pavement on an empty stomach. The groups comprised daily wagers, masons, carpenters and restaurant staffers. “We filled up forms at the Pantnagar police station nearly a week ago with the local corporator’s help. But there has been no word on train schedules to Uttar Pradesh. How long are we supposed to wait?” asked Sandeep Chaurasia, a carpenter from Ghatkopar. His relative, Birender Kumar, said they had been dialling helpline numbers given to them by the authorities but to no avail. “We haven’t worked for two months and are surviving on money borrowed from our families back home. Chalte rahenge toh kuchh solution milega (if we keep walking, a solution might turn up),” he said. Chaurasia and Kumar were part of a group of six men that covered 20km on foot from Ghatkopar to Thane on Saturday. Kumar said there were 20 other labourers known to them who had walked further ahead. “At least 500 people have been walking on the EEH. We avoid police check-posts by taking internal routes,” said Kumar. Chaurasia said this was the third time he had set off for home on foot. “The first two times I had to return midway when I learnt cops were driving away migrant labourers. Today, I’m determined to cross Thane and then attempt to hitchhike a vehicle for the journey ahead,” said Chaurasia, who has been surviving on one meal a day—a thin khichdi served at a temple. Walking along, a little distance away from Chaurasia, was restaurant staffer Sabit Ram whose employer put up shutters soon after the national lockdown came into effect and left for his native place in Bihar. “I’ve lived on pavements since then and have grown immune to police lathis. There have been days when I’ve gone hungry,” said Ram who moved to Mumbai earlier this year for work. He hasn’t been paid a rupee for his work. “Whenever my wife and kids call, I tell them I’m moving a bit closer to home. Why should I upset them with my woes? His co-worker Sonu Kashyap said he had filled police forms for train travel, but has not heard from authorities. “I’m not a beggar but I’m forced to live in bus shelters and eat whatever passersby give me,” said Kashyap, adding walking gives them hope and they won’t mind it even for a month if they reach home. At the time of going to press, police had turned away both Ram and Kashyap and they returned to Ghatkopar from where they had started.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/filled-travel-forms-week-ago-cant-wait-say-fresh-migrants-on-eeh/articleshow/75652653.cms||Nitasha Natu
May 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: 80-year-old man booked for raping relative||HYDERABAD: An 80-year-old businessman was booked for allegedly raping a 22-year-old relative at his residence at Banjara Hills. Though the incident happened on April 3, the survivor approached police on Friday. Police are yet to make any arrests in the case. The woman, who had separated from her husband recently, had visited the elderly man’s house after he offered to help her with accommodation in April first week, police said. “The woman, who is from Falaknuma, along with a male friend visited the accused’s residence in Banjara Hills. He then offered them alcohol and allegedly sexually assaulted the woman afterwards,” Banjara Hills inspector Kalinga Rao said. Soon after the incident, the octogenarian lodged a complaint against the woman and her friend, alleging that they stole his expensive watch. “The incident occurred in April first week. We are still verifying details of the incident,” the inspector added. On Friday, the victim approached the Banjara Hill police alleging she was raped under the influence of alcohol. A case was registered. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/80-yr-old-man-booked-for-raping-relative/articleshow/75652652.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Dehradun||Bakery at Paltan Bazaar gutted, no one hurt||Dehradun: Fire broke out at a bakery shop in city’s Paltan Bazaar area late on Friday night. On getting information, police teams and fire brigade units rushed to the spot and doused the flames in an operation that lasted for two hours. “Around 12:20 am, policemen who were on duty in the area noticed smoke coming out of the shop. We immediately called the fire service and the owner of the bakery shop as the fire had erupted inside the shop and it wasn’t possible to extinguish it without opening the shutter locks,” said Shishupal Rana, in-charge of the local police outpost. The official added that fire had already gutted the shop by the time they could enter inside it. “There were chances of a massive explosion had we been a little late as gas cylinders were kept inside the shop. Thankfully, we were able to douse the flames on time and no other shop was engulfed in the fire,” added Rana. Meanwhile, the owner of the bakery shop has said that though no one got hurt in the accident, he suffered a loss of around Rs 3-4 lakhs due to the fire as refrigerators and wooden racks got charred completely.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/bakery-at-paltan-bazaar-gutted-no-one-hurt/articleshow/75652070.cms||Mohammad Anab
May 10, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu allows tea shops to open, but customers can’t drink on premises||CHENNAI: The state government on Saturday further eased the lockdown restrictions in non-containment areas, including permission for take-away services at tea shops, and allowing shops selling essential goods such as groceries, vegetables and medicines to remain open from 6am to 7pm, across the state from Monday. A government press release issued on Saturday which was followed by a detailed order from chief secretary K Shanmugam allowed all private offices (where standalone air conditioners are used), including construction companies and real estate developers’ back offices, to function with 33% staff strength between 10.30am and 6pm in Greater Chennai Police limits and 10am and 7pm in rest of the state. In a breather for film industry, five employees will be permitted to take up post-production work for television and film programmes from 10am to 7pm. Permission, however, should be obtained by private entities from district collectors for deploying employees. “District collectors, corporation commissioners and police should check for social distancing norms, adequate use of disinfectants and safety of employees. The establishments should also adhere to standard operating procedures prescribed by the government,” the release said.Fuel pumps can now operate between 6am and 6pm in Greater Chennai Police limits, between 6am and 8pm in other parts of TN, and 24x7 on highways. All standalone and neighbourhood shops, except salons, spa and beauty parlours, can be opened between 10.30am and 6pm in Greater Chennai Police limit and between 10am and 7pm in rest of the state. This includes shops selling construction hardware, cement, construction material, sanitaryware, electrical material and shops selling and servicing mobile phones, computers, household appliances, motors and optical shops. With respect to other standalone shops, collectors will take a call depending on the local situation. The government has stipulated strict social distancing norms for tea shops, and no customer will be allowed to eat on the premises. Shops must be “disinfected five times a day”, and those violating the guidelines will be sealed immediately. The new norms are a follow-up to the relaxations announced by the state on May 2 and revised guidelines issued by the Union home ministry.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/state-allows-tea-shops-to-open-but-customers-cant-drink-on-premises/articleshow/75652680.cms||Julie Mariappan
May 10, 2020||Madurai||NEET aspirants happy to make most of extra time||Madurai: As July 26 has been announced for conducting the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test- Under Graduate (NEET) 2020 exam, aspirants said they want to make the best of the extra time and are gearing up for the test amid lockdown with renewed enthusiasm. While private coaching centres have started shifting to online learning for their students, government school students, too, are trying their best to match up. “Though we are not able to have special intensive classes or camps to prepare for NEET this year, it is true that we are getting more time for preparation than usual. Many students have a good chance to do well if they make best use of this time though it is a difficult time for the society. More than classes, it is your own individual ability to focus and study that brings results,” said Divya K, a NEET aspirant, who completed her Class XII state board exams recently. The private coaching centres are putting out e-learning resources and conducting practice tests online. Though government school students will be missing out on the special camp for NEET preparation this year, alternative ways to learn and prepare are being brought in free of cost for them. For those who have enrolled for the government free NEET coaching classes, the respective teachers have been in touch over phone and WhatsApp to help the students prepare. “Students had been given free books for NEET preparation. We are following up over phone as well to clarify doubts or teach. Now, online practice tests for the students have also been introduced via the Tamil Nadu school education department website,” said S Rabia Basiri, a Class XII government school teacher, who also provides coaching for NEET aspirants. Each student, who was enrolled in the government’s free coaching class, will get an exclusive login that they can use to access NEET practice tests on the school education department website. However, government school teachers admitted that their students were still at a disadvantage because many students, particularly from villages, are unable to get good internet connection even if they have a phone or the free laptop given to them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/neet-aspirants-happy-to-make-most-of-extra-time/articleshow/75652690.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
May 10, 2020||Mysuru||Schools told to collect text books from students; to be distributed to juniors||MYSURU: Fearing a delay in the printing and distribution of text books, the department of public instruction has asked all schools to create a text book bank through which books of students promoted to higher classes are collected and distributed among their juniors. The headmasters have been asked to start collecting the text books from students and store them in schools. When the schools reopen, these books shall be distributed among the juniors. The delay in text book distribution is one of the problems faced by majority of schools every year. This year, the problem is expected to escalate due to Covid-19 crisis. As per the original 2020-21 academic calendar published by the DPI, the new academic year is supposed to start from May 28. However, this is expected to get delayed now. The DPI is waiting for the government’s direction on reopening the schools. Mysuru DDPI Panduranga said that already a communication has been sent to all schools in this regard. “The headmasters have been asked to collect text books of all students. If there is any delay in the distribution in the new academic year, these text books will be utilised to start class room activities,” he said. “The success of this initiative depends on how the students have maintained their text books,” said a block education officer. However, private school managements have made it clear that they are not aware of this text book bank concept. “We are not intimated to collect the text books of senior students for the juniors,” said D Shashi Kumar, general secretary, Associated Managements of Primary and Secondary Schools (KAMS).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/schools-told-to-collect-text-books-from-students-to-be-distributed-to-juniors/articleshow/75650903.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Madurai||Madurai: 60 approach pharmacies for fever pills daily||MADURAI: All pharmacies across the district, while stopping sale of Over-the-counter (OTC) drugs for fever and cough, have been reporting those buying such medicines with prescription to the drug inspectors as directed by the state government. Reports of around 60 such cases are being reported every day on an average in Madurai district, said officials with the Tamil Nadu drugs control department. Amid Covid-19 scare, for better surveillance of fever cases, the government had already banned sale of OTC drugs like Paracetamol and Azithromycin for fever and cough and had insisted pharmacists to report to drug inspectors all those, who were buying these medicines with prescription. “We are insisting on reporting those buying even cough syrup and any other medicine that can mask symptoms of Covid-19. Pharmacists were required to report with details of the patient’s name, address and phone number to us,” said a senior official with the TN drugs control department. All those reported would then be monitored for 14 days as per protocol. A pharmacist from Anna Nagar said that, however, people continue asking for OTC drugs, particularly paracetamol without prescription. “We turn them away and strictly ask them to consult a doctor and then get the medicine. Drugs like paracetamol are very common for many people and they are generally used to buying it even when feeling the slightest discomfort but now they are forced to think twice,” said Latha S, a pharmacist. The Tamil Nadu chemists and druggists association has also come out with posters emphasizing that the medicines for cough and fever would not be sold without prescription. The posters are to be mandatorily stuck in front of the association’s all 40,000 pharmacies across the state. A toll free number at 18001212172 to get pharmacies deliver medicines at door step is also functioning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/60-approach-pharmacies-for-fever-pills-daily/articleshow/75652698.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
May 10, 2020||Madurai||Safety of frontline Covid-19 workers a concern in Madurai||MADURAI: After a 28-year-old doctor from a private hospital, who was working in the isolation ward, tested positive for Covid-19 in Madurai on Friday, the safety of those working in such wards has become a concern. Despite strict protocols in place for safety at all Covid-19 wards in both government and private hospitals, doctors said that there is always a high risk working here and it is possible for the virus to spread. In Madurai district alone, before Friday’s case, five staff at Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH), including two sanitary workers, two staff nurses and a sanitary supervisor, who were all working at the Covid-19 isolation ward, have tested positive with coronavirus, so far. GRH dean Dr J Sangumani has repeatedly asserted that the hospital was following all safety protocols including proper use of Personal Protective Equipment (PPEs) and following proper schedule for quarantining and testing. However, even despite strict safety measures as mandated by the health ministry being taken, there is always a chance for frontline workers to get infected by accident, doctors said. “No one should ideally work more than 6-8 hours in the Covid-19 ward. This is because the viral load is more by then. SARS (nCoV) 2, which causes Covid-19 is highly virulent as compared to say H1N1 virus, which causes Swine Flu. Every single time a Covid-19 patient coughs and sneezes during treatment, for sure viral particles are expelled in the air via aerosol,” explained Dr P Prem Ananth, a consultant interventional pulmonologist. Further, for doctors it is not easy to work in PPEs continuously for hours. Doctors have complained of finding it difficult to deal with sweating while dressed in PPEs. “Even the simplest mishap due to perhaps fatigue while donning and removing PPEs can result in infection,” added Dr Ananth. Doctors and staff who are prone to having lower immunity have been asked to stay off duty in Covid-19 wards, including those above 60 years of age and those with conditions like diabetes or hypertension.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/safety-of-frontline-covid-19-workers-a-concern-in-madurai/articleshow/75652696.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
May 10, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Focus on offices near containment zones to keep transmission at bay||KOLKATA: The police will carry out an audit of all offices operating in the lockdown with 25% of the workforce. Police said the aim is to ascertain, among other things, if there is a violation of the limit to number of persons attending office and whether social distancing norms are being followed. The audit will also ascertain if cars that have obtained e-passes are really only being driven to office and whether there is any violation of orders regarding the number of passengers. Police commissioner Anuj Sharma visited several police stations and traffic guards across southeast, central and north Kolkata and spoke to officers about the implementation of lockdown. He asked the sergeants at Jorabagan traffic guard to continue with citations. “He, however, wanted to know if the men on the duty were facing any challenges and stated that all precautions must be taken while carrying out their duty,” said an officer. Police said that the idea for the audit was conceptualized since several offices — especially in central Kolkata and on EM Bypass — are located near containment zones. “People from non-containment zones may end up interacting with those from the containment zones at local markets. For example, even as we have brought down the number of the affected in containment zones like Shyampukur and Narkeldanga, there has been a steady rise in cases across Muchipara, Vivekananda Road, Amherst Street, Phoolbagan and Beliaghata. Unless the lockdown is strictly enforced in the areas bordering the containment zones, we cannot fight Covid. This is the reason we have escalated patrolling near markets and liquor shops. We have also asked our men to carry thermal scanners for instant checks,” said an officer. Senior officers said they are planning to review their e-pass policy too. “We are trying to ensure that the e-passes are not misused since we came across multiple such cases during naka checking in the past week. “We might restrict e-pass use to a week and ensure that duty is rotational,” said an officer. Meanwhile, data on containment zones on Saturday showed that while central and north Kolkata were trying to control the disease, there has been a spurt of cases in two or three wards in the Port area, Phoolbagan and Beliaghata. The number of containment zones stood at 321 on Saturday. Tallah, Belgachhia and Burtolla saw a drop in containment zones, but that was compensated by Bowbazar and Tiljala. The KMC has responded by asking five-member dedicated teams to carry out house-to-house surveys at each containment zone. Lalbazar has decided to impose total shutdown in containment zones if rules are flouted. The cops have also been accompanying a KMC health team armed with thermal radars on a house-to-house search for possible infected cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/focus-on-offices-near-containment-zones-to-keep-transmission-at-bay/articleshow/75652085.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
May 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Govt discusses plans to counter seasonal diseases||Hyderabad: The Telangana government will launch a programme ‘Every Sunday, 10 am, 10 minutes’ to contain seasonal diseases that are transmitted by mosquitoes from Sunday. MAUD minister KT Rama Rao on Saturday announced that all elected representatives including ministers, MLAs, MPs and MLCs have to participate in the programme to see that there is no stagnant water in their respective areas and houses. He asked the municipal officers to prepare an action plan for the monsoon with the help of health department. “Since the government is planning to withdraw lockdown in a phased manner, officers have to take measures that there should not be any spurt in the cases even after lifting of the lockdown,” the minister said. He asked officials to strictly implement odd and even system for opening shops in municipal towns. In the monsoon, seasonal diseases like dengue are likely to spread in the state, anti-larval operations and mosquitoes control programme should be taken up from Sunday, he added. “In every municipality all drains and manholes should be cleaned. The commissioners should ensure there is no piling of garbage. If any sanitation worker is found to be working without masks and gloves, the respective municipal commissioner will be held responsible,” KTR said. He said the commissioners should conduct health check-up for sanitation workers every week. The minister said the government has released Rs 830 crore for urban local bodies under Pattana Pragati and the officials have to prepare a report on the amount spent and works to their respective officers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/govt-discusses-plans-to-counter-seasonal-diseases/articleshow/75652706.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Goa||‘Chapoli supply to last till monsoon’||Poinguinim: The Chapoli dam has an adequate amount of water to meet the drinking requirements of Canacona till the onset of the monsoon, dam officials said on Saturday. Assistant engineer, irrigation department, Azad Vernekar, told TOI that the present water level of the dam is sufficient as it had rained even up to Novemner last year. He said that the reduced level at the reservoir on Saturday was 33.8m while on the same day in the preceding year it was 32.2m. During summer, residents of Canacona usually face a severe water scarcity as wells and other water bodies dry up, and the Chapoli dam is the only source of water.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/chapoli-supply-to-last-till-monsoon/articleshow/75653014.cms||Albert Fernandes
May 10, 2020||Nagpur||Amid chants of Jai Maharashtra, Shramik Express chugs off||Amravati: Amid chants of ‘Jai Maharashtra’ and ‘Bharat Mata Ki Jai’, guardian minister Yashomati Thakur and MP Navneet Rana flagged off the special Shramik Express that took 1,239 labourers from different districts of Amravati division to their native Uttar Pradesh.Stranded here since lockdown, the labourers were quite happy as the train rolled out of the station for its non-stop journey to Lucknow.Thakur wished all the passengers and asked them to wear mask and “observe social distancing”. She asked stranded persons from other states to keep patience as arrangements are also being made to send them to their states. “Tomorrow, another train will leave at 2pm for Bihar that will take 288 labourers to Bihar, 532 to UP and 35 to Andhra Pradesh,” she added.The labourers were brought to Amravati railway station in the afternoon. After checking their health, all were provided food, tea and water bottles.Divisional Commissioner Piyush Singh, Collector Shailesh Naval and officers from railway and police administration were present to see off the labourers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/amid-chants-of-jai-maharashtra-shramik-express-chugs-off/articleshow/75652093.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Pune||Intense May heat could make walk back home all the more difficult||PUNE: It is not just hunger and the threat of coronavirus that hangs over hundreds of migrant workers walking back to their villages, the intense May temperature could expose them to illnesses like heat exhaustion, heat stress, heat stroke, and sun stroke, among others, health experts told TOI on Saturday. The rising temperatures in parts of the state show no signs of reducing as per the India Meteorological Department (IMD). In fact, on Saturday, the IMD said maximum temperatures were likely to remain between 41-44°C over some parts of Rajasthan, Gujarat, Madhya Maharashtra, Marathwada, Telangana, Rayalaseema and north interior Karnataka during the next two to three days. On Saturday, at least 14 locations in Maharashtra, especially in Madhya Maharashtra, Vidarbha and Marathwada, recorded day temperatures above 40°C, including at Pune, Lohegaon, Parbhani, Nanded, Akola, Amravati, Buldhana and Chandrapur. Migrant workers walking back to their villages must be extremely careful as the high temperature may expose them to the risk of heat stroke, if they do not take proper precautions, said Dileep Mavalankar, director of the Indian Institute of Public Health Gandhinagar. “In case of migrant workers, who are used to high temperatures, day temperature over 40°C coupled with exertion outdoors can expose them to the risk of a heat stroke,” he said. Avinash Bhondwe, president of Indian Medical Association’s Maharashtra chapter, said, “Initially, the patient may feel giddy, experience low blood pressure, causing a failure in the body’s cooling mechanism governed by the hypothalamus, which may result in an increase in body temperature exposing him to a sunstroke. The first stage is dehydration, the second is heat stroke and the third is a sun stroke.” He said people walking in the sun may be exposed to such dangers if they do not take precautions. He added that conditions related to kidney stones as well as conjunctivitis can also occur due to high heat outdoors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/intense-may-heat-could-make-walk-back-home-all-the-more-difficult/articleshow/75653013.cms||Neha Madaan
May 10, 2020||Madurai||Tamil Nadu: Students, local body chief held for brewing illicit liquor||TUTICORIN: Two college students and a panchayat vice-president were arrested for brewing illicit liquor in Reguramapuram village near Nagalapuram in Tuticorin district. The arrests were made during a surprise raid by the police led by inspector M Gnanaprakasi. The accused sold a litre of illicit arrack for Rs 1,500 by taking advantage of the demand. Police said they could not nab the accused in earlier raids. On Saturday afternoon, the accused were caught red-handed while preparing illicit arrack in a house. Police arrested Vivek, 20, a college student in Madurai, S Rajakani, 22, an engineering student and Vellachamy, 40, the vice-president of Vowalthothi panchayat. Police seized pots, gas stove and other materials used by them and are on the lookout for three others – Kannan, a businessman and owner of the house, Marichelvam and Sekar of Reguramapuram. A case was registered against all six people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/students-local-body-chief-held-for-brewing-illicit-liquor/articleshow/75652703.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Madurai||Madurai: Guest workers throng collector’s office seeking help||MADURAI: A group of guest workers thronged the Madurai district collector’s office premises on Saturday seeking help claiming that they had ran out essentials. Officials handed them items including wheat flour, oil and other groceries. Around 18 guest workers, who are staying in a private lodge on Town Hall Road, came to collector’s office premises. They said that although help was being provided by officials it was not adequate for them to have three square meals a day. The workers said that they are part of a group of 100 guest workers, who had come to sell dolls during the Palani thaipoosam festival, and had landed in Madurai a few days before lockdown. They have been demanding the district administration to arrange for their transport so that they can leave the city at the earliest. Their condition was deteriorating by the day and some of them had resorted to begging on Netaji Road and nearby streets. A revenue official said that the workers were being provided with adequate supply of essentials. However, they kept coming for more. A couple of workers who had come to the collector’s office were turned away as they received their ration only a couple of days ago.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/guest-workers-throng-collectors-office-seeking-help/articleshow/75652709.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: RTC may charge 50% more for bus tickets||HYDERABAD: The state-owned Road Transport Corporation (TSRTC) has urged the state government to permit it to collect 50% more than the normal bus fare if bus services resume after May 15 in some districts. The government is planning to operate buses in green zones with 50% of its capacity. Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao had earlier announced that a decision on resuming bus services would be taken at a review meeting on May 15. Officials in RTC said the corporation has been losing about Rs 15 crore every day due to lockdown. Three months - March, April and May — are crucial for RTC because of marriages, summer holidays and vacations with people moving from one place to another. However, with the Covid-19 pandemic and lockdown, the corporation had lost about Rs 750 crore in the past 50 days. The RTC is not even in a position to pay the salaries to the employees. The corporation also has a lot of outstanding loans to clear. “ Even if services are not being operated, every month expenditure includes Rs 180 crore on salaries and another Rs 60 crore on maintenance of buses,” a senior official of the RTC said. The corporation, which has already in deep losses, is waiting for a bailout package from the state government, and about Rs 1,000 crore was earmarked in the budget this year. Sources said the hike is for temporary and cannot continue as bus fares were hiked a few months ago. When contacted, principal secretary of transport department Sunil Sharma, who is also managing director of TSRTC, said the state government has not taken any decision on operating bus services. “A report on losses due to non-operation of services is being prepared and the CM will take a call on resuming the bus services,” the RTC MD said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/rtc-may-charge-50-more-for-bus-tickets/articleshow/75652134.cms||Koride Mahesh
May 10, 2020||Aurangabad||30 fresh Covid-19 cases take total to 508 in district||Done Aurangabad: As many as 30 fresh cases were reported in the district on Saturday morning, taking the total number of Covid-19 cases to 508. A woman who had tested positive for coronavirus delivered a baby on late Friday night at the Government Medical College and Hospital. A total of 35 Covid-19 patients were discharged on Saturday, of which 22 patients were discharged from the district civil hospital in the morning and 13 people were discharged from AMC's Qile Ark based Covid Care Centre in the evening. The fresh cases that were detected on Saturday included six from Mukundwadi-Sanjay Nagar, two from Kat Kat Gate, four from Babar Colony, one from Asefiya Colony, one from Silk Colony, one from Ram Nagar, two from Bhawani Nagar- Old Mondha, one from Satara Parisar, one from Panchakki area, one from Juna Bazar, nine from Pundalik Nagar and one from Gangapur. Of the total Covid-19 patients detected in the district so far, 311 are men and 197 are women. 22 Covid-19 patients, who were undergoing treatment at the district civil hospital for the last 14 days, tested negative for Covid-19 for two consecutive tests, said Sundar Kulkarni, the district civil surgeon. According to the protocol of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), the patients were sent home. The ones who were discharged on Saturday included five from Bagwan Masjid, six from Noor Colony, three from Qile Ark, one from Bhimnagar-Bhavsingpura, one from Chelipura, one from Daulatabad, two from Samata Nagar, one from Bada Takiya Masjid, one from Satara Parisar and one from Jalal Colony A 30-year-old woman, a resident of Roshan Gate, was admitted to the obstetrics and gynaecology ward of GMCH on Friday. As per the protocol, the woman was tested for coronavirus as she came from a containment zone, said Shrinivas Gadappa, the head of the department. The woman was treated as a Covid-19 patient until the reports arrived and she delivered a baby girl. Weighing 3.7kg, the baby is healthy and kept separated from the mother. The woman later tested positive and was moved to Covid isolation ward in the hospital, GMCH dean Kanan Yelikar said. The woman is also stable, she said. Of the total 508 Covid-19 cases in the district, 52 have recovered, 12 have died. The rest are undergoing treatment at the district civil hospital, GMCH, Covid Care Centres run by the civic body and at private hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/30-fresh-covid-19-cases-take-total-to-508-in-district/articleshow/75652087.cms||Arpita Sharad
May 10, 2020||Vadodara||Vadodara: Call of duty gets equal attention as her infant||VADODARA: As a mother of newborn baby, this 24-year-old emergency medical technician (EMT) working with the 108 emergency ambulance service was eligible for six months maternity leave. But made of sterner stuff, Riddhi Chavda, couldn’t wait to rejoin duty. “I could have extended my leave further but in face of the pandemic, there is need of paramedics like us. If we don’t work right now, who else will?” asked Chavda, a resident of Padra town of Vadodara. What’s more, this new mother has to nurse her four-month-old infant in her ambulance itself at times. “When there is no emergency to handle, our ambulance remains stationed near the government hospital at Padra. If my baby wants a feed and cries, one of my family members would bring him to me for feeding,” said Chavda, adding that even her husband is not frightened of being infected by the deadly virus. Chavda has been working with the GVK Emergency Management and Research Institute (GVK EMRI) 108 since the last five years. Since the outbreak of the pandemic, this paramedic who is on the frontline handling medical emergencies throughout the day, has attended 30-odd emergencies including that of Covid-19 suspects. Their ambulance moves in and around Padra, often carrying Covid-19 suspects to city-based hospitals. “I personally take all the precautions before touching my baby or meeting any of my family members,” said the paramedic who studied nursing from Vadodara. Her husband, Hitesh, works with a firm in Vadodara. “We take enough safety precautions like wearing gloves, masks, aprons, caps, goggles. The ambulance too is compulsorily sterilised after each trip ends,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/call-of-duty-gets-equal-attention-as-her-infant/articleshow/75651680.cms||Prashant Rupera
May 10, 2020||Madurai||Salon owner in Madurai feeds 615 families with Rs 5 lakh he saved for daughter||MADURAI: At a time when millions of people are worried about saving their hard-earned money for the uncertain times ahead, owner of a salon in Madurai has pulled out Rs 5 lakh, which he has been saving for his daughter’s education, to help more than 600 families to survive the lockdown onslaught. C Mohan, 47, of Melamadai gave 615 local families a kit each of 5kg rice, vegetables, groceries and cooking oil over the past one week. Lilly Grace, assistant commissioner of police, had handed over the relief materials. The lockdown has shut his stop and cut his cash flow, but it hasn’t stopped Mohan, who came to Madurai 20 years ago from Melasirupothu village in Ramanathapuram district, from helping others. Mohan resides in Nellai Thoppu, the first containment zone in Madurai city. Although restrictions have been lifted on his street following completion of treatment to Covid-19 patients, people can start work only after the lockdown is lifted. “Many people came to me seeking help. Some even broke down as they narrated their difficulties, which pained me a lot. I thought there is still time to save for my only daughter’s future. So I withdrew the money from the bank to help these people,” he said. His daughter Nethra, a Class IX student, wants to be a civil servant. Mohan says more people are now knocking on his doors for help after word spread about what he did. “There are around 400 families still out there in need of help. I am discussing with my family as to what can be done. We are planning either to pledge my wife’s jewellery or a housing plot that I purchased earlier. I am pretty confident of earning back the money with the help of my customers,” Mohan said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/salon-owner-feeds-615-families-with-rs-5l-he-saved-for-daughter/articleshow/75652717.cms||Devanathan Veerappan
May 10, 2020||Pune||Cops perform last rites of construction site worker in Pune||PUNE: The Bharati Vidyapeeth police on Wednesday performed the last rites of a construction site worker — hailing from Gulbarga in Karnataka — as the Covid-19 lockdown prevented his family members to come to Pune. The 55-year-old worker, Mallikarjun Barma, had died of asthma-related complications at his tin-shed home in Katraj on Sunday. He, with members of his family, used to work at a construction site in Katraj. Barma and his family had decided to walk back to their native place. However, he was forced to stay back after his health deteriorated. “After his family and others from his native place left, residents and local volunteers would provide him with food,” senior inspector Vasant Kuvar said. “On Sunday afternoon, residents went to Barma’s house with food, but he did not respond to their calls. The residents opened the door and found Barma lying motionless,” the officer said. The residents alerted the police and a team rushed to the site. Barma was taken to Sassoon hospital, where he was declared dead. “The post-mortem revealed that he died of multiple-organ failure,” Kuvar said. “We contacted his family members — who reached their native place — to return to Pune and take back his remains. We had preserved the body in the mortuary for three days,” he said. Barma’s family approached the local police for travel permission but were unable to secure it, as the Karnataka-Maharashtra border was sealed. “We then sought the permission of the family members and performed his last rites with the help of the Pune Municipal Corporation authorities on Wednesday,” Kuvar added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cops-perform-last-rites-of-construction-site-worker/articleshow/75653015.cms||Gitesh Shelke
May 10, 2020||Trichy||Trichy: Farmers told to do soil test, save 30 per cent on cost of fertilizer||TRICHY: The agriculture department has selected 70 villages in Trichy district for taking soil samples under the National Mission on Sustainable Agriculture (NMSA) Scheme. Farmers have been asked to adopt the test since it could save up to 30% on cost of fertilizers. NMSA scheme aims at boosting the productivity of soil by setting the right balance of fertilizers required for a healthy crop. The productivity enhancement goal of the country can be attained only if it sets the basics right. Soil needs a lot of attention since continuous cultivation, lack of organic matter and indiscriminate use of fertilizers lead to decline in soil health, P Asokan, joint director of agriculture, Trichy said. “Under the scheme five villages per block, that is 70 villages in the district, have been selected during the current year and soil samples were taken in every grid (2.5 hectare for irrigated and 5 hectares for rain fed). The samples are analysed for Macro and Micronutrients as well as pH and Ec. Moreover, soil is analysed for major soil health problems based on which soil health cards are issued to all farmers,” he said. The cost of analysis of a single soil sample amounts to Rs 275 for the chemicals used. But the cost of analysis and issue of soil health card are borne by the government and so it is absolutely free for the farmers. When the farmers adopt the soil health card recommendations, they can save up to 30% on the cost of fertilizers. Further, the soil can be preserved from damage due to excessive use of fertilizers. The amount saved from excessive use of fertilizers boosts the farmers as well as the country’s economy. The government has planned to cover all villages in a phased manner under NMSA scheme. Deputy director of agriculture department B Elangovan oversaw the soil sample collection at T Edaiyapatti of Marungapuri block.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/farmers-told-to-do-soil-test-save-30-on-cost-of-fertilizer/articleshow/75652701.cms||---
May 10, 2020||India||15 districts account for 64% of Covid-19 cases, says Niti Aayog CEO||NEW DELHI: Fifteen districts are contributing 64% of the Covid-19 cases in the country and out of these five account for 50% of the cases, according to Niti Aayog CEO Amitabh Kant. These five districts include Delhi, Pune, Mumbai, Ahmedabad and Chennai. All of Delhi and all of Mumbai have been considered as a district each for the purpose of the study. “These five cities are critical for India. States must strengthen containment strategies and undertake rigorous testing and contact tracing,” Kant said. Of these, five highest contributors are Mumbai (17%), Delhi (11.3%), Ahmedabad (9.8%), Chennai (5%) and Pune (3.4%), an analysis by the government think tank has shown. In the five-day median average of cases, exponential growth is seen in four of the top five districts. Chennai has the lowest recovery rate (12.3%) followed by Mumbai (15.7%). Highest is Delhi at 32.3%, the data showed. Ahmedabad has the highest fatality rate of 6.4%. Delhi is at 1.1%. The doubling rate in the top five districts is much worse than the national average. The doubling rate in Chennai is 3, Delhi 3.6, Pune 4.7, Mumbai 6.4 and Ahmedabad 6.1. The data also showed the contribution of the top districts with caseloads and their contribution in the national account. For example Mumbai which accounts for 17% of the cases in Maharashtra contributed 61.3% to the state’s cases. Ahmedabad contributed 71.5% to the cases in Gujarat. Chennai contributed about 50% to the cases in Tamil Nadu while Pune accounted for 12.4% of the state’s cases. Indore which accounts for 3% of the cases nationally, contributed 53% to the case load in Madhya Pradesh, according to the analysis undertaken by Niti Aayog. Thane in Maharashtra accounted for nearly 11% of the cases in the state, while Jaipur accounted for 33% of the cases in Rajasthan. Similarly, Jodhpur, another hotspot accounted for 25% of the cases in the state. In Gujarat, Surat contributed 11.3% of the cases in the state, while Kolkata which accounted for 1.2% of the cases nationally, contributed 53% of the cases in West Bengal. In Uttar Pradesh, Agra which is one of the hotspots contributed 22% to the cases in the state. In Telangana, Hyderabad, accounted for nearly 61% of the cases in the state, while Bhopal accounted for 19% of the caseload in Madhya Pradesh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/15-districts-account-for-64-of-covid-19-cases-says-niti-aayog-ceo/articleshow/75653183.cms||Surojit Gupta
May 10, 2020||Kolkata||More private hospitals in Kolkata seek quick-fire test kits||KOLKATA: More private hospitals in the city are trying to acquire the advanced GeneXpert point-of-care testing system that can detect coronavirus in 45 minutes or less. The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) had earlier approved the use of this US-grown rapid molecular diagnostic technology to detect Covid-19. The GeneXpert system is capable of point-of-care testing and suitable for hospital use. The authorities of AMRI Hospitals, Apollo and some other facilities have been using GeneXpert, a variant of RT-PCR.. “We have identified this test as the way forward to keep healthcare workers safe and ensure operational continuity,” a doctor in a private hospital said. Rupak Barua, CEO and director, AMRI Hospitals, echoed: “In these unprecedented times, access to advanced rapid testing is invaluable and can only be measured in lives saved as well as safety of our healthcare professionals.” Syamasis Bandopadhyay, director of medical services, Apollo Gleneagles Hospital, said the problem with a GeneXpert kit that costs around Rs 3,100 is the high demand worldwide. “US and Germany are taking away most of the kits. We are trying very hard to get them,” he said. Doctors said the test is suited for pandemic response as it can be used in the hospital labs and other near-patient settings. “It takes less than a minute to prepare the cartridge with the patient sample and the GeneXpert can report a result in 40 minutes,” a pulmonologist said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/more-private-hosps-seek-quick-fire-test-kits/articleshow/75652100.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
May 10, 2020||Goa||State river panel acts tough on sewage discharge into Mandovi||Panaji: The state government’s river rejuvenation committee (RRC-Goa) in its final action plan report for Mandovi has recommended that the houses along the banks should be stopped from discharging their sewage into the river. The committee has recommended that the houses should construct septic tanks and soak pits. The report also calls for monitoring the cleaning of septic tanks to avoid discharge of untreated sewage into the natural drains. The action plan strategies are based on Goa State Pollution Control Board’s sampling analysis, site survey and observations. These strategies are classified on the basis of the existing proposal in place, recommended up gradation in order to achieve the desired objective on short term and long-term basis. The committee said that the segregated garbage collection system for the houses along the Mandovi should be improved to ensure proper waste management. “The fishing jetties at Volvoi and Marcela should be provided with toilet and sanitation facilities,” the committee said. The state pollution control board monitors the Mandovi’s water quality at five locations — Tonca-Marcel, Iffi jetty, Hotel Marriott, Amona bridge and the Mandovi bridge, under the National Water Monitoring Programme (NWMP) of the Central Pollution Control Board. The polluted stretch of the river from Marcela to Volvoi measures 9km, whereas the stretch from Panaji to Marcela is 20km long. During the river’s physical survey, endemic flora, coconut plantations and mangrove cover were seen along the river banks. Discharge of untreated domestic sewage into storm water drains and nullahs leading to the river, as well as directly into the river, were observed during the physical survey conducted in January and February last year. The GSPCB conducted an inspection between March 1 and 6, 2019. During the exercise, it found direct discharge from houses, restaurants and commercial establishments into the river.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/state-river-panel-acts-tough-on-sewage-discharge-into-mandovi/articleshow/75653017.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Aurangabad||Robot to deliver items to Covid-19 patients at GMCH in Aurangabad||AURANGABAD: The Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Aurangabad, received an indigeneously-prepared robot from a local industry for the convenience of medical staff in management of Covid-19. The device helps in delivering items to Covid-19 patients at their bedside. The robot is donated to GMCH by Waluj-based Rucha Yantra. Being the only state-run tertiary care hospital in the district, a Dedicated Covid Hospital is established at the medicine building of GMCH. All Covid-19 patients with symptoms and those in critical condition are treated at the hospital. In such a situation, it becomes highly important that the team of doctors and medical staff serving at the facility stay healthy. According to GMCH dean Kanan Yelikar, the remote-operated device is significantly helpful during Covid-19 pandemic. “Our staff is able to use the robot for sanitising the isolation ward for Covid-19 patients and to deliver medicines and other items to the patients at their beds,” Yelikar said. The nurses wanting to administer doses of medicines or food to the patients can place the items on the tray of the device and move it as needed with the help of a remote without actually going near the patient. Medical superintendent Suresh Harbade, deputy dean Kailash Zine and head of department of medicine have expressed gratitude towards Rucha Yantra for providing the device to the hospital free of cost. The robot is developed by the team of Rucha Yantra lead by the founder Rohit Dashrathi specially keeping in mind the needs of hospital staff serving Covid-19 patients. “The team’s relentless efforts have made the robot capable of delivering medicines and food to Covid-19 patients. It also assists in sanitizing the hospital area. It also comes with a UV disinfectant accessory which is used for bacterial and viral disinfection purposes in healthcare units”, Dashrathi said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/robot-to-help-deliver-items-to-covid-19-patients-at-gmch/articleshow/75652095.cms||Arpita Sharad
May 10, 2020||Goa||In South Goa’s mining belt, 300 truck trips in 60 mins puts lives at stake||MARGAO: Amid the Covid-19 pandemic, even as the state has entered the Green Zone, for the South Goa mining belt residents, it is the fear of being run over by a mining truck that is keeping them indoors. While the department of mines and geology (DMG) has restricted the number of trucks leaving the mines to 25 per hour, the rule is mostly followed in the breach. On Saturday, TOI counted over 300 trips made by the mining trucks, over 10 times more than the number stipulated by DMG. And going by the sheer number of trucks making multiple trips to the jetties, a back of the envelope estimate suggests that in the past one week itself, an average of 35,000 tonnes of iron ore was sent for exports every day—a quantity equivalent to 18-20 barges. Director of mines and geology Arvind Bugde failed to respond to TOI’s multiple calls and messages. While the Supreme Court-mandated mining ban is still in force, what is being witnessed is the mad rush by all mining firms to transport all the royalty-paid ore lying at their mining pits or plots to the jetties within the stipulated period of six months, which expires in July. Sources said that as the impending monsoon largely brings to close the mining season, the miners are determined to complete the transportation by May-end. “The situation is worse than the pre-2012 mining boom period. There is chaos on the roads with no one to regulate the traffic. The two-lane road has recently been widened to accommodate 4-5 lanes of truck traffic. One hesitates to step out on the road in this maddening traffic. It’s dangerous for pedestrians to walk and two-wheeler riders to maneouver through the dense maze of trucks,” said Somnath Damodar Naik, who resides meters away from Vedanta’s jetty at Digas, Panchwadi. Enraged over unbridled mining transportation, locals have warned of taking to the streets in protest if the mining transport goes on unregulated. “The mines department claims that the trucks are fitted with speed governors. If that’s true, then how are the speed limits violated with impunity?” social activist Christanand Pednekar, a resident of Cacumoddi, Curchorem, asked. Lawyer Amar Naik is more forthright. “The Kalay-Karmane road that lies within the wildlife sanctuary was widened by the government years ago in a bid to attract tourists arriving at the Dudhsagar waterfalls. Mining transportation through this road is blatantly illegal,” Naik said. Pednekar criticised the government for its failure in completing the dedicated mining bypass. “This mining transportation is being carried out for generating profits for the mining firms, and therefore it ideally shouldn’t be carried out on public roads. At least now, the government should complete the remaining stretch of the mining corridor in the interest of public safety,” he said. Considering the sheer size and scale of mining traffic, and the insanity and impunity with which all rules governing mining transportation are violated by the mining firms and the transportation lobby, the roads of South Goa’s mining belt may soon find only trucks plying on them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/in-s-goas-mining-belt-300-truck-trips-in-60-mins-puts-lives-at-stake/articleshow/75653025.cms||Govind Kamat Maad
May 10, 2020||Mysuru||Mysuru cop gives a dignified funeral to unidentified bodies||MYSURU: Assistant sub inspector HB Madegowda, attached to Chamarajanagar East Police Station, seems fearless in the face of the unexpected outbreak of Covid-19, even going to the extent of carrying unclaimed bodies and lighting the pyre of unidentified individuals. Madegowda has given dignified farewells to more than 70 unidentified bodies in his 31 years of service. When the villagers in Budhipadaga, Hulluru, near a forest area in Chamarajanagar district refused to cremate the body of a 50-year-old mentally ill man trampled to death by an elephant over Covid-19 scare, Madegowda arranged a funeral and gave the man a dignified farewell. The incident happened on May 4 when the villagers found an unidentified man trampled to death near Budhipadaga in Hulluru beat under Punajanuru Forest Range, but refused to go anywhere near him. The 54-year-old ASI, who visited the spot along with head constable Rajesh and forest staff, conducted the mahajar and collected details from the villagers. They told him that the deceased man was mentally ill and had been living in the area. Speaking to STOI, the ASI said, “No one came to bury the body. Gram panchayat secretary Naga Nayaka and panchayat development officer Siddaraju arranged an earth mover and dug a pit to bury the body. I lifted the body and buried it. Later, I also performed the last rites for the deceased,” he said. “I was posted at Hunsur Rural Police Station earlier and a lot unidentified bodies were recovered from Lakshmana Theertha river. As the bodies were decomposed, nobody would agree to touch or lift them from water. I would remove my uniform and fish out the bodies irrespective of the condition of the body, bury them and perform the final rites of unidentified bodies,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/mysuru-cop-gives-a-dignified-funeral-to-unidentified-bodies/articleshow/75650965.cms||Lakshmikantha BK
May 10, 2020||Goa||Goa: Cops report 67% drop in crime during lockdown||PANAJI: The coronavirus scare seems to have kept criminals at bay with the police registering on an average three first information report (FIRs) per day across 25 police stations instead of an average of over seven FIRs last year. Inspector general of police (IGP) Jaspal Singh told TOI that the crime rate has fallen by 67% during the lockdown as compared to the same period last year. From March 25 to May 4 this year, a total 103 FIRs have been registered in the state, while 316 FIRs had been registered during the same period last year. “The reason behind reduction in the crime rate is because of presence of police personnel at every nook and corner of the state and people being indoors due to the lockdown,” he said. During the last 43 days, most police stations have registered one or two FIRs, except on a few days when around seven to eight FIRs were registered. A senior police officer said that the thefts, burglaries and robberies have reduced drastically. The officer said that though murder and rape cases have been reported, all have been detected. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had announced janata curfew on March 22 and since then Goa is under lockdown. Apart from crime, fatal accidents have also come down. Earlier a fatal accident was reported every 30 hours in the state. Most of the victims in fatal accidents are youths. During the initial period of lockdown, the state had witnessed 50% drop in the number of people visiting police stations with various queries. A senior police officer said people have started avoiding visiting police stations for police verification, tenant verification, filing complaints, among other matters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cops-report-67-drop-in-crime-during-lockdown/articleshow/75653027.cms||Murari Shetye
May 10, 2020||Aurangabad||MP intervenes after people stop AMC from taking Covid-19 patient to hosp||Aurangabad: Chaotic scenes were witnessed at the Town Hall on Saturday after some local residents allegedly refused to allow the squad of the Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) to take a Covid-19 positive patient child from the locality to the Covid Care Centre for treatment. Subsequently, Aurangabad MP Imtiaz Jaleel reached the spot. Criticising the municipal corporation, Jaleel said that they are stigmatising the patient and the family by bringing police to the area. According to Aparna Thete, head of the Covid-19 task force of the AMC, the team of the health workers were denied access to a child from Town Hall who tested positive for Covid-19. She said that the child tested positive along with other close contacts after a Covid-19 case was detected in the locality. “The boy tested positive for Covid-19 on May 1 and, subsequently, our team tried to take him to a Covid Care Centre where he can be treated for the infection. However, the family is unwilling to admit the child in the health facility and has denied any treatment either. The parents have given a written undertaking that the child will be in home quarantine and has been for the last nine days. We have tried to convince the parents to at least let a paediatrician conduct a check-up of the child, but in vain. They are saying that the child is asymptomatic.” Thete said. Dressed in personal protective equipment (PPE), the team of health professionals of the AMC along with police personnel had reached the locality on Saturday. However, they were met with severe resistance from the locals. MP Jaleel was also called by the residents asking for his intervention in the matter. Subsequently, the MP met with the child’s family. After the meeting, the MP said that the child has been in self-quarantine for the last nine days. “The people are resisting for the same issue I have raised with district authorities and with the chief minister. If you have taken the throat swab samples of a person, why aren’t you giving me the report? This is a matter between the patient and the doctor. Why are you bringing the police in between? They are not criminals and this is not a crime scene in which police interference is needed. The municipal corporation should counsel them patient and their family members and take them into confidence,” Jaleel said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/mp-intervenes-after-people-stop-amc-from-taking-covid-19-patient-to-hosp/articleshow/75652112.cms||Arpita Sharad
May 10, 2020||Mysuru||Online video lessons keep police recruits engaged||Mysuru: It’s not just schools and colleges, even police training schools and the Karnataka Police Academy that imparts training to new recruits, have gone online this lockdown season. According to sources, when the lockdown started, the training of police recruits was cut short and they were sent back to their respective districts, but the authorities of training institutes continue to provide them classes. Videos of theory classes and outdoor activities are being shared over social networking groups to the trainees whose services are being used by the department for lockdown duty. They have been deployed at check-points to assist the officers. The Karnataka Police Academy imparts training to direct recruits in the rank of sub-inspector and above, besides orientation classes to officers while the police training school provides training to constables, who are the lowest rung of the ladder in the department. Dharnidevi Malagatti, principal of Police Training School, Mysuru, told TOI that following a circular from police headquarters, the training was discontinued and all the trainees were sent back to respective districts from where they have been selected. They are assisting the officers in lockdown duty, she said. “The training school had 243 trainees, all girls, who had completed one-month training. They were supposed to undergo training for nearly a year. Owing to the current situation and following the directive, they have been asked to return to their respective districts. However, we have been sharing few videos of indoor/outdoor activities with the trainees through social media platforms to an extent, albeit not on a full-scale,” she said. Likewise, probationary sub-inspectors attached to different wings of police department including wireless and fingerprint sections who are undergoing training at Karnataka Police Academy too have returned to respective districts and they too are receiving video classes online, sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/online-video-lessons-keep-police-recruits-engaged/articleshow/75650005.cms||Lawrence Milton
May 10, 2020||Aurangabad||Migrants at Ayodhya Nagari ground rescued||Aurangabad: The agony of scores of migrants at the Ayodhya Nagari ground finally ended after the administration sent buses to rescue them and transport to relief camps in the city. A TOI report published on Saturday highlighted that these migrants were living in the open with no proper food, water and sanitation arrangements. The problems faced by migrants gathered attention of the authorities after 16 migrants wanting to return to their homes lost their lives at a railway track in Karmad. The Aurangabad district administration, however, failed to take cognizance of hundreds of migrants stranded at a ground near the railway station despite the horrific incident. TOI’s ground visit to the spot exposed the ignorance of the administration towards the workers. According to the workers, they were struggling to get hold of food and water. Several NGOs were delivering food packets at the spot but not all could benefit from the initiative as it would get exhausted before their turn came. On Saturday morning, a team of community policing, an initiative by commissioner of police Chiranjeev Prasad, rushed to the rescue of workers stranded at the ground. The team headed by CP Prasad went to the ground and undertook the rescue mission on Saturday afternoon. According to Ganshyam Sonawane, the head of community policing initiative, a total of 576 labourers were moved from the ground to two facilities with the help of NGOs Payam-e-Insyaniyat and Dhawak Kranti Research Foundation. “276 workers have been shifted to Sharad Pawar Ayurved Medical College in Bhalgaon near Aurangabad and 300 to Moin Ul Uloom School in Silk Mills Colony. The group includes men, women and children from UP, Bihar, Jharkhand, West Bengal and Rajasthan,” Sonawane said. As of now, the food arrangements has been done through community kitchen of Aurangabad First and Sindhi Colony Gurudwara and the health check up of the workers will be done by Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) doctors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/migrants-at-ayodhya-nagari-ground-rescued/articleshow/75652117.cms||Arpita Sharad
May 10, 2020||Goa||In S Goa’s mining belt, 300 truck trips in 60 mins puts lives at stake||Margao: Amid the Covid-19 pandemic, even as the state has entered the Green Zone, for the South Goa mining belt residents, it is the fear of being run over by a mining truck that is keeping them indoors. While the department of mines and geology (DMG) has restricted the number of trucks leaving the mines to 25 per hour, the rule is mostly followed in the breach. On Saturday, TOI counted over 300 trips made by the mining trucks, over 10 times more than the number stipulated by DMG. And going by the sheer number of trucks making multiple trips to the jetties, a back of the envelope estimate suggests that in the past one week itself, an average of 35,000 tonnes of iron ore was sent for exports every day—a quantity equivalent to 18-20 barges. Director of mines and geology Arvind Bugde failed to respond to TOI’s multiple calls and messages. While the Supreme Court-mandated mining ban is still in force, what is being witnessed is the mad rush by all mining firms to transport all the royalty-paid ore lying at their mining pits or plots to the jetties within the stipulated period of six months, which expires in July. Sources said that as the impending monsoon largely brings to close the mining season, the miners are determined to complete the transportation by May-end. “The situation is worse than the pre-2012 mining boom period. There is chaos on the roads with no one to regulate the traffic. The two-lane road has recently been widened to accommodate 4-5 lanes of truck traffic. One hesitates to step out on the road in this maddening traffic. It’s dangerous for pedestrians to walk and two-wheeler riders to maneouver through the dense maze of trucks,” said Somnath Damodar Naik, who resides meters away from Vedanta’s jetty at Digas, Panchwadi. Enraged over unbridled mining transportation, locals have warned of taking to the streets in protest if the mining transport goes on unregulated. “The mines department claims that the trucks are fitted with speed governors. If that’s true, then how are the speed limits violated with impunity?” social activist Christanand Pednekar, a resident of Cacumoddi, Curchorem, asked. Lawyer Amar Naik is more forthright. “The Kalay-Karmane road that lies within the wildlife sanctuary was widened by the government years ago in a bid to attract tourists arriving at the Dudhsagar waterfalls. Mining transportation through this road is blatantly illegal,” Naik said. Pednekar criticised the government for its failure in completing the dedicated mining bypass. “This mining transportation is being carried out for generating profits for the mining firms, and therefore it ideally shouldn’t be carried out on public roads. At least now, the government should complete the remaining stretch of the mining corridor in the interest of public safety,” he said. Considering the sheer size and scale of mining traffic, and the insanity and impunity with which all rules governing mining transportation are violated by the mining firms and the transportation lobby, the roads of South Goa’s mining belt may soon find only trucks plying on them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/in-s-goas-mining-belt-300-truck-trips-in-60-mins-puts-lives-at-stake/articleshow/75653021.cms||Govind Kamat Maad
May 10, 2020||Nagpur||Online music, dance contests help people battle boredom||Nagpur: After an initial slumber due to lockdown musical and cultural functions have started taking shape albeit on virtual platform. Online singing, dancing and theatre competitions have started in the city and now artistes have an opportunity to display their talent in such competitions which is attracting children, professionals and amateurs in equal proportion. Besides cultural organizations, Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) too has organized an online signing competition where people have to upload their videos and prizes will be awarded accordingly. Conceptualized by mayor Sandip Joshi, NMC along with Sanskar Bharti came up with an online family singing competition titled ‘Kutumb Ranglayat Ganat’. Speaking to TOI, Joshi said, “We have entered into the third lockdown and people are frustrated staying at home. To avoid the negativity of domestic violence and family quarrels we wanted to bring a positive idea that will keep citizens busy.” Minimum two and maximum eight members of a family can participate in it. They can sing filmy, patriotic or spiritual songs. People can participate by filling an online application form until May 15 and upload a video of not more than 100 MB. Top three performers will be given Rs 21,000, Rs15,000, and Rs11,000 respectively. Besides, five consolation prizes of Rs1,000 each will be presented. Bal Rangbhoomi Parishad came up with innovative online competitions for the youth which started on May 1. They had to record a video at home enacting their favourite piece of acting and sending it to the organizers who later decided upon the winners. Parishad plans to host more such acting workshops and dance competitions. Organizer Sanjay Rahate said, “We received over 80 videos. Judge Kishor Ayalwar selected top 16 out of which nine were declared as winners.” The whole process was carried out on WhatsApp where the winners got certificates in the form of soft copies. The upcoming two competitions will give people an opportunity to donate money which will be used to help the needy during lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/online-music-dance-contests-help-people-battle-boredom/articleshow/75650977.cms||Shreya Tinkhede
May 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Students in UK dejected as journey home evades them||Hyderabad: Indian nationals from Telangana stranded in the UK because of lockdown will be heading home in a special flight on May 11. The flight will take off from London’s Heathrow Airport to Hyderabad at 9.45 am. “The flight for Hyderabad will carry stranded Indians from Telangana as Hyderabad is under complete lockdown. Indian passport holders from Andhra Pradesh will be considered in the next phase,” the High Commission of India (HCI), London, announced on Saturday. However, several students from Telangana and Andhra Pradesh are disappointed as they have not got confirmation about they being put on the flight. A few students got a ‘wait-listed’ note from HCI and some got a ‘short-listed’ note. “The 62 students who went to the embassy on March 20 and stayed there for a few days should be evacuated first,” a student said. Another student said priority should have been given to them but none of those who registered at the HCI on March 20 got confirmation to fly back to Hyderabad on May 11.Some students, mostly from the Telugu states, had resorted to protests in front of HCI in March when their flights to India were cancelled even before the lockdown was announced. As per the first phase of evacuation, the first flight took off to Mumbai on Saturday. Flight for Bengaluru will take off on May 10, Hyderabad on May 11, Mumbai on May 12, Ahmedabad on May 13, Chennai on May 14 and Delhi on May 15. The HCI said the set of seven flights would evacuate people with most compelling reasons. “Due to quarantine requirements and lockdown in India, coordination is needed with state governments. Seven flights can take 2,100 people. Not everybody can be covered in a phase,” HCI said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/students-in-uk-dejected-as-journey-home-evades-them/articleshow/75652737.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
May 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Shops open beyond 6pm, two booked||Hyderabad: Two shop owners were booked for keeping their stores at Peerzadiguda open beyond the permissible time of 6 pm on Friday. Kirana shop owner B Rajveer and chicken shop owner Venu Gopal, both from Peerzadiguda, were found keeping their commercial establishments open beyond the permissible time. A team from the Medipally police station, while patrolling, found the shop violating lockdown norms. “The shops are allowed to open till 6pm, however, the two shops were found open till 7pm,” a police officer from Medipally PS said. The two shop owners were booked under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and relevant sections of the National Disaster Management Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/shops-open-beyond-6pm-two-booked/articleshow/75652744.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Aurangabad||Two pilgrims from J&K test positive in Nanded||Aurangabad: Two pilgrims from Jammu and Kashmir tested positive for Covid-19 in Nanded on Saturday. With this the number of Covid-19 cases to 40 in Nanded district According to district civil surgeon Nilkanth Bhosikar, two residents of Jammu and Kashmir who had come to visit the Shri Gurudwara Nanded tested positive for coronavirus on Saturday night. . The two men—55-year-old and 57-year-old— are being treated at Covid Care Center at Mehsul building. The district health authorities had collected the throat swab samples of 63 people from Naginaghat area on Thursday. Reports of 54 have been received, of which 49 people tested negative, 3 reports were been indecisive and 2 tested positive. A large number of pilgrims had come to Nanded from different parts of the country to celebrate Hola Mahalla at the time of Holi. However, after the lockdown was announced, around 4,000 pilgrims were stuck in Nanded. Around 30 people have tested positive for coronavirus in Naginaghat area. Subsequently, the testing has been expedited in the area. In Hingoli, three Covid-19 patients were discharged on Saturday after they tested negative. Of the total 91 patients that have tested positive for Covid-19 in the district, 88 are undergoing treatment while the rest have been discharged. As many as 82 SRPF jawans have tested positive including one from SRPF Jalna and 81 from SRPF Hingoli. These men had been posted on bandobast duty at Malegaon and Mumbai. In Latur, another patient was detected with Covid-19 in Udgir on Friday, taking the total tally of Covid-19 cases in the district to 23. So far, eight people have recovered from Covid-19, one casualty and remaining are undergoing treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/two-pilgrims-from-jk-test-positive-in-nanded/articleshow/75652121.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Goa||WRD told to pump water from Bicholim mining pits||Bicholim: Officials of the water resources department (WRD) have been directed to pump out water from the mining pits in Bicholim taluka to prevent overflowing during the monsoon. On Tuesday, Bicholim mamlatdar Pravinjay Pandit had convened a meeting with WRD officials and managers of mining companies operating in the taluka to review the arrangements for the task. WRD assistant engineer K P Naik said the department has commenced operations to pump out water from most of the mining pits, and the situation is being monitored round the clock. Officials of the mining companies said that they are providing necessary assistance to WRD in this regard. Pandit also informed WRD officials that a joint inspection will be conducted within a fortnight along with directorate of mines and geology authorities. Mining companies were also directed to comply with the guidelines issued by the mines department while transporting e-auctioned iron ore and strictly adhere to safety norms. Meanwhile, the mamlatdar directed WRD to coordinate with officials of Tillari irrigation dam in Maharashtra to prevent the occurrence of floods in areas like Sal and other adjoining villages.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/wrd-told-to-pump-water-from-bicholim-mining-pits/articleshow/75653024.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Goa||‘We don’t know how long more we will be left to live like this’||PANAJI: Ajay Bacuria, 20, was all set to get married in his native Khandwa, in Madhya Pradesh, on March 28. All preparations were complete, and his family was awaiting his arrival. But four days before the wedding, PM Narendra Modi ordered a nationwide lockdown, and since then, Bacuria has been living in a train coach at Vasco railway station. He is one of 50 who share the same fate. Mostly from Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh and Bihar, they were employed by a contractor as cleaning staff for the railways. When trains were operational, they shuttled between destinations, always on the move, with food and bedding provided. But now, with their payment stopped the day the lockdown was announced, they’ve been surviving on free meals served by a few good Samaritans and the state government, outside Vasco station. “We are provided free lunch and dinner, but there is no breakfast to eat when we wake up,” said M D Hanif. “Now, the homeless and beggars from all over Vasco have come here in search of food. From the initial 50 of us being served, there are now 350 in queue. We are lucky if our turn to be served comes before the food is over.” Bacuria tried to coax another young friend to speak, but he did not. The young man, from Delhi, remained in his coach after learning of the death of his mother in Delhi, and the funeral being carried out in his absence. “Until Friday, we stood outside the Vasco municipality to get our names registered for the trains. But yesterday, only the contractor for the railway pantry workers came to pack them off in a bus. We later learnt that those workers were sent off on a train to Madhya Pradesh. No one informed us,” said a disheartened Gajrat Singh Tomar, from MP. A policeman said that the registration for the return trains at the municipality closed after around 8,000 registrations from Mormugao taluka. Meanwhile, in a state shelter at the government primary school, Vasco, 13 workers from Assam live inside a classroom-turned-sleeping facility. A policeman, sitting behind iron grills, watches their movements 24x7. “We were working as servers in a restaurant. We sensed that there could be a lockdown. We took our salaries and completed all other settlements with our employers and set out to leave on March 24. But the lockdown was imposed and we missed the train by a whisker. We spent Rs 60,000 just to stay at a guesthouse. Broke, we finally had to dial the state helpline,” said Krishna Chettri. The workers are grateful for the government shelter, but speak of their growing anxiety. “We heard a train left for MP yesterday with 1,200 workers. But there is no sign of a train to Assam,” said Dhan Bahadur Chettri. “There seems no possibility of the lockdown ending soon. The food we are served here is good, but we do not know how long we will be left to live like this. Our families call us up every day to enquire about our return.” Back at the railway station, there is chicken curry and rice for lunch. But Bacuria and his friend Nitesh Thakur eat disinterestedly. “The government is only playing politics with poor people like us,” said Thakur. “We haven’t even received any acknowledgement that we registered to return by train to our state. We have no hope of hearing from them. We are stuck here now till the lockdown is lifted. The contractor wants to keep us hanging here so we are available to work if train service resumes.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/we-dont-know-how-long-more-we-will-be-left-to-live-like-this/articleshow/75653026.cms||Gauree Malkarnekar
May 10, 2020||Mysuru||Maternity hospital in Mysuru city records surge in patients following Nanjangud cluster case||MYSURU: Doctors, nurses and ward staff at Cheluvamba Hospital in Mysuru city are lucky if they get a few minutes to take a leisurely breath these days when they are on duty at what is the largest government-run maternity facility in South Karnataka. The lockdown has pushed the number of patients being admitted to the hospital steeply, and consequently, the number of infants being delivered by the staff has gone up sharply – sources at Cheluvamba Hospital said that the staff was overseeing three deliveries in two hours! The surge in the number of patients at the Cheluvamba Hospital can be attributed to people from differents parts of region including Nanjangud, the epicentre of India’s first Covid-19 ‘cluster case’ thronging the facility. On average, nearly 37 deliveries are being performed daily. Given the prevalence of the Covid-19 threat, all procedures are being performed in a highly secure and safe environment, with all healthcare personnel garbed in protective gear. On the other hand, all expecting mothers are being tested for novel coronavirus, and fortunately, the hospital is yet to report a positive case. Cheluvamba Hospital medical superintendent Dr Pramila admitted to the staff being intimidated by the sudden increase in workload when patients from all parts of the region including Nanjangud started pouring in to their facility. “However, we counselled all members of the staff, including the security guards, the first point-of-contact for the patients and attendants. They were initially hesitant to handle patients from Nanjangud, but they are now receiving and attending to them without fear,” Dr Pramila told TOI. She said that the number of deliveries at Cheluvamba Hospital had risen from 25 a day before the lockdown was enforced to 37, on average, every day following the imposition of restrictions. “Cheluvamba Hospital has been identified as a potential facility where expectant mothers who are Covid-19 positive can be provided treatment,” Dr Pramila said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/maternity-hospital-in-mysuru-city-records-surge-in-patients-following-nanjangud-cluster-case/articleshow/75650999.cms||Lawrence Milton
May 10, 2020||Aurangabad||Tragedy highlights need for multilingual travel pass forms||AURANGABAD: The state government’s portal for accepting applications and issuing travel passes has made the forms available only in English and Marathi — languages that most of the migrant workers from other states cannot comprehend. “When we know that the majority of the stranded people do not understand Marathi, there is no point in issuing appeals and information in this language,” said a senior IAS officer. When asked about the problems faced by the migrant workers, additional chief secretary (revenue) Nitin Kareer, said: “If we give out forms in each language, it will be very difficult to manage. However, now that the issue has been brought to our notice, we will look into the matter.” Kareer is one of the three senior IAS officers appointed at the state’s control room that has been formed to coordinate and monitor the return of people stranded in Maharashtra. Friday’s train track tragedy has highlighted the need for multilingual forms. Sources said it is being verified if the Jalna workers were even aware of the online travel pass application process. On Thursday evening, these people had gone to the district administration but were not allowed to board a bus to Aurangabad — from where a train to Madhya Pradesh was flagged off. That is why the workers started for Bhusawal on foot. For 16 of them, the journey ended tragically at Satana. Until recently, the online travel pass application process was handled by the police and was being monitored by DGP’s office. However, a week ago, the duty was handed over to the district collectors and the service is being monitored by state control room headed by a senior IAS officer in Mumbai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/tragedy-highlights-need-for-multilingual-travel-pass-forms/articleshow/75652126.cms||Mohammed Akhef
May 10, 2020||Vadodara||Man held for Rs 2L theft||Vadodara: A trader of Hathikhana APMC market lost Rs 2.2 lakh cash from his scooter in the market on Friday. The thief who stole the cash was arrested by the crime branch near Ajabdi Mill on Saturday afternoon. The trader Deepak Biyani told police that the accused Shahid Sheikh had stolen the cash from the glove box of his scooter when the scooter was parked at the market’s office. Biyani had borrowed the money from another trader to purchase goods for his shop. Later he had gone to the market’s office to procure special lockdown pass for himself during which Sheikh stole the money. Police said that Biyani along with his complaint had given description of the thief based on the footages of CCTV cameras installed outside the office. Along with local police, the crime branch was also searching for the accused. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/man-held-for-rs-2l-theft/articleshow/75651644.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Goa||Collect fees on monthly basis, DoE tells schools||Panaji: Stating that it has received several complaints of unaided schools implementing their annual fee hike amidst the Covid-19 pandemic, the directorate of education (DoE) has asked the schools to consider taking monthly payments instead of quarterly. Charges for uniforms and transportation should be kept in abeyance until the schools reopen, director Vandana Rao said in a circular. “During this lockdown period due to Covid-19, many complaints have been received from parents of children in unaided schools regarding annual increase in the fees of the respective schools. A number of complainants have requested the directorate to waive term fee/tuition fee/transportation fees due to the financial crisis during Covid-19 pandemic,” Rao said. Rao said that ‘the fee structure of unaided schools changes every year within a limit and approval for the same is obtained from the directorate of education’. Unaided schools, she said, obtain approval for the fee structure under section 19 (3) of the Goa School Education Act, 1984. “Therefore, it is advised to the management of the unaided schools that they may implement the option of monthly fee payment so that schools maintain their cash flow and parents do not suffer undue hardship as well,” the circular reads.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/collect-fees-on-monthly-basis-doe-tells-schools/articleshow/75653028.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Goa||To shore up revenue, Goa hikes diesel price by Rs 2.05/L||Panaji: After increasing the value added tax (VAT) on petrol in April, the state government on Saturday hiked VAT on diesel to 22%, pushing the fuel’s price up by Rs 2.05 per litre. The cost of diesel, which was steady since May 6, now stands at Rs 64.66 per litre. While petrol costs Rs 68.09 per litre, the prices of both fuels will vary based on the location of the fuel station in Goa. Officials of the finance department said the increase in VAT on diesel is aimed at bolstering the state treasury. Goa is facing a severe fund shortage and the finance department met just a few days earlier to decide on additional sources for revenue. The government expects to earn Rs 78 crore in additional revenue due to the increase in VAT on diesel, a government official said. “Generally the state gets an additional Rs 2 crore for every per cent increase. Fuel consumption is currently down. We are looking at a Rs 6.5 crore increase on a monthly basis,” the official said. Several states have seen a drastic drop in revenue and taxes due to the nationwide lockdown. Many are now increasing VAT on alcohol, fuel and vehicle registration fees to shore up their revenues. Goa joins Delhi, Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh in increasing VAT on fuel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/to-shore-up-revenue-goa-hikes-diesel-price-by-rs-2-05/l/articleshow/75653029.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Goa||To keep Goa safe, cops to check offices, public places||PANAJI: Goa police has decided to conduct random checks at government offices, shops and public places and act against those who do not wear masks and follow social distancing norms. Inspector general of police Jaspal Singh said that social distancing and wearing of masks are crucial to prevent Covid-19 spread. “We need to ensure that people observe the laid norms within the respective jurisdictions of outposts, police stations, offices of sub-divisional police officers besides district and unit offices.” “As part of our job, we should randomly go to shops and see whether the norms are implemented,” he said in a message to officers. “We also need to check whether business establishments are operating with 50% staff or crowding their shops with their own staff,” he said. “We can even visit government offices and advise the staff to honour these norms. We need to tell everyone that they should make it a habit to wear masks. This will help us keep Goa in the green zone,” he said. As of date, Goa police has registered over 39,000 lockdown violations including 682 first information reports (FIRs), 29,079 challans under Motor Vehicle Act, 5,473 for spitting in public places and 3,718 for not wearing masks. Cases are being booked against those moving around villages and towns without permission of the concerned authorities besides shopkeepers for keeping their stores open ignoring government orders. Police patrolling has been intensified all over the state, and pickets have been set up at existing patrolling points. Traffic personnel have been deployed along with the district police at strategic checkpoints. Singh had advised people that activities such as cultural, religious and political nature will continue to remain under prohibition and they should not venture out unnecessarily. This, he said was as per the directions of the ministry of home affairs (MHA). Singh had said his officers have observed that people start gathering and protest about “small issues to which the police has to respond”. He had also said that people have co-operated with his force in enforcing the lockdown, but a few groups have tried to exploit the crisis for their own ends, which have been appropriately dealt with. “People are advised not to gather and invite legal action by violating lockdown between 7pm and 7 am,” Singh had said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/to-keep-goa-safe-cops-tocheck-offices-public-places/articleshow/75653031.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Funds for disabled meagre, HC tells Telangana||HYDERABAD: The Telangana high court took officials to task for failing to reach out to the physically disabled and extend help during the lockdown period. Stating that precious little was done to alleviate their problems, the court directed the state government to create a separate fund for persons with disabilities. A bench of Chief Justice Raghavendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy also directed the government to furnish to the court details of donations it had received from various sections of people in the fight against the novel coronavirus by May 18. In response to Shiva Ganesh Karnati whose letter was converted into a PIL, the bench said the funds allotted for the disabled in districts were too meagre. Ganesh said though there were several guidelines issued both by the state and the Centre to cater to the needs of persons with disabilities to ensure door delivery of medicines and groceries, facilitate their movement to hospitals and provided them with assistants during the lockdown, none of these was implemented. When the high court during one of its earlier hearings had asked the disabled welfare wing to give publicity to the toll-free number meant for the physically challenged, the officials had said yes. But a week later, what they told baffled the bench. The bench went through a report filed by the disabled welfare department and realised that it had never taken steps to enable the physically disabled. When the officials said that they received 59 calls on the toll-free number from Rangareddy district, the bench sought to know if publicity was given for the number. “In some TV channels, we ran scrolls. We posted a video in our department’s official Twitter handle,” the officials claimed. Fuming at the explanation, the CJ asked: “So, this is the wide publicity you (officials) have given.” He directed the officials to reach out to the physically challenged in a better way through audio and video modes. “The far less number of calls from Rangareddy district only shows that the toll-free number has not reached its intended audience,” the bench said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/funds-for-disabled-meagre-hc-tells-t/articleshow/75652774.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Chandigarh||Census without Sikh ethnic category gets approved by House of Commons||The House of Commons approved the draft census order for England and Wales on Wednesday night without an ethnic Sikh tick-box in the ethnicity section, despite a long-running campaign by some sections of the community for it, and despite the ethnicity section being the subject of two judicial reviews. Without a Sikh ethnic tick-box, British Sikhs, in response to the question asking their ethnic group, will have the option of ticking Asian/Asian British and then whether Indian, Pakistani, Bangladeshi, Chinese, or any other Asian background (stating which), or they can write in Sikh. Scores of non-Sikh British MPs queued up to call for a dedicated Sikh ethnic tick-box in the 2021 census at Wednesday’s debate. MPs argued that if Sikhs do not have a dedicated Sikh ethnic tick box option, their needs will not be properly monitored and assessed by public bodies. Labour MP Matt Western claimed the Sikh Federation (UK) (SFUK) and “the whole British Sikh community” wanted the change to be introduced. But post-debate, and no vote, the minister of state at the cabinet office, Chloe Smith approved the draft census and it will now go to the House of Lords. “Members of the Sikh community will continue to be able to record their ethnic group in the census however they wish, by recording it in the write-in boxes provided,” she said. She added there would remain a question on religion, which did have a Sikh response option, and though a voluntary question, had a high response rate. But Labour MP Mohammad Yasin said that whilst 430,000 people had identified as Sikh in the 2011 census in the religion question, the real estimate of Sikhs in the UK is between 600,000 and 700,000. “What is the point of collecting data if it is not accurate?” he asked. Labour MP John Spellar termed the draft census a “slap in the face” for the Sikh community “that has contributed so much to our country not only in recent years, but over the past couple of centuries of our joint history.” He said, “Only a month or so ago, that was highlighted by the death of Manjeet Singh Riyat, the A&E leader at Royal Derby Hospital. Clearly, the Sikh community feels strongly about this. In the 2011 census, 83,000 ticked the box saying ‘Other’ and wrote in, ‘Sikh’,” he said. “Ethnic group data is what is used by public bodies to make decisions on the allocation of resources and provision of public services. Effectively, Sikhs are invisible. As the Covid-19 crisis has shown, there has been no systematic collection of data on the number of Sikhs tested as positive or on the number who have tragically died,” Spellar added. Labour MP Cat Smith said: “Evidence suggests that the census has historically underestimated the Sikh community in the UK. For example, Sikhs are believed to constitute just 1% of the London population, yet account for 5% of deaths among homeless men.” The SFUK is challenging the lack of a Sikh ethnic category in the draft census in the UK High Court and says it has the backing of more than 150 gurudwaras and Sikh organisations to do so. The federation has brought two judicial reviews against the Cabinet Office so far, both of which are still before the UK courts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/no-ethnic-sikh-tick-box-in-uk-census-despite-lobbying/articleshow/75645339.cms||NAOMI CANTON
May 10, 2020||Aurangabad||NHRC takes cognizance of train tragedy, issues notices to DM, chief secretary||AURANGABAD: Taking suo motu cognizance of the 16 migrant workers’ tragic death on Friday morning, the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) has sent notices to the Maharashtra state chief secretary and the Aurangabad district magistrate. Twenty migrant workers from Jalna, with the aim to catch the Shramik train from the Bhusawal railway junction (about 160 km from Jalna), started walking on the railway tracks. Exhausted after covering nearly 40 km, the migrants decided to rest for a while before resuming their journey. However, 16 workers were mowed down by an empty good train heading to Manmad around 5.30 am on Friday at Satana, in Karmad of Aurangabad rural. The NHRC stated: “The officers have been directed to submit a detailed report into the incident within four weeks. It should also include details of the steps taken by the state and the district authorities to provide food, shelter and other basic amenities to the poor people, especially the migrant workers, who are facing extreme difficulties. The details of the relief and rehabilitation provided to the victim workers and their dependents, along with the status of the medical treatment provided to the injured, is also required to be given in the report.” The commission observed: “Prima facie, the mishap can be termed as a train accident as normally it is not expected by anyone that some people will be sleeping on the railway tracks. However, the crucial aspect is that the poor workers — who were already facing many hardships due to the countrywide lockdown, were forced to walk on foot for a very long distance due to non-availability of any mode of transport — lost their lives due to the apparent negligence of the district administration. Had some arrangements been made for their shelter or halt during their tiring journey, the painful tragedy could have been averted.” Sources said that the NHRC, in its recent orders passed in different cases, has observed and expressed that there is a need for the government agencies to deal with the situation arising out of the country-wide lockdown, very sensibly, particularly for the people belonging to vulnerable sections of the society. Death of poor migrant workers in such a painful way is indeed an issue of violation of human rights.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/nhrc-takes-cognizance-of-train-tragedy-issues-notices-to-dm-chief-secretary/articleshow/75652135.cms||Mohammed Akhef
May 10, 2020||Goa||Congress says diesel price hike will affect farmers||Panaji: Slamming the state government’s move to increase Value Added Tax (VAT) on diesel amidst the novel coronavirus pandemic, Congress said the move would affect transportation of essentials, and the agriculture sector. “Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant should immediately clarify on this as there is no official announcement of any hike by the government of Goa ,or is it ‘mission hide and seek of’ BJP?” state Congress president Girish Chodankar said. The state government released a notification hiking VAT on diesel to 22% on Saturday but fuel stations began charging an additional Rs 2.06 from Saturday morning itself. A litre of diesel will now cost Rs 64.66 in the state. “Additional VAT without making noise during an economic crisis will affect transportation and farmers badly,” the state Congress president further said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/congress-says-diesel-price-hike-will-affect-farmers/articleshow/75653032.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: Proposal for online filing of leave & licence documents||PUNE: The state registration department has proposed to amend the provisions under Rent Control Act, 2000, to push the online filing of leave and licence documents amid the Covid-19 lockdown. If the amendments are made, the documents can be filed online without registration under the Rent Control Act instead of the Registration Act, said an official of the state registration department. Inspector-general of registration and stamps Omprakash Deshmukh told TOI, “The amendment is being sought so that leave and licence documents can be filed without registration.” Deshmukh said, “This will reduce the pressure on the sub-registrars’ offices and even the service providers. The officers will be able to focus on registration of documents where the actual transfer of ownership of property is involved, states the proposal being put forth to the government. Presently, all leave and licence documents filed online have to be registered.” Explaining the concept, he said the proposal for amendment put up by the department would reduce the burden of registration of huge number of documents and anyone could file the same sitting at home using one-time password (OTP) and other security checks. “Our offices in about 30 districts in the green and orange zones have opened, but we are working with just 5% staff though it can be about 33% as per the guidelines in other offices. The offices in Pune, Mumbai and Thane are yet to open,” he said. Settlement commissioner S Chockolingam, who helped in drafting the recommendation, said it would help citizens at large and the registration offices. “If one were able to renew or draft the leave and licence and file it online after due checks while sitting at home, it would be easier for all,” he said. P Ahirrao, the IT department head of the registration department, said, “The proposal is to amend the Rent Control Act and related provisions so that it reduces the load on the officials.” Residents hailed the initiative, stating it would bring some respite during these hard times. “I want to renew the lease agreement. This process would be simplified if the amendments are made,” said S Haridas, a resident of Kondhwa.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/proposal-for-online-filing-of-leave-licence-documents/articleshow/75652773.cms||Nisha Nambiar
May 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: 18 on Covid-19 duty including doctors and sanitation workers get infected||HYDERABAD: At least 18 staff on Covid-19 duty, mostly healthcare workers including nurses, ward boys, blood bank technicians and ambulance drivers have been infected by the virus. Also among them are sanitation workers of the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) and cops. Another 15-20 Covid-19 patients in the state have been identified as direct contacts of the infected staffers and they are also undergoing treatment at the state-run Gandhi hospital. They are among the 1,136 patients in the state. Among the healthcare staffers affected, many are from district hospitals.“I was working overtime as there was a steady flow of patients. I had no symptoms of Covid-19, but had felt some weakness,” said a lab technician from Gadwal who tested positive. Coming from a red zone, the healthcare workers are among the other affected healthcare workers on Covid-19 duty in the area. Staffers who came in frequent contact with patients like doing daily checks and ambulance workers from Karimnagar, Gadwal and Jogulamba are among the affected. The fact that during the initial days the focus on personal protective equipment was not much, is believed to be the reason for more staffers from districts being affected. “Although the situation has improved considerably now, in the initial days there were major lapses in precautions. Also since a few districts were in the red zone the exposure would be high and the lack of protective equipment might have led to these cases,” said Dr Mahesh Kumar, president Healthcare Reforms Doctors Association (HRDA). “Not all of the staff on Covid-19 duty were provided PPES initially. They were supplied as and when available and of varying qualities,” said a nurse at the King Koti district hospital, where a few staff members tested positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/18-on-covid-19-duty-including-docs-sanitation-workers-get-infected/articleshow/75652780.cms||Amrita Didyala
May 10, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad rural police start recording statements||AURANGABAD: Initiating an investigation into the death of 16 migrant workers on the railway tracks in Satana, the Aurangabad rural police have started recording statements. The South Central Railways, the Jalna district administration and the Aurangabad district collectorate have launched independent probes. A source said the Aurangabad district collectorate has summoned the key people related to the incident on Monday to record their statements. “A case of accidental death has been registered with the Karmad police station and we are seeking details of the findings by the railways and Jalna district administration,” Aurangabad rural sub-divisional police officer Vishal Nehul-Patil told TOI. Depending on the findings and survivors’ statements, a decision to register an offence would be taken, the officer added. The detailed statements of the survivors were recorded before they boarded a train from Aurangabad on Friday evening. The bodies of the 16 deceased migrant workers were also sent on this train. Karmad police station inspector Santosh Khetmalas said, “As a part of the investigation, we recorded the statements of the loco pilot of the goods train, the assistant motorman and the railway guard on Saturday.” Their statements are being analysed to establish the chronology of events, said an officer. Sources said the statement of Rafiq Shah, the police patil who was the first to reach the accident spot, has also been recorded. The migrant workers had started from Jalna for Bhusawal. To avoid being stopped by the police, they had decided to walk on the railway tracks to cover a distance of 160 km. The Jalna administration has drawn some flak for asking these poor illiterate migrant workers to fill online forms, instead of assisting them on the spot with filling the forms and issuing them passes. Sources said the police are also in dilemma over registering of offence. On one hand, there is the Indian Railways, on the other, there is the Jalna district administration, the labour contractor as well as the employer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/aurangabad-rural-police-start-recording-statements/articleshow/75652141.cms||Mohammed Akhef
May 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Rlys to spruce up tracks prior to monsoon||Hyderabad: Railway authorities in the twin cities are planning to utilise the lockdown period to spruce up the railway tracks in preparation for the monsoon. “We have chalked out a plan to make good use of the lockdown. We would undertake cleaning and desilting of culverts, desilting of drains, installations of diesel and electric pumps and maintenance of infrastructure,” said a railway official. Major bottlenecks and long-pending maintenance works of bridges and tracks in the South Central Railway (SCR) zone are also being fixed. The maintenance work of its suburban MEMU and DEMU rakes, which includes detection and fixing of leakages, replacing old windows and electrical equipments will also be taken up. Following directions from the state government, SCR has accelerated the road under the bridge (RuB), the road overbridge (RoB), slip roads and link roads works in the city. Officials have informed that signalling failures are paid special attention during the monsoon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/rlys-to-spruce-up-tracks-prior-to-monsoon/articleshow/75652157.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Goa||Parents: Move to hold Class X exam is uninformed||PANAJI: A group of parents have written to the Goa Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education as well as to chief minister Pramod Sawant, expressing their anxiety over the decision to conduct the board exams during the Covid-19 pandemic. The parents have asked the government to reconsider the decision, and instead explore measures like reduction of exam duration, using objective-type multiple choice questions and even an online examination. “We are keen that the education process and the progress of academic and educational pursuits must continue, and that the same should not be delayed. However, we are equally concerned that the present methods expose students to unnecessary and avoidable risks, and we greatly fear the risk of infection with the Covid-19 contagion,” the letter states. The parents have asked for a detailed study first on what precaution and containment measures are required to be followed in such circumstances. They have called the current decision to have the exam from May 21 ‘uninformed’.  “There are apparently no detailed and scientifically prepared instructions issued, protocols or guidelines/measures specified in the circular of the Goa Board dated May 7 , on the course of action that would be adopted if the nationwide lockdown comes to be extended beyond May 17 and/or the status of Goa or any part of Goa comes to be altered from a green zone to an orange zone, red zone or containment zone,” the letter states. The high-risk environment in which the exam is held could possibly affect the students mentally and affect their performance, it adds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/parents-move-to-hold-class-x-exam-is-uninformed/articleshow/75653030.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Pune||Unaided professional institutes list demands||PUNE: The associations of management of unaided institutions in Maharashtra have listed a charter of demands, including interest-free loans, immediate disbursal of pending scholarship amount and permission to admit students without common entrance test (CET). Among their other demands are making students to pay the full fee with the government reimbursing scholarship holders later and representation in all committees related to professional education. On Saturday, a conference call meeting was held with directors and principals of 219 unaided educational institutes to discuss the challenges faced by educational institutes due to Covid-19 outbreak and the nationwide lockdown. The institutes said that currently 72% of the seats were reserved, while 50-60% of the scholarship fee for last year was yet to be reimbursed by the state government. The financial crunch, would affect their ability to pay salaries on time, they said and threatened to move court if their demands were not met. Ramdas Zol, founder, Association of Management of Un-Aided Institutions in the state, said, "If we are cancelling semester examinations, why are we going ahead with CET? Why can’t we just conduct admissions based on class XII board exams this year?"||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/unaided-professional-institutes-list-demands/articleshow/75652776.cms||Ardhra Nair
May 10, 2020||Mysuru||Domestic workers, cab drivers face a bleak future||MYSURU: Domestic workers are nervous about their future. More than a month has passed, since they last went to work. They’re confined to their homes. They are worried whether their employers will pay them their salaries, as they have not worked for more than a month, due to the lockdown. Some are voluntarily visiting the houses they work in, and trying to offer some help, in the hope of earning some money. Like employees of private firms, financial uncertainty has haunted them since the past few weeks. Lakshmi, a mother of two children, says that she has been working as a domestic help, for the last one-and-a-half decades. Her husband is a alcoholic, and doesn’t support the family. She has to shoulder the responsibility of feeding her family, along with supporting her children’s education. She works in three houses, but is worried whether she will get her salary for the month. Lakshmi claims that she is willing to work, but that her neighbours restrict her from leaving the village. She is hoping to get some assistance from her employers. Padma, who has three sons, is facing a similar situation to Lakshmi. One of her son’s delivers newspapers, while the other two are students. Her husband doesn’t work. Along with her sons and husband, she has to take care of her mother-in-law as well. She has been seeking an advance from her employers, to make ends meet. The lockdown has badly affected cab drivers. while they have no work from more than a month, and are struggling to feed their families, private financial institutions have already started sending seizure notices to them, for not repaying loans, they said. In order to bring their plight to the notice of the government, cab drivers have taken the support of social media. They have started posting photos of themselves with their family members, holding empty vessels in their homes. Namma Chalakara Trade Union president Muthu told said that despite the government ordering banks and financial institutions to not harass people regarding the repayment of loans for three months, a few private financial institutions are sending seizure notices to those who have borrowed from them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/domestic-workers-cab-drivers-face-a-bleak-future/articleshow/75651038.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Kozhikode||Two repatriates test positive in Malappuram||Malappuram: Two Malappuram natives who returned from Gulf in special repatriation flights on Thursday, tested positive for coronavirus on Saturday. According to the Malappuram district health administration, a 39-year-old man from Chappanangadi in Kottakkal, who returned from Dubai and a 24-year-old man from Naduvattaom near Edappal who returned from Abu Dhabi were confirmed Covid-19 positive. They were shifted to isolation wards of Kozhikode Medical College Hospital (KMCH) and Government Medical College, Kalamassery respectively. The Kottakkal native, who is a kidney patient, had returned in IX344 Air India Express repatriation fight from Dubai to Karippur International Airport on May 7. He was employed as a public relations officer in a private firm in Ajman in UAE and had returned to continue his treatment at Kozhikode medical college. According to medical authorities, the person was shifted to the isolation ward of KMCH immediately after completing the screening process at the airport on Thursday night. His swab samples were collected on Friday morning. The Edappal native had returned in a special repatriation flight from Abu Dhabi to Kochi International Airport on the same day. He was working as a receptionist in a private clinic at Mussafah in Abu Dhabi. He had undergone medical screening at Kochi airport immediately after arrival. He had reported that he had a fever one week ago. He was shifted to the medical college on Thursday night in an ambulance. His swab samples were collected on May 8. District medical officer of Malapppuram, K Sakeena, said that though they are residents of Malappuram, they would not be included in the list of Covid-19 patients of the district as they are under treatment in other districts. "All passengers who travelled along with the two persons who tested positive for Covid-19 infection on Saturday, are in quarantine and medical authorities are maintaining direct contact with all of them aiming to ensure that they are following guidelines issued by health authorities," the DMO said. On Friday, Malappuram district had become Covid-free after two had tested negative and were discharged from the Manjeri medical college. So far a total of 22 positive cases have been reported in the district. Among those, 21 have recovered from the infection, including an 85-year-old man who died due to age-related illness. A 4-month-old-baby from Manjeri who tested positive died on April 24, at Kozhikode Medical College Hospital. Meanwhile, the total number of persons who are under observation in the district has risen to 1241, as 180 more were brought under observation on Saturday. A total of 51 tested negative for the viral infection on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/two-repatriates-test-positive-in-malappuram/articleshow/75651077.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra issues notification for parole of convicts||PUNE: Convicts serving sentences of more than seven years can now apply for a parole, in addition to those jailed for less than seven years, according to a notification issued on Thursday by the state home department. Those convicted under special enactments, such as MCOCA, PMLA, MPID, NDPS, UAPA and serious economic offences or bank scams will not be eligible. The notification authorizes jail superintendents to grant emergency parole for 45 days, or till the withdrawal of the notification under the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897. The parole can be extended periodically in blocks of 30 days. “Around 3,500 eligible convicts are lodged across jails in the state. The jail superintendents started the process of releasing convicts on emergency parole on Saturday,” Additional director general (prisons) Sunil Ramanand told TOI. The prisons department had started releasing undertrial prisoners on temporary bail on March 27, as per the Supreme Court-mandated High Power Committee (HPC) directions. However, convicted prisoners were not being released on parole in the absence of a notification. The state government’s action comes after 77 prisoners and 26 staffers at Arthur Road jail, and four prisoners in Satara district jail, tested positive for Covid-19. The notification, issued by deputy secretary N S Karad, states that amendments have been made to sub-rule (1) of Rule 19 of Maharashtra Prisons (Mumbai Furlough and Parole Amendment) Rules, 2020, allowing convicted prisoners sentenced to more than seven years to become eligible for emergency parole. Parolees must report to the police station concerned once in 30 days. “The HPC had recommended releasing convicts sentenced to more than seven years’ imprisonment on emergency parole to decongest jails,” Ramanand added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/state-issues-notification-for-parole-of-convicts/articleshow/75652782.cms||Asseem Shaikh
May 10, 2020||Pune||Pune: One booked for posing as anti-corruption activist||PUNE: The Khadak police booked a man from Chudaman Talim in Bhavani Peth for posing as an anti-corruption activist and misusing the national emblem and other government signage on his car on Friday. The Khadak police said the man was found travelling in his car in Bhavani Peth which is a containment zone. Police officials questioned him about the logo, national emblem and the purpose behind his travel, but he failed to provide answers. The police then questioned him about whether he had sought permission from the government to act as an anti-corruption activist but he failed to produce any legitimate permission. Thus, the police filed a case against him for misusing the national emblem and other government signs. The state government and office of charity commissioner, Maharashtra, issued orders in 2017 stating that no person would be allowed to use the government emblem or an anti-corruption activist board on cars.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/one-booked-for-posing-as-anti-corruption-activist/articleshow/75652785.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu government rushes to SC against Madras HC ruling on Tasmac closure||CHENNAI: Within 24 hours of the Madras high court ordering closure of Tasmac liquor outlets for flouting almost every condition laid down by the court for resumption of liquor sale, Tamil Nadu moved the Supreme Court challenging the orders saying it was a case of ‘judicial overreach.’ Tasmac did Rs 295 crore business in two days. In its appeal, the state argued that high court order was not sustainable under law and hence, ought to be set aside. “The net effect of the high court order is complete and indefinite standstill of the sale of liquor in the state leading to grave losses to the state’s revenue and commercial activity in the state,” the petition said. It recalled an early order of the high court, refusing to ban liquor sale on the ground that it was a policy matter within the state’s domain. The government said the entire batch of petitions was filed by vested private interest to make enormous commercial gains from the unfortunate situation. On Friday, the Supreme Court refused to direct the states to close liquor shops during lockdown and left it to each state’s discretion to consider non-direct sale, including sale/ home delivery of liquor. “The SC recognised that states have a broad margin of power to determine whether and how to effect sale of liquor in this lockdown period and therefore, the HC order is a clear case of judicial overreach and is not sustainable,” Tamil Nadu said. As for the high court’s directive to the state to amend the Tamil Nadu Liquor (Licence and Permit) Rules, 1981, to have a technology-enabled home delivery to promote responsible consumption of alcohol, the state said court cannot compel the state to amend the rules. The ‘judicial overreach’ will have the effect of stultifying a major commercial activity in the state, it said, adding that except Maharashtra where the Covid-19 figures are 3-4 times that of Tamil Nadu, no other state is selling liquor exclusively online. Tamil Nadu said it made elaborate security arrangements to control the crowd and stopped the sale in 12 shops due to overcrowding.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/govt-rushes-to-sc-against-hc-ruling-on-tasmac-closure/articleshow/75652800.cms||Julie Mariappan
May 10, 2020||Aurangabad||City-based college starts guidance cell for students||AURANGABAD: The Maulana Azad College, Aurangabad, and its allied institutions have formed a counselling cell to guide students amid the outbreak of Covid-19. The cell will stress on social distancing, exams, economic downturn, limited resources, inadequate medical care, fake news and uncertainties about academics and placements These issues have put the students under constant anxiety and fear, said Sohail Zakiuddin, a faculty member of the Marathwada College of Education, associated with the Maulana Azad College. The campus with a number of institutions, accounts for about 8,000 students, he said. Mazhar Farooqui, the principal of Maulana Azad College, said that the sudden lockdown has not only confined students to their homes but put pressure on their mental health. At times when mental health can be easily neglected, students need to know that they can fight this situation and survive, he said. “Maulana Azad College and Marathwada College of Education have jointly launched an initiative of forming a counselling cell for the students of Dr Rafiq Zakaria campus,” he said. The cell was initiated on April 27 and has so far responded to about 100 students who approached for guidance. The counselling cell has Dr Talat Naseer as the coordinator. Dr Naveed-Us-Sahar, of Marathwada College of Education, Dr Azhar Patel, Humera Butool and Anis Ahmed of Maulana Azad College as its members.  Farooqui has urged students to approach the designated teachers via email, WhatsApp or can call them between 10am and 6pm, in case they have any question or fear involving their future.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/city-based-college-starts-guidance-cell-for-students/articleshow/75652149.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Pune||Man held on charge of killing daughter in Pune||PUNE: The Hinjewadi police on Saturday arrested a 35-year-old man from Kshatriyanagar in Bavdhan for throttling his five-month-old daughter to death. "The murder was a fallout of a quarrel between the couple over the man’s illicit relationship," Anand Pagare, assistant inspector of the Hinjewadi police said. He said early on Saturday, Bapurao Jadhav throttled his daughter in her sleep and kept her outside the house. He then woke up his wife and enquired about his daughter, Pagare said. After his wife and Jadhav went out in search of their daughter, she spotted her lying unconscious. The girl was taken to a hospital where she was pronounced brought dead by doctors. Later, Jadhav admitted that he had killed his daughter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/man-held-on-charge-of-killing-daughter/articleshow/75652795.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Hubballi||Gurus of classical music, dance go digital||HUBBALLI: Teachers of Hindustani music and classical Indian dance have taken the digital route to continue teaching amid lockdown. Their foray into teaching the art forms via video calling is their first-ever such attempt, with some even admitting that they have never been tech-savvy to this extent. Some prominent personalities like Pt Balachandra Nakod, Sahana Bhat and others in Hubballi and Kiran Subramanyam in Bengaluru, who have made their name in the field of classical music, are conducting online classes regularly. Pt Balachandra Nakod, a noted vocalist decorated with the Rajyotsava Award, said this is a tough phase for everyone. “So we planned to take digital classes. Students sitting in the US, Canada, Mysuru, Mumbai, Bengaluru and other places are attending the online classes. I whatsapp all my 50 students a video message of the raga, and ask them to revert with their rendering. I correct their mistakes via WhatsApp. Even my son Raghavendra Nakod is taking tabla classes online,” he said, adding that aspiring musicians need to rehearse regularly. “So we have decided to keep training our students, and technology has come handy.” Kiran Subramanyam, Karnataka Kalashri awardee and renowned classical dancer in Bengaluru, said it’s high time to learn more about classical dance and music. More than 300 students stay connected regularly through Skype and Zoom apps from 6am to 8.30am. Seven teachers in the team take classes regularly. “This apart, an hourlong live programmes are beamed via Facebook and Instagram daily,” he said. Vidhusi Sahana Bhat of Natyanjali Nrutya Kala Kendra, who is conducting online classes through WebEx app, said she is currently preparing juniors for examinations to be held by KSEEB in the coming days. They are teaching the theory portions to students from Germany, the USA, Dharwad, Hubballi, Bengaluru and other places.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/gurus-of-classical-music-dance-go-digital/articleshow/75652166.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Lens on lawyer after death of wife, daughter||KOLKATA: A 38-year-old lawyer was detained on Saturday for allegedly killing his wife and daughter in Sodepur. The father of the accused was also detained while his mother has reportedly gone into hiding. Police are looking for her. The victims — Sabita Hela (34) and her 14-year-old daughter Bebi, a Class-VII student — were found lying dead at the family’s Priyanagar house on Saturday afternoon. Police suspect that the duo was smothered with pillows. According to locals, Anil Kumar — a lawyer at the Barrackpore court —and his father Laxmiratan even tried to hide the bodies, but were caught red-handed. “Sabita’s in-laws used to torture her for dowry. Bebi often protested against it. That’s why they killed the two,” a neighbour said. After the duo was caught, the locals thrashed them. “The duo is undergoing treatment. Legal action will be taken against them once they recover,” said police. “We suspect that a family feud could have led to the murders. We are waiting for the autopsy report,” a senior officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/lens-on-lawyer-after-death-of-wife-daughter/articleshow/75653038.cms||Sanjib Chakraborty
May 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Civic vice-chairman, techie held in sex racket case||HYDERABAD: A sex racket was busted on Saturday and a municipality vice-chairman in Medak district and a software engineer were arrested and three women rescued. The main organiser of the racket is on the run. Vanasthalipuram police said Anthireddy Anil Reddy, IDA Bollaram municipal vice-chairman, and techie Kona Dixith were arrested, while organiser Raghavendra Reddy is at large. The rescued women belong to Hyderabad. The three accused have been named in the FIR. Officials said based on a complaint given by Reddy’s wife, cops conducted a raid and nabbed both the accused. Reddy allegedly has been organising the prostitution racket by soliciting women during the lockdown period. Police said Reddy was running the racket in the absence of his wife. “The complainant also said that her husband has been harassing her since their wedding. He also cheated her by maintaining an illicit relationship with another woman and was running a brothel in a house in her absence,” police officials said.On information provided by the complainant, cops raided the house and arrested Anil Reddy and Dixith.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/civic-vice-chief-techie-held-in-sex-racket-case/articleshow/75652816.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Trichy||First-ever cargo flight from Trichy airport lifts perishables to Singapore||TRICHY: The first-ever exclusive cargo flight by Spice Xpress (Spice Jet) took-off from Trichy International Airport to Singapore via Chennai on Friday night. Around 11 tonnes of perishables such as vegetables, flowers were airlifted from Trichy. This is the first flight that was operated from Trichy since the airport was closed as part of the lockdown. The special flight arrived at the airport from Delhi at 5.45pm and departed at 10.50pm to Chennai. From Chennai, the carrier flew to Singapore, airport sources said. Usually, cargo would be accommodated on passenger flights from Trichy airport. Much to the relief of exporters from Trichy, perishables such as brinjal, drumstick, ladies finger, ginger, coconut and fruits like banana, mango were exported, along with a big consignment of lemon. “Being Ramadan, the Muslim community usually take lemon juice at the time of breaking fast. For this purpose, a large quantity of lemon was consigned,” exporters said. “Since March 18 there was no cargo movement from Trichy airport due to the lockdown imposed across the world to contain the spread of Covid-19. We had no business for all these days. However, after 50 days, this consignment has come as a breather for exporters like me”, said A Moorthi, proprietor of Kavi Logistics. Out of the total volume of 11 tonnes, around 6 tonnes was consigned by Moorthi, he said. “Perishable commodities have been exported to Singapore from some other places like Bengaluru also. However, the reception of vegetables lifted from Trichy is good as we have a very good market there,” Moorthi added. It may be noted that Trichy International Airport exceeded the target set for overseas cargo handling during the financial year 2019-20, even before the nation-wide lockdown. According to data available with the airport authority in Trichy, the airport handled over 7,900 tonnes of cargo by February, surpassing the target of 7,500 tonnes. The total volume of cargo handled during the financial year 2018-19 was 7,177 tonnes and 6,600 tonnes during 2017-18.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/first-ever-cargo-flight-from-city-airport-lifts-perishables-to-spore/articleshow/75652792.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
May 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Combating Covid-19: Chenchu tribe taps nature to make masks||HYDERABAD: Chenchu tribes of Nallamalla forest are combating Covid-19 using the resources available to them. At a time when governments are struggling to reach out to some tribal hamlets located deep inside the forest, the Chenchus have made personal protective equipment such as face masks from leaves of teak and sal trees. Further, they are also not stepping out from their hamlets, except to collect forest produce once or twice a week. “We had seen tribal development officials using cloth mask when we visited the Girijana Cooperative Corporation (GCC) to collect ration a few days ago. After we were informed by them about the virus and how it spreads, we decided to use leaves to protect ourselves,” Nimmala Lingayya, a resident of Mallapur Chenchu penta (hamlet), told TOI. The tribals are also ensuring that there was no gathering at hamlets, while some of them stand guard to let no outsider intrude their territory. “The Chenchus have been proactive in taking precautionary measures without waiting for government initiatives. They are making face masks using leaves and a few herbal medicines with the limited resources available in the forest. They are also not stepping out from their hamlets except to collect forest produce occasionally,” an Integrated Tribal Development Agency (ITDA) official told TOI. Located 150 kilometres from Hyderabad, nearly 137 Chenchu hamlets dot the Nallamalla forest. When contacted, Dr Ramana Prasad, consultant pulmonologist at KIMS Hospitals said, “Anything that covers your mouth and nose can be used as a mask to prevent transmission of the virus in the community. So, even a leaf, which can act as a shield to stop the droplets that are produced as a result of coughing or sneezing, can be used as a mask.” “However, the leaf masks should not cause breathing difficulty and, if the mask is not of a porous material, there is a risk of CO2 retention,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/combating-covid-19-chenchu-tribe-taps-nature-to-make-masks/articleshow/75652175.cms||Moulika.KV
May 10, 2020||Pune||BJP doesn’t give Medha Kulkarni council ticket, supporters upset||PUNE: BJP’s former legislator Medha Kulkarni, who was denied an assembly ticket last year by the party, tasted disappointment yet again when she was overlooked for the forthcoming elections to the legislative council. Kulkarni took to social media, expressing her disappointment with a verse. “Aaj phir dil né ek tamanna ki … Aaj phir dil ko hamne samjhaya…” (today my heart wanted something ... today I again had to console my heart) appeared on her social media account soon after BJP declared its candidates. Last year, Kulkarni, the then Kothrud MLA, had to step aside for state party chief Chandrakant Patil. The decision had not gone down well with Kulkarni, who — with her supporters — rushed the the state party headquarters in Mumbai to contest the decision. Eventually, she reconciled herself after she was reportedly assured that she would be compensated. Kulkarni being denied a second time left her supporters disappointed too. “We were sure that she will get a nomination, but the party’s leadership clearly felt differently. It is very difficult to accept,” one of Kulkarni’s supporters said. In the 2014 assembly polls, Kulkarni was elected from the Kothrud seat. She was gearing up for a second run, when she was asked to step aside in favour of for Patil’s nomination. “After she was denied the assembly ticket, all top party leaders had assured Kulkarni that she would get a respectable position later. Nominating her for the legislative council was the best possible option. We demand an explanation for why she was overlooked,” a staunch supporter of Kulkarni said. BJP sources said though Patil won the Kothrud seat, his winning margin was significantly lower than the 2014 result. “This was a clear indication of the displeasure among party supporters. BJP leaders now face a tough task of pacifying miffed cadre and keeping them motivated,” the source said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/bjp-doesnt-give-medha-kulkarni-council-ticket-supporters-upset/articleshow/75652801.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Kochi||Palakkad at risk of community spread: Minister||Palakkad: Minister for SC\ST welfare, law & culture A K Balan has said that Palakkad, one the main entry points of the state, is at serious risk of community spread as over 6,500 persons are reaching here from other states every day. He said, “Those coming from other states had no medical tTest and they have to be tested here and sent to institutional or home quarantine. Those with symptoms are to be sent to Covid-19 treatment centres. Thus it is great risk for the district. In addition to that, some people have reached the Walayar checkpost without any pass to enter the state. This had compounded the problem as they are violating the Covid-19 protocol of the central and state governments.” On an average 3,000 persons are coming from other states, including from high-risk red zones, especially from Tamil Nadu and Karnataka. Every day 1,600-1,800 goods transport vehicles, the driver and workers of these vehicles numbering more than 3,500 persons cross over into the state daily. After a review of the latest Covid-19 prevention measures in the district, attended by minister for water resources K Krishnankutty and top officials of the district here on Saturday, Balan said, “Unless great care is taken we are in danger of upward trend of Covid-19. Now we are able to have a downward trend due to the vigilance by government and the people. This should be continued and NRIs and those coming from other states should co-operate in bringing down the Covid-19 spread.” The minister said that 2,858 persons reached the district from other states since May 4.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/palakkad-at-risk-of-community-spread-minister/articleshow/75651139.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Pune||In time of coronavirus pandemic, neighbourhood grocery stores bounce back||The once flourishing but humble neighbourhood grocery stores were fighting a losing battle against large supermarket chains. But Covid-19 has turned the tables. Today, it’s the local grocer who has turned into a superhero for residents. But many of these small businesses are wary: Will the good run continue after the lockdown lifts? “We had been reduced to an emergency store over time by the supermarket chains. People would come to us only when they needed something urgently,” said a grocery store owner in the Deccan area. “But since the lockdown, people have once again turned to us for their monthly supplies.” A resident of the area, Santosh Jalan, said, “Earlier, I would head to a supermarket on the other side of town to buy everything from cooking oil to detergent. But since the lockdown, I have been visiting a grocery store near my house. It always has what I need and re-stocks regularly. So I will continue going to the smaller store.” About trade during the lockdown, Ramesh Agarwal, a grocer from Kalyaninagar, said, “Our shelves emptied in two days when the lockdown was announced. And that hasn’t happened to us in 30 years of business here,” he said. Rasik Kothari, a grocer from Vimannagar, said his store is seeing some of its busiest days. “Supermarkets have a coupon system. People don’t want to wait in long queues so many have been coming to us. We have started home deliveries too.” Wadgaonsheri resident, Rajendra Chaudhary, said, “I have no option but rely on the neighbourhood grocer. A few items are still unavailable but the grocer has fruit and vegetables. The best part is that his shop is just a minute’s walk away from my home.” Bhawani, who runs a store on Salunke Vihar Road said visits to his shop have increased. “I also have new customers — upper-class people who come in big cars. I hope they continue coming to me. I am changing inventory to suit their demands,” he said. Prakash Punaram Chaudhari, owner of a grocery store along NIBM Road, said sales at his store have risen by over 200%. “But I fear a drastic slowdown after the lockdown lifts. I hope people will remember the role small shops played during this difficult time,” he said. Resident Jigisha Priyadarshini said she will continue to support small businesses. “Grocery stores have been vital to the smooth supply of essentials in the NIBM Road area. One supermarket, which was carrying out home deliveries, refused to come to our housing society because ours is a building with 87 flats. It was the local grocers who came to our rescue. They aren’t allowed past our gates, but they leave parcels with the security,” she said. Pimpri Chinchwad too is seeing a similar trend. “Many have started to queue up at the smaller shops. Earlier, people would travel five kilometres, at least, to the cheaper wholesale markets. But since they have started rationing, we have been getting their business too. We have never charged very high prices, but we cannot match discount coupons of online players. We can only assure our customers a steady stream of supplies,” said Jiten Parmar, a PCMC-based grocer. An IT professional from the area, Shruti Sawant, said, “I tried adding items to cart a dozen times on an online platform. Each time, the slot remained unavailable. Now, I just walk across the road to get the stuff I need. The pandemic has obviously changed the way we shop. I don’t know if I will stick to this, but the local grocers have become much more reliable now.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/in-time-of-coronavirus-pandemic-neighbourhood-grocery-stores-bounce-back/articleshow/75652809.cms||Rujuta Parekh
May 10, 2020||Chennai||Experts panel led by RBI ex-governor to coach Tamil Nadu govt, help get economy back on track||CHENNAI: The Tamil Nadu government has constituted a committee comprising of economists, industrialists, bankers and educationists to assess the impact of Covid-19 pandemic on the state. It will present a report to the state government in three months. The committee is headed by former RBI governor C Rangarajan and among the members are N Srinivasan, managing director of The India Cements, Venu Srinivasan, chairman of TVS Motor, Padmaja Chunduru, chairman of Indian Bank. The government’s finance secretary will be the coordinator for the committee. The terms of reference of the committee are to assess the overall immediate and medium-term impact of the pandemic on different sectors of the economy, including the impact of the lockdown, additional costs and implications due to social distancing and other precautionary measures. The committee will advise the government on the medium-term policy response to tackle the economical impact of the Covid-19 pandemic. It may also interact and seek views from industry bodies, trade associations, stakeholders, economic and other experts in India and overseas, a state government release said. The other members of the committee are former chief secretary N Narayanan, University of Madras vice-chancellor P Duraisamy, TNAU VC N Kumar, MIDS director P G Babu, former Murugappa Group chairman A Vellayan, MD and CEO of Equitas Bank P N Vasudevan, public finance expert M Govinda Rao, IIT professor M Suresh Babu, UNICEF Chennai coordinator Pinaki Chakraborty and bureaucrats from related government departments. The committee will also assess the opportunities and threats in the short and medium term, suggest measures required to help the important sectors of the economy to overcome the impact of Covid-19; identify specific reform measures to be taken by the state government to support and promote the growth of important sectors. “The first meeting of the committee is likely to be through video conferencing next week. I feel the committee has to first find the total loss of revenue for the government in the present financial year and also suggest ways and means to improve revenue,” Madras School of Economics director K R Shanmugam, a member of the committee, told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/experts-panel-led-by-rbi-ex-guv-to-coach-tn-govt-help-get-economy-back-on-track/articleshow/75652817.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Pune||Residents claim shutters stayed up, rules flouted||PUNE: Several traders opened shutters on Saturday anticipating weekend rush, but residents across the city claimed that many shops violated the guidelines issued by the commissioner of the Pune Municipal Corporation. As per the orders, shops selling electronic goods, computers and related goods, mobile shops, electronics service centres, electrical items and utensils were permitted to function on Monday, Wednesday and Friday. Meanwhile, garages and shops selling hardware, plumbing equipment, construction equipment, clothes and dairy products were permitted to operate on Tuesday, Thursday, Saturday and Sunday. However, shops selling an assortment of goods including stationery, toys, electronics and electrical items, sweet marts and others were open in certain parts of the city on Saturday. Many residents stated that such violations were noticed on Thursday and Friday as well. “I had seen a couple of gadget stores functioning on Thursday and Saturday. even though the PMC order says otherwise. Likewise, tyre repair stores and garages can be seen open throughout the week, instead of allotted days,” a resident of Erandwane said. Residents of Kothrud and Karvenagar also said an assortment of shops were keeping their shutters up everyday. “The stores including those selling gifts, toys, stationery, photo studios and photocopy shops, have been open everyday from the beginning of this week. There was no mention of such stores in the PMC notification. We do not know whether these shops are even permitted to open yet. They seem to be operating with complete disregard to the orders,” Rohan Joshi, a Kothrud resident, said. Residents of Sinhagad Road said that apart from the stores selling essential and non-essential items, several roadside vendors had also come back and set up business in the area. Locals living around Kamla Nehru Park said that roadside vendors selling fruits and vegetables, who had disappeared from the beginning of the lockdown, were also back in the area. Joshi said the PMC orders permitted only five shops located in a stretch of a kilometre to function. “The order stated that as streets or roads would have more than five shops within a kilometre, only the stores mentioned were permitted to operate. But, the good thing was that these shops were at least maintaining social distancing and other measures to ensure safety,” he said. A trader from Model Colony, who is not permitted to keep his store open on Saturday, said, “This is the first weekend after the restrictions were eased and we opened the store to serve customers. We have faced tremendous losses over the last few weeks and thought it was prudent to open, considering the demand. Lots of people are looking for electronics, gadgets or repairs and I deal in some of these items. We are not permitting customers inside the shop. Wearing masks is mandatory for all.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/residents-claim-shutters-stayed-up-rules-flouted/articleshow/75652820.cms||Rujuta Parekh
May 10, 2020||Delhi||Desperate to go home, migrant workers march to Secretariat||NEW DELHI: Bharat Lal looked haggard and exasperated outside Delhi Secretariat on Saturday. His tiredness was because he has been walking for the past six days in a desperate effort to reach home in Rae Bareli in UP from Suratgarh in Rajasthan. His exasperation was at Delhi Police stopping him on Vikas Marg and refusing to let the group proceed further. There were many others on the footpaths near the secretariat on Saturday, all of them migrants seeking the state government’s help in returning to their home villages. “Seven of us started walking from Suratgarh on May 3 and have covered around 400 km to reach Delhi. So far, all the policemen we encountered on the way proved very helpful, even giving us money for food. But at this picket in Delhi, we were stopped and the cops kept pushing us back. They ordered us to return to Rajasthan,” said the exhausted Lal. “We have walked so many kilometres and have kept walking only because of the thought that home was gradually getting closer. Now we are stuck here.” His tired companions were dozing by his side. Milling around the walkers from Rajasthan were many who had come from different parts of Delhi, some even from Haryana, having heard that the government was providing trains to take migrant workers back to their states. “We see so many people like us being put in trains. Why not us?” said one distraught man. “At the district office, they told us we could leave if we had a vehicle of our own. It seems opening liquor shops is more important for the authorities than sending us home.” Till Saturday afternoon, the migrant daily-wage earners had made several attempts to cross the picket on Vikas Marg only to be rebuffed each time. They then squatted on the footpath near the Delhi Secretariat. Massaging their aching soles, sipping water from bottles and wiping sweat with gamchas, the despondent people discussed among themselves how to negotiate the barricade. Among them was Narayan Das, whose home is in Tikamgarh, Madhya Pradesh. He has been staying under a bridge in Meer Vihar in west Delhi after being turned back by police at the Noida border when attempting to leave the capital. “My wife recently had a uterus operation and is on medication and my son’s wife is scheduled to deliver, but we are stuck here,” he said, pointing to his wife and his two sons, aged 21 and 25 years. “We had reached the Noida border, but police put us in a bus and dropped us back in Delhi. We want to go back and never return.” There were many who had walked from different parts of the city. “Why can’t we go? If they allow us, we are even ready to walk home. I will survive on half a roti, but I will not come back to Delhi,” declared Jai Kishan Shukla, who had come from Daryaganj and wanted to return to his village of Bhinga Shrawasthi just ahead of Lucknow. He grumbled that while crowds were jostling around at liquor stores, the migrants were being told their travelling would spread the corona infection. Shukla, who made rakhis for Old Delhi sellers, went with some friends to the DM’s office, but were told since that they had no vehicle they couldn’t leave the city. “So, we came to Delhi Secretariat, but the officers at the gate didn’t allow us to enter,” he muttered angrily. He alleged that he hadn’t been able to get rations because the government distributors said his Aadhaar showed a Uttar Pradesh address. He said some friends had reached home on foot and he had tried too, only to be stopped by the police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/desperate-to-go-home-migrant-workers-march-to-secretariat/articleshow/75652180.cms||Sakshi Chand
May 10, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Pragati Maidan work on, with 45 workers||NEW DELHI: After almost 45 days of income-less existence, locked up in their homes, around 45 labourers headed to Pragati Maidan on Saturday to resume work on the stalled redevelopment of the trade fair grounds. Engineers of the Public Works Department (PWD) said they too were glad to be starting operations again, though lack of labour and the still looming danger of Covid-19 infection tempered their enthusiasm. The group of 45 has restarted work on the Pragati Maidan tunnel. But they number less than half the workforce earlier, and PWD officials are worried about the repercussions of migrant workers refusing to return to Delhi from their home villages. Their life and earnings disrupted by first the ban on construction activities to check pollution last year, then the communal riots in northeast Delhi and finally the total lockdown due to the corona pandemic, most construction workers have fled the capital. A PWD engineer described the reluctance of workers to come back to Delhi as a big problem that will affect the deadlines of all infrastructure projects in the city. “We have spoken to the labourers. Many are reluctant to return, saying they might not be as lucky in leaving Delhi if another event like this lockdown occurs.” The fraction of the labour force now at Pragati Maidan is taking all precautions, maintaining the recommended distance from each other, something they said they were doing at home too despite most of them living in single-room houses. Engineers said the workers were being provided masks and hand sanitisers as well as meals on the site. A labourer said, “The novel coronavirus is a problem all of us have to fight. That is why we have come out of our houses to earn some money.” Another worker was still wary about reporting for duty, but left with no savings, he had no option. However, they only make up a handful of the required labour, and a PWD official said, “There is a major labour shortage and to get things in place will take at least a month’s time. The project work, including the underpasses and the tunnel, will be delayed.” Other big projects, the Chandni Chowk redevelopment, too will be hit by the manpower shortage. Work began on December 1, 2018 but a deadline is nowhere in sight. The streetscaping project too will miss its 11-month schedule. Another project certain to see a delayed finish date is Phase II of the Rao Tula Ram Marg project involving a skywalk and an underpass. On completion, these will greatly ease traffic movement in the area, especially for students of Delhi University’s South Campus. The 1.5-km underpass will be convenient for the students, while the skywalk will make access to Delhi Metro stations a trouble-free exercise.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/pragati-maidan-work-on-with-45-workers/articleshow/75652190.cms||Pankhuri Yadav
May 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana HC nullifies labour department order in Cognizant case||HYDERABAD: Stating that the state government has exempted IT and ITeS companies from the purview of the Shops and Establishments Act, Justice P Naveen Rao of the Telangana high court has allowed a petition filed by Cognizant Technology Solutions India and held that a sacked manager of this company cannot invoke this particular Act to challenge his termination. “He can avail other legal remedies available under law but not those laws that are not applicable to software companies,” the judge said while nullifying an order of a labour department officer, who heard the matter under the provisions of the Shops and Establishments Act and directed the company to keep paying till a proper enquiry into his termination was conducted. The case pertains to Pedda Appala Naidu, who was appointed as manager in the company in 2011 and was terminated two years later. The manager challenged his termination and the labour department officer in 2017 held that the enquiry conducted by the company was not proper and directed it to pay arrears of salary till the enquiry is concluded. The company challenged this decision of the labour officer in high court. The sacked employee contended that Cognizant was not an IT firm and that it was a real estate company and hence the exemptions given to IT companies were not applicable to Cognizant, he contended. The judge verified the company registration certificate and concluded that Cognizant was registered as an IT software company. “The allegation that it is a real estate firm is vague,” the judge said. The state government in 2002 had exempted all software companies from the purview of the Shops and Establishments Act and this exemption is being extended from time to time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-nullifies-labour-dept-order-in-cognizant-case/articleshow/75652825.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Hyderabad||B’day party trigger for 45 cases in LB Nagar||Hyderabad: A birthday party thrown by a shop owner was the trigger for 45 Covid-19 positive cases and 15 new containment clusters in LB Nagar, which is now a hotspot for novel coronavirus in Hyderabad. The virus spread soon after the shop owner, who stays in Saroornagar, threw the party for his friend in Vanasthalipuram. Those who took part in the party contracted the virus from the shop owner, who himself was infected from a worker in Malakpet Gunj where he has the shop. From just two containment clusters some time ago, the number of clusters in LB Nagar had gone up to 15 on Saturday. Among the 45 positive cases, 25 cases pertain to the families of the two shop owners, confirmed a GHMC official. “Both the shop owners contracted the virus from workers at Malakpet Gunj. Both of them are family friends and visit each other’s houses. Some of their family members had fever and soon, the virus spread to the rest of the families after the birthday party,” a GHMC official told STOI. On Saturday, GHMC commissioner DS Lokesh Kumar visited LB Nagar to take stock of the situation. Sodium hypochlorite solution was sprayed in Vanasthalipuram as well as in Saroornagar in the afternoon, while officials began looking out for the primary contacts of the positive cases. “Those who have tested positive have been sent to hospital. Probe is under way to identify the primary contacts,” said a GHMC official. Though GHMC had decided earlier decided that home quarantine would be enough instead of isolating the entire locality, officials barricaded the area. “We had to declare the containment cluster in the locality following the new Covid-19 cases in LB Nagar,” the official said. Both friends have shops in Malakpet Gunj, a wholesale market. While one stays in Saroornagar, the other resides in Vanasthalipuram. Both the areas fall under GHMC LB Nagar zone. There were 57 positive cases in LB Nagar, out of which seven persons have recovered and five had succumbed to the virus. “All the 57 cases in LB Nagar have not been reported in a single day. When we started testing the primary contacts of the two shop owners, the new positive cases were detected,” said a senior GHMC official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bday-party-trigger-for-45-cases-in-lb-nagar/articleshow/75652837.cms||Nabinder Bommala
May 10, 2020||Mangaluru||Tablighi Jamaat member recalls tests, treatment & biryani from friends||MANGALURU: From police interrogation to calls for plasma donation, it has a been a roller coaster ride for Mohammed Saleem Hegde ever since it became known that he had attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in New Delhi in March. The 52-year-old auto driver was asymptomatic but tested positive on returning and spent a fortnight in hospital while his family went into quarantine. Staying positive, reading and, Saleem stresses, eating well helped him through the isolation. Now, post quarantine and isolation, things are finally settling down. “I have been a Muslim for the past 23 years and visit the Tablighi Jamaat regularly. I was at the Nizamuddin Markaz on March 15 and even met the Markaz head, Maulana Saad. I left Delhi by train on March 18,” he says. “Those who criticised me and Tablighi Jamaat a few days ago are now calling to check if I am willing to donate plasma. Life has returned to normal.” He’s willing of course, he says, provided he doesn’t have to leave Mangaluru and go through quarantine again. Saleem returned on March 20 and drove home in his own auto-rickshaw from the railway station. After offering namaaz at Chembugudde Masjid, he stayed home. “I had returned home after nearly 40 days so I was spending time with my family. Then came the janata curfew and lockdown. On March 31, when there was some relaxation, I stepped out to buy provisions.” By then, the Nizamuddin Markaz had made it to national and global headlines as a potential super spreader for the entire country. “The situation changed from April 1. I got a call from Mangaluru North police station. I thought it was a fake call since they were speaking very politely,” he laughs. “They said they had information that I had attended the Nizamuddin Markaz and asked for details. I told them I had travelled with two friends on February 8. Soon, an ambulance arrived and I was taken to the quarantine centre.” At the centre, there were at least four women who had been to Ajmer Dargah. “They were in qurantine because they had boarded the train from Hazrat Nizamuddin railway station,” says Saleem. “The next day, my swab test was conducted. The Ullal police arrived and interrogated me for nearly 90 minutes. A group photo was taken. They even took my single photo. On April 4, they shifted me to Government Wenlock Hospital — the designated Covid-19 hospital — saying I have to undergo more tests. Nobody told me what was happening. Around 4pm, my son called and told me that I had tested positive and our building had been sealed. My wife and son were taken to the quarantine centre at ESI Hospital. I remained calm. I told the doctors I wanted to see the report. It was given to me the next day,” he recalls. On April 5, at 8pm, the police called again, asked for his mobile handset as they wanted to go through his contacts. “I told them that I am willing to give my handset only if I am given an alternative phone, so that I could stay in touch with my wife and son. They gave me a basic handset and as promised, returned my phone within three days. My treatment had begun and everyone stayed at least five metres away from me. I kept looking out of the window, just like jailbirds do in films,” he says. Saleem made sure there was a routine to his days in isolation, though. “Blood samples were regularly taken. I offered namaz everyday and prayed for the doctors and nurses too. I had taken books to keep me engaged. Officials from the deputy commissioner’s office and doctors kept calling to check how I was doing. My friends used to drop in with biryani and fruits for me at the reception and I waved at them from the window. On April 15, a test was conducted again and two days later, I was dropped back home in the ambulance,” he says. Having fought the disease and stigma, Saleem has some words of advice for Covid patients. “It is important to stay positive and not get affected by negative messages one hears and sees in the media. Everyone from my family, building, people from the mosque and those who travelled with me all tested negative. I was also asymptomatic,” he says. Most importantly, he reminds patients, they must eat well to fight the infectin. “I have seen patients who stopped eating on hearing that they are Covid-positive. I was eating well and in fact put on weight,” he chuckles.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/tj-member-recalls-tests-treatment-biryani-from-friends/articleshow/75651163.cms||Deepthi Sanjiv
May 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Thermometers, masks donation||Donation to police: The Phoenix Foundation on Saturday contributed 27 digital temperature infrared thermometers and 1,000 protective masks to Cyberabad Police. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/thermometers-masks-donation/articleshow/75652205.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Projects at Shahdara Jheel, east corporation’s zonal HQ back in action||NEW DELHI: East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC) on Saturday resumed construction work for its long-pending redevelopment projects of Shahdara Jheel and the zonal headquarters at CBD Ground. The east corporation claimed to have taken all precautionary measures at the sites, including social distancing among labourers and engaging them in minimum numbers. It is also providing food and shelter to the workers within the premises to restrict their movement as per the Centre’s decision to allow in situ construction activities with precautions. “We have started work at these two sites which have enough space. Contractors have been asked to provide ration to the labourers, make tenements for them, deploy guards so that they don’t go out unnecessarily and to ensure hygiene and social distancing,” said a senior EDMC official. “On Saturday, the work on construction of a boundary wall and levelling the place with soil began,” the official added. The Shahdara Jheel redevelopment project includes rejuvenation of the lake and development of a park on a 22-acre plot with facilities for boating, morning walk and cycling among others. The work started in 2012, but could not be finished due to lack of funds. “EDMC had earlier spent Rs 4 crore and filled the jheel with treated water from a neighbouring drain. But after Trans-Yamuna Area Development Board got disbanded, work in Phase-II was stalled in 2013,” said the official. In July 2019, the project was again inaugurated and Rs 15 crore was announced by the central government under its AMRUT (Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation) scheme to complete it. “We may also start construction of bio-methanation plant at Shastri Park and make already constructed plant at Geeta Colony fully operational soon,” said the EDMC official. Officials from other civic agencies, however, are still unsure about resuming work on their projects. Short supply of construction material, machineries and labourers is dissuading them from taking any concrete decision, they said. “The issue was discussed during a meeting recently and engineers were given directions to figure out arrangements required to be made if they wanted to start work on selected projects. But yes, there is no denying the fact that with restricted supply of construction material, initiating work will be difficult,” said a senior north corporation official. The civic agency had put on hold two major car parking projects at Idgah and Chandni Chowk as soon as the lockdown was announced. “Even if we have labourers living within the project site, we have to ensure other facilities are made available,” said the official. South corporation puzzle parking projects at Green Park, Adchini and Lajpat Nagar are also waiting for revival. “We don’t have space to arrange for staying of labourers. Supply of construction material is also a big problem,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/projects-at-shahdara-jheel-east-corpns-zonal-hq-back-in-action/articleshow/75652202.cms||Vibha Sharma
May 10, 2020||Bareilly||3,500 migrant workers from Gujarat, Maharashtra arrive in Bareilly, Kheri||Bareilly: Nearly 1,500 migrant labourers from various districts of western Uttar Pradesh, who were stuck in Gujarat, arrived in Bareilly district by a special train on Saturday morning, while around 2,000 migrant labourers from Himachal, Haryana and Maharashtra arrived in Lakhimpur Keri district in the past 24 hours by buses and trains. In Bareilly, the labourers were sent to their respective districts in buses after screening, while those who belonged to Bareilly district were quarantined here. Nearly 2,000 migrant labourers from Himachal, Haryana and Maharashtra arrived in Lakhimpur Keri district in the past 24 hours through buses and train. While in Keri district, the district administration is getting the labourers screened before sending them for home quarantine. A train with 1,495 migrant workers on board started from Palanpur in Gujarat and arrived at Bareilly Junction on Saturday morning. Upon reaching Bareilly, the labourers were provided breakfast and water bottles, and after their screening most of them were sent to their respective hometowns in 46 buses. As many as 144 of migrants belonging to Bareilly district were sent to their respective tehsils, where doctors would examined them before sending them for home quarantine. Station superintendent, Bareilly railway station, Satyaveer Singh told TOI, “All passengers were found to be fit and sent to their respective districts in buses. Most of the passengers were from Kasganj and Aligarh districts. We sanitised the train after the passengers deboarded. Two more trains with migrant workers on board will arrive here on Sunday.” One of the passengers told TOI, “We are still unable to understand what is happening around us. We are happy that we will reach our home soon, but we don’t have any employment here in UP. I hope the government starts some small work units in our village to generate employments. We can work at even low wages if there is a surety of work.” Nearly 1,400 migrants, who were stuck in Maharashtra, arrived at Sitapur railway station by a special train. They were later brought to Kheri in 43 buses and shifted to quarantine centres, where medical teams are conducting their examination. Kheri CMO Dr Manoj Agarwal told TOI, “All the migrants were screened and people with Covid-19 symptoms will be quarantined with their family members who are travelling with them, while those who are fit will be home quarantined.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/3500-migrant-workers-from-gujarat-maharashtra-arrive-in-bareilly-kheri/articleshow/75651245.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
May 10, 2020||Jodhpur||Traders in Jodhpur having shops in curfew zones worried about stock||JODHPUR: Marwar Chamber of Commerce and Industry has urged the district administration to allow businessmen and traders having shops in areas under curfew to visit their establishments and take stock of the condition of material and goods. President of the chamber Prasann Chand Mehta said all the traders and businessmen diligently complied with the lockdown protocol keeping their shops shut and restricting themselves within their homes. “Though, those who do not have their shops in curfew zones or containment areas, have started visiting their shops in lockdown 3.0 as per the relaxation terms, but those having their shops in curfew zones and containment areas are not able to visit their shops due to prohibition,” Mehta said. He said these traders are concerned about the condition of the goods in their shops, which include grocery and garment or cloth, which is prone to decay, if left unattended for long. “Being unattended for such a long period, the grocery shop owners are worried about their stock turning stale and attacked by pests, while the cloth or garment shop owners are worried about getting their stock damaged by rodents,” he said while citing some other threats. In such conditions, if they are not allowed to take care of the goods in their shops, they might sustain irreparable loss and would be forced to dispose of the material as waste, which would be an addition to the losses they have already suffered due to lockdown. Besides this, these traders could not collect important documents and even cash from their shops due to the abrupt lockdown. “If they are allowed once, they would at least be able to collect what they required from their shops, for further planning post lockdown,” Mehta said. A delegation of chamber met the district magistrate on Saturday apprising him of their concerns and demanded relaxation for them in curfew areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/traders-having-shops-in-curfew-zones-worried-about-stock/articleshow/75652209.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Kochi||Mobile hospital rolled out in Thrissur||Thrissur: The district administration has rolled out a mobile hospital for Covid-19 screening. The mobile hospital that is run with the support of an NGO, Peace Valley, will be available till May 20, informed the authorities. The mobile hospital has facilities that are available at a primary health centre. Two doctors, a nurse, a lab technician, and volunteers are on duty, said Sabith Ummer, Peace Valley, Project Manager. "The mobile hospital will mainly inspect the temperature variation of the people in each area. If anyone is found to have Covid-19 symptoms we will report to the District Medical Officer (DMO) and further action will be taken. We provide the facility in the districts of Idukki and Ernakulam," said Ummer. As part of the social distancing protocol, only three people can be inspected inside the mobile hospital at a time. "The doctors are also inspecting lifestyle disease in patients in the tribal and coastal areas and will provide them essential medicines free of cost," an official said. On Saturday, the mobile hospital was flagged off from the Thrissur collectorate by Local self-government minister A C Moideen in the presence of district collector S Shanavaz. Thrissur city police commissioner R Aditya, Aster DM foundation manager Latheef Kasim, Peace Valley project Manager Sabith Ummer and disaster Management authority member Noushaba Nas also attended the flagging off event. On its maiden trip, the mobile hospital visited Mala.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/mobile-hospital-rolled-out-in-thrissur/articleshow/75651174.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Rajkot||Bootlegger succumbs to Covid-19 infection||Palanpur: A 28-year-old bootlegger who had tested positive for Covid-19 died on Saturday at the Himmatnagar civil hospital. The deceased Pawan Shukla (28) was arrested during a police raid in Gambhoi village in Prantij taluka on April 30. He had tested positive for cornavirus on May 6 and died on Saturday, said Dr M N Shah, medical officer of Himmatnagar civil hospital in Sabarkantha.Eight cops involved in the raid were put under home quarantine for two weeks. But they have all tested negative.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/bootlegger-succumbs-to-covid-19-infection/articleshow/75651185.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Kochi||More flights with stranded Keralites touch down in Kochi||Kochi: Two more repatriation flights, one from Kuwait and another from Muscat, carrying stranded Keralites, landed at Cochin International Airport Limited (Cial) on Saturday. A third flight took off from Doha at 10:10pm and is scheduled to reach Cial by 1:40am Sunday. Air India Express flight from Kuwait (IX 396) with 177 adults and four kids, which was initially scheduled to land at 9:15pm, landed at 9:35pm. The second flight, Air India Express flight (IX 442) from Muscat, which was scheduled to land at 8:50pm touched down only at 10pm due to delay in taking off from Muscat. It too carried 177 adults and four kids.  The disembarkation of passengers from both flights were proceeding at the airport at the time of going to press. This will be followed by statutory procedures like health check, immigration, baggage disinfection, data collection, sim card issuance, etc. According to sources, additional arrangements like more number of immigration counters, health-check counters, police personnel have been undertaken. Also, directives have been issued to increase the speed of data collection and sim card distribution to passengers to wrap up the process without much delay. Sources said that the decision was taken after analyzing the shortcomings like delay in data collection, sim card distribution, baggage disinfection, guiding passengers to the buses to respective quarantine centres, etc, which took longer than expected during the operation over the last two days. “The collection of declaration forms is a time-consuming process and it needs to be speeded up. Data collection by health and revenue officials also will be made faster. Also, there was confusion in distribution of the sim cards to all passengers, and registering the number in the government database caused further delay. All these processes need to be hastened and directions were given by the district administration,” said a source. The Ernakulam rural police too has pulled in an extra team of police personnel to be deployed at the airport and started shift-system for the officers. “Two teams, consisting of 100 personnel each, are deployed at present for facilitating the smooth immigration of the passengers. Each team has to work only on alternative days as the nightlong process could tire out the officers easily, if they have to be brought in for duty each consecutive day. Also, the control room opened at the airport is coordinating the operations and all shortcomings were rectified,” said K Karthick, district police chief (Ernakulam rural).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/more-flights-with-stranded-keralites-touch-down-in-kochi/articleshow/75651235.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Mangaluru||Residents panic as migrant labourer returns from Bagalkot||MANGALURU: Panic spread in the thickly populated area of Urwa in Mangaluru after the return of a migrant labourer from Bagalkot on Friday night. A native of Bagalkot, the man lives in Urwa with his wife and two children and works as a construction labourer. He had left for Bagalkot on some work in March before the lockdown was announced and got stuck there due to the ongoing lockdown. He finally managed to return on Friday in a truck from Bagalkot. However, his quiet arrival on Friday evening to the tiny rented house with a single room created a furore among residents who insisted that he should be quarantined and tested for Covid19. Moreover, there is only one toilet for two families in the building. Immediately after his arrival, residents alerted people’s representatives. BJP ward committee president Arun Kumar told STOI: “After reaching the city, he directly went to his house without informing authorities. Residents started calling me and other local leaders to express their fear. They were worried because the man had not undergone a medical check-up after his return from Bagalkot.” In his defence, the man informed authorities that he was unable to undergo a test since he arrived in the city after 5pm on Friday, Kumar said. “We informed police and district administration. He slept in the premises of a private college in the area on Friday night and was shifted to District Wenlock Hospital for medical check-up on Saturday,” Kumar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/residents-panic-as-migrant-labourer-returns-from-bagalkot/articleshow/75651202.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: Pandemic a boon for cyber criminals||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: “Good morning my friend. I represent a group from Iran. A few hours ago my team put a virus on the porn website that you were surfing. As soon as you clicked on a play button in your system, the camera in your system has been activated that have captured the images of you self-abusing. If you want to keep us silent, you must make a transaction of 260 dollars with bitcoin to the account...” The recipient of this threatening email was a 19-year-old student in Kochi and his was one among the 15 panic calls received by state police’s Cyberdome during the Covid-19 lockdown. A detailed probe into these instances revealed that the hackers have been targeting those using porn website to activate their webcams using a malware when they clicked the play buttons, and then used the cameras to film the user in compromising positions which is then used to threaten him or her. “But there are several indications that this is nothing more than a phishing scam, trying to extort those visiting porn websites by blackmailing them. No formal complaints have been reported to police in this regard,” said ADGP (administration) Manoj Abraham, who is also in charge of Cyberdome, the advanced cyber security wing of the state police. With the countries going on lockdown and most of the people confined to their houses, the number of persons using porn website also have steeply increased. The hackers and internet criminals are also up with innovative methods to capitalise on Covid-19 lockdown. Hospitals, medical centres and healthcare institutions are being targeted by cybercriminals for ransomware attacks during the time of Covid-19, as the criminals believe they are likely to pay the ransom, the Cyberdome has found. Two hospitals and three diagnostic centres have reported ransomware attacks in the state, which appeared in the name of Covid-19 guidelines. Fortunately, they had backed up their data, because of which the attack did not affect their functioning. Cybercriminals are creating thousands of new sites every day to carry out spam campaigns, phishing or to spread malware, using coronavirus, Covid-19 etc as the keywords. Malware, spyware and Trojans have been found embedded in interactive coronavirus maps and websites, tricking the users into clicking on links which download malware to their computers or mobile devices, the Cyberdome has found. Earlier, the countering child sex exploitation (CCSE) team formed under the direct control of state police chief Loknath Behera had collected the details of as many as 150 individuals involved in sharing of child porn material. Several WhatsApp and Telegram groups sharing such material have also been busted. Cyberdome’s figures had found that the number of surfers hitting the child porn websites during the lockdown period had doubled from around 600 hits per hour to 1,200-1,300 per hour. Also, there has been some phishing emails sent to friends, subordinates and co-workers of senior government officials, asking them to buy gift cards online on behalf of the officer, since the “officer is busy with Covid-19 duties” and the money would be reimbursed later.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/pandemic-a-boon-for-cyber-criminals/articleshow/75651220.cms||KP Saikiran
May 10, 2020||Jaipur||Special train to ferry 1,200 Bihar labourers from Barmer||Jaisalmer: A Shramik-special train will leave on Sunday with 1,200 labourers out of the 1,665 from Bihar who are stuck in Barmer district. Yet, around 450 labourers from Bihar and 300 labourers from Jharkhand will still remain stuck in Barmer. Jharkhand government has refused to take back their labourers, so they will have stay here for some more time. On the other hand, under the permits issued by other states till May 6, around 24,356 people arrived in Barmer till Saturday morning. Similarly, around 30,000 people arrived in Jalore. Still, a large number of people are stranded in Gujarat and other states. Barmer SP Anand Sharma said that 1,665 labourers from Bihar have registered themselves, and around 300 labourers from Jharkhand, who are all in various shelter homes in the district. As per the directions of the state government, a Shramik-special train will leave from Barmer on Sunday carrying 1,200 Bihar labourers to Motihari and Navada stations. The train will depart at 12 noon. He said preparations are being done and strict security arrangements are being made. The labourers will be brought from shelter homes by roadways buses to the railway station, where they will be made to sit in the train on fixed seats. Barmer collector Vishram Meena said that directions have been issued for the special train going to Bihar on Sunday. Health check up and screening of labourers will be done and only then will they be allowed to enter the train. The entire train is being sanitised and labourers will be provided masks, sanitisers and food. He said directions have been sought from the state government for the remaining Bihar labourers and further process will be started after the government’s decision, until then they will stay at the shelter homes. Jalore collector Himanshu Gupta said that around 30,000 people, who had the permit issued before May 6, have come to Jalore and only those who have the permit obtained prior to May 6 will be allowed to enter Jalore, as per the directions of the state government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/special-train-to-ferry-1200-bihar-labourers-from-barmer/articleshow/75652848.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Seeking to return home, workers protest at under-construction site||Hyderabad: Trouble erupted at an under-construction IT Park in Gopanapalli, on Saturday, after migrant workers staged a protest demanding that they be sent home. According to the police, the workers — about 600 of them — were from Jharkhand, Bihar and Odisha who have been engaged by L&T to carry out work at the construction site. “At around 11.30am, the workers gathered at the site and raised slogans demanding that they be sent home. It took us nearly three hours to pacify the agitating workers,” said Gachibowli inspector, Srinivas adding that they used a public addressing system to control the situation. The police officials later had a conversation with the workers, assuring them that their demand to return to their native states will be facilitated as per the government-laid procedure. They workers were told that as works at all the construction sites had already resumed, interested workers were welcome to stay back and that travel arrangements would be made available for others as per protocol. “We told the workers that they can be sent home only by following the due procedure and they should cooperate with government until then. It took some time to convince them,” the inspector added. As of now, the police has not registered any case as there has been no complaint. Meanwhile, work at the site has resumed, albeit partially.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/seeking-to-return-home-workers-protest-at-under-construction-site/articleshow/75652842.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Jaipur||Questioned over masks, duo assault cop in Baran||Kota: An on-duty cop was manhandled and abused by a father-son duo when he questioned them for roaming in the market without face masks in Kishanganj town of Baran district on Saturday noon. According to Kishanganj police station SHO Rajendra Meena, when constable Deepak Bhargav questioned Dinesh Dhakad and his son Deepu, who were purchasing at a shop in the market without wearing face masks, the duo got furious and manhandled the constable. The two fled away from the spot after the incident, he added. On the report by the constable, police lodged a case under sections 332 and 353 of IPC against Dinesh Dhakad and his son Deepu and initiated efforts to nab the two, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/questioned-over-masks-duo-assault-cop-in-baran/articleshow/75652232.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Pune||Alert train driver averts accident near Pune, saves 20 migrants’ lives||PUNE: An alert loco driver of a goods train saved the lives of at least 20 migrant workers by applying the emergency brakes and halting the train just 100 metres away from them near Pune on Friday evening. “The migrants were walking on the tracks between the Uruli and Loni stations little realising that a goods train was coming in high speed from the opposite direction,” sources in the Pune rail division told TOI on Saturday. The incident happened barely 14 hours after 16 migrants who were sleeping on the tracks in Aurangabad were run over by a goods train. “It was around 7pm when the loco pilot, from the Daund section under the Solapur division, saw a large group of migrant workers walking on the same rail track on which the train was moving. It seems they were going towards Daund. All of them had luggage, which made it clear that they were migrant workers,” a railway source said, adding that some people were also sitting on the rail tracks. said, “As soon as the loco pilot saw them, he applied the emergency brakes. The train was running at a high speed but fortunately it stopped just around 100 metres away from the migrant workers.” According to the sources, the guard and loco pilot immediately got out of the train and informed the control office about the incident and moved all the people from the rail track. Another source said that the people were warned about the dangers of walking on rail tracks as goods train and some special Shramik trains have been operational. No legal action was taken against them, added the source. Information on what happened to the workers afterwards and whether the railways assisted them in anyway was awaited. The railway ministry has been sending alerts on social media handles that goods trains were running and walking on the tracks was highly risky ever since Friday’s tragedy in Aurangabad. A senior official of the Pune division told TOI that all the station masters, deputy station superintendents, trackmen, gatemen in Pune rail division have been told to keep a watch on the tracks. “They have been told to remove the people who are found walking on the tracks and inform the control section. The railway protection force (RPF) is also on an alert and patrolling has been initiated.” A source in the RFP said people seen walking along rail tracks are being sent to quarantine centres with the help of Pune police. “A joint team consisting of RPF men, officials of the operations department and the engineering department of the railways has been formed. The team is patrolling on tracks very frequently,” said the source. “On Friday evening, we had caught 180 people walking along the tracks at several points of the Pune rail division. These people were sent to institutional quarantine centres with the help of local police,” added the source.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/alert-train-driver-averts-accident-near-pune-saves-20-migrants-lives/articleshow/75653043.cms||Joy Sengupta
May 10, 2020||Ranchi||BDO in Dumka showcaused for allowing barber to shave head of quarantine patient, before test results||Dumka: Deputy commissioner Rajeshwari B has issued a showcause notice to Sariyahat block development officer (BDO) Dayanand Jaiswal and an in-charge of a quarantine centre here for allowing a barber to shave the head of an inmate at the centre, who later tested positive for Covid-19. The identity of the quarantine centre in-charge is yet to be ascertained. The incident happened in between May 2 and 5, when two migrants who returned from Gurgaon in Harayana were lodged at the quarantine centre. A local barber was called to the centre to shave the head of one of the migrants, whose father had died. Later, when their test results came on May 5, both tested positive. However, district administration officials on Saturday heaved a sigh of relief on Saturday after test reports of 46 people, including the barber and 24 others of a high-risk group, who came in contact with the patient, returned negative. Talking to TOI, Rajeshwari said, “I have showcaused the BDO and the quarantine centre in-charge on dereliction of duty for allowing the barber. I am yet to receive their replies.” She added, “The good thing is that 46 people, including the barber and 24 others of the high-risk group, tested negative today. We have discharged them with advice for home quarantine.” During contact-tracing, the district administration found that the barber had also went to the patient’s house to shave heads of other family members.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/bdo-in-dumka-showcaused-for-allowing-barber-to-shave-head-of-quarantine-patient-before-test-results/articleshow/75651385.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
May 10, 2020||Vadodara||After two heart attacks, 74-year-old Gujarat cancer patient slays Covid-19||VADODARA: ‘Cancer mera kuch nahi bigaad paaya toh corona kya cheez hain (If cancer could do me no harm, what can Covid do?”) This was the confidence that 74-year-old Yusuf Hotelwala exuded while leaving for the Covid care centre at Ibrahim Bavani ITI on Ajwa Road after testing positive a week ago. On Saturday, Hotelwala, who suffers from peritoneal mesothelioma — a rare type of cancer affecting the abdominal lining — was beaming at his Wadi residence. He went home from the after doctors there confirmed his recovery. The septuagenarian, who has already survived two heart attacks, said his positive attitude, zest for life and selfconfidence were the panacea for recovery. “Doctors said my condition was stable and I can stay quarantined at home,” Yusuf told TOI. Dr Mohammed Hussain, who treated Yusuf, said, “Considering his condition, he has recovered well and hence was discharged early. While the medicines and nutritious diet worked, Yusuf’s positive attitude did wonders in his quick recovery.” Yusuf ’s wife Fehmida had tested positive for the virus on May 2 and he reportedly got infected from her. “My family was worried after I tested positive but I was never scared. I always knew I would recover. I have to be under quarantine for the next few days and undergo another test. And I am sure I will test negative,” he added. Yusuf was diagnosed with peritoneal mesothelioma in July last year. “Doctors then told me that I won’t survive for more than six months. But here I am, alive and talking to you,” Yusuf said gleefully. Yusuf ’s daughter Ishrat, a high-school teacher, was in tears when TOI spoke with her. “I cried when my father tested positive. He is already suffering pain due to cancer as well as chemotherapy and I was worried how he would cope with Covid treatment. But he was always mentally tough,” she said. “Just before leaving for the hospital, he smiled at me and said that he will be back. We are so relieved that his condition is now stable,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/after-2-heart-attacks-74-yr-old-cancer-patient-beats-covid-19/articleshow/75651702.cms||Tushar Tere
May 10, 2020||Ranchi||Movement of workers changes colour coding of districts||Ranchi: Partial relaxation in lockdown norms that allowed movement of migrant labourers back to their homes has seriously impacted the Covid-19 graph of Jharkhand. For instance, Koderma district, which had not reported any case since April 11 and was qualified to be included in the green category, suddenly slipped into the orange category with two new cases on Friday. Garhwa also had a similar fate when it suffered a sudden spike with 20 new cases emerging on Friday, since detection of the last positive case on April 26. State heath secretary Nitin Madan Kulkarni said the spike was expected when movement of migrants was allowed. “In the last three days, over 15,000 people have come to Giridih and on an average around 5,000 people are reaching every district. Hence, putting them in institutional quarantine is practically impossible,” he said. The total number of Covid-19 cases in the state due to migration mounts to 29 in the last three days. While primary care facility is available at the district level, tertiary care for coronavirus patients is being provided only in select hosptials of a district. A health official said, “If the new cases turn out to be symptomatic or serious in nature, a few of them could be shifted to Rims or PMCH.” Apart from Ranchi, which is in the red zone with 93 cases, Garhwa is now the second district in state which should be classified as red because of the new cases. The change has occurred mainly due to lockdown relaxation and migrants labourers returning to the district. All 20 Covid-19 patients in Garhwa came from Surat in Gujarat — a hotspot — and where they were put in quarantine. The two cases detected in Koderma are migrant labourers from Varanasi in UP and Surat. Palamu would have been Covid-free after three patients, who tested positive on April 25, were declared cured and discharged on Saturday. However, with five migrant labourers, who returned to the district testing positive on Thursday, Palamu continues to be in the orange category. In Dhanbad, two cases were detected till April 18 and was free from all cases as the patients recovered as on April 27. The district once again slipped into orange on Saturday as two cases were detected. The two cases are of people who were in Mumbai. A 70-year-old woman, a cancer patient who was undergoing treatment at Tata Memorial Hospital in Mumbai, along with her 35-year-old son tested positive on Saturday after their arrival on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/movement-of-workers-changes-colour-coding-of-districts/articleshow/75651570.cms||Jaideep Deogharia
May 10, 2020||Ranchi||BGH may soon start Covid-19 tests, asks govt for equipment||Bokaro: The Steel Authority of India Limited-run Bokaro General Hospital (BGH) may soon begin testing samples for Covid-19. The public utility service arm of the PSU has begun working out modalities with the state government to start the facility at the earliest. Though BGH was declared a Covid-19 centre, swab samples from the hospital were tested at Jamshedpur’s MGMMCH and later, when PMCH started the facility, the hospital sent the samples to Dhanbad for testing. BGH sources said SAIL chairman Anil Kumar Chaudhary recently held a discussion with state health secretary Nitin Madan Kulkarni to start testing samples at BGH. Talking to TOI on Saturday, Kulkarni said, “We are working on a proposal with SAIL to set up a Covid-19 testing laboratory at BGH. Things are at an initial stage and SAIL has asked the state government to provide equipment for the laboratory while they will provide the infrastructure support.” This is will be the second township where SAIL will join hands with a state government to test samples for Covid-19. On April 16, SAIL along with the Odisha government, set up a Covid testing laboratory at Ispat General Hospital (IGH) in Rourkela. Director, medical services, BGH, Dr A K Singh said, “We have identified the space and manpower required for the facility. The list of required equipment has been provided to the state government and we are awaiting a formal consent.” The hospital currently has no Covid-19 patient after it recently cured and discharged nine active cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/bgh-may-soon-start-covid-19-tests-asks-govt-for-equipment/articleshow/75651513.cms||Divy Khare
May 10, 2020||Ranchi||JMM, Cong differ over fee waivers by pvt schools||Ranchi: Differences have emerged between mahagathbandhan partners Congress and JMM over the issue of demand for fee waivers by private schools for the lockdown period. While education minister Jagarnnath Mahto (JMM) has been calling for a full fee waiver, Congress on Saturday said the move will lead to closure of several private schools and force lakhs of teaching and non-teaching staff to go without salaries. Interestingly, even arch-rival BJP has a shares Congress’s views. Congress spokesperson Alok Dubey said, “The party is not in favour of forcing private schools to waive off tuition fees. It will affect 20,000 schools in the state. More than three lakh people depend on earnings from private schools to run their families. However, we appeal schools to waive off components such as computer charges, development fees for the lockdown period.” Earlier this week, Mahto had said a committee under chief minister Hemant Soren will take a call on the matter soon. Dubey said, “On Monday, a delegation of Congress leaders will meet the education minister and formally submit a memorandum against a complete fee waiver.” He added, “Besides paying salaries, schools also have high recurring expenses on a daily basis. More than 15,000 schools run from rented buildings and all of them have outsourced bus services.” Taking a jibe at the erstwhile Raghubar Das-led BJP government, Dubey said, “Several government schools were shut in the past few years, derailing the educational system in the state during the previous regime. In such a situation, private schools play an important role in imparting quality education in Jharkhand.” Echoing Congress, the saffron party wrote a letter to Hemant citing similar concerns. BJP’s legislative party leader Babulal Marandi said in the letter, “Forcing schools to not take tuition fees will not be a good move as it will lead to other collateral problems that will affect several people in this state. Since schools are not provided with economic help by the government, many will face closure. However, I suggest schools to take a humanitarian approach and waive off fees for genuine cases and relax other charges.” Meanwhile, national general secretary of Federation of Parents Association of India, Jharkhand chapter, Ajay Rai reiterated his demand for waiver. “Private schools are resorting to pressure tactics and forcing parents to pay the entire fee, including tuition fee, for the lockdown period. They are sending text messages to parents posing more trouble to the middle class and those who have lost their jobs or are facing salary cuts. We demand the entire fee be waived off at the earliest.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/jmm-cong-differ-over-fee-waivers-by-pvt-schools/articleshow/75651610.cms||ASRP Mukesh
May 10, 2020||Ranchi||Workers protest for wages in coal town||Sindri: Protests by contract workers for payment of wages erupted in Dhanbad on Saturday. In Chasnala upper seam mine of a SAIL subsidiary, contract workers sat on a dharna inside the mine demanding wages for the lockdown period. In another incident, contract workers of Hindustan Urvarak and Rasayan Ltd (HURL), engaged in construction work of a new fertilizer unit of Sindri, came out on road demanding either payment of wages for the last two months or send them back to their native places in Bihar, UP, West Bengal and Punjab. In both the cases, the workers had to withdraw their agitation soon when threatened with “action for disturbing law and order” during the lockdown period. In the first incident, nearly 72 contract workers demanded wages for April. The dharna was withdrawn after two hours when the colliery management assured them to look into their grievances. General manager of the plant, A K Roy, said all workers will get payment for the lockdown period and if any contractor has not paid wages to the workers, suitable action would be taken against them in due course of time. At HURL, the contractor allegedly threw baggages of workers on the road and threatened them with police action for demanding wages and for refusing to join duty. HURL project head M C Karan said nearly 200 workers want to return to their native places. “We are talking to the district administration for issuing travel pass to them. The management is taking steps to ensure their payment for the lockdown period.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/workers-protest-for-wages-in-coal-town/articleshow/75651287.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Ranchi||How coolies of Hatia responded to our call for help||With more than 20 Shramik special trains arriving at six stations across Jharkhand since May 1, more than 20,000 persons — migrant workers, students, patients and caregivers — have returned home after being stranded in various cities across the country since the nationwide lockdown was imposed to contain the spread of the novel coronavirus on March 25. While several people — railway officials and engineers, loco pilots, signalmen, and train attendants — have played a crucial role in the logistically challenging task to operate these trains long-distance trains on a short notice, one segment helping a section of passengers has gone unnoticed. The porters — coolies as we call them — who make a living carrying the baggage of passengers at railway stations are the unsung heroes for many people who have been evacuated and brought back to Ranchi. While migrant workers, with all their life’s belongings stuffed in a couple of bags, did not really need porters to carry their load, patients arriving from the healthcare hub of Vellore in Tamil Nadu on May 8 required wheelchairs and other assistance. Similarly, hours before a train full of stranded students — some with their parents and a heavy load of clothes, computers, books and study material — arrived from the coaching hub of Kota in Rajasthan on May 2, we predicted that we would need the help of the porters, who were without work and shelter, for more than six weeks. They responded to our call for help with alacrity and were at the Hatia station within minutes after senior divisional commercial manager (Ranchi division) Avanish contacted them. Everyone at the station, including government officials coordinating the evacuation — were moved when the porters walked in, faces covered with masks, to assist the passengers without a second thought for their own health. The number of porters was far less than we needed and we had to further divide them in teams of two to ensure social distancing protocols and other precautionary measures were followed. Parcel trolleys were used as each porter worked with clockwork precision, unloading baggage from twenty-four coaches in less than five hours — something we did not believe was possible. Once their job was done, the porters, who are not well-to-do by any stretch of imagination, refused to accept any money from the passengers. On Friday, before the medical train from Katpadi station reached Hatia, we knew we could count on the porters to do what was needed. As patients — some critical — and their family members disembarked, the coolies were at the door with wheelchairs. They shifted the patients from the platform to the road outside the station. Once again, they did not accept any money and said the blessings from the ailing passengers was more than enough for them. Even some hardened bureaucrats and railway officials had tears in their eyes when they saw this selfless job being done. Amid this unprecedented health crisis, these coolies passed their test of character with flying colours, demonstrating bravery, courage and empathy that many thought could not be expected of them as they dealt with their own unemployment. Their exemplary contribution should not go ignored and get the standing ovation it deserves. We in the Railways applaud their work and acknowledge that we would not have managed to assist the needy passengers without them. The writer is the senior divisional operations manager and CPRO, of Ranchi Railway Division (South Eastern Railway)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/how-coolies-of-hatia-responded-to-our-call-for-help/articleshow/75651786.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Ranchi||Left parties demand cash, foodgrains for migrants||Ranchi: Members of Left parties on Saturday staged a day-long dharna demanding Rs 10,000 and foodgrains for every migrant workers affected by the lockdown. The members who demonstrated at their party offices and other areas also wore black badges and condemned the Centre for an unplanned lockdown that led to the death of 16 workers on railway tracks in Aurangabad and 11 persons in the Styrene gas leak in Vizag. CPI(M-L) general secretary Janardhan Prasad said they observed social distancing norms at the dharna held at their office from 11am to 3pm. He said, “Workers should be given cash aid of Rs 10,000 each as they have no job. Besides, free foodgrains must be provided to all the poor people, including workers, in the state.” He alleged that the mishaps in Aurangabad and Vizag were due to the unplanned lockdown and said the Left parties condemned the Centre over the incidents. CPI also held similar protests at Kishoreganj, Dhurwa and Kantatoli in Ranchi. CPI functionary Ajay Singh demanded that state ensures free-of-cost return for migrant workers and students, adding that the number of Shramik special trains used for the purpose must be increased. He added that all needy persons must be provided foodgrains under the PDS system. CPI state council member Umesh Nazir said workers are forced to set out for their homes on foot as they are being threatened by their employers. CPM also held similar demonstrations at over a dozen places in Ranchi district. Similarly, Marxist Coordination Committee (MCC) and Forward Bloc held protests in different parts of the state. MCC leaders said their organisation held demonstrations at 15 places in Dhanbad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/left-parties-demand-cash-foodgrains-for-migrants/articleshow/75651360.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Safety audit on cards for 86 units||Visakhapatnam: The state government has identified 86 industrial units across the state that will undergo a safety audit, according to minister of industries and IT, Mekapati Goutham Reddy. The minister said that concerted efforts are being made to neutralise the styrene vapour that leaked from the plant. “We will first take up the safety audit and then we will go for restart of the plants, which are waiting to reopen ,” the minister said, adding that industrial units will be issued a No Objection Certificate (NOC) only after the safety audit. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/safety-audit-on-cards-for-86-units/articleshow/75636140.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
May 10, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Styrene leak reminds Malkapuram residents their morning of horrors||Visakhapatnam: At Malkapuram on the city’s southern fringes, around 15 km from the spot of Thursday’s styrene leak incident, memories of two major accidents at HPCL Visakha Refinery returned to haunt residents after news broke of styrene leakage from the LG Polymers plant. “Seven years on and I can still remember the day of the blast. It was early one morning in August 2013 when the incident took place. Following the blast, my family had to shift to a relative’s place in Gopalpatnam area. Now Gopalpatnam area is under siege and residents there are searching for shelter,” said K Asok Kumar, a 42-year-old resident in Malkapuram who runs a grocery store in Gajuwaka. On August 23, 2013 an under-construction cooling tower collapsed within the compound of the refinery that was being built as part of a diesel hydro de-sulpharisation expansion project. Twenty-eight people died in the incident and around 70,000 residents had to leave home for a few days. The other accident dates to September 14, 1997 when a leak in a pipeline carrying liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) to a storage tank in the refinery caused a massive explosion that set six other storage tanks on fire. Sixty people died in the incident and around 60,000 residents had to flee the area. Officials at HPCL, however, have assured that there will not be any major accident inside the plant. “Even if there’s an accident it won’t have any effect on the locals of adjacent areas. This is because all major constructions of our plants had been shifted to the centre of the plant’s compound. The nearest residential locality is actually outside a five km radius from that place,” a senior HPCL official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/styrene-leak-reminds-malkapuram-residents-their-morning-of-horrors/articleshow/75636226.cms||Arpit Basu
May 10, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: More confusion than answers in student promotion formula||MUMBAI: A day after higher and technical education minister Uday Samant announced the promotion of students in degree colleges across the state — except for final-year students — using a gradation for mula, its implementation across courses puzzled students on Saturday. Many from the University of Mumbai claimed that the 50%-50% gradation formula based on the previous performances and internal assessment was too vague for students from distance learning and traditional and professional courses where there is no internal exam. A principal said traditional courses such as BA, BCom and BSc, or even professional courses like law, did not have internal assessment under the university. A first-year student from distance learning said that they would not have any previous performance for assessment. Another student wondered if his past ATKT (allowed to keep term) would have an impact on his grades, and if he were to be declared failed, would he have to appear for the entire term or any particular subject. Many said they did not know whether the university would be marking them in each subject or giving them an aggregate score based on their previous performances. The varsity announced the preparation of an action plan for the conduct of exams for 2.22 lakh final-year students and an in-depth clarification on the grading pattern based on UGC guidelines. Vice-chancellor Suhas Pednekar said the government committee under his chairmanship recommended the best possible guidelines. “However, every university has its own complexities and format. Our university is not only larger in size, but also offers a variety of combinations in exams. Students need not worry at this point as we will soon come out with an action plan,” said Pednekar. The university will have to conduct 158 exams for 2.22 lakh students in final year of diploma, undergraduate and postgraduate courses in July.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-more-confusion-than-answers-in-student-promotion-formula/articleshow/75659334.cms||Yogita Rao
May 10, 2020||Gurgaon||15 Haryana roadways buses ferry around 530 farm labourers to Uttar Pradesh||AMBALA: A total of 15 Haryana roadways buses ferried around 530 farm labourers and their family members to four districts of Uttar Pradesh (UP) from Ambala Cantonment bus stand on Saturday. The workers had been stuck in Ambala district due to Covid-19 lockdown, told Ambala superintendent of police (SP) Abhishek Jorwal. SP Jorwal said the four UP districts included Baghpat, Mathura, Saharanpur and Shamli. “These farm labourers were stuck in Ambala district since lockdown and they wanted to go back to their native states; therefore, the administration arranged for the buses,” he said. On Friday, thousands of migrant labourers had marched towards Ambala from Punjab and some of them were pushed back towards Punjab, while some were given shelter in the city. Ambala Cantonment bus stand in-charge Vijender Kumar told, “All 15 buses which left with labourers are from Ambala depot and they would be returning after dropping them in four districts of UP. All of them were screened before allowing to board the buses by the health teams and they were provided face masks, and food and fruits for the journey.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/15-haryana-roadways-buses-ferry-around-530-farm-labourers-to-uttar-pradesh/articleshow/75653214.cms||Jaskaran Singh
May 10, 2020||Nagpur||Maharashtra: No promotion for medical students without exams||NAGPUR: Unlike conventional universities in the state, students of Maharashtra University of Health Sciences (MUHS) will not be promoted to the next level without examinations. The state government had on Friday decided to cancel all examinations, except final year/semester of undergraduate and post graduate courses, of conventional universities and promote students to the next class. In the backdrop of Covid-19 pandemic, the MUHS has already postponed all its summer examinations. “We will conduct the examinations later. Time-table will be fixed only after consultation with students and teachers,” said vice-chancellor Dr Dileep Mhaisekar. “As a medical university, we have to follow the national norms. Promoting students without examination is not on cards. Currently, our students are providing front line treatment to Covid-19 patients. So, we have postponed the examinations,” said Dr Mhaisekar. MUHS examination controller Dr Ajit Pathak issued a circular in this regard. “New dates of medical examination will be decided after consulting all stakeholders. It will be ensured that students get enough time for preparation,” reads the circular which further adds that ‘no one should believe in rumours/fake news about the medical examinations’. Academicians have welcomed MUHS’ stand. “Medical students cannot be promoted on the lines of other courses. These examinations are for doctors, whose academic acumen directly affects people’s health and human life,” said Dr Shriram Ragad Deshmukh, state president of National Integrated Medical Association Students’ Forum.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/no-promotion-for-med-students-without-exams/articleshow/75652524.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
May 10, 2020||Nagpur||Chanda couple returns home, meets children after 107 days||Nagpur: After 107 days, including the 45-day stay in the institutional quarantine and isolation ward in Nagpur, the husband-wife duo from Chandrapur finally returned home and met with their children on Thursday. The 45 days in quarantine and isolation ward is probably the longest for any person in the district. Nagpur Markaz secretary Abdul Bari Patel told TOI that the couple left Nagpur after district collector Ravindra Thakare granted them permission. They reached Chandrapur on Thursday. It was due to cooperation from Thakare the couple could go back to their hometown,” he said. The husband, a 39-year-old real estate dealer, said, “We were greatly relieved on reaching Chandrapur. We first reported at the office of the district civil surgeon before leaving for home. Finally, we could meet our seven and 10-year-old sons,” he said. The husband-wife duo, along with three more couples from Chandrapur district, had gone to Indonesia Jamaat on January 22. They stayed at Nizamuddin Markaz for two days and another place in New Delhi for some days for visa formalities. They left for Indonesia on February 4. They all returned to New Delhi on March 22, stayed at Nizamuddin Markaz and landed in the city on March 24. From airport, they were taken to institutional quarantine facility at MLA Hostel. As all were asymptomatic, their swab samples were not taken for Covid-19 test. On his 11th day at MLA Hostel, the real estate agent volunteered for Covid-19 test when the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) started taking swab samples of persons whose digital footprints were traced in Nizamuddin. His report came positive on April 6. His wife too tested positive on April 11. They recovered from the disease and were discharged from GMCH on April 22. The Chandrapur collector Kunal Khemnar, however, asked them to spend 14 days at institutional quarantine here citing no positive cases in his district at that time. The couple then stayed at Vanamati till Thursday. According to Patel, the Chandrapur couple and 22 Tablighi Jamaat members of Jabalpur, Guntur and MP have returned to their hometowns but 33 TJs of New Delhi and 11 of Manipur are yet to get permission for travelling to their hometowns. “They have been asked certificate of negative results or discharge certificate from quarantine centre,” he said. “All the 44 TJs from Delhi and Manipur were quarantined and have tested negative twice. But they were not given certificates at that time. Now, we are left to run pillar to post. The NMC and district civil surgeon say there is no system to give such certificates. Now, we are obtaining record from quarantine centres and applying with the collectorate,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/chanda-couple-returns-home-meets-children-after-107-days/articleshow/75652541.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
May 10, 2020||Nagpur||CBSE board examination evaluation to start from Sunday||NAGPUR: The CBSE board exam evaluation work will start from Sunday following all requisite permissions for the same being granted by the union home ministry. Human resources minister Ramesh Pokhriyal announced that answersheets will be delivered to evaluators’ homes from 3,000 evaluation centres across the country. Though he did not mention a date, CBSE results seem likely to be declared after July 20. Pokhriyal issued a public statement saying there are almost 1.5 crore CBSE board answersheets that are awaiting evaluation. “The home ministry has given us permission to facilitate operation of 3,000 evaluation centres. We will be delivering answersheets directly to teachers’ homes, where they can complete the job,” said Pokhriyal. It is estimated that the evaluation will be complete within 50 days. CBSE has already announced that it will be conducting the pending XII board exams from July 1 onwards. For Std X, only exams for north-east Delhi will be conducted as it was not possible to do so earlier due to riots in the area. With board exams getting over on July 15, the results are likely to come around July 20. Maharashtra state board has already initiated the process of resuming paper evaluation. The state’s education secretary has written to all district collectors seeking travel permission for teachers who are taking part in the evaluation process. In some districts, the permission has already been given and work is expected to start soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cbse-board-examination-evaluation-to-start-today/articleshow/75652552.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
May 10, 2020||Shimla||Himachal Pradesh CM asks BJP workers to sensitise people on social distancing||SHIMLA: With Himachal Pradesh registering sharp increase in number of coronavirus positive cases after a brief lull, chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Saturday sought the help of BJP workers to sensitise each and every household about Covid-19 where someone is coming outside the state. He said that each and every party worker of the party must ensure that they reach the home of person coming back from other states even before their arrival so as to sensitise the family members regarding the importance of social distancing and home quarantine in order to check the spread of coronavirus pandemic. Jai Ram Thakur, while addressing the BJP officer bearers of Mandi parliamentary area through video conference, said that the party workers must keep a close vigil on the persons who had returned from other states and persuade them to strictly follow the norms of home quarantine. He said that it was the duty of the workers to motivate the family members to ensure complete social distancing. He said that the others should also be asked not to attach any social stigma on the person kept under home quarantine. He said that the party workers must also ensure that the person entering their village do not jump quarantine. He said that state government has made elaborate arrangements to bring back the people of the state stranded in other states, as per the directions and guidelines of Union ministry of home affairs. He said that although this has caused increase in the number of coronavirus positives cases in the state, still it is the moral responsibility of the state government to bring back students, workers and other people of the state stranded in different parts of the country. He said that BJP workers have made tremendous contribution in distributing Modi ration kits and face masks to the people. He said that as many as 1,02,039 families were provided these ration kits and over 18 lakh face-masks were also provided to the people. He said that people should also be motivated to download Arogya Setu app on their mobiles.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/himachal-pradesh-cm-asks-bjp-workers-to-sensitise-people-on-social-distancing/articleshow/75653225.cms||Anand Bodh
May 10, 2020||Nagpur||Panel recommends online teaching, learning for univs||NAGPUR: The panel constituted by the Maharashtra government has advocated online teaching and learning for higher education due to the Covid-19 crisis. Apprehending that the effect of the coronavirus would be there for a longer time, the panel of four vice chancellors (VCs) constituted by the government recommended forming a committee for framing modalities for using online technology in colleges and universities. Accordingly, the government appointed Pune University VC Nitin Karmalkar to head the committee. “He has been granted liberty to appoint members as per his choice. The government would appoint two directors on his panel,” higher and technical education minister Uday Samant told TOI. The VC’s panel mentioned that the online system could be an important aspect for higher education and can play a major role in a crisis like this. “Apart from framing modalities, the government appointed committee could guide on the extent the online technology could be used by educational institutions,” the VCs panel mentioned in its report submitted to the government after which a major decision to cancel all examinations, except final year/semester, across all universities and private institutions was taken. Observing that the impact and spread of the Covid-19 virus was not same in all areas, the VCs’ panel suggested an advisory committee to come up with up guidelines on conducting exams and starting the academic year at those places. “We’ve constituted a committee under the Mumbai University VC Suhas Pednekar in this regard,” Samant said. Apart from Pednekar and Karmalkar, Shivaji University VC Devanand Shinde, SNDT VC Shashikala Wanjari, higher education director Dhanraj Mane and technical education director Abhay Wagh were the other members on the panel. The panel also suggested online filling up of exam forms and the responsibility to be entrusted on the principal. It stated that if coronavirus spread continued in the future, the government should review the situation in the last week of June and decide whether it would be possible to conduct exams in July. It asked the government to conduct the entrance exams for undergraduate courses like MT-CET between July 1 and 19 and postgraduate programmes from July 20 to 30.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/panel-recommends-online-teaching-learning-for-univs/articleshow/75652570.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
May 10, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Visakhapatnam: Still time before people can return to their homes near polymer plant||VISAKHAPATNAM: While things are gradually returning to normal at the LG Polymers plant, the ongoing counteraction efforts to completely seal the styrene monomer tank may take a couple of more days. According to a central team member working inside the plant, the temperature of the tank fell to 98°C on Saturday. LG Polymers, in a statement, said that the situation at the plant has been brought under control. Even though the air quality has been improving gradually in the five surrounding villages, officials say people will be allowed to return to their homes only after the styrene level in the air goes down to zero. The four-member chemical and biology team of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) along with a five-member team from the CSIR-National Environmental Engineering Institute are working round-the-clock to restore normalcy at the plant and in the adjoining areas. Dr Anjan Ray, director of CSIR-Indian Institute of Petroleum, accompanied with a styrene expert from a private industry visited the plant on Saturday evening to take stock of the situation and make recommendations. State agriculture minister K Kannababu said water is being sprinkled continuously to bring down the temperature of the tank. “The temperature has now reached 98.4°C. We advise people to not return home until an official announcement is made. We will assess the situation on Sunday and make an announcement,” the minister said. A four-member team of experts from the Indian Institute of Petroleum and Energy (IIPE) also visited the plant on Saturday. IIPE director Prof VSRK Prasad said things are “pretty much under control at the plant”. NDRF commandant Zahid Khan said the NDRF team is working on neutralisation. “Currently, everything is under control. Temperature has come down to sub-100°C from the earlier 150°C,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/it-may-take-2-more-days-for-things-to-return-to-normal/articleshow/75651939.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
May 10, 2020||Nagpur||Despite long & tiring travel, migrants won’t give up till they reach home||NAGPUR: From Bhiwandi in Maharashtra to Angul in Odisha — 1,500km; Mumbai to North 24 Parganas (West Bengal) — 2,100km; Aurangabad in Maharashtra to Sidarthnagar in UP, bordering Nepal — over 1,470km. Distances just did not seem to be long enough for the workers hitchhiking to reach their home. They walked, finding their ways through GPS, riding on trucks and replenishing cash through online fund transfers from their kin back home. In the backdrop of the Aurangabad train accident that killed 16 workers, TOI drove along the highways, only to find that these workers continued with their long journeys. The shortest route to be covered by the workers TOI came across was a mere 890km, from Amravati to Jaunpur. As the travellers shared their stories of hardships during lockdown, it also reflected of poor working conditions and neglect of labour laws by their employees. TOI met workers engaged in textile units, furniture factories and even construction workers at government projects. Getting Rs400 to Rs450 a day, none of them had even heard of provident fund (PF). A senior official in the employees provident fund organization (EPFO) confirmed that any worker engaged in a unit having 20 persons was eligible for the benefit. This included contract labour at construction sites. At around 8am, a group of around 20 workers was seen resting on a pavement along Amravati Road. Starting off from the textile town of Bhiwandi near Mumbai, they had just reached Nagpur. They were on the way to their village in Angul district of Odisha. “We had sent our videos with SOS messages to our parents in the village. It came in the newspapers there but that didn’t help. At Bhiwandi, we managed to get the phone number of district collector’s office, which was always busy. We finally decided to leave, and it took five days to reach Nagpur,” said Bholanath Sahu who is in his early 20s. The group said they were employed at a private limited company at Bhiwandi. “The employer provided rations and cash initially. We also got money transferred to our accounts from home, but even that is getting exhausted now,” said Narendra Sahu, who has left behind his cousin who has a problem in his leg and cannot walk long distances, along with four others. “There is no PF, we just get wages,” he said. Further, on Kamptee Road leading to the Jabalpur Highway, another group waited below a bridge under construction. “We were engaged at a building construction project by City and Industrial Development Corporation (CIDCO) at Panvel in Mumbai,” said Chandrabhan Sahai, one among the 11 workers who were heading towards Sidhi in Madhya Pradesh, a distance of 1,300km from Mumbai. “The contractor fled after the lockdown. A lady from CIDCO provided us food, but soon the help dwindled,” said Sahai. CIDCO is a Maharashtra government agency. Even this group managed for a month on funds transferred online from their villages. “I may still need some Rs2,000-odd for the journey, which I’ll ask my family to transfer later on. Even they have to borrow to send us money,” said one of them. These workers too said they did not get any benefit like PF. A little further on the road, Shyamal Murmu looked dazed as a group of local youths sat beside him offering help. Shyamal said it took 17 days for him to reach Nagpur as he could find rides only for short distances. In Mumbai he worked at a construction site at suburban Kandivli. He was on his way to his village in Northern Pargana district of West Bengal. “We have given him food and new clothes,” said a youth who planned to take Shyamal to a local politician. “Can I get some work here so that I can take home some money,” he asked. Uday Bhan, who walked briskly towards Kamptee, looked fresh. A fitter in the central effluent treatment plant (CEPT) at Amravati’s Nandgaonpeth industrial area, he was dropped at Nagpur on a motorcycle by a friend. On his way to Jaunpur, 890km from Amravati, he hoped to get a ride from Kamptee. Back on Amravati Road, another group of workers from Aurangabad had arrived at the pavement. Engaged at a furniture factory in Aurangabad, they were on their way to Sidarthnagar district in Eastern Uttar Pradesh that borders Nepal’s Kapilvastu district. Their story was no different from others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/despite-long-tiring-travel-migrants-wont-give-up-till-they-reach-home/articleshow/75652604.cms||Shishir Arya
May 10, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Visakhapatnam: LG Polymers confirms leakage of styrene||HYDERABAD: LG Polymers India Pvt Ltd on Saturday confirmed a leakage of vapour from a styrene monomer storage tank at its facility on May 7. “Our initial investigations suggest that the cause of the incident is prima facie by the leaking vapor from the Styrene Monomer (SM) storage tank near the GPPS (General Purpose Poly Styrene) factory on Thursday, May 7,” the company said in a statement. “We are happy to confirm that the status-quo at the plant is brought under control this morning. We would like to assure everyone that the company is committed to work closely with the concerned authorities in India to investigate the cause of this incident, prevent recurrence in the future, and secure the foundation for care and treatment,” it said. The company said it is focusing on stabilising the plant and its teams are working with the government to assess the impact of the damage. They are also taking concrete measures to deliver an effective care package that can be implemented immediately. It has also set up a special taskforce to help victims and families to resolve any issues and provide assistance to the bereaved families. “All families will be contacted shortly,” it said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/lg-polymers-confirms-leakage-of-styrene/articleshow/75651943.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Visakhapatnam||DGP Sawang meets patients, lauds cops||Visakhapatnam: DGP (director general of police) Gautam Sawang on Saturday visited King George Hospital (KGH) in Visakhapatnam where most of those who took sick owing to the styrene vapour leak at LG Polymers plant are admitted. Speaking on the occasion, the DGP said that the combined efforts of police and doctors have helped save hundreds of lives. “The minute-to-minute rescue and relief operation as handled by the Vizag police was a great effort. Some of our police personnel also fell sick while evacuating the area. We will felicitate all personnel who played a role in the operation,” the DGP said. State agriculture minister K Kannababu said that a total of 585 people were hospitalised following the incident, of which 12 have passed away and 173 have been discharged. DGP Sawang also visited Care Hospital to check on the condition of patients. A total of 34 people are availing treatment at the hospital. Representatives of the medical team headed by Dr Vishal Goyal said that almost all patients are on the road to recovery except two who have been shifted to critical care. These include an 18-year-old woman who is currently in the ICU and a 62-year-old man who has been placed on ventilator support. Two children were also admitted here, but one of them has been shifted to a paediatric hospital as the child’s condition turned critical. The DGP appreciated the hospital’s efforts and said, “Care Hospital managed this unfortunate incident professionally, following all safety and protocol on patient care amid the Covid-19 pandemic.” He met the patients and hospital team members.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/dgp-sawang-meets-patients-lauds-cops/articleshow/75651946.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Visakhapatnam: Over 1,000 residents find refuge in government shelters||VISAKHAPATNAM: As many as 1,135 people residing in the surrounding area of LG Polymers in RR Venkatapuram have been shifted to 21 state shelters, which have a capacity to house 4,000 people. The urban community development (UCD) wing of GVMC had set up the 21 shelters, which include community halls and kalyana mandapams, in areas like Sujatha Nagar, under Zone VI. When TOI enquired about the reason for the poor occupancy rate in the government shelters with a cross section of people on Saturday, P Mallesh, who is living with his friend at Visalakshi Nagar, said “The reason why I came to my friend’s house is that all the shelters are located in Zone VI and the incident occurred in the same zone. Moreover all the shelters are located close to the incident spot. Who will be responsible if anything happens again?” Speaking to TOI, state tourism minister Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao, who visited a shelter at Sujatha Nagar on Saturday, said “It is quite common that rich people go to their friends’ house or make their own accommodations. Nothing wrong in it. The government shelters are for all kinds of people.” GVMC project director Y Srinivasa Rao said, “We set up all the 21 shelters to accommodate a maximum of 4,000 people. They have all the facilities, including AC rooms and hygenic food.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/over-1000-residents-find-refuge-in-govt-shelters/articleshow/75651953.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
May 10, 2020||Mumbai||BMC to add 1,200 beds as clips show patients sharing cot, sitting on floor||MUMBAI: Staring at a requirement of at least 1,200 critical-care beds in the city in the next dozen days, the BMC is racing against time to ramp up its strength in the tertiary and peripheral hospitals. From the current count of nearly 500 ICU and 3,000 oxygen-support beds, the plan is to increase the numbers to between 4,700 and 5,000. Another video emerged on Saturday, purportedly from Sion Hospital, showing a bed being shared by two patients, some receiving oxygen support sitting on the floor and relatives teeming inside the emergency ward filled with Covid-19 patients. A similar clip from KEM Hospital in Parel showed patients waiting on wheelchairs, a few lying on the floor and even a body in the middle of the ward. An expert said that with the current doubling rate, the city could have almost 24,000 cases in the next 10 or so days. "Statistically, at least 5% of them will need critical care beds, which means the city needs a minimum of 1,200 of those, in addition to the existing count of 3,500," he said. With 500-700 cases reported daily, the nine designated Covid health centres (DCHC) as well as the 29 dedicated Covid health centres are fast filling up. While the DCHCs meant for patients with co-morbid conditions above 60 years but with moderate illness have nearly 800 beds, the DCHs have around 3,000. Additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani said they were creating up to 40,000 beds with oxygen support on a war footing in quarantine facilities. "The plan is to create 25,000 more in the coming weeks. We are not restricting such beds to hospitals, but even quarantine centres would have oxygen support beds," he said. He said that critical care beds, including ICUs, in Nair Hospital, which is a DCH, will double from 450, although finding manpower was a challenge. "New wards are practically being added daily with bed strengths varying between 30-60," said principal secretary Manisha Mhaiskar. At KEM, Covid-19 beds rose from 30 to 280 in three weeks but the deluge of patients means beds are unavailable. "We sees 30-40 admissions a day in Covid-19 wards, which get filled up in no time," dean Dr Hemant Deshmukh said. At Sion doctors said a new ward is opened everyday but it gets filled up by evening. "We are catering to hotspots such as Dharavi, Mankhurd, Govandi and many of them reach us only in very critical conditions. Sometimes patients come in such a dire condition that there is no time for a bed to open up and we have to start an IV line or give oxygen in the emergency," Dr Pramod Ingale of Sion said. An expert said the city was staring at a major shortage of doctors and nurses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bmc-to-add-1200-beds-as-clips-show-patients-sharing-cot-sitting-on-floor/articleshow/75653235.cms||Sumitra Debroy
May 10, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Visakhapatnam lacks infrastructure to deal with industrial mishaps||VISAKHAPATNAM: Even though there are many industries dealing with hazardous and toxic substances in and around the city, Vizag is not equipped to handle industrial disasters like chemical exposure, burns, accidents, and gas leakages, say medical experts as well as disaster and risk analysts. Located close to the city are a number of petrochemical units like HPCL and East India Petrochemicals, LG Polymers, Coromandel Fertilisers, Hindustan Zinc Limited, apart from RINL-Vizag Steel plant, NTPC-Simhadri thermal unit and Parwada Pharma City in the outskirts. All these industrial units have habitations and villages nearby and mishaps especially fire accidents leading to loss of lives at the steel plant or HPCL are not uncommon. However, the styrene vapour leakage from LG Polymers that caused a dozen deaths and around 500 hospitalisations besides affecting thousands of residents within its three-kilometre radius, has raised doubts about the Port City’s preparedness to handle such industrial disasters. The central government had allotted Rs 12 crore for setting up a burns ward under the National Programme for Prevention and Management of Burn Injuries (NPPMBI) at north coastal AP’s largest tertiary care hospital. However, the project got stalled as the entire civil infrastructure of King George Hospital (KGH) is being revamped. Head of the burns and plastic surgery department at KGH Dr P V Sudhakar said, “As part of disaster management to cater to such unexpected mishaps, a 100-bed set-up needs to be kept ready in KGH and major super-specialty hospitals. Also, most ambulances are partially equipped and lack ALS. In KGH, we have just one such ambulance.” Dr Muralikrishna Voonna, who is the acting president of AP Specialty Hospitals Association, said, “We have no exclusive hospital to deal with chemical burns, injuries due to toxic fumes and chemical substances. Such cases require trained doctors, nurses and paramedics right from reviving the victims on site to bringing them to the hospitals. This trained manpower is missing.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/city-lacks-infra-to-deal-with-industrial-mishaps/articleshow/75651962.cms||Sulogna Mehta
May 10, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Milk procurement from affected areas halted in Visakhapatnam||VISAKHAPATNAM: The Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) and the animal husbandry department have halted milk procurement for now. Procurement will resume only after the condition of milch animals in RR Venkatapuram and other areas affected by the styrene leak is assessed, officials informed on Saturday. Officials of the animal husbandry department said that 930 milch animals— mainly cows and buffaloes— have been identified in the RR Venkatapuram area and the Panchagrama and the department has completely stopped milk procurement from these areas. D Ramakrishna, joint director, agriculture said, “The condition of the animals is being studied. Blood and milk samples have been taken from animals of ward number 66. Moreover, 12 veterinarian teams have been constituted to study the impact of the gas leak on animals.” GVMC sources informed that the samples that have been taken so far have turned out to be safe. But they maintained that no chances would be taken as far as milk supply was concerned. With regard to other livestock, officials said that 22 goats and some sheep have been found outside the radius of the affected area. The LG Polymers plant is situated quite close to the Meghadrigedda reservoir. In summer, many are found fishing at the reservoir, although officials maintain that there’s no authorised fishing community there or any large-scale operation. K Phani Prakash, joint director of in-land fisheries said, “We have issued advisory dissuading locals from indulging in any fishing from the reservoir.” He added that GVMC has already halted drinking water supply from the reservoir. “Water pumping from Meghadrigedda has stopped and a large team of veterinarians are studying the health of animals. We are also taking stock of complaints from the public,” KSLG Sastry , GVMC medical officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/milk-procurement-from-affected-areas-halted/articleshow/75651974.cms||Venkatesh Bayya
May 10, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Committee meets today to take call on safety audit||Visakhapatnam: A high-power committee is likely to hold a meet in the city on Sunday to take a decision on the safety audit of industries and issues related to the gas leak incident, which claimed 12 lives on May 7. According to sources in departments concerned such as fire and pollution control board, the north coastal Andhra Pradesh has 45 industries, which come under the ‘dangerous’ category. All of them — related to gas, chemical and pharma — are part of the 86 industries, which the government will audit before allowing them to reopen. Visakhapatnam district has 20 industries, neighbouring Srikakulam has five and East Godavari has 21 industries. There is no such industry in Vizianagaram district, according to the official sources. Sources also revealed that almost all the industries are located close to human habitations. Nearly 70% of the industries are located within less than 50 kilometers radius of the core city. For instance, four industries are located in Pydibheemavaram, a residential area in Srikakulam district. Speaking to TOI, a senior fire official said although the state industries minister Mekapati Goutham Reddy has announced that a safety audit of 86 industries in response to the styrene leak incident, no official government order has come in till Saturday. A senior pollution control board official said that usually major and mega industries periodically take care of the NOCs from the different departments. Meanwhile, a pollution control board official said, “We have got special instructions from the central pollution control board regarding the fire safety issue in the state apart from the state government’s interest in the safety audit.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/committee-meets-today-to-take-call-on-safety-audit/articleshow/75651983.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
May 10, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra: ST buses allowed to pick up stranded people from roads||MUMBAI: The proposal to allow free travel by ST buses was cleared by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Saturday. When asked about the delay, transport minister Anil Parab said, "There were some concerns raised by districts in green zone about outbound migrants from red zone areas." Travel in and out of containment zones will not be allowed, though. Free travel will only be permitted till May 17, when the current lockdown is expected to end. Those within the state or locals who are at the state's borders and want to travel to other districts within the state can apply for the free ST service. Migrants, workers, students, tourists and others can avail of the free service. While the buses will carry a pre-approved set of passengers, the government resolution has an unexpected clause. It says if an ST driver notices stranded people walking on the road and they are headed in the same direction as the bus, he can take them in if there are seats available. The driver and conductor will have to make a separate list of the new travellers and give it to the depot manager. The buses will only halt at depots for toilet facilities and carry a maximum of 22 passengers, said MSRTC MD Shekhar Channe. The web portal for the service will become operational on Monday and individuals and groups can apply on it after seeking permission from the police commissioner or the collector. Meanwhile, officials said West Bengal and Karnataka were still not receiving migrants from the state. Trains to Odisha resumed after the Supreme Court struck down a high court order demanding a Covid-negative test from passengers. "Gujarat and Rajasthan have said that applications for travel to their state have to be made on their portal," said a senior official. A total of 40 trains have left the state so far, with 44,323 passengers. On Saturday, one train left from Amravati for Lucknow, one from Mumbai for Basti and three for Gonda. One train left Thane for Barauni in Bihar. Also, two trains ran from Pandharpur for Tamil Nadu and one from Panvel for Odisha. Sources say many of the workers who are trying to walk home hail from Mumbai, Thane and Kalyan. (With inputs from Somit Sen)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maharashtra-st-buses-allowed-to-pick-up-stranded-people-from-roads/articleshow/75653241.cms||Priyanka Kakodkar
May 10, 2020||Ludhiana||Three new coronavirus positive cases reported in Ludhiana: Deputy commissioner||LUDHIANA: Ludhiana deputy commissioner Pradeep Kumar Agrawal has informed that three new coronavirus positive cases have reported in Ludhiana in last 24 hours. He said that a total of 3,946 samples have been taken in the district till Saturday, out of which reports of 3,578 samples have been received and results of 368 samples are awaited. He informed that 126 cases belong to Ludhiana district, while 22 from other districts are out of total positive cases. He informed that a total of 10 patients have been declared cured and at present six deaths have been reported in the district. The deputy commissioner informed that out of three positive patients on Saturday, two persons are personnel of Railway Police Force (RPF) and belong to Delhi, while the third is a 17-year-old girl, who is a resident of Haibowal area of the city. He said that a 56-year-old person, a resident of village Manuke near Jagraon, passed away on Saturday. This person had returned from Nanded and was undergoing treatment at Civil Hospital, Ludhiana. Civil Surgeon Dr Rajesh Kumar Bagga said that it is suspected that the deceased passed away due to heart attack. The deputy commissioner said that every employee of the district administration is working 24X7 to check the spread of Covid-19 in the state, and the situation is completely under control. He urged the residents to stay indoors and follow all directions of the Punjab government if they want to fight Covid-19 pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/three-new-coronavirus-positive-cases-reported-in-ludhiana-deputy-commissioner/articleshow/75653245.cms||Shariq Majeed
May 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Vande Bharat: First flight with 163 lands in Hyderabad from Kuwait||HYDERABAD: The first flight to Hyderabad, organised as part of the Vande Bharat Mission, landed at the city’s Rajiv Gandhi International Airport from Kuwait, late on Saturday night. The A320 Air India aircraft, AI 988, that departed at 3.26pm (local time) from Kuwait with 163 passengers on board, touched down at the city facility around 10.30pm (IST). From there, the passengers were ferried to quarantine centres identified by the government. “About six or seven star hotels in various parts of the city have been turned into quarantine centres, where stranded passengers, being brought to Hyderabad from various countries, will be kept for 14 days,” said an official. “The passengers are being provided this facility at a nominal rate.” Those unable to pay for the hotels, were accommodated in government hospitals for free. “Though there are three categories of paid quarantine, the least of them of Rs 5,000 has been removed, and instead free quarantine has been assured for workers arriving from the Gulf depending on their financial status. Workers from Kuwait have been made eligible for that,” Emigrants Welfare Forum president Mandha Bheem Reddy told TOI. Airport sources said all safety precautions were adhered to while facilitating the movement of passengers. “All arriving passengers and aircraft crew were escorted out of the aircraft in batches of 20 to 25 people. Each passenger was screened by thermal cameras positioned at the aerobridge exit by airport health officials as per the directives of the Ministry of Health & Family Welfare prior to immigration formalities. The entire airport was sanitised, including the conveyor belt and trolleys. Social distancing was maintained at every step,” a source said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/vande-bharat-first-flight-with-163-lands-in-hyderabad-from-kuwait/articleshow/75653242.cms||Sudipta Sengupta
May 10, 2020||Chandigarh||Narco-terrorist with K-group links among 3 arrested in Sirsa||CHANDIGARH: Three people, including two brothers running a narco terrorism network linked to Hizbul Mujahideen commander Naikoo, who was killed by security forces in Kashmir recently, were on Saturday arrested in a joint operation conducted by Haryana Police, National Investigation Agency (NIA) and Punjab Police. The third person was arrested from Begu village in Sirsa district. Deputy inspector general of police (DIG) Dr Arun Singh, who also holds charge of SP Sirsa said on Saturday that the arrested accused have been identified as dreaded smuggler Ranjit Singh alias Cheeta, his brother Gagandeep alias Gagan, both residents of Punjab and Gagan's relative Gurmeet Singh of Begu village, Sirsa. Police recovered 1.2 kg poppy husk from Gurmeet's possession. Ranjit, who is wanted in 10 criminal cases, was one of the key links in the network engaged in smuggling of drugs and illegal weapons from across the border. Ranjit Singh and his brother Gagan were arrested in connection with FIR No. 18 of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act registered in Amritsar, in which 532 kg heroin was recovered. Smuggler tried to grab an axe, but overpowered, says Punjab DGPThe case is being investigated by NIA. The second FIR was registered for providing financial aid to terrorist outfit. Sharing the details of the operations, Punjab DGP Dinkar Gupta said he shared a tip off about the duo with his Haryana counterpart Manoj Yadav, following which coordination was established by CP Amritsar with SP Sirsa. A team of Amritsar police reached Sirsa and an outer cordon of the area was laid jointly by Haryana police and Punjab police. Raids were conducted by teams at two locations and both the accused were nabbed from the second location. Ranjit, who opened the door tried to grab an axe lying close to his bed but was over powered by the raiding team. His brother Gagandeep Singh was sleeping in the other room and was arrested from there. Ranjit Singh alias Cheeta and Gagan were found to have links with the Hizbul Mujahideen and were involved in terror funding, which is being intensively investigated. Ten criminal cases were also registered against them in Punjab. Ranjit Singh alias Cheeta and Gagan have been handed over to the NIA and Punjab Police, while Gurmeet, a resident of Vaidwala village, has been arrested by the Sirsa police. Gurmeet helped in providing accommodation to the other two accused in Begu village. A case has been registered in this connection and strict action will be taken against anyone found to be involved.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/narco-terrorist-with-k-group-links-among-3-arrested-in-sirsa/articleshow/75653262.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Mumbai||Three cops hurt after south Mumbai man's chopper attack at Marive Drive||MUMBAI: A 27-year-old man attacked three policemen with a chopper near Marine Drive early on Saturday. Karan Pradip Nayar, a resident of Silver Oaks Estate near Breach Candy, was arrested. Sub inspectors Jitendra Kadam and Sachin Shelke, and head constable Sagar Shelke, were injured on their hands and shoulders. Marine Drive policemen on nakabandi duty saw Nayar walking towards them with an open chopper around 1.30am, near the Pransukhlal Mafatlal Hindu Swimming Bath and Boat Club. They tried to stop him. Nayar started running, they chased him. They tried to unarm him, and he attacked them with the chopper. Nayar is an unemployed architecture graduate, said the police. Prima facie, Nayar had a heated argument with his mother and left the house with the chopper, saying he was going to kill someone, added the police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/three-cops-hurt-after-south-mumbai-mans-chopper-attack-at-marive-drive/articleshow/75653264.cms||Ahmed Ali
May 10, 2020||India||Odisha, Goa go for 12-hr workdays, Karnataka may ease labour norms too||Odisha and Goa relaxed labour laws under the Factories Act of 1948 on Friday and approved 12-hour daily work shifts — four hours more than the current 8 hours — for three months due to the novel coronavirus pandemic. Both states said the workers would be paid overtime for the extra hours. Karnataka, too, was planning to do so and said it would work with industry associations and workers’ unions to arrive at amicable solutions on the number of working hours and wage arrears. But workers’ unions in the state, like AICCTU and Intuc, said if it relaxed labour norms, they would challenge the decision in the Supreme Court. The move, which means workers can be asked legally to work four extra hours every day, came after representations from industry bodies and employers’ unions for longer work hours to make up for lost production and restart the economy. Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Gujarat had already extended daily working hours in the past two days. Faced with a shortage of workers because of the exodus of migrant workers, Maharashtra’s labour department, in a notification on Wednesday, eased restrictions on the number of working hours till the end of next month. The ceiling on working hours has been relaxed to 12 hours from eight, subject to the condition that workers are paid double for the extra hours as well as a weekly limit of 60 hours and a stipulation that they cannot be allowed to work all seven days. The CPM-affiliated Centre of Indian Trade Unions has opposed the move, saying the right to work only eight hours was obtained 130 years ago after a long struggle. Citu’s D L Karad said past experiences show that in small and medium enterprises labourers are never paid double for extra hours. Citu said it will approach the courts. “No worker shall be allowed or required to work in a factory more than 12 hours in any day and 72 hours in any week,” an official notification by the Odisha Labour and Employees’ State Insurance Department said. It added that no worker would work for more than six hours before a half-hour rest. The Goa government relaxed some provisions of the Factories Act and extended working hours in factories to 12 hours till July-end.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/odisha-goa-go-for-12-hr-workdays-karnataka-may-ease-labour-norms-too/articleshow/75653258.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Lucknow||Soon in UP: MSME can start first, take NOC within 3 years||LUCKNOW: Generation of employment and attracting foreign investment are the two mainstays of UP government’s decision to suspend a majority of its labour laws for the next three years. The move, said an official, would have a huge impact for MSMEs and given them the required push to recover from the economic slowdown due to the Covid-19 lockdown. Principal Secretary, MSME, Navneet Sehgal said that in order to attract foreign investment especially, the state needed to have a competitive environment visa-vis countries like Taiwan, Thailand and Bangladesh. “The state is looking to generate employment while ensuring rights for workers. The changed laws will be applicable to either new industries or new recruitments in existing industries. It is necessary to encourage more MSMEs to set up and we are also planning changes in the MSME Act. Under that, a new unit may not have to take any clearances while setting up, up to three years and will be allowed to collect all NOCs and permissions during that time,” he said. An official said that the new laws would ensure that upcoming units and industries would not hesitate in hiring people. Rules applicable for 1,000 daysWe have not diluted laws related to the minimum pay of Rs 15,000 per month and working hours. In other laws, we have given relief for three years and they will be applicable on new recruitments in old firms and new industries,” he said. The government has clarified that the rules are applicable for 1,000 days to industries engaged in manufacturing and production, but with certain conditions. These include registration of names and details of workers electronically in attendance register as per section 62 of the Factory Act, 1948. Besides, no worker will be paid less than the minimum wages and workers will be paid within a fixed time period. Their dues will be deposited in their bank accounts. Act number 63 of Factories Act, 1948 pertaining to safety of factory and Building and Other Construction Workers (Regulation of Employment and Conditions of Service) Act, 1996 will remain in play, as will the Bonded Labour Act. Laws pertaining to employment of women and children will also continue to be followed. The government has further clarified that no worker will be allowed to work for more than 11hours a day and more than 72 hours a week. Shifts should be organised in such a way that breaks are not more than six hours and in case of death or disability during an accident at work, compensation will be paid as per section 8 of the Workers Compensation Act, 1923 section.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/soon-in-up-msme-can-start-first-take-noc-within-3-years/articleshow/75653263.cms||Neha Lalchandani
May 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Next batch of train passes to be issued after rush clears, say cops||HYDERABAD: The wait to return home might just get longer for lakhs of migrant workers from Telangana, with the city police putting the brakes on travel registrations, at some of its centres in Hyderabad. Senior officials said that the move is temporary and travel will be resumed once the existing batch of pass holders board their trains. According to the police, over two lakh migrants have registered for train passes from Hyderabad so far. However, only a limited number of trains have been made available to accommodate them. “Lakhs of migrant workers have already registered for travel passes. But in some cases, their home states have not responded to the request. Only a limited number of trains are running at the moment. So, fresh registrations will only increase their waiting period,” a senior official told TOI, adding, “Now that the construction activity in the state has resumed, we are trying to encourage the labourers to find work here till some arrangement is made for their return.” The migrant workers, with travel passes, will be sent home in a phased manner, the official said. But the police’s decision has added to the anxiety of many workers, who have been making the rounds of police stations for days. “We went to the registration centre in Gachibowli area on Saturday, but the officials said that the process has been stopped. They said that it would take at least a couple of weeks before the registration process resumes,” said Abdul Raheeq, a migrant worker from Malda district of West Bengal, staying at Financial District. “Migrant workers are very anxious and there is overcrowding at police stations...but we can begin the second phase of registration only once the rush (of those issued train passes) is cleared,” said another top police official claiming that the enrollment process for passes has been stopped, at certain centres, since Friday. “We will soon decide when the registration process will resume and inform people,” the the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hyderabad-next-batch-of-train-passes-to-be-issued-after-rush-clears-say-cops/articleshow/75653266.cms||Aditi Mallick
May 10, 2020||Nagpur||First Covid-19 death during treatment in Amravati||NAGPUR: The Covid-19 toll in Amravati reached 12 after a 53-year-old man, who had tested positive on May 8, died on Saturday morning. He became the first from Amravati to die during treatment in the isolation ward at Covid hospital here. Except Amravati, all red zone districts in Vidarbha recorded positive cases on Saturday. Nagpur recorded highest 13 cases, followed by Akola (10) and Yavatmal and Washim (1 each). With this, total Covid-19 cases in Vidarbha reached 633. The day also marked a significant surge in the number of recovered patients. In Nagpur, 14 patients with Satranjipura connection were discharged, Yavatmal (4) and Amravati and Akola (1 each), taking total number of discharged patients from Vidarbha to 138. This means, about 22% patients in the region have recovered and discharged. The deceased from Amravati was a resident of Pinjara Galli in Patwapura locality of Masanganj ward. AMC team sanitized the entire locality which has been declared as a containment zone. Six members of the deceased’s family have been sent into institutional quarantine. The district now has 60 active patients while five have recovered and one has been referred to GMCH, Nagpur. Most of the positive cases recorded in Nagpur on Saturday have Mominpura connection. Of these, two patients suffering from Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI) were admitted to the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH). One of them is a 24-year-old youth from Parvati Nagar and another is a 51-year-old man — the first case from Jawahar Nagar in Manewada. After 42 patients on Friday, Akola recorded 10 new cases on Saturday, taking the total cases from the district to 147. One of them is a 26-year-old woman from Khangan plot area. She had delivered a baby earlier this week at a women’s hospital in the city. After delivery, she developed symptoms of Covid-19. She is admitted to the government hospital. Now, authorities will be checking medical staff and doctors of the women’s hospital. In Washim, a truck driver from UP was tested positive on Saturday. The cleaner of this truck had died of Covid-19 in Washim on May 2. The driver was quarantined in district hospital. Washim, which is in the green zone, now has a new patient. But, this patient has no local connection. A 75-year-old woman from the containment area of Indira Nagar tested positive in Yavatmal. She was already under institutional quarantine. Now, Yavatmal has recorded total 95 cases. However, 14 patients have been discharged so far, making it 81 active cases in Yavatmal. The civil surgeon told TOI that her team has traced the two missing close contacts of the positive patient from Ner. Now, a total of 14, including the three tested positive from Wali Saheb Nagar of Ner municipal council limit, are in the isolation ward. Twenty Tablighis lodged in the isolation ward were discharged but they are detained in institutional quarantine because their respective states are yet to approve their return. District collector MD Singh has decided to carry out a door-to-door survey in Yavatmal city and Ner MC limit from May 12 to 15. No Covid-19 positive patient was detected in Chandrapur on Saturday. The only patient in the district so far was detected on May 2. Health department sources informed that the condition of the patient, who was shifted to Nagpur for treatment, is stable. Administration has prepared a list of 89 contact persons. Out of 57 samples sent for testing, 49 tested negative. Report of eight samples is awaited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/first-covid-19-death-during-treatment-in-amravati/articleshow/75652828.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Lucknow||UP sets 11-point agenda to draw roadmap for economic recovery||LUCKNOW: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath has set an 11-point agenda for drawing up a roadmap for economic revival of the state. The details of the agenda were finalised after a high-powered meeting chaired by the CM on May 4. Seven of these agenda are to be taken care of by bureaucrats and four by ministers. The May 4 meeting reviewed the progress in the MoUs signed during the investment summit and two ground-breaking ceremonies last year and set deadlines for their time-bound implementation in view of the changed circumstances due to coronavirus spread. The four different agenda to be monitored by ministers with the additional chief secretaries and principal secretaries of their department are 1. Progress in the pending cases related to the applications / MOUs singed during the UP Investment Summit,2. Holding loan melas by the MSME minister and department's principal secretary, 3. Reviewing policies regarding investment in the changed circumstances and 4. Rationalising the policies on incentives and concessions regarding investments. Plan to survey unorganised sector of UPThe seven agenda where bureaucrats have a leading role are 1. Setting up facilitation committee for foreign desk by the principal secretary to the CM; 2. public-private partnership identification of locations and size across all cities with integrated facilities to be looked after by the economic advisor; 3. action plan for survey of the unorganised sector under principal secretary, MSME 4. Submission of monthly report on all committees by the principal secretary to the CM; 5. setting up a high-level committee for the rationalisation of human resources under principal secretary to CM; 6. issuing combined RFP to select a transaction advisor in consultation with respective departments for pharma parks, textiles and apparel parks, agro processing by principal secretary MSME ; 7. work for nazul policy and FAR amendments by the principal secretary, industry and the principal secretary housing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-sets-11-point-agenda-to-draw-roadmap-for-economic-recovery/articleshow/75653274.cms||Subhash Mishra
May 10, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: New civic chief checks scene at Nair hospital, Dharavi, warns of surprise visits||MUMBAI: After taking charge as municipal commissioner amid the Covid-19 pandemic, IAS officer Iqbal Singh Chahal on Saturday hit the ground, visiting BYL Nair Hospital in Mumbai Central and later proceeding to Dharavi, where he took stock of the increasing patients in Asia's largest slum pocket. Chahal, a 1989 batch IAS officer, took charge around 9.30pm on Friday. Praveen Pardeshi, who he replaced, did not visit the civic headquarters to officially hand over charge to him. After reaching the civic headquarters on Saturday, Chahal and a team of civic officials, including additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani, who is in-charge of the health department, visited Nair hospital. "There, the commissioner and doctors donned personal protection equipment (PPE) and interacted with patients regarding services there. The food the patients are being served was checked," said a civic official. The official added that he was later given a presentation regarding the Covid-19 situation at the hospital, which has 531 beds for patients. "Discussions were held on how infrastructure could be upgraded. The administration is trying to double bed capacity at Nair hospital," the official said. Chahal then visited G north ward office, under which Dharavi falls, and took an update on the increasing Covid-19 patients in the area. Dharavi has reported 833 positive cases. Along with a team from the ward office, he proceeded to Dharavi to take stock of the situation on the ground, especially if the lockdown was being followed, more so in containment zones. He interacted with doctors from private clinics and told them to immediately shift patients to institutional quarantine facilities if they noticed coronavirus-like symptoms. At Dharavi, he also visited institutional quarantine centres and checked if community toilets were being sanitized regularly. In the evening, he told ward officers to work on the ground and ensure that patients are directed to the right facilities. This came following many complaints of hospital beds not being available. He also said he would undertake surprise visits to various areas and told ward officials to stay alert. Meanwhile, two IAS officers took charge as additional municipal commissioners on Saturday. Former Thane municipal chief Sanjeev Jaiswal replaced A L Jarhad and former Mumbai Metro chief Ashwini Bhide replaced Jayashree Bhoj, who had taken charge only in February.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-new-civic-chief-checks-scene-at-nair-hospital-dharavi-warns-of-suprise-visits/articleshow/75653275.cms||Richa Pinto
May 10, 2020||Kolkata||Logistics of arbitration need to be cut down: SC judge||Kolkata: Alternative dispute-resolution mechanisms, like arbitration, need to be migrated online to cut down cost of logistics and a robust mechanism needs to evolve which requires in-person hearing by courts were some measures suggested by Supreme Court judge Justice Indu Malhotra while speaking at a webinar organised by CII and AQUILAW on Saturday on legal compliance and business continuity during Covid-19. Justice Malhotra said the cost involved in some arbitration proceedings is huge and needs to be cut to be made more effective. She also said court proceedings cannot be put on hold indefinitely. Constitutional law expert and MP A M Singhvi argued that invoking the ‘force majeure’ clause to insulate parties from contractual obligations and paying penalties for failing to meet contract deadlines may have a higher legal threshold in India than in many countries. He said legal jurisprudence in India on this issue, which has evolved in four Supreme Court judgments from 1954 to 2017, has highlighted the “temporariness” of this clause. Business disruptions due to Covid-19 have led to apprehensions that many companies in India will invoke ‘force majeure’ clauses in their contracts to insulate themselves from litigation for failing to meet obligations due to the lockdown. Industrialist Harsh Neotia, in his opening remarks, highlighted how certain labour-intensive sectors had come to a grinding halt. AQUILAW partner Sucharita Basu, while moderating the discussion, stressed the need to understand how other countries are dealing with these legal posers. Justice Malhotra, while highlighting the steps taken by the Supreme Court in easing the legalities to enable online migration of hearings, mentioned that the court had sought responses from all stakeholders on a PIL by a home-buyer requesting that the interest component be included in the three-month loan repayment moratorium guidelines issued by RBI. She also stressed better, shorter and effective pleadings online as against over-speaking during legal arguments, which may add to confusion in the online domain.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/logistics-of-arbitration-need-to-be-cut-down-sc-judge/articleshow/75653045.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Locked-down kitchen irregulars cooking up a storm... of injuries||KOLKATA: A lot of kitchen irregulars have taken up cooking with gusto during the lockdown, either because they have no choice or to keep themselves fruitfully engaged. The results have shown, inside Kolkata’s burn clinics if not on the dining table. Last week, Sanchari Das, a doctor, suffered burns in her left hand while cooking. She has a domestic help and her busy schedule hardly all-ows her the time to cook, which has made her kitchen skills rusty. “I burnt my hand when the hot oil spilt as I was frying fish,” she said. “I immediately called one of my friends, a dermatologist, after taking initial precautions. Now I am using some ointments that she prescribed.” Varsha Gupta, an auditor with an MNC, was left with a scalded finger trying to make rotis. “My mother always cooks in my house with the help of my domestic help. But none of the helps have been coming since March 24. So, I was trying to help my mother make rotis and accidentally touched the hot tawa,” she added. Gupta had a videoconference with a dermatologist and has been using medicines on her injuries. She has stopped venturing into her kitchen. Oindrilla Acharjee, a lecturer at St Joseph College, suffered burns on her palm while rustling up a dish earlier this week. She has also got rashes from washing utensils. “My domestic has not been coming since March 24. I am having to cook twice a day, apart from the clean-up after. I am not habituated to doing housework on a regular basis,” she told TOI. Doctors in Kolkata are having to deal with hundreds of such calls each day. Dermatologist Prerna Raj pointed out that there is an increased chance of burns and “blisters with post-burn hyperpigmentation” when an occasional cook attempts the job. She advised the use of cooking gloves. Another dermatologist, Sachin Verma, said occasional cooks should use use utensils with longer handles to avoid oil spills. Skin irritations and fungal infections, triggered by cleaning utensils, are also on the rise. Aparajita Das, an IT professional from south Kolkata, has been forced to try her hand at cooking and cleaning utensils. She has also been mopping the floors for more than a month now. Das hardly did any cooking in the last few years and never cleaned the dishes. “I have now got a skin irritation and an allergy in my hands and palms, for which I am consulting dermatologists. We have domestic helps for housework, which I am having to do now. I hardly get any time to cook, nor am I particularly interested in it. But now I have no option,” she said. To avoid skin rashes, Verma advises using moisturisers and recommended liquid dishwashing soap, rather than bar soaps. “Most of those I’ve been getting calls from are not used to cooking and cleaning. Some are allergic to utensil cleaning soaps and have never used them,” he said. Dermatologist Swagata Das said: “Utensil-cleaning soaps are harder than normal ones, so those not used to them may develop skin irritations.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/locked-down-kitchen-irregulars-cooking-up-a-storm-of-injuries/articleshow/75653063.cms||Udit Mukherjee
May 10, 2020||Kolkata||Amit Shah-Bengal in war of words over migrants’ return||Kolkata: Union home minister Amit Shah has accused the Bengal government of not allowing migrants working in other states to return home, prompting the Trinamool Congress to charge him with “trying to spread lies”. Shah wrote to Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee, complaining that the Centre was not getting “expected support” from the state government over getting migrant workers back to their Bengal homes. “This is injustice (for) migrant labourers and will create further hardship for them,” Shah wrote. Trinamool responded through its seniors, with Rajya Sabha leader Derek O’Brien accusing Shah of trying to spread lies. “Retract or apologise. It is part of the home minister’s DNA to play politics during a national epidemic. Sleep if nothing else,” O’Brien said, citing letters written by Bengal chief secretary Rajiva Sinha from May 3 to May 7 to other states for arranging migrant workers’ return. Trinamool MP Abhishek Banerjee added in a tweet: “A home minister failing to discharge his duties during the crisis speaks after weeks of silence, only to mislead people with a bundle of lies!” He added, in a nod to the death of 16 migrants sleeping on railway tracks in Maharashtra’s Aurangabad: “Ironically, he’s talking about the very people who have been literally left to fate by his own government.” The Bengal government on Friday announced eight special trains for bringing back more than 31,000 workers from Punjab, Tamil Nadu, Telangana and Karnataka. Shah’s letter mentioned that the Centre had “facilitated” the homeward journey of more than 2 lakh migrants. “But the state government is not allowing trains to enter Bengal,” he added. The Trinamool leadership responded politically, even as seniors in the Bengal government laid out the state’s plans to get migrants home from other states. “We have already arranged special trains to bring migrants back. One such train will be reaching Malda on Sunday. The state also plans to help Bengal pilgrims stranded in Mathura, Varanasi and Vrindavan return home,” state home secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay said. “Our chief secretary (Sinha) is in constant dialogue with counterparts in other states to expedite the process,” Bandyopadhyay said, adding that the state government had already brought back thousands of migrants from Bihar, Jharkhand, Odisha and Sikkim. The state government, he said, had also agreed to help in bringing back people from Bengal now stranded abroad. “The chief secretary has informed the Centre that we have a standard operating procedure for institutional quarantine in place to take care of of these people,” Bandyopadhyay said. Bandyopadhyay also elaborated on exit-entry e-approvals for people using road transport. “We have approved 6,000 e-applications for people seeking to come back to Bengal in small vehicles and 700 more applications for people returning by bus. We have cleared more than 19,000 e-applications for those seeking to leave Bengal,” the state home secretary said. The railways on Saturday night said it had received “clearance” from Bengal for running eight special trains to the state to ferry people stranded outside due to the lockdown, reports PTI. A senior railway official said three trains from Karnataka, two each from Punjab and Tamil Nadu, and one from Telangana will take stranded people to Bengal over the next few days. Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh, however, felt the state government should have done more. “It should have requisitioned more trains to bring back migrant workers stranded in other states. The state government should also arrange for their food and shelter if they are forced to stay back there. The state BJP will arrange for food if the government does not do anything,” he said. Congress Lok Sabha leader Adhir Chowdhury and CPM leader Mohammad Selim criticised both the state and the Centre for failing to tackle the migrants issue. “The state should have requisitioned more trains from Kerala and other parts of south India. Thousands of migrants keep sending me SOSes,” Chowdhury said. Selim felt the Centre had washed its hands of the issue by just “sending letters” and blamed the state government for “PDS corruption”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/amit-shah-bengal-in-war-of-words-over-migrants-return/articleshow/75653059.cms||---
May 10, 2020||Kolkata||Alert railway driver saves 20 migrants||Nalhati (Birbhum): A group of around 20 migrant labourers walking along the railway tracks in Nalhati had a close shave late on Friday, when the driver of an inspection van luckily spotted them and braked just in time, avoiding an Aurangabad-like accident. On Friday morning, 16 tired migrant labourers who had dozed off on a railway track after walking nearly 36km were run over by a goods train near Aurangabad. Bengal’s group of 20 were a part of a team of around 45 farm labourers who had left Burdwan on Wednesday for their homes in Jharkhand and Malda. They had split thems-elves up into groups, with each group reaching Birbhum’s Tarapith on Friday morning by hitching rides with goods vehicles. Once in Tarapith, they realised they had no option but to walk, as no more goods carriers could be seen on the road. They started walking along the railway tracks and reached Nalhati around 9pm. It was at 9.30pm — when 20 of them were walking along the tracks on a bridge over the river Bramhani — that the driver of an inspection van, approaching from the opposite direction, spotted them and applied the emergency brakes. The van screeched to a halt a few feet from the group. A GRP team later led the workers away. “They have been kept in a shelter at the BDO office, and have been provided with food and other amenities,” said Jagdish Chandra Barui, BDO of Nalhati I block. “Vehicles are being arranged to send them home.” All 20 of them were medically examined at the BDO office. Railway officials were unavailable for comment. “We had set out from Burdwan two days ago,” said Sukal Muddy of Jharkhand, who was one of the lucky ones. “We chose to walk along the tracks from Tarapith and reached Nalhati around 9pm. We were headed for Baroora in Jharkhand.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/alert-railway-driver-saves-20-migrants/articleshow/75653062.cms||Someswar Boral
May 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Birthday party trigger for 45 coronavirus cases in LB Nagar||HYDERABAD: A birthday party thrown by a shop owner was the trigger for 45 Covid-19 positive cases and 15 new containment clusters in LB Nagar, which is now a hotspot for novel coronavirus in Hyderabad. The virus spread soon after the shop owner, who stays in Saroornagar, threw the party for his friend in Vanasthalipuram. Those who took part in the party contracted the virus from the shop owner, who himself was infected from a worker in Malakpet Gunj where he has the shop. From just two containment clusters some time ago, the number of clusters in LB Nagar had gone up to 15 on Saturday. Among the 45 positive cases, 25 cases pertain to the families of the two shop owners, confirmed a GHMC official. “Both the shop owners contracted the virus from workers at Malakpet Gunj. Both of them are family friends and visit each other’s houses. Some of their family members had fever and soon, the virus spread to the rest of the families after the birthday party,” a GHMC official told STOI. On Saturday, GHMC commissioner DS Lokesh Kumar visited LB Nagar to take stock of the situation. Sodium hypochlorite solution was sprayed in Vanasthalipuram as well as in Saroornagar in the afternoon, while officials began looking out for the primary contacts of the positive cases. “Those who have tested positive have been sent to hospital. Probe is under way to identify the primary contacts,” said a GHMC official. Though GHMC had decided earlier decided that home quarantine would be enough instead of isolating the entire locality, officials barricaded the area. “We had to declare the containment cluster in the locality following the new Covid-19 cases in LB Nagar,” the official said. Both friends have shops in Malakpet Gunj, a wholesale market. While one stays in Saroornagar, the other resides in Vanasthalipuram. Both the areas fall under GHMC LB Nagar zone. There were 57 positive cases in LB Nagar, out of which seven persons have recovered and five had succumbed to the virus. “All the 57 cases in LB Nagar have not been reported in a single day. When we started testing the primary contacts of the two shop owners, the new positive cases were detected,” said a senior GHMC official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hyderabad-birthday-party-trigger-for-45-coronavirus-cases-in-lb-nagar/articleshow/75653291.cms||Nabinder Bommala
