May 11, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: 35 of 50 new Covid-19 cases from Rayalaseema districts||TIRUPATI: Out of the 50 new Covid-19 cases and one death reported in the state, Rayalaseema districts accounted for 35 of the overall cases and the lone Covid-19 death reported in the last 24 hours. With 16 new cases reported in the last 24 hours, Chittoor district topped Andhra Pradesh’s Covid-19 tally, followed by Kurnool district with 13 cases, Anantapur district with five cases and Kadapa district with one case. The lone Covid-19 death reported in the last 24 hours was from Kurnool district. The number of cases in the district have crossed the century mark and now stand at 112. Chittoor district collector Dr Narayana Bharat Gupta, who held a review with officials at the district collectorate on Sunday, directed officials to strengthen vigil at the inter-state borders, in the wake of a spike of cases linked to Chennai in the district. “Revenue, police, and medical departments have to maintain round the clock vigil at inter-state check-posts and ensure proper Covid-19 screening is carried out,” the disrect collector said. Expressing concern that the Covid cases linked to Koyambedu market were going up in the district in the last 72 hours, Dr Narayana Bharat Gupta underlined that the district machinery had intensified sample collections at V Kota, Piler, Punganur, Satyavedu and other parts of the district. Officials said that of the 250-odd persons with links to the Koyambedu market in Chennai, 26 tested positive in the district so far, while test results of others are awaited. Meanwhile, with 13 new cases reported in the district, the overall number of Covid-19 cases went up to 566 in Kurnool district on Sunday. The death toll also went up to 16.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/andhra-pradesh-35-of-50-new-covid-19-cases-from-rayalaseema-districts/articleshow/75665001.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
May 11, 2020||World||UK extends virus lockdown until at least June 1: PM||LONDON: Britain's coronavirus lockdown will stay in place until at least June 1, UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson said on Sunday, as he unveiled cautious plans to lift restrictions imposed seven weeks ago. "This is not the time simply to end the lockdown this week," he said in a televised address but added that some primary school children could return and shops re-open from June 1. Johnson said some public places could re-open from July 1 but warned air passengers travelling to Britain faced quarantine measures. The government has come under pressure to outline its exit strategy from the lockdown. Britain has seen nearly 32,000 deaths in the outbreak -- the second-worst cumulative death toll behind the United States, and the worst in Europe. But despite passing the peak of the outbreak, Johnson said it would be "madness" to waste the sacrifices the public had made since the lockdown. Further details of what he stressed was a "conditional plan" would be outlined in Parliament on Monday, he said. It centres around a five-phase Covid Alert Level similar to the system in place for security threats, with one the lowest and five the highest. Johnson said Britain had been at level four throughout the outbreak and "careful steps" were needed to move to level three, even as transmission rates varied around the country. As a first step, the new guidelines again urge people who can to work from home but those who cannot to maintain social distancing and avoid public transport. Johnson said there would be some easing of restrictions from Wednesday, allowing "unlimited exercise", sport and sunbathing, but only within households. "In step two, at the earliest by June 1, after half-term, we believe we may be in a position to begin the phased reopening of shops and to get primary pupils back into school, in stages, beginning with reception (age four to five), year one (age five to six) and year six (10-11)," he added. In step three, "at the earliest by July, we will hope to reopen at least some of the hospitality industry and other public places, provided they are safe and enforce social distancing", he added. Johnson indicated restrictions could be reimposed, including locally, if there is a surge in cases. "We have been through the initial peak but it is coming down the mountain that is often more dangerous," he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/uk/uk-extends-virus-lockdown-until-at-least-june-1-pm/articleshow/75665195.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Gurgaon||Haryana: 32 shops fined for not following lockdown guidelines in Yamunanagar||YAMUNANAGAR: In a surprise inspection, the teams of Yamunanagar municipal corporation (MC) teams have fined 32 shops and also sealed one bakery shop for failing to follow Covid-19 lockdown related guidelines issued by the district administration on Saturday. In Yamunanagar, the shops are allowed to open from 8am to 4pm as per odd-even formula and the MC officials were receiving complaints that a number of shopkeepers are flouting the norms laid by the administration. However, the liquor vends are allowed to open from 7am to 7pm. On Saturday morning, the MC teams accompanied by the district police under the leadership of chief sanitary inspector (CSI) Anil Nain started checking whether the shopkeepers in different market areas are following the odd-even formula or not. As per the information, most of these fines have been issued for not following the odd-even formula and some other violations of the district administration orders. The teams sealed Shankar Bakery on Railway Road, and also fined wholesalers of salt and rice on Radaur Road for failing to follow the odd-even formula. The chief sanitary inspector said, 32 shopkeepers have been fined Rs 15,500 and this checking will continue in the coming days. Officials told when the teams raided the shops, shopkeepers were also found without masks, not keeping hand sanitisers, working with more manpower than allowed, not marking social distancing circles, and flouting social distancing in their workplaces. As per officials, the checking was conducted in the areas including Railway Road, Workshop Road, Model Town, Aajad Nagar, Rampura, Farakpur, Jagadhri Camp, Buria Chowk, Khera Bazaar, Indira Market, and many other market places of Yamunanagar MC. The chief sanitary inspector told, “One Shankar Bakery has been sealed on Railway Road, as it was found open on an even day, whereas the shop falls on an odd day. When the teams entered the bakery, a worker was making a burger without a mask. Moreover, a senior citizen, aged more than 60 years, was also working in this bakery. Several warnings were issued to this bakery but it did not obey rules, therefore, we had to seal it.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/haryana-32-shops-fined-for-not-following-lockdown-guidelines-in-yamunanagar/articleshow/75665228.cms||Jaskaran Singh
May 11, 2020||Mangaluru||3,420 migrant labourers take Shramik Special trains to Bihar, Jharkhand, UP||MANGALURU: Three Shramik Special trains, carrying stranded migrant labourers, have left Mangaluru since Saturday. While the first one with 1,168 passengers left Mangaluru Junction for Bokaro Steel City around 10pm on Saturday, two more trains with almost an equal number of labourers left for Uttar Pradesh and Bihar on Sunday. The district administration and railways ensured orderly departure of 3,420 labourers – a far cry from Saturday’s chaos outside Mangaluru Central railway station when more than 1,000 people gathered falling prey to a rumour that train services were available for their return home. The railways has pared the passenger capacity in these 24-ICF coach special trains to meet social distancing norms. Sources in Southern Railway under whose jurisdiction Mangaluru Junction railway station comes, said that 54 passengers are being accommodated in the sleeper class coaches against the capacity of 72. In the second class general coaches, 34 are travelling against the capacity of 54 and 24 in 12 berths available in guard-cum-luggage vans. Each Shramik Special passenger should compulsorily have registered in the Seva Sindhu portal of the state government, said Dakshina Kannada deputy commissioner Sindhu B Rupesh. “We have a large number of migrant labourers from Jharkhand, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and West Bengal in camps here. Trains are being dispatched to these states with concurrence of their governments to receive these migrant labourers there,” she said. Apart from the base fare, which varies to each destination, the labourers are also required to pay superfast charge and surcharge of Rs 30 and Rs 20 respectively. The IRCTC is tasked with providing food to passengers at pre-designated places. The local administration takes care of the same at the departing station, sources said. Railways is collecting fare from every passenger aged above 5 on these special trains. After the riot-like situation at Mangaluru Central railway station on Saturday, Dakshina Kannada MP and state BJP chief Nalin Kumar Kateel petitioned minister of state for railway Suresh Angadi to operate these special trains. Sindhu said with more than 6,000 migrant labourers in town, the administration will coordinate with KSRTC to bring them to the railway station and with the railways to facilitate their departure from this coastal city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/3420-migrant-labourers-take-shramik-special-trains-to-bihar-jharkhand-up/articleshow/75665386.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
May 11, 2020||Goa||George moves to ISL||Panaji: Sporting Clube de Goa defender George D’Souza has secured a move to the Indian Super League (ISL) with a two-year contract at Odisha FC. The left-back from Calangute established himself in the Goa Professional League this season for the table-toppers with his signature free-kicks. The 26-year-old also had interest from two other clubs. Most recently, former Sporting midfielder Glan Martins joined ISL champions ATK. Sporting have always promoted local talent and now have the unique distinction of having eight of their players – from among the 19 Goans – in ISL. That’s more than 40 percent with the likes of Brandon Fernandes, Seriton Fernandes (both FC Goa), Adil Khan (Hyderabad FC), Joyner Lourenco (Jamshedpur FC), Keenan Almeida and Rowllin Borges (both Mumbai City FC) all handed their I-League debuts at the club. “I am very happy that my product has been signed by Odisha FC. George has been a disciplined and focused player throughout his five-year period with the club. He has been one of the outstanding players of my squad this season,” said Sporting owner and president Peter Vaz. George started his youth career with Sesa Football Academy where he made his professional debut before graduating. He then went on to play a season for Calangute Association before Vaz gave his career a boost by bringing him to the former I-League club. “George has one of the best left-foots in Indian football. His freekicks are deadly. This is just the first step and I hope he goes on to represent the country. I hope he emulates other Goans in the top league,” said Vaz. George featured in all 20 games for Sporting, a feat no other player managed in the team. They had just two more games to play before the season came to a halt due to the coronavirus pandemic. “He was there with us for the last couple of years, but he has improved a lot this season. He has to now work hard for a place in the starting 11 at Odisha because it all depends on the coach,” said Sporting head coach Savio Vaz. George gained valuable experienced playing alongside Peter Carvalho and Joseph Clemente. Their defence conceded just 10 goals while the attack pumped in 43 out of which four came from the powerful left foot of George. He has accurate crossing abilities which helped him secure six assists. With age on his side, George carries high expectations and will hope to succeed like Jessel Carneiro at Kerala Blasters FC, who moved there from Dempo Sports Club last season. “George has been at his best this season and we wish him good luck for the future,” said club CEO Welvin Menezes. George was part of the Goa-India team that won the gold medal at the Lusofonia Games 2014. Two years later, he was part of Mateus Costa’s Goa side that finished runnersup at the National Championship for the Santosh Trophy. "I am very happy for George and wish him the very best for the future. His parents have provided him support and encouragement all through his career,” said Sporting manager Angelo Albuquerque.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/george-moves-to-isl/articleshow/75665478.cms||FLAVIO LOPES
May 11, 2020||Goa||‘Churchill got best foreign players’||Panaji: Former executive director of the Sports Authority of India (SAI) Roque Dias has jumped to the rescue of Churchill Alemao and said the Benaulim MLA’s love for football cannot be questioned. Churchill Brothers FC, the club that Alemao and his family has owned for more than three decades, has been criticised in some quarters for availing a government grant of Rs 3 crore for each of the last two seasons. Porvorim MLA Rohan Khaunte even filed a complaint with the chief secretary last week, but Dias feels Alemao’s contribution to the growth of Goan football cannot be easily ignored. “Churchill has brought the best foreign players and coaches to India. His club has nurtured promising juniors. The world’s best strategies have been made available at the club,” Dias said in a press release on Saturday. Some of Churchill’s most famous foreign imports include Zimbabwe striker Percy Mwase during the inaugural National Football League in 1996-97, while others like Phillip Mensah, Osumanu Hussein, Yakubu Yusif and Edward Ansah also donned colours for the club. Danny MacLennan coached Churchill during the early days of NFL. Having been based in Delhi for a long time, Dias said he saw Alemao – formerly a member of parliament – from close quarters with his trips for the NFL and Durand Cup being fondly remembered. “I have not seen anyone else who is more passionate. His dream is to see India qualify for the World Cup,” said Dias. The former SAI executive director said Alemao had a huge role to play in ensuring that Brahmanand Shankhwalkar won the Arjuna award in 1997 after the goalkeeper – who played for Churchill Bros – was being continuously sidelined due to a technicality. His proximity to former AIFF president Priyaranjan Dasmunsi also helped officials, he said. “Brahmanand was being denied since he had not represented the country the preceding five years as per rules. Finally, Churchill, as an MP, wrote a letter to the President, Prime Minister, sports minister and secretary sports stating that the rule ought to be amended before finalising the award,” said Dias, who was based in Delhi at the time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/churchill-got-best-foreign-players/articleshow/75665487.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Goa||Tejan, Arjun keep Fallary tradition alive||Panaji: Goan shuttlers and brothers Tejan and Arjun Fallary are unique. For starters, they are state toppers in different categories. They are also the second generation to excel at state level after their father Vaman and uncle Chinmay, both of whom ruled the roost in their prime. Tejan, 21, is on top of the rankings in men’s singles, doubles and mixed doubles, while Arjun, 16, who represented India at the Asian Badminton Championship in Surabaya, is top in in U-17 doubles, mixed doubles and U-19 doubles. Tejan achieved the unique distinction of winning the men’s singles, doubles and mixed doubles titles at the state badminton championship in Ponda early this year. "Tejan and Arjun are extremely hardworking, dedicated and focused on the game. Tejan has huge potential to excel at the national stage,” said Goa Badminton Association (GBA) secretary Sandeep Heble, adding that the Fallarys have achieved unique honours and are rising prospects for Goa. Tejan and Arjun took to the game like fish to water. Growing up watching their father and uncle play was enough for them to get interested in badminton. “Badminton runs in our family. My grandfather was a badminton player. My father was top-ranked Goan for almost a decade, while my uncle was a great player too,” said Arjun. The Fallarys are not the first pair of siblings to succeed in Goan badminton. Ashutosh and Leena Pednekar, Kanji brothers — Sandip and Kamlesh, Menezes brothers — Derrick and Stanley, Madgaokar brothers — Anil and Annand, Painguinkar sisters — Sayili and Sita are few examples of siblings taking to the sport. “It is very natural for us to become badminton players. I guess it’s the same for others who did well in the past. Ours was a very easy choice,” said Tejan. Although the Fallarys train under other coaches, they have their father father to guide them. “At home, the discussion mostly revolves around badminton. We take advice from our father, but he is not our coach,” said Arjun. Tejan and Arjun are at the top of their categories in Goa but the national lockdown has kept them indoors. There is nothing to do, and competitions seem too far away. “There is nothing much we can do except do some drills and exercises. Nothing like practice and playing in tournaments,” said Arjun. Tejan, on his part, works out more intensely. “I do wall practice and work out on my upper body and extended shuttle run to keep my agility intact. I must stay focused and remain fit, otherwise when we return, it would be a disaster,” said Tejan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/tejan-arjun-keep-fallary-tradition-alive/articleshow/75665523.cms||Paresh Mokani
May 11, 2020||Ludhiana||FCI allocates 2.12 lakh metric tonnes of wheat for Punjab||JALANDHAR: The Food Corporation of India (FCI) has allocated 2.12 lakh metric tonnes of wheat to Punjab in advance for the months of April, May and June under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana (PMGKAY). Divulging the details, the divisional manager of Food Corporation of India TR Sethi said that the government has decided to give 5 kilogram of wheat per beneficiary per month for three months and one kilogram pulses per family for three months in the wake of outbreak of Covid 19 pandemic. He said that the free distribution of 15kg wheat per member of a family and three kg pulse per full family (irrespective of number of family members) to the eligible beneficiaries are being ensured by the respective state governments. Keeping in view of the emergency situation, He said that the FCI has allocated 2.12 lakh metric tonnes of wheat to the state in advance for the months of April to June. He said that the regional office of FCI had already issued release orders for 2.12 lakh metric tonees of wheat, worth Rs 594.09 crore, which is entire allocated share for the state. Similarly, he said that the total allocation of 4127.085 metric tonnes of wheat worth Rs 11.56 crore has also been made to the Union Territory of Chandigarh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/fci-allocates-2-12-lakh-metric-tonnes-of-wheat-for-punjab/articleshow/75665578.cms||I P Singh
May 11, 2020||India||Autowallahs pack life into three wheels, flee Mumbai||INDORE: You could have easily mistaken the Indore stretch of Agra-Mumbai highway for a pre-lockdown Mumbai street on Sunday. Hundreds of kali-peeli autos -- with Maharashtra registration numbers – streamed past, all headed for UP and Bihar. Most unlikely to return. Migrant autowallahs are fleeing Mumbai – lock, stock and family -- for the spartan familiarity of their villages. More than 8,000 of them have loaded their autorickshaws with whatever life they had in Mumbai, and set off on the 1,400-km journey. TOI spoke to some of them who had stopped for a breather on Indore’s outskirts. “There was nothing to eat. For every small necessity, we had to pay. We were forced to beg, so we decided it was better to go home,” said Vinod Giri, a resident of Bhadohi in Uttar Pradesh, who knows the bylanes of Mumbai as well as he does his village lanes. The exodus on three wheels may only get bigger. Over 2.5 lakh autorickshaws operate in Mumbai, nearly half of which are owned or operated by migrants from Bihar and Uttar Pradesh. Grounded in the lockdown, they quickly ran out of food and money and decided that was all they wanted to see of the Mumbai dream. Giri, his wife and two kids set off from Saki Naka area of Mumbai on their auto-rickshaw four days ago. It will take another two days to reach home, he said. Asked when he plans to return, he said: “Never. If Yogiji gives us jobs, why would we return to Mumbai? We will stay with our own people.” That was the cue for others to speak up. Rajesh Singh said “We did not get any kind of support from the Maharashtra government. In fact, we were beaten up by police while trying to escape from Mumbai. Over 40,000 migrants from UP and Bihar are waiting for an opportunity to escape, on foot.” Singh had left Mumbai with his two sons and a nephew – all of whom had gone to Mumbai in search of work. The autorickshaw drivers allege that even the announcements of providing food and water to the needy in Maharashtra were propaganda. “Those belonging to the ruling party get the benefits. The common man is stranded,” claimed Singh. They got more help and kindness on the road, they say. Anand Pal, an auto driver from Bhadohi (UP), said, “People on the roadside have helped us with food, water and fuel.” Pal knows it will take another three days to reach home and that he and his family will spend 14 days in quarantine. “I don’t mind that after what we have been through. After 14 days, I will call my village chief and tell him that we have been tested and cleared. Now, let us stay home,” he said. Pal plans to revive his farmland. “Earning from the land is better that begging in Mumbai,” he said. The autowallahs’ grouse is echoed by Shashank Rao, leader of Autorickshaw Chalak Malak Sanghatana Sanyukt Kruti Samiti in Mumbai. “The Maharashtra government has done nothing to ease the plight of autorickshaw drivers in Mumbai. We distributed 15kg grocery packets to around 55,000 auto drivers who have lost their livelihood, but the numbers are huge. The government should give Rs 10,000 per month to each auto driver, but no action has been taken on our demand,” he told TOI. He was worried that the fleeing auto drivers will face legal problems on the way. “We plan to hold massive agitations to make the government accept our demands. There seems to be no option. But that can be done after lockdown is over,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/autowallahs-pack-life-into-three-wheels-flee-mumbai/articleshow/75665643.cms||Pravin Barnale
May 11, 2020||India||81 inmates test positive, total Arthur Road jail cases now 184||MUMBAI: Eighty-one more inmates of Mumbai’s Arthur Road jail have tested positive for Covid-19, taking the total number of positive cases in the prison to 184. Out of 184, 26 are staff members and rest are inmates, said the Arthur Road prison authority. A 54-year-old inmate of Byculla women’s jail in the city has also tested positive for coronavirus, a prison official said on Sunday. She was referred to the government-run J J Hospital a few days back after her oxygen saturation level fell below 90%. During the treatment, she was tested for coronavirus which came out negative on Friday, he said. However, her second test conducted on Saturday came out positive, the official said. She is undergoing treatment at St George Hospital, he added. The new case comes two days after a doctor attached to Byculla jail tested positive for coronavirus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/81-inmates-test-positive-total-arthur-road-jail-cases-now-184/articleshow/75665661.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Gurgaon||Haryana: First batch of 75 Tablighi Jamaat members, 600 labourers sent from Nuh||CHANDIGARH: As many as 75 Tablighi Jamaat members, who have been quarantined and isolated in Mewat of Haryana for the past one and half month, sent back to their respetive states through private vehicles on Sunday. This is the first batch of the Jamaat members, which has been sent back from Nuh. More than 2,000 Jamaat members have been quarantied in Haryana and maximum from out of them are quarantined in the district. The city MLA Aftab Ahmed had taken up the issue of Jamaat members with the district administration. He had put up their case and helped them in procuring the movement passes from the district administration. Those sent on Sunday hails from New Delhi, Uttar Pardesh, Bihar and Rajsthan. They were sent back through private vehicles. According to the information, 23 Jamaat members were quarantined in Government Polytechnic College, 17 were quarantined in Mewat Engineering College, 18 were quarantined in Ferozepur and seven were quarantined in Women's College. Meanwhile, the district administration has also sent 600 migrant labourers in 25 buses through Haryana Roadways.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/first-batch-of-75-tablighi-jamaat-members-600-labourers-sent-from-nuh/articleshow/75665655.cms||Manvir Saini
May 11, 2020||India||Industry can now buy land directly from Karnataka farmers||BENGALURU: Removing what the industry terms a longstanding hurdle to its growth, the Karnataka government has implemented the amended Land Reforms Act, 1961, that now allows industries to buy land directly from farmers in a big decision to hasten rebooting of the sector maimed by the lockdown. The industries will still be required to seek permission from the revenue department. It will, however, be deemed approved if the deputy commissioner doesn’t raise red flags or clear the application within 30 days. Earlier, industries could get agricultural land allotted only through government agencies. The amendment was notified after the Karnataka governor approved the Karnataka Land Reforms (Amendment) Bill, 2020, that had been approved by the legislature in March. The April 27 gazette notification repeals the related Karnataka Land Reforms (Amendment) Ordinance 2019. On January 25, chief minister BS Yediyurappa had said the government would amend Section 109 of the Land Reforms Act to facilitate industry to purchase land directly from farmers. Amendment was in pipeline since NovemberWelcoming the decision since land acquisition was “a major stumbling block”, Devesh Agarwal, president, Bangalore Chamber of Commerce and Industry, said this will be beneficial, especially in a post-Covid world, when India looks for opportunities to become an alternative sourcing point to China with global firms looking to de-risk their supply chain. The government was planning the amendment as early as November when it was hoping to attract more investments through a global investors’ meet, sources said. In January, Yediyurappa had said the government would issue instructions to remove all administrative hurdles and facilitate this measure. “A three-year process now takes just about 30 days -- a major reform that we’ve been demanding for long. Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana have been allowing this for a while now. We are glad the CM understood our concerns. A lot of credit must go to the principal secretary of commerce and industries department and the industries minister,” CR Janardhan, president, FKCCI, said. Gaurav Gupta, principal secretary, commerce and industries department, said: “This has been in the pipeline for some time as several neighbouring states did not have such restrictions. At Davos, we heard the industries’ views. This is not a blanket right. Approval is granted for a particular activity, investment, land and other specifics. At the stage of the project approval, the government would look into whether the land required for the project has restricted use, or is allowed for industries and so on.” Welcoming the move, Devesh Agarwal, president, Bangalore Chamber of Commerce and Industry, said this will be beneficial, especially in a post-Covid world, when India looks for opportunities to become an alternative sourcing point to China with global firms looking to de-risk their supply chain. “Removal of impediments will enhance our competitiveness,” he added. “A three-year process will now take just about 30 days — a major reform we had been demanding for long. Tamil Nadu, Andhra and Telangana have been allowing this for a while now,” said C R Janardhan, president, Federation of Karnataka Chambers of Commerce and Industry.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/industry-can-now-buy-land-directly-from-karnataka-farmers/articleshow/75665688.cms||Chethan Kumar
May 11, 2020||Ludhiana||Five new coronavirus positive cases in Ludhiana||LUDHIANA: Deputy Commissioner Pradeep Kumar Agrawal has informed that five new coronavirus positive cases have been reported in Ludhiana in last 24 hours. He said that a total of 4,063 samples have been taken in the district till Sunday, out of which reports of 3,542 samples have tested negative. He told that 131 cases belong to the district out of total positive cases. He informed that a total of 10 patients have been declared cured till Monday and six deaths have been reported in the district. The deputy commissioner informed that the two patients are residents of Kabir Nagar out of five positive patients, while one each patient is from Bhai Himmat Singh Nagar, Sundar Nagar and village Kishangarh near Khanna in the district. District magistrate Pradeep Kumar Agrawal informed that a three-member committee has been formed in the city to conduct regular checks of shops allowed to open during the ongoing lockdown. The committee comprises of additional deputy commissioner (Khanna), deputy commissioner of police (Law and Order) and city SDM (West). This committee would further constitute zone wise sub-committees to conduct the regular checks of shops. He said that two-day deadline (till May 12) is given to the shopkeepers to make necessary arrangements as per the Covid-19 protocol and if any shopkeeper is found not following the protocol, their shops would be closed on the spot and an FIR under Section 188 of IPC would be registered against them. In other parts of the district, sub-division wise committees would be formed by respective SDMs in consultation with the DSPs. He further informed that five trains carrying migrants departed for different states from Ludhiana railway station. He said that each train carried around 1,200 persons. On Sunday, the trains departed for Hardoi (Uttar Pradesh), West Champaran/Bettiah (Bihar), Jaunpur (Uttar Pradesh), Azamgarh (Uttar Pradesh) and Gorakhpur (Uttar Pradesh). He informed that more such trains would depart for other states in the coming days as well. Agrawal said that every employee of district administration is working 24X7 to check the spread of Covid-19 in the state, and the situation is completely under control. He urged the residents to stay indoors and follow all directions of the Punjab government if they want to fight Covid-19 pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/five-new-coronavirus-positive-cases-reported-in-ludhiana-deputy-commissioner/articleshow/75665796.cms||Shariq Majeed
May 11, 2020||Gaya||Bihar: Two migrant workers coming from Maharashtra test Covid-19 positive||GAYA: Two migrant workers have tested Covid-19 positive on Sunday afternoon. Both of them, residents of Barchatti block area of Gaya district, are presently lodged in a local quarantine centre. The two workers, tailor by profession, returned from Maharashtra to Patna on 7th May. The duo were promptly shifted to the isolation facility at Imperial Hotel in Bodh Gaya. With this, the total number of Covid-19 positive cases in the district has gone up to eight. All the six cases detected earlier in the district have recovered and there are only two active cases in the district. The test result of migrant workers has caused anxiety in the administrative circle. Apprehension for such an outcome was always there, said an official. Confirming the Covid-19 positive cases, district magistrate Abhishek Singh said that health parameters of the workers were fine and both of them are asymptomatic. The DM said that Hotel Imperial is the designated place for asymptomatic Covid-19 positive cases. Earlier, such cases were referred for level two facility to Anugrah Narain Magadh Medical College Hospital. The two tested positive during random test. When asked about the testing criteria, the DM said that symptomatic cases are subjected to virological test besides random testing for statistical analysis. As per the changed management protocol, only symptomatic cases are referred to the Covid-19 special hospital. The ANMMCH has been notified as the treatment centre for Covid-19 patients for seven south Bihar districts of the state, including five districts of Magadh division, Rohtas and Kaimur districts. Meanwhile, all eyes are now fixed on the weekly review of the Covid-19 status of the district. The review by the Union home ministry is due on Monday. Earlier, much to the disappointment of Gaya residents, the district with just one active case was put in the red zone, thereby, causing avoidable inconvenience to the nearly 50 lakh strong population of the district. The red zone tag came for wide criticism from business organisations, political parties, IMA and the general public. Hope that the red tag is removed during the review of the Covid-19 status, said former president of the Central Bihar Chamber of Commerce DK Jain.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gaya/bihar-two-migrant-workers-coming-from-maharashtra-test-covid-19-positive/articleshow/75665923.cms||Abdul Qadir
May 11, 2020||India||75% of special trains took migrants back to UP, Bihar||NEW DELHI: Three in every four Shramik Special trains transporting stranded migrants have moved people to Uttar Pradesh, mostly its eastern parts, and Bihar revealing the extent of migration from these two Hindi heartland states. Uttar Pradesh has received 44% of these trains while over 30% of these trains reached Bihar. The Indian Railways had run 366 such trains till Sunday afternoon and 287 of them had reached their destinations, the railway ministry said. MP, Odisha and Jharkhand were the other three states which received more trains as compared to other states. Meanwhile, railway minister Piyush Goyal has said that they were ready to run up to 300 trains a day as he appealed to states to give permission for transporting the str- anded migrant workers, students and tourists so that all stranded migrants can return home in 3-4 days. Goyal’s request comes a day after a political battle started between Centre and West Bengal government after Union home minister Amit Shah wrote to chief minister Mamata Banerjee to allow trains carrying migrant workers to reach the state. The railway ministry said a maximum of 127 trains out of 287 terminated in Uttar Pradesh followed by 87 in Bihar. Madhya Pradesh received 24 trains, Odisha (20) and Jharkhand (16). Andhra Pradesh and Himachal Pradesh received one train each while Maharashtra received three trains. Rajasthan had received four trains and Telangana and West Bengal had received two trains each. In these trains, maximum around 1,200 passengers can travel observing social distancing. These trains will continue to run even after partial resumption of services.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/75-of-special-trains-took-migrants-back-to-up-bihar/articleshow/75665933.cms||Dipak K Dash
May 11, 2020||India||Amid privacy worries, Aarogya app set to enter 100 million -users club||NEW DELHI: The Aarogya Setu app has emerged as the fastest to reach 50 million users and is set to enter the 100-million club even as the application has helped the government identify 650 hotspots across the country at the sub-post office level and also 300 emerging hotspots, officials said. The pace of the app’s downloads is also linked to the Centre making it mandatory for government employees as well as asking private companies to ensure employees use it. The government’s decision to make it must for some has been criticised as a violation of privacy. The pace of downloads has, however, been increasing since PM Narendra Modi made a strong pitch for it. Officials said since its launch on April 2, the app has seen more than 96 million registrations and it will be one of the fastest entrants into the 100-million club. They also said 69 million people had taken the self-assessment test so far, an adoption rate of more than 71%, of which more than 3.4 million have self-declared as unwell. In Maharashtra, Setu helped identify 60+ hotspots A dedicated team of more than 70 doctors and healthcare workers has reached out to more than 6,50,000 of those showing two or more symptoms. More than 16,000 people have been administered follow-up tele-consultation by doctors free of cost, officials said. In Maharashtra, the app helped identify more than 60 hotspots across 18 districts. Of the 130 hotspot predictions made by the app between April 13 and 20, each has since been declared a real hotspot by the health ministry 3-17 days after it was detected. “This ability to accurately forecast hotspot is a much-needed breakthrough, the first of its kind in the world, which India will deploy as a powerful tool to fight the contagion and help the world do the same. Aarogya Setu is not just predicting hotspots, it is enabling prevention of hotspots,” said an official from Niti Aayog. The app uses Bluetooth-based contact-tracing and by integrating with ICMR database through APIs, Aarogya Setu gets real-time testing alerts on Covid-19 positive cases from across the country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/amid-privacy-worries-aarogya-app-set-to-enter-100-million-users-club/articleshow/75666001.cms||Surojit Gupta
May 11, 2020||Gurgaon||10 Madhya Pradesh labourers sent to Ambala shelter home||AMBALA: Ambala City MLA Aseem Goel found 10 labourers, belonging to Madhya Pradesh (MP), from in front of the Ambala Cantt railway station on Sunday. MLA Aseem said, “I received a call from the Churhat constituency MLA, Sharbendu Tiwari from MP, on Saturday night. He informed me that some labourers of his assembly are stranded and they are walking towards the Ambala station from Baddi. Following which, I along with my team rushed to the spot and found 10 persons, including men, women, and children. We shifted them to the Saini Ashram Dharamshala in Ambala City.” “As of now, the MP migrants have been sheltered in Ambala. They will be provided with food and will be screened by the health teams,” added the MLA. Around 400 migrant labourers who entered Ambala from Punjab, have also been shifted to the shelter homes by the Ambala district administration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/10-madhya-pradesh-labourers-sent-to-ambala-shelter-home/articleshow/75666034.cms||Jaskaran Singh
May 11, 2020||Gurgaon||Four Covid-19 patients discharged in Ambala, Yamunanagar||AMBALA: In the developments related to Covid-19 cases, four patients got discharged, including three from Ambala and one from Yamunanagar district of Haryana on Sunday, told the health officials. Ambala civil surgeon Dr Kuldeep Singh told, “One female medical officer posted at the civil hospital of Ambala Cantonment has tested negative for Covid-19 in her second consecutive test reports on Sunday. The officer had tested positive for Covid-19 on May 4, along with 22 others. The medical officer has been discharged from the hospital isolation at the civil hospital, Ambala Cantonment and she has been given 14-day quarantine leave on Sunday.” In another two developments related to Ambala cases, Dr Kuldeep said, “One asha worker of health department has also tested negative in her second test and she has been discharged from isolation at MMU Hospital, Mullana on Sunday. She had also tested positive on May 4 and now she is kept under home quarantine for 14 days. One more 14-year-old boy of Ranibagh area in the city tested negative in his second test. The boy had tested positive on May 4 and he has been discharged from the MMU hospital on Sunday.” On the other side, in Yamunanagar district, a 33-year-old woman from Sarojini Nagar also tested negative in her recent Covid-19 report. Yamunanagar civil surgeon Dr Vijay Dahiya told, “The woman patient of Sarojini Nagar tested negative in her reports on Sunday and she has been discharged from hospital isolation at ESIC, Hospital, Jagadhri. She has been home quarantined for 14 days.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/four-covid-19-patients-discharged-in-ambala-yamunanagar/articleshow/75666052.cms||Jaskaran Singh
May 11, 2020||Business||Kaushik Basu, D Subbarao call for larger fiscal stimulus||MUMBAI: Former World Bank chief economist Kaushik Basu and ex-RBI governor D Subbarao have called on the government to announce a sizeable fiscal stimulus package to save the economy and preserve livelihoods. “We do need a large fiscal stimulus. India has the FRBM Act, 2003, for fiscal management and to make sure that the government does not overspend. But the FRBM is a sophisticated piece of legislation that recognises that, during times of natural calamity, we should be allowed to run up larger deficit,” Basu told PTI. “Inequality in India is already very high and so this is worrying. My fear is that the coronavirus pandemic will cause inequality to rise,” said Basu. “I am in favour of wealth being taxed and inheritance being taxed. No one should be born into extreme poverty and that cannot be corrected without a wealth tax and inheritance tax,” he stressed. He added that there was a need for a team of talented bureaucrats and even professionals from outside the government to take charge of designing the trade-off between the pandemic and the looming economic crisis. Meanwhile, Subbarao on Sunday said the fiscal stimulus announced by the Centre on March 26 on account of lockdown to contain the spread of Covid-19, is “not sufficient”. According to him the combined fiscal deficit of the Centre and states may go up to 13-14% this fiscal. He was speaking in a webinar titled, ‘The challenge of the corona crisis — economic dimensions’, organised by the city-based Manthan Foundation. Subbarao said the Centre needs to cap its borrowings as the open-ended borrowings will have negative consequences such as pushing interest rates high. The number of experts urging the government to spend more is rising by the day even as the Centre’s stimulus package is awaited. Some bankers feel the stimulus package will be announced as a part of a calibrated opening up plan after factoring the extent of damage and support required. The lockdown was originally planned for 21 days ending on April 14, but was then extended to May 17, and now it is speculated that it will continue until the month-end. Compared to other major economies, who have announced stimulus packages in double digits, the spending announced by India is less than 1% of GDP. While economists and industry lobby groups are citing the package announced in the developed countries, chief economic adviser K V Subramanian told TOI last week that some numbers in the UK and US stimulus offers may be overestimated. Besides, he suggested that the size of the support has to be linked to the tax-GDP ratio and the sovereign rating. On Saturday, the government increased the sovereign borrowing level, indicating that it will breach the fiscal deficit target it had set for itself.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/basu-subbarao-call-for-larger-fiscal-stimulus/articleshow/75664952.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Business||Tata Group may cut pay of employees at some companies||MUMBAI: Tata Group, the country’s largest conglomerate, plans to cut salaries of employees at some of its companies after a slump in revenues as the coronavirus-induced lockdown hurts businesses. Some of its companies like Indian Hotels (Taj), Tata SIA Airlines (Vistara) and Tata Motors have been majorly hit after travel bans and production shutdowns of non-essential products. Some other units like Tata Power and Tata Communications benefited as stay-at-home restrictions increased demand for electricity and internet. Indian Hotels, which owns the Taj Mahal Palace in Mumbai, the country’s first luxury hotel, said its senior leadership will “contribute a percentage of their salary this quarter to help with the survival phase of the company”. In an email to employees, CEO Puneet Chhatwal said, “We will need to continue evaluating this month-on-month and take some tough decisions as the situation evolves.” Chhatwal further said that other financial and operational interventions are being constantly evaluated and implemented, including “manning, renegotiation of contracts, deferment of renovations, hiring freeze” and other cost-optimisation measures. Grounded carrier Vistara has sent 30% of its 4,000 employees on leave without pay for some days in the April-through-June months to reduce costs. Promoter Tata Sons is planning to infuse more equity into the loss-making Vistara to support its capital requirements. The aviation and hospitality sectors are estimated to see a combined business loss of over Rs 1 lakh crore this year after the segments came to a standstill due to human mobility restrictions. The Tata Group’s most profitable company, TCS, has frozen salary hikes of its 4.5 lakh employees since it sees revenue contracting in the April-June quarter as customers slash IT spends due to the coronavirus crisis. Sources said more Tata companies could review employee compensations in the coming weeks. Tata Group joins Reliance Industries, Kotak Mahindra Bank and several other Indian enterprises in cutting salaries to curb costs in order to offset decreasing earnings and protect cash balances during the economic slump related to the outbreak.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/tata-group-may-slash-pay-of-employees-at-some-cos/articleshow/75664848.cms||Reeba Zachariah
May 11, 2020||Surat||Gujarat: 15 migrants held for rioting in Vareli village are Covid positive||SURAT: As many as 15 migrants of the 204 who were arrested for rioting in Vareli village adjoining Surat on May 4 have tested positive for coronavirus, stoking fears that large number of people living in the rural areas near the city might have been infected. However, due to lack of testing, these cases remain largely undetected. Surat rural areas have 43 positive cases already. Most of these migrants are from Bihar and Uttar Pradesh. Similar is the case about migrant workers who returned to their native states in buses and trains. An example of this is the case of large numbers of those who reached Odisha from Surat testing positive for coronavirus, sources said. "These 15 accused must have infected hundreds of people in Vareli during rioting. Then there are many undetected positive persons in the society already. The state government should increase testing. asymptomatic patients who that the can be home quarantined to reduce burden on government hospitals," Indian Medical Association (Gujarat) president Dr Chandresh Jardosh said. "We are conducting testing as per government policy. Those found positive are being kept in isolation the he New Civil Hospital," said M N Lakhani, in-charge chief district health officer, Surat. Migrants in Surat have resorted to angry protests several times since the lockdown imposed on March 23. In Vareli, the migrants were already enraged at being sent back from the state’s borders and they had resorted to heavy stone-pelting and vandalism. Vareli is a textile manufacturing cluster adjoining Surat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/15-vareli-rioting-accused-test-covid-positive/articleshow/75663973.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
May 11, 2020||Patna||Bihar: 13-year-old girl raped in Rohtas, accused arrested||PATNA: A 45-year-old man was arrested on Sunday on the charges of raping a minor girl under Rohtas police station in Rohtas district on Saturday evening. The incident took place when the 13-year-old victim was sleeping in her house. The accused, Khalil Ansari, reportedly barged into the house, forcibly lifted the girl to a nearby place and raped her. The survivor’s mother told the investigating officer that the family members started searching her when she was not found in the courtyard. Later, she was spotted lying in a pool of blood outside the house. The victim’s mother on Sunday reported the incident to the Rohtas police station, which referred the matter to the women’s police station. The station house officer (SHO) of women’s police station, Ananta Kumari, said the survivor was sent to the Sadar hospital at Sasaram for medical examination. The SHO said the victim’s statement would be recorded in the court on Monday. A police officer posted at Rohtas police station said the accused happened to be an uncle of the victim. “The two families are at loggerheads due to property dispute,” he said. The accused has been booked under Section 376 (rape) and relevant sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act, 2012. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/13-year-old-girl-raped-in-rohtas-accused-arrested/articleshow/75663749.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Patna||Two disabled migrants use tricycles to reach Bihar||PATNA: ‘Where there is a will there is a way’. This old adage holds true for a 28-year-old specially-abled migrant worker, Praveen Kumar. Kumar, who worked in a bag manufacturing company at Nizamuddin in New Delhi, reached the state’s border with Uttar Pradesh in Gopalganj district on Sunday after covering a distance of over 950km on his tricycle. Kumar, a resident of Ghaghri village under Bakhri block in Begusarai district, said, “It took eight days for me to reach Gopalganj. I will depart for my native village in Begusarai district, which is around 250km from here.” When Kumar reached Agra from New Delhi, he felt tired and exhausted. “For a moment I started thinking that it was my wrong decision and I won’t be able to reach home alive. Then I got inspiration from an elderly woman going back home in Gorakhpur district from the national capital on foot,” he said. Kumar said though he requested several bus drivers carrying migrant workers and students to help him, none listened. As luck would have it, Kumar spotted another disabled man from Darbhanga district coming from Mumbai on his motor-fitted tricycle. “It was around 25km from the UP-Bihar border when I met Madan Sah of Darbhanga,” he said. Both the polio-infected migrant workers started their onward journey on their tricycles after going through mandatory thermo screening at the Gopalganj border check post. “I have been in Mumbai since 2012. But I never faced such a situation. I decided to go back home as it would take time to set the metropolitan city on track,” Sah added. “Hame conora ne milaya hai. Ye dosti hum kabhi nahi todenge (We have met because of conora. We will never break this friendship),” the duo said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/2-disabled-migrants-use-tricycles-to-reach-state/articleshow/75663658.cms||Ramashankar
May 11, 2020||Patna||16,000 migrants & students return to state by spl trains||PATNA: About 16,000 migrant workers, students and others stranded in eight states reached different railway stations in Bihar by 14 Shramik special trains on Sunday. Nearly 98,000 migrants, students and other people have returned to Bihar by 84 special trains since May 2. East Central Railway (ECR) chief public relations officer (CPRO) Rajesh Kumar said the special train carrying about 1100 migrants and others from Gandhidham in Gujarat reached Danapur while another train from Surat ferried nearly 1200 migrants to Purnea. About 2,300 migrant workers and students from Ludhiana in Punjab reached Kishanganj and Muzaffarpur while 2200 from Rewari in Haryana reached Muzaffarpur and Kishanganj on Sunday. Besides, a special train carrying about 1200 migrants, students and other people from Bengaluru reached Araria, the CPRO said. A special train with 1000-odd migrant workers from Jalandhar in Punjab reached Katihar while another from Coimbatore in Tamil Nadu reached Saharsa. A special train from Bolarum in Telangana ferried 1200 migrant workers to Gaya while about 1100 people stranded in Rewari in Haryana arrived at Khagaria railway station. Another special train from Bhiwani in Haryana reached Purnea with about 1100 migrant workers, the CPRO said. About 1200 passengers from Visakhapatnam in Andhra Pradesh arrived at Bapudham Motihari railway station while a special train from Thane in Maharashtra reached Barauni with about 1200 migrant workers and others. All these people passed through thermal screening on their arrival at different stations, the CPRO said. The special train (09755) from Rewari carrying around 1,300 nigrant workers of of Purnea, Kishanganj and Araria districts reached Khagaria where DM Alok Ranjan Ghosh, SP Meenu Kumari and other medical, paramedical and health officials were present. According to sources, the train was earlier scheduled for Kishanganj. It was, however, terminated at Khagaria railway station from where the migrant workers boarded buses to their respective districts after proper screening. Ramesh Sardar (30) of Bhargawan in Araria district said he had been stranded in Rewari due to the lockdown. Meanwhile, railways continues to carry out consignments containing medicine, blood collection bags, surgical equipment and other essential commodities by special parcel vans from Danapur, Pataliputra Junction and Patna Junction to places like Asansol, Howrah, Bhopal, Kota, Varanasi, Lucknow and Guwahati during the lockdown, he said. (With inputs from N P Thakur in Khagaria)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/16000-migrants-students-return-to-state-by-spl-trains/articleshow/75663579.cms||Kumod Verma
May 11, 2020||Surat||61 discharged in Surat, 35 test positive||Surat: As many as 61 Covid-19 patients were discharged from Surat’s New Civil HOspital and Covid care centre at Samras Hostel on Sunday. With this, the total number of discharged patients has reached 506.Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) officials said 35 fresh Covid-19 positive cases were reported on Sunday. Meanwhile, a 90-year-old woman named Mangiben from Katargam area from succumbed to the infection. She was suffering from co-morbid conditions such as diabetes and heart ailments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/61-discharged-in-surat-35-test-positive/articleshow/75663990.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Rajkot||Bus ferrying 54 migrants to Maharashtra seized||Rajkot: A private bus illegally ferrying 54 migrant workers from Gondal to Nandurbar in Maharashtra was seized by police at Mota Maika village on Rajkot-Gondal highway late on Saturday night.Investigation revealed that the bus owner Nanji Viralia had taken a total of Rs 86,500 from the migrants to transport them to Nandurbar. Further, Viralia’s son Ashish who is into private bus operating business in Surat, also forged an inter-state travel permission letter of Surat district collectorate, in order to transport the migrants.Police at the checkpost got suspicious seeing that no social distancing was maintained in the bus and stopped it for checking. After accosting the bus at Ribada crossroads, they found the permit paper from Surat district collector to be fake. “Instead of permission from Rajkot collector, it was from Surat administration office,” said police.Cops also arrested bus driver Pankaj Solanki (39). Viralia and Ashish have been booked for forgery and other sections of IPC. A V Jadeja, sub-inspector with Gondal taluka police station, said, “The father-son duo had charged Rs 1,600 as Gondal-Nandurbar bus fare from each migrant. We have returned the money to the families.”The migrants work either as farm labourers or in some local industries. Recently, the bus driver had transported some people from Surat to their native village in Visavadar taluka of Junagadh district. It was after his return that Viralia told his son to arrange for transport of these families.Later, the Gondal taluka mamlatdar arranged for official permission for these families to travel to Nandurbar and they started the journey in a state government bus.The migrants were provided food on Saturday night and Sunday morning too. While leaving also, the administration team provided them dinner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/bus-ferrying-54-migrants-to-maharashtra-seized/articleshow/75664057.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Business||You’ll need mask, seat booking to enter office||Namrata Singh | TNN Mumbai: A mask as part of your formal dressing accessory, a need to pre-book your seat in the office (with the seat pass being your gate pass), staggered cafeteria timings, and no handshakes. These are some of the rules being framed by organisations for a post-lockdown scenario, wherein a significant number of employees would continue to work from home (WFH). Organisations are planning the return of employees, depending on the region or zone (red/orange/green) they are in as well as the workplace. Another factor is the priority of roles that need to be fulfilled from office premises. The new norms being designed for a post-Covid/post-lockdown period would be very different from what employees have experienced so far. In an internal note to employees, the 75,000-strong Axis Group has proposed a 2-3-5-day remote working model with an intent to create a boundary-less workplace. While most organisations are framing rules for wearing masks at all times, Motilal Oswal Financial Services is also making wearing gloves mandatory on office premises after lockdown is lifted, in addition to several other dos and don’ts. Axis Group plans to ease into the new boundary-less office in a phased manner. Till the lockdown exists, employees will continue working according to the current WFH model. After lockdown, the bank will take a precautionary view and open up its offices in three phases, depending on the situation and guidelines from the government. In the first phase, 10% of employees, which include largely team leaders and branch managers, will work from large offices through a roster. In the second phase, the number will increase to 30% and, subsequently, in phase three (presumably after July 16 or depending on government guidelines), 60% of the staff will work from offices. Axis Bank HR head Rajkamal Vempati said, “Even after we’ve overcome Covid, our intent is to go for a boundary-less office. This is actually an opportunity to reset to the new normal and let go of our old habits. Work happens beyond physical meetings too, and now we must think of office only if we have a meeting to attend or urgent work that requires physical presence. Needless to say, many roles and functions will require the security and control environment of offices.” At Axis Group, all those who are above 55 years of age, or have an existing chronic medical condition, or have children below 5 years of age, or have elderly dependents at home are being encouraged to be in WFH mode. An app is also being launched to enable employees to reserve a desk for themselves in large offices, phase-3 onwards. Only if an employee has a seat pass will he/she be allowed entry into the office. Employees are also being asked to carry their own food and cutlery. Employees at Motilal Oswal Financial Services have been told that they should come to office after the lockdown only if they and their family members are well, and if their manager has asked them to do so. They’ve been asked to drive to work in their own vehicle or bike it, and pool in with two other friends only if they’re travelling in an SUV. Once in the office, employees will not be allowed to step out. Inter-city and international travel will now be clearly restricted. Neither will external guests be welcomed on office premises. Face-to-face meetings can have not more than five people. In case the number exceeds five, meetings have to be virtual, even if they are within the same office premise. Gyms and library access, too, will be closed to all. Motilal Oswal Financial Services executive director and HR head Sudhir Dhar said, “The entire return will be planned in a phased manner. Initially, there is a view that no more than 15-20% of total employees would return. Employees will be evaluated on the basis of the criticality of their role, confidentiality of data and compliance & regulatory aspects. Currently, businesses are also evaluating which roles can function 100% from home, and those who need to can partially work from home. Once the roles and employees are identified, business teams will function accordingly.” Organisations are also rolling out WFH policies in line with the new office norms. Hike, for instance, has introduced core working hours from 10.30am to 6pm to encourage more discipline during remote working. During this period, employees are expected to be plugged in and available to attend daily stand-up meetings and other team meets. No meeting hours were also introduced to give employees room to figure their WFH day out and have enough time to focus on individual tasks. “The learning from this phase of WFH is that employees are more empowered and self-driven. There’s no need to have a single control centre,” said Vempati of Axis Bank.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/youll-need-mask-seat-booking-to-enter-office/articleshow/75664988.cms||Namrata Singh
May 11, 2020||Business||No GST on full-time directors’ salary: AAR||Lubna Kably | TNN Mumbai: The controversy on whether remuneration paid to directors of a company is subject to the goods and services tax (GST) has been put to rest by a recent decision of the Authority for Advance Rulings (AAR), Karnataka bench. Anil Kumar Agrawal, who had received salary as a director from a private company, had approached the bench. In its order dated May 4, the AAR bench has clarified that if the director is an employee of the company, there will be no incidence of GST. However, if the director is a non-executive director (that is, a nominated director), and provides his or her services to the company, then the remuneration paid is subject to GST. In such cases, the ‘reverse-charge’ mechanism will apply and it is the company (recipient of the services) who will pay the GST. AAR rulings have a persuasive role in similar cases. Thus, this ruling will be useful to India Inc to substantiate that GST does not arise in case of remuneration paid to full-time directors, who essentially are key managerial personnel of the company. The ruling obtains additional significance as, a month ago, the Rajasthan AAR had held to the contrary and opened a pandora’s box. Sunil Gabhawalla, chartered accountant and GST expert, told TOI, “Schedule III clearly excludes services by an employee from the purview of the GST. A long time ago, the Supreme Court has laid down the test of what constitutes an employer-employee relationship. It is heartening to see that this advance ruling respects this test.” While the AAR-Karnataka bench explained the grounds on which GST will apply in respect of director’s remuneration, owing to lack of documentary evidence submitted by the applicant, it was non-committal as regards the specifics of Agrawal’s case. The applicant has not furnished documents such as the agreement between him and the private company, his appointment order, details of provident fund deductions, etc, which would help decide whether he is in receipt of salary as an employee or as an independent director, said the AAR. However, it went on to add that if the salary was received by the director in his capacity as an employee, it would be outside the scope of GST.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/no-gst-on-full-time-directors-salary-aar/articleshow/75664999.cms||Lubna Kably
May 11, 2020||Patna||Door-to-door screening of BMP personnel begins||PATNA: The district administration and health department teams on Sunday began door-to-door screening Bihar Military Police (BMP) personnel and their family members on the BMP campus spread over several acres of land near Patna airport after six Covid-19 positive cases were detected there. The campus, also known as Mithilesh Stadium, saw a retired constable and five serving BMP-14 personnel testing positive for coronavirus. Apart from door-to-door screening, a list of 320 people residing on the campus has also been prepared for sample collection and test for Covid-19. Altogether 60 samples had been collected from the BMP campus till Saturday night. The door-to-door screening began a day after state police IG (headquarters) Nayyar Hasnain Khan wrote to health department principal secretary Sanjay Kumar in this regard. Patna civil surgeon Dr Raj Kishore Chaudhary said the survey would also cover new police lines at Lodipur. “BMP authorities have provided us a list of 320 personnel and recommended Covid-19 tests for them,” he said, adding the survey would be completed in the next two to three days. A senior IPS officer said at least 1,500 people, including BMP personnel and their family members, live inside the BMP campus which has headquarters of fifth, tenth and fourteenth battalion of BMP. “There are 70 residential quarters for BMP personnel on the campus. The survey will cover all these quarters apart from the barracks,” he added. Another IPS officer said 213 women constables of Swabhiman battalion also live on the BMP campus as their headquarters at Valmiki Nagar is still incomplete. “These women constables were also deployed at several locations in Patna, but withdrawn after six BMP personnel were tested positive for Covid-19. BMP-5 has around 350 personnel. Around 250 personnel and officers belong to BMP-14 battalion,” he said, adding around 100 sports personnel of the department also live inside the campus. The officer said several BMP-10 and BMP-14 personnel were deployed in different city locations, including the containment zones. “As a precautionary measure, the campus is being sanitized every 24 hours. The process will continue for at least a week,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/door-to-door-screening-of-bmp-personnel-begins/articleshow/75663876.cms||Debashish Karmakar
May 11, 2020||Patna||Bihar legislative council functioning hit as key posts fall vacant||PATNA: With some of its key posts falling vacant, Bihar legislative council is in for a big crisis. While the post of its chairperson is vacant since Thursday after Haroon Rashid, who had been officiating as ‘acting chairman’ for the last three years, completed his six-year term as MLC, another crucial post of council secretary also awaits a regular posting. The post of deputy chairperson of the council is also vacant. Senior officials of the higher judicial services are posted as secretary in both the legislative assembly and council. While the assembly has its secretary, the post in the council is without a senior judicial officer for the last 18 months. The last judicial officer posted as the council secretary was Sunil Kumar Panwar. After Panwar, two officers of the council cadre — Prabhat Kumar Shrivastava and Kaushal Kishor — held the post as ‘acting secretary’ for a short period of around one month, each. After retirement of Kishor from the council service on January 31, 2019, another senior most council cadre officer Binod Kumar took over charge of the acting secretary on February 1, 2019. “As per the working system in the council, letter to other constitutional bodies, any government authorities or any department of the state government are not sent without taking a formal approval or concurrence of the chairperson and in his absence, of the deputy chairman. Since both the posts are vacant, the council is unable to send any letter to other departments and authority even for routine works. Many routine (day-to-day) works in the council have virtually come to a standstill due to the vacant posts,” a senior official of council cadre told TOI. “The council requires notification for an acting chairperson also because it does not have a regular secretary of judicial service,” said another council cadre officer. Altogether 17 seats in the 75-member council fell vacant on Wednesday after the sitting members completed their six-year term. Other two seats of Governor’s nomination quota are vacant for the last one year. Thus, altogether 19 seats in the council are vacant these days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/council-functioning-hit-as-key-posts-fall-vacant/articleshow/75663801.cms||Madan Kumar
May 11, 2020||Patna||Patna to get state-of-art ISBT by July: Suresh Kumar Sharma||PATNA: The swanky interstate bus terminus (ISBT) at Bairiya Chak on Patna-Gaya road would become operational within the next two months, urban development and housing department minister Suresh Kumar Sharma said on Sunday. The facility, spread over 25 acres of land, is being developed with an estimated expenditure of Rs 300 crore. The state-of-the-art bus terminal has four multi-storey blocks for travel facilities and commercial activities. Three blocks – arrival (Block A), departure (Block B) and connector between the first two blocks (Block C) – are being given final touches by the construction workers. Work on these three blocks is likely to be completed by June. Block D, which will house commercial building, is likely to be ready by July-end. “Around 300 workers are working in shifts to complete the project. We are following the Centre’s standard operating procedure while carrying out the construction work,” the minister said, adding the bus terminus would be inaugurated in July. Bihar Urban Infrastructure Development Corporation (BUIDCO) managing director Raman Kumar, who recently visited the site, said three blocks are almost ready. “The fourth block will be ready within the next one-and-a-half month. “The electricity connection work will be done in these three blocks by May-end with other utility works. For this, around Rs 12 lakh has already been given to the energy department,” he said. The ISBT will have facilities like high-speed Wi-Fi, multi-level car parking, waiting lounges and hi-tech security measures. The ISBT campus will also have other utility structures, such as a dormitory-cum-workshop for drivers, fuel stations and a number of parking bays. The G+2 dormitory will accommodate 100 drivers at a time. Transport department officials said the ISBT would handle 1,500 buses per day. There are 73 bus bays for departures and 70 for arrivals along with 51 parking bays for idle vehicles. Three workshops will be there for maintenance, cleaning and servicing of the buses. There will also be separate pick-up and drop zones for private, pre-paid private vehicles, pre-paid autorickshaws, taxis and app-based cabs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/city-to-get-state-of-art-isbt-by-july-minister/articleshow/75663786.cms||Faryal Rumi
May 11, 2020||Business||Bank staff under pressure to work at full capacity||MUMBAI: With no improvement in the pandemic situation in the country’s metros and large cities, bank staff are feeling the heat as they are being pressed to go on an overdrive in credit. While in the early days of the lockdown, banks allowed branches to operate with skeletal staff, they are now writing to all employees asking them to report to duty. One private bank has informed staff that those who do not attend will be treated as on ‘leave without pay’. Employees say that even those considered to be in the ‘high-risk’ category during the pandemic — those suffering from diabetes and heart conditions — are being asked why they are not at work. “My medical bills are paid by the bank, they should be knowing what I am suffering from,” said an official who had undergone a cardiac procedure. More on Covid-19 Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage Lockdown 3.0: What's allowed and what's not in the three zones It's time to mask up and stay safe: Join TOI's #MaskIndia campaign MHA's guidelines for home isolation Trust the newspaper for your daily verified news Among those who have been regularly working at the branch office during the lockdown, there is heartburn because there is no alternate-day work arrangement like in zonal or head offices. In addition, there is no uniformity in rules across states with some regional offices making their own norms. Between public sector banks, too, there are differences in the way employees are compensated. State Bank of India (SBI) has given employees a Rs 1,000 one-time allowance for sanitisers and masks. Bank of Baroda said that it is giving employees a one-month salary as an interest-free advance. This is aimed at helping them meet any extra expenditure they incur during this period. The bank has also extended a one-month pension advance to retired employees to meet difficulties in the procurement of medicine. “They expect banks to deliver the goods, but they won’t give autonomy in its real sense. The government should understand that the potential for banking is at the bottom lines, for which branches need to be strengthened. Otherwise the government will make tall claims but, to translate the same into reality, it will need to address ground realities,” All India Bank Employees’ Association (AIBEA) joint secretary Devidas Tuljapurkar said in a statement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/bank-staff-under-pressure-to-work-at-full-capacity/articleshow/75664906.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Patna||Two private labs allowed to conduct Covid-19 tests in Bihar||PATNA: The state health department has allowed two private pathological laboratories in Patna and Muzaffarpur to collect samples for conducting Covid-19 tests. A notification in this regard was issued on Sunday. It is for the first time that any private laboratory in the state has been permitted to conduct Covid tests. As per the state health department notification, the two private labs will not charge more than Rs2,500 for a ‘single step’ test. However, a patient would have to pay Rs1,500 for testing if s/he is found negative in screening. If one has to go for second phase testing, then the maximum Rs4,500 can be charged. The state health department allowed the two laboratories after Indian Council Medical Research (ICMR) authorized them to conduct Covid-19 tests. Principal secretary (health) Sanjay Kumar shared the details about notification on his Twitter handle and said the permission was given to augment Covid testing in state. Kumar also shared the names of Dr Lal Path Labs and Path Kind Diagnostics Pvt Ltd. The second laboratory has its centres in Subhash Nagar at East Jaganpura (Khemnichak) in Patna and at Jhuran Chhapra in Muzaffarpur. At present, Covid-19 tests are being conducted at RMRIMS, IGIMS, PMCH and AIIMS-Patna, DMCH in Darbhanga, SKMCH in Muzaffarpur and JLNMCH in Bhagalpur. As per the notification, these private laboratories would have to follow the guidelines of producing collected samples to government authorities for quality audit at referral testing centres of government medical college and hospitals. They will also have to upload their reports to ICMR portal besides making their copies available health department’s state surveillance officer and civil surgeon of the district concerned. The notification says if any of the laboratories charge more than Rs2,500 per testing and does not follow other government regulations, it would be deemed as disobeying the provisions of The Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897 and Bihar Epidemic Covid-19 Regulation-2020. Meanwhile, sources at both the private laboratories told TOI over phone that only samples from Bihar would be collected and tests would be conducted at their ICMR authorized testing centres in Delhi and Kolkata. “We will be following all the necessary ICMR guidelines. Our executives would visit the person for sample collection. The patient would have to be referred by a registered doctor for Covid-19 testing. We would transport samples via road and railways to centres for testing. Both of our testing centres can collectively test 5000 samples per day,” one said, adding the modalities were being finalized and they would become functional in next two to three days. Another source at the second private laboratory said they would be sending their samples to the Gurgaon centre via road. “It would take three to four days for results to come after sample collection,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/2-private-labs-allowed-to-conduct-covid-tests/articleshow/75663855.cms||Debashish Karmakar
May 11, 2020||Patna||Plight of farmers, small traders worrying: CM Nitish Kumar||PATNA: Chief minister (CM) Nitish Kumar on Sunday expressed concern over problems being faced by small vendors, shopkeepers, farmers and daily wagers due to the lockdown. “There is a need to proceed further while keeping in mind the issue of livelihood of affected workers, farmers, small shopkeepers and other people. Their employment and income have been badly affected due to the lockdown. There is a need to think over it,” the CM said while holding a high level review meeting with chief secretary Deepak Kumar and other senior officials. The CM asked the disaster management department (DMD) officials to ensure regular inspection of block and panchayat level quarantine centres and take feedback from the people staying there. Meanwhile, state’s IPRD secretary Anupam Kumar said work on altogether 3.47 lakh rural projects had either started or resumed in recent days to provide employment opportunities to the migrant workers returning to the state from different places. “A total of 3,47,157 projects of different departments are currently going on in rural areas and 159.45 lakh man-days have so far been created in these projects,” Anupam said, adding the state government was taking all possible steps to create maximum job opportunities for the migrant workers . He added the Bihar government, in coordination with other states, has so far arranged 169 trains to bring back 2.22 lakh stranded people to Bihar. “The CM has asked the chief secretary to ensure operation of at least three special trains from Mumbai per day,” the IPRD secretary said. He added efforts were on to arrange more trains to bring back Bihar’s students who are still stuck at Kota in Rajasthan. Meanwhile, a special train from Kota will bring back students of Bihar’s Samastipur district on Tuesday. “The special train for Samastipur will begin its journey from Kota at 9pm on Monday and reach Samastipur on Tuesday,” Bihar assembly Speaker Vijay Kumar Choudhary, who hails from Samastipur district, said. Choudhary thanked the state government for arranging a special train for bringing back students of Samastipur district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/plight-of-farmers-small-traders-worrying-cm/articleshow/75663866.cms||Madan Kumar
May 11, 2020||Vadodara||Fresh cases see doctors, nurse, and hospital patients too||Vadodara: The list of 23 new Covid-19 patients has raised serious concerns. The list includes two doctors, a nurse and two residents of Bhayli area located just on the outskirts of the city who were treated at the same hospital. The Bhayli residents, however, are admitted at city-based Bhailal Amin General Hospital (BAGH) from where their samples were sent for test. The nurse used to work at the Banker’s Hospital in Manjalpur, Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) officials. The two doctors who tested positive was a father-son duo. The son is a physician who works at two different hospitals in the city while the father is a general practitioner having clinic in Karelibaug. Sources in the civic body said that with the two fresh cases, three generations of the family have testes positive for Covid-19. The general physician’s father too had tested positive for Covid-19 and died on Saturday, but the death is yet to be announced formally by VMC. The nurse used to work at a Covid treatment facility in the hospital. Sources in VMC said that she was already in isolation in the hospital itself due to the nature of her work. “Both the 61-year-old male patient, who is resident of Emerald Flat at Bhayli, and the 86-year-old female patient, who is a resident of Nilamber-4, are hospitalized since quite some time. So, we have not contained the nearby houses as we do in other cases,” said Dr Uday Tilawat, chief district health officer of Vadodara district. The male patient in fact is hospitalized at BAGH since over a fortnight while the female patient was admitted at BAGH before five days. “The male patient was brought to our hospital from another hospital with a tracheostomy pipe. He was suffering from neuro deficiency and had other co-morbid conditions. At the time of admission, which is more than 15 days, he did not have any symptoms. But since he started showing symptoms, we got the test done,” said Dr Ravi Hirwani, BAGH’s vice-president. The female patient too was brought to BAGH from another hospital. “She was brought to us with complaint of internal bleeding before 4-5 days. She too was asymptomatic but later showed some symptoms and has tested positive,” he said. BAGH is one of the seven designated Covid-19 hospital in the city. With the two Bhayli residents and another resident of Padra testing positive, the total number of positive cases in rural Vadodara has reached 16. The total number of cases in the district including the city now stands at 551.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/fresh-cases-see-doctors-nurse-and-hospital-patients-too/articleshow/75663563.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Patna||Youths find unique ways to pamper moms||PATNA: Amid lockdown, people in the city, especially youngsters, found ways to pamper their moms by managing household chores, preparing handmade gifts, cooking meals and baking cake on the occasion of Mother’s Day on Sunday. To express their love and care, some even wrote poems, jingles and played songs on musical instruments. Rajni, a resident of S K Puri, said she composed a little poem on her mother and sang it with her guitar at 12 midnight. “My mother was really surprised and overwhelmed with this gesture. We decorated her room with balloons and cut the cake we had prepared with caramel. It was a memorable day for all of us,” she said Some kids went the extra mile by arranging small events at home, taking charge of household chores and cooking meals as well. Niharika Ratan, a resident of Khagaul, organised a little concert for her mother and aunts to make them feel special on the occasion. “I presented a dance and also organised a beauty contest. We played games like housie, lucky number star and ‘antakshri’. I prepared a collage with strings of light, paper-made flowers and also made cake. We enjoyed a lot,” she said. Amit Mukherjee and his brother Amrit organised midnight party on the terrace for their mother. “We spent almost 12 days to prepare a clay doll model for mom as a gift. We decorated it with glitter, water colour and ribbons. We also cooked her favourite dishes – momos and litti,” said Amit, a resident of Rajiv Nagar. Ayush Kaushik (22), a resident of Boring Road, prepared a chocolate cake and Oreo ice-cream for her mother. “Early in the morning, me and my sister wished our mother and took her blessing. We didn’t let the mom do any household chore,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/youths-find-unique-ways-to-pamper-moms/articleshow/75663932.cms||Faryal Rumi
May 11, 2020||Patna||Tribhuvan school students interact with dignitaries||PATNA: The outgoing students of The Tribhuvan School, Patna, on Sunday shared their experiences with dignitaries during a webinar organized on the birth anniversary of the school’s founder Tribhuvan Prasad Singh. Poet and lyricist Javed Akhtar, cricketer-turned politician Gautam Gambhir, Deputy Chairman of Rajya Sabha Harivansh Narayan Singh, former MP Uday Singh and Chairman of 15th Finance Commission, NK Singh, interacted with the students. School principal Mahua Dasgupta welcomed the dignitaries and students. NK Singh said his father believed in four C’s — challenge, confidence, commitment and conquest — for success in life and advised the students to follow these. Harivansh motivated the students to contribute to the society. Javed Akhtar expressed happiness for being a part of the programme and blessed the students. He recited a beautiful poem on women empowerment through girls’ education. Uday shared his experience during his years of association with the school. Gambhir answered all the questions put up by the students and said he as a cricketer has always been proud to represent his country. While talking about fitness regime, he says it should be a habit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/tribhuvan-school-students-interact-with-dignitaries/articleshow/75663774.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Surat||Jobless UP labourers find a messiah in this sarpanch||Surat: Many can take a leaf out of this nondescript village’s humaneness. Tucked away on the border of Dharampur taluka in Valsad district, this small hamlet, with a population of 3,000, set a textbook example of how deeds speak better than words. Its woman sarpanch, Rekha Patel, along with her husband Rajesh Patel, went out of their way to help 27 labourers stranded in their village reach their own homes in Uttar Pradesh, and how. The Patel duo not only paid Rs 16,000 for purchasing train tickets, but co-ordinated with the administration for filling up their registration forms and conducting their medical check-up at the Primary Health Centre . And that’s not all. Their efforts even extended to arranging private vehicles to ferry the labourers to the Valsad railway station located some 30kms away from the village. Finally, the labourers could leave for home in a shramik special train from Valsad to Jaunpur and Gorakhpur on Saturday. “About 60 more migrants are in the village waiting for the announcement of special trains for Bihar and Odisha. We will pay for their fares too,” said Rajesh Patel, a former sarpanch of Kharvel village. These labourers are daily wagers who worked at the scrap godowns in Dharampur, but have been jobless since the lockdown were soon resourceless too. When the sarpanch heard about their plight, the husband-wife duo decided to pay their train tickets from their own pocket and help the poor workers reach their own homes. “They may be migrants, but they are very much like our village family. We have spent money from our own pocket and not charged a single penny from the panchayat’s account,” said the sarpanch, while exhorting other village panchayats in the district to pay train fares of their migrant people too. “It’s they (migrants) who run our economy through their contribution in the industrial sector. When they are helpless in crisis like this, it is the duty of the governments to at least pay their train tickets,” said the ex-sarpanch.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/jobless-up-labourers-find-a-messiah-in-this-sarpanch/articleshow/75664096.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Surat||Inquiry ordered in Vareli rioting||Surat: Gujarat DGP Shivanand Jha has ordered an inquiry into the migrants unrest in Vareli where the situation had spiralled out of control as no proper preventive action was taken by the local police. "I have been ordered by IGP office to conduct an inquiry to check if there is negligence on part of police and the lapses in controlling the rioting," said Bhargav Pandya, deputy superintendent of police, Surat. The stone pelting and arson continued for nearly three hours.In a separate development, HM Gohil, police sub inspector of Palsana, was suspended after a video of him instructing migrant workers to 'leave on whichever vehicle available' went viral. Gohil was caught on camera by a worker during lockdown.When questioned about inquiry A M Munia, superintendent of police, Surat, refused to comment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/inquiry-ordered-in-vareli-rioting/articleshow/75664011.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Surat||Covid patient, her daughter, brother booked||Surat: Five persons including a woman who tested positive in Bardoli, were booked for entering the town without valid permission.The woman Samira Manusri and her daughter Sayma had travelled to Bardoli on May 7. The complaint was lodged by Bhikhamchandra Shah, medical officer of Bardoli urban health centre, against the duo and three others identified as Samira’s brother Maqsood Mansuri, Irfan Patel and Javed Khan. “Samira and Sayma were stuck in Ahmedabad before the lockdown was imposed on March 23. Maqsood arranged for their travel from Ahmedabad to Bardoli. Irfan contacted his friend Javed Khan in Surat who had gone to Rajasthan to drop some passengers. On his return, he brought back Samira and Sayma to Bardoli,” the plaint states.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/covid-patient-her-daughter-brother-booked/articleshow/75664116.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Govt urged to intervene in TSWB ops amid lockdown||Hyderabad: The All India Majlis-e-Inquilab-e-Millat has urged chief minister K Chandrashekar Rao to intervene in what they called the “dismal functioning” of the Telangana State Waqf Board (TSWB) amid the lockdown. “The board has failed to pay honorarium of Imams and Mauzzins despite having funds. The locking of record room issue is yet to be discussed and no one seems to be concerned to raise it. Similarly, TSWB held a meeting during lockdown to pass an illegal resolution without a quorum, in haste, to selectively hand over Waqf properties to TMREIS which is against Manshayey Waqf,’’ said party president Syed Taraq Quadri. Quadri, while appreciating the GHMC’s efforts to expedite work on flyovers and other projects, sought to draw the civic body’s attention to maintenance work on the Mecca Masjid and urged them to attend to it immediately.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/govt-urged-to-intervene-in-tswb-ops-amid-lockdown/articleshow/75665468.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Patna||Lockdown hits publishers and booksellers hard||PATNA: Even as the reading habit of people has improved a lot, the booksellers are facing the worst financial crisis due to the lockdown. Though the government allowed the sale of several items, including electronics and electrical goods in the third phase of the lockdown, books remained excluded from the Centre’s list of essential items. On pressing demand of school management and the guardians of schoolchildren, the district administration allowed some bookstores in the city to reopen, but this order remained in operation only from April 15 to 30. Other bookshops dealing with general books meant for college and university students or the people in general did not reopen. All bookstores are hit very hard. The shops are closed and not a single book has been sold since March 25, but the shopowners have to pay monthly salaries to their staff and meet other essential expenses from their own pocket. “We are paying monthly salaries to staff, electricity bill, rent and all sorts of taxes even though we are not earning even a paisa these days,” said Nand Kishore Singh, a bookstore owner. Singh further said he used to earn Rs2.5 to 3 lakh every month before the lockdown. “I do not know as to how long this lockdown would continue and the market conditions become normal,” he added. Bimal Rastogi, whose bookshop is located on Ashok Rajpath, echoed similar views. Besides selling books to college and university students through the counters, he used to supply all sorts of textbooks and reference books to the libraries of different colleges and postgraduate departments of Patna University. But all such activities are completely closed these days and the same are not likely to be revived soon. “The entire book industry is likely to collapse if such situation is allowed to continue for a longer period,” he quipped. The business of publishing and not just book selling has also been severely affected by the lockdown. “For publishers like us who struggle to get our books on the stacks of libraries of educational institutions, serious returns on a book only appear six to eight months after it is published. Most of our revenue comes from selling books to stores, libraries and institutions. We are supposed to make payments to printers, binders, paper merchants, etc in time. All these activities are likely to pose greater constraints to the publishers once the lockdown is revoked,” said Narendra Jha. However, worst is the condition of those who used to sell competitive books and other help books on the footpath opposite Patna University. Most of them are facing starvation as they have not been able to earn anything since the lockdown. While some of them have taken to selling vegetables or fruits, others are anxiously awaiting the situation to normalize.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/lockdown-hits-publishers-and-booksellers-hard/articleshow/75663921.cms||B K Mishra
May 11, 2020||Business||E-comm to gain as malls suffer: Report||Digbijay Mishra | TNN Bengaluru: About 54% of consumers are expected to cut spends in malls largely to avoid crowds while boosting spends on channels like e-commerce, said a report from Boston Consulting Group (BCG). Up to 35% consumers said they would increase spending through e-commerce, the highest compared to other retail formats. This is an indication of e-commerce emerging as the preferred way of shopping for consumers in a post-Covid-19 world and retail outlets in shopping malls would be the worst hit in the near term. Tier-2 and -3 towns may still rely on traditional setups but e-commerce is seeing faster adoption, than anticipated, due to the coronavirus pandemic and lockdown. The BCG report noted 85% consumers are trying to avoid public spaces as much as possible. This would increase e-commerce penetration in India which is around 5%, where Amazon and Walmart’s Flipkart are fighting a fierce battle. Relatively, the same is much higher in the US at 15% and China 28%, according to a Bank of America report. “Due to the current situation, many people who were not shopping online at all, or were purchasing in a few segments like apparel, are almost being pushed to try it out now. In the past, the biggest barrier has been the first-time trial. Many of them are now getting over that with the first barrier being broken and that’s a big change. Therefore, this will provide a big acceleration to online shopping, combined with the fact — consumers will be hesitant to go out to malls for a while, after the lockdown is lifted,” said Kanika Sanghi, partner and associate director, BCG.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/e-comm-to-gain-as-malls-suffer-report/articleshow/75665003.cms||Digbijay Mishra
May 11, 2020||Patna||ECR to set up Covid care centres at 15 railway stations in Bihar||PATNA: The East Central Railway (ECR) has decided to set up Covid care centres at 15 stations under its jurisdiction to provide proper medical facilities to corona patients during isolation period. These stations are Patna Junction, Barauni, Darbhanga, Jayanagar, Muzaffarpur, Narkatiaganj, Raxaul, Saharsa, Samastipur, Sitamarhi, Sonepur, Jamalpur, Chhapra, Siwan and Katihar. ECR’s chief public relations officer (CPRO) Rajesh Kumar said on Sunday that railways has already converted 269 sleeper coaches into isolation wards in Bihar. Railways will place these converted coaches at the 15 stations as the Covid care centres. Railways intends to hand over these coaches soon to the district administration concerned, he said. With spurt in the Covid cases in Bihar, railway hospitals under the ECR jurisdiction have been put on high alert. Ministry of Home Affairs and Ministry of Health and Family Welfare have sought details about preparedness in the railway hospitals located at Danapur, Pt Deendayal Upadhyay Jn, Dhanbad, Sonepur, Samastipur and superspecialty hospital at Karbighaiya in Patna, the CPRO said. Railways has kept its multistorey superspecialty hospital in complete readiness. Railways has also provided 2066 surgical masks, 340 N-95 masks, 800 sanitiser bottles, 65 personal protective equipment (PPE) kits, six ventilators and 25 oxygen gas cylinders to this superspecialty hospital for corona patients, he said. Danapur divisional railway hospital at Khagaul, which is designated for Covid-19 patients, has been provided with 2750 surgical masks, 825 N-95 masks, 600 sanitiser bottles, 1025 PPE kits, 27 ventilators, 80 oxygen cylinders and 20 infrared thermometers, he said. Similarly, railways has ensured the availability of 7300 surgical masks, 725 N-95 masks, 1200 bottles of sanitisers, 580 PPE kits, 10 ventilators, 34 oxygen cylinders and six infrared thermometers at its Sonepur hospital while Samastipur divisional railway hospital is now equipped with 6,442 surgical masks, 1,539 N-95 masks, 3600 sanitiser bottles, 195 PPE kits, three ventilators, 30 oxygen cylinders and seven infrared thermometers, the CPRO said. Pt Deendayal Upadhaya railway hospital in UP has been provided with 13000 surgical masks, 14000 N-95 masks, 3290 sanitiser bottles, 756 PPE kits, 10 ventilators, 65 oxygen cylinders and 129 infrared thermometers. Besides, railways has equipped its Dhanbad hospital with 4000 surgical masks, 6000 N-95 masks, 823 bottles of sanitizers, 530 PPE kits, four ventilators, 12 oxygen cylinders and 13 infrared thermometers, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ecr-to-set-up-covid-care-centres-at-15-railway-stations/articleshow/75663896.cms||Kumod Verma
May 11, 2020||Chennai||Worker who stuck notice at Kamal’s house out of work||CHENNAI: A month and a half ago, 32-year-old R Vinoth Kumar, a malaria prevention worker in Teynampet zone, did what he was told: Stick a home quarantine notice on actor Kamal Haasan’s house, and a few hours later, tear it off. However, since the incident that stoked a controversy embarrassing Greater Chennai Corporation officials, Vinoth says he has not been allowed to report for work. He has not received his Rs 12,000 monthly salary, a humble sum which he used to support his wife and two children. “On March 29, I was orally told by the sanitary inspector, my reporting officer, that I had been placed under suspension. No reason was given to me. They said it was based on instructions by their superior officers,” Vinoth said. However, till date, no official letter has been served explaining the reasons for his suspension or disallowing him to work in the division 123 of the Teynampet zone. “I have been told by zonal officials that they have marked me absent for the period. I stand to lose my entire salary despite reporting for work at the division office every day,” Vinoth said. Human rights organisations have intervened and questioned GCC officials about it. “I told them that he has not been removed from the job and that he can work in some other division,” said Madhusudhan Reddy, GCC’s joint commissioner (health). However, when asked why no notice or document was served, Reddy said this is how they deal with temporary workers. “We give only oral instructions to them. There are 32,000 such workers,” he said. Reddy denied allegations that his suspension had anything to do with the Kamal Haasan incident. “We have clearly explained that there was no mistake in sticking that notice. Then, where is the question of action,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/worker-who-stuck-notice-at-kamals-house-out-of-work/articleshow/75665466.cms||Siddharth Prabhakar
May 11, 2020||Surat||Surat: This poor dhabawala turns into an ‘annadata’ for the homeless||SURAT: This dhaba on the Ichhapore-Olpaad state highway is the only place left for the poor people where they can satiate their hunger free-of-cost. While the hotels and dhabas on the highway are shut due to lockdown, the dhaba owner at Vanakla village has opened his doors to feed about 400 poor people twice a day. Meet Ghanshyam Devgania, 50, whose day starts with visiting the nearby market in Jehangirpura to purchase fresh vegetables. He disinfects the raw vegetables in hot water mixed with salt and then starts the cumbersome job of dicing vegetables and preparing lunch for poor. “Three days after the first lockdown was imposed, few homeless people turned up at my hotel for food. We fed them with the freshly cooked food. This is how we started free food service for the poor. We started with 15 people initially and today we are feeding about 400 people every day. We are giving dal, rice, roti and sabji every day,” he said. After the lockdown was announced, about four workers employed at Ghanshyam’s dhaba left for their hometowns in Saurashtra. Ghanshyam and his wife, Pravina and two children—Ayushi, 15 and Meet 17—live in a samll room in the dhaba and are now helping him in cooking and distributing food. “I have huge support of my wife and children. Without them, I would not be able to feed 400 people every day. We all cook food together twice a day,” says Ghanshyam, who hails from Amreli district in Saurashtra. He is desperate to visit his native village to meet his ailing mother, but dropped the idea to visit home. “My mother’s health is not keeping well due to old age. My brother has been calling me to Amreli, but I can’t let the poor who line up at 12 pm and 7 pm at my dhaba. Now, I plan to visit home once the lockdown is over,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/this-highway-dhabawala-feeds-400-poor-everyday/articleshow/75664081.cms||Melvyn Thomas
May 11, 2020||Rajkot||Kutch massacre: Prime accused arrested||RAJKOT: The Kutch police on Sunday arrested the prime accused in the massacre of five men in Hamirpur village near Rapar town of Kutch on Saturday and said that the killings were a fallout of a three-year-old bitter land dispute On Sunday, police arrested Devendrasinh Vaghela alias Lalubha (29), who along with 15-odd assailants armed with swords, machetes, axes and guns, had attacked a group of eight victims of a same family and hacked to death five of them. Three others had somehow managed to escape. Those killed in the attack were Akha Umat (38), his brother Amra (34), son Lala (18), brother-in-law Petha Rathod (37) and cousin brother Vela Umat (36). Kutch border range IG, Subhash Trivedi said, “Akha Umat had a share cropping arrangement on a land owned by one Dhanji Koli. Three years ago, Vaghela, who claimed to have bought the land from Dhanji, staked his claim on the land and asked Umat to vacate it. There was a bitter fight between Umat and Vaghela over the issue and police complaint was also filed then. This sowed the seeds of enmity between Vaghela and Umat.” Earlier, it was suspected that illegal country-made liquor business that the assailants were allegedly involved in had led to the massacre as they thought Akha’s family members were police informers. Apart from Vaghela, those booked in the murder were Dhanji and Vishan along with dozen-odd unidentified men. The Kutch police have formed five teams consisting of Gandhidham local crime branch, Gandhidham special operation group, a team of DySP, Adesar police station and Rapar police station to nab the others.. “It was an attack pre-planned by the accused. When the victims left their farm in an SUV and reached near Hamirpur village, the accused, who were lying in wait for them in two tractors, waylaid the SUV by parking one tractor in front of it. Before SUV driver could take reverse, they parked the second tractor in the rear. Once they were trapped, they launched a brutal attack on them,” said K G Zala, Rapar deputy superintendent of police (DySP).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/kutch-massacre-prime-accused-arrested/articleshow/75664240.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Patna||Sushil Kumar Modi asks Centre to pay Rs 10,932 crore due to state||PATNA: Deputy CM and BJP senior Sushil Kumar Modi has demanded from the Centre to clear the payment of Rs10,932 crore due to it pertaining to the first quarter of the 2020-21 financial year. The amount would be used to meet the expenditures to be incurred on developmental and other activities concerned, including the payment of salaries to the university teachers as per the UGC norms and to contractual teachers under Samagra Shiksha Abhiyan (SSA). In a letter addressed to the Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Sunday, Modi said the first quarterly payment of the fund worth Rs2,499 crore should also be made without deducting any sum that is due for the SSA. The amount would be used for paying salaries to the contractual teachers at the rate of Rs833 crore per month for April-June period. During the 2019-20 fiscal, Rs326 crore was deducted. The overall sum of Rs10,932 crore also includes the payment of Rs7,434 crore to be made on the recommendations of the 15th Finance Commission to the panchayati raj institutions (PRIs) and urban local bodies — Rs5,018 crore for the PRIs and Rs2,416 crore for the local urban bodies. They would be used to carry out various developmental activities, as it would be difficult to execute works after the onset of monsoon. Modi has asked for the payment of the central share worth Rs999 crore pertaining to the first quarter of the current fiscal to pay salaries to the university teachers as per their revised scales in line with the recommendations of the 7th Pay Commission. He said Rs767 crore had already been paid to them as per the UGC norms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/sumo-asks-centre-to-pay-rs10932-crore-due-to-state/articleshow/75663687.cms||Abhay Singh
May 11, 2020||Varanasi||Mumbai-returned 4 test Covid positive in Mirzapur, Ghazipur||Varanasi: People returning to east UP districts, especially from the metropolitan cities like Mumbai have led to increase in the number of Covid-19 positive cases again.While three persons, including a minor boy were tested positive for coronavirus in Mirzapur on Sunday, a man returned home on motorcycle was also tested positive in Ghazipur district. They all had returned to their native places from Mumbai.Regarding the cases found Covid-19 positive in Mirzapur, chief medical officer of the district Dr OP Tiwari said, “Two of the three persons tested as infected in the district are associated with a woman of Kachhwa Road area, who had returned with 13 members of her family from Mumbai in two vehicles on May 4 and was tested positive on May 7. The two new cases are her son (8) and brother-in-law (35).”All the family members of the woman had been quarantined and their samples were also collected for laboratory test after declaring Pirkha ward as hotspot.Another 35-year-old youth, who also had returned to his place in Pahadi village of Padari area from Mumbai recently, was also tested positive, said the CMO adding that all these patients had been sent to isolation ward of divisional hospital, while their family members have been quarantined. In April, three persons connected with Tabhligi Jamaat had been tested positive and were discharged from the hospital after . After they had being cured. Now total number of Covid-19 positive cases in Mirzapur reached to has seven, said the CMO adding that number of active cases in the district is four.Earlier, on Saturday a man, who had returned home in Khidirpur village of Nangganj area in Ghazipur from Mumbai by motorcycle on May 4, was also tested positive, said divisional commissioner Deepak Agrawal.Officials said that the man, around 30-year-old, was kept at quarantine centre of the village and his sample was collected for laboratory test on May 5. He was sent to isolation ward of DDU district hospital of Varanasi for treatment after the arrival of his test report.Ghazipur’s epidemic nodal officer Dr KK Verma and additional CMO Dr Umesh Kumar said that before the arrival of this youth a total of six cases of Covid-19 positive had been detected in the district and they all had become cured.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/mumbai-returned-4-test-covid-positive-in-mirzapur-ghazipur/articleshow/75663795.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Patna||A short-lived joy for Bhojpur dist||ARA: A migrant returnee was declared positive on Saturday soon after the Bhojpur district administration issued a press statement that all the 18 Covid-19 patients had recovered from the infection as their 2nd test report also came negative. Out of 18 patients, 10 had already been discharged and the remaining 8 were also discharged from the isolation centre situated at Dhanupra locality of Ara. However, an 18-year-old from Charpokhari in the district tested positive on Sunday. Bhojpur civil surgeon Dr L P Jha and other health workers presented some bags containing sanitiser, masks and medicines to the recovered persons at the time of their discharge. As the people heaved a sigh of relief on the 100% recovery of the Covid-19 patients in the district, a 40-year-old migrant worker of Agiyaon block area, who had returned from Surat on May 3, tested positive. He had been quarantined in a government school at Agiyaon. He was shifted to the isolation centre of Ara late Saturday evening. A 25-year-old man of Barhara block was the first Covid-19 positive case in Bhojpur district on April 19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/a-short-lived-joy-for-bhojpur-dist/articleshow/75663605.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Rajkot||Two hotspots in Patan declared Covid-free||Palanpur: Tammana Society in Siddhpur and adjoining Nendra village have been declared Covid-19 free in accordance to the fresh guidelines issued by the central government, said district development officer, DK Parekh of Patan.Once a Covid hotspot, Nendra had registered 12 positive cases, while one resident of in Tammana Society had succumbed. At present, Patan district has only five patients in the isolation ward, while an equal number have recovered fully. In another development, Aravali collector Amrutesh Aurangabadkar has declared complete lockdown of Modasa, the district headquarters, from May 11 till May 17. However, medicine, milk, fuel and LPG cylinders will be allowed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/two-hotspots-in-patan-declared-covid-free/articleshow/75664027.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Surat||Frontline Covid warriors in trouble over felicitation event||Surat: Some policemen and staff of Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) landed in trouble after a video of them participating in a felicitation event went viral on social media. A huge crowd gathered on road is seen showering flowers, shouting slogans hailing them and clapping for the frontline warriors that included doctors, sanitation workers and policemen.Athwalines police registered an offence against a crowd of over 100 people. "Police personnel were not aware that the felicitation was organized by locals. I have instructed cops to avoid participating in any such events and strictly enforce lockdown," said Vidhi Chaudhary, deputy commissioner of police, zone III. After the incident came to light, municipal commissioner Banchhanidhi Pani, said, “The frontline staff at hospitals, sanitation workers, police and other people engaged in essential services are doing their best and we must appreciate their work. But this is not the right time to organize such functions as Covid-19 is highly infectious and we have stall its further spread. You can pray for best health of corona warriors from bottom of your heart.” Furthermore, people also forget to maintain social distancing while welcoming those Covid-19 patients who have recovered successfully and returned their homes. “We should applaud their fightback by maintaining social distancing,’’ SMC said in a statement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/frontline-covid-warriors-in-trouble-over-felicitation-event/articleshow/75664039.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Business||Petrol pumps open, but service centres still remain shut||Chennai: With most big cities under government restrictions classified as red zones due to the Covid pandemic — which imposes restrictions on commercial activities — just 15% to 20% dealerships are open for business.The lockdown may be lifting in phases but most car dealerships and workshops remain firmly shut. Wherever they are allowed to open, workshops open ahead of sales outlets or showrooms. According to Ashish Harsharaj Kale, president, Federation of Automobile Dealers Associations (FADA) nearly “15%-20% or 3,500-4,000 dealerships have opened or are operating so far”. Take Hyundai Motor India which restarted car production on May 8. “We are all set to reopen 250 showrooms and 250 workshops countrywide in a phased manner. All Hyundai touch points — showrooms and workshops are following contactless services for customer interactions,” said Tarun Garg, director-sales, marketing & service, HMI. “We have a total of 300 dealerships countrywide and 40%-45% of them are either already open or opening up,” added Vikay Nakra, head of sales & marketing, M&M. “So far Karnataka, Kerala, Goa, Arunachal Pradesh, Manipur, Meghalaya, Nagaland and around 70% of Odisha have opened up for business completely but other major metros/ big cities in central, west and north India are in the red zone,” added FADA’s Kale. In all red zones, dealerships and workshops are shut. “In amber zones too 60%-70% dealerships and workshops are shut because customer movement is restricted. Only in green zones dealerships and workshops are opening up,” said Kale. But even in green zones it’s not business as usual. “It all depends on the local administration,” said Nikunj Sanghi, president of the Automotive Skill Development Council who runs a Hero Motocorp and Mahindra dealership as well. “Some district administrators are classifying showrooms as malls and not allowing them to open. Others are classifying workshops as factories and allowing them to operate. So if a showroom has a workshop attached, it’s staying shut.” Also with severe restrictions on movement of people, customers from the red or amber zone cannot enter the green zone for servicing vehicles. Under the circumstances dealers are taking the call not to open up at all and risk infection. “All through the lockdown, dealers used mobile vans to cater to breakdown of essential vehicles like ambulance, government and utility vehicles and trucks,” said Sanghi. “Non-essential vehicles were not serviced.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/petrol-pumps-open-but-service-centres-still-remain-shut/articleshow/75664768.cms||Nandini Sen Gupta
May 11, 2020||Rajkot||Bhavnagar sends home 16 Covid slayers on Sunday||Rajkot: Sixteen more Covid-19 patients were discharged from Bhavnagar Sir T Hospital on Sunday, taking the total number of recoveries in the city and district to 44.Those discharged included a husband-wife duo Naushad Qureshi and Shabana and their 11-year-old son Nihal Qureshi, who live in Covid hotspot Amipara locality All those discharged were given health protection kit comprising one N95 mask, two triple-layer mask, a pair of gloves and a bottle of hand sanitizers.Of the patients who were discharged on Sunday, 13 are from Bhavnagar city, two from Sihor and one from Botad. Bhavnagar has registered 94 positive cases, while the city has recorded seven deaths due to Covid-19. At present, 43 positive patients are under treatment at the Sir T Hospital. “We thank the doctors and the medical staff for providing all of us with such good care,” said Faruq Qureshi, a resident of Kajiwad of Diwanpara locality who was under treatment for one month. Another 29-year-old patient Jay Solanki was also all praise for the hospital staff. “They took care of us like their own family members. They were punctual in maintaining the schedule of our medication, meals and breakfast,” said Solanki, a resident of Amipara who was admitted on April 29. “We are following the state government guidelines while discharging patients who have not suffered from fever for four days. We instruct the recovered patients to follow home quarantine for one week. We will also be monitoring their status through video calling,” said V K Baranwal, Bhavnagar district development officer.GREEN ZONE MORBI REGISTERS ONE POSITIVE CASE After being declared ‘Covid-free’ and placed under the ‘Green Zone’, Morbi district reported one positive case on Sunday. Jitubha Zala, a positive patient from Wankaner, was admitted to Christ Hospital in Rajkot on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/bhavnagar-sends-home-16-covid-slayers-on-sunday/articleshow/75664144.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Rajkot||Man fires at his cousin in Bhachau village||Rajkot: A man was booked for allegedly opening fire at his cousin over a petty tiff in Jadasa village of Bhachau taluka on Sunday morning. Police said accused Ramesh Koli (34), had allegedly fired one round from his 12.bore gun at Haresh Koli (28) at Jadasa village bus stand. “Ramesh fired at Haresh over a trivial issue. Both had allegedly fought over sitting arrangements in the village courtyard on Saturday night. Nursing a grudge against Haresh, Ramesh allegedly opened fire at him,” said N V Revar, sub-inspector with Samakhiyali police station. Ramesh is a history-sheeter involved in attempt to murder, arms dealing and bootlegging cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/man-fires-at-his-cousin-in-bhachau-village/articleshow/75664218.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Business||Indians to lead in post-Covid adoption of e-payments: Study||Mumbai: Usage of digital payments in the post-Covid period is set to be the highest among Indians at 75%, followed by China at 63% and Italy at 19%, according to an 11-country survey conducted by Capgemini on financial services consumer behaviour. The survey also shows that among older people, Indians are more likely to make the switch to digital payments after the pandemic. Capgemini’s survey was conducted among consumers in China, France, Germany, India, Italy, the Netherlands, Norway, Spain, Sweden, the UK and the US in early April. “The uptake in digital payments has been around for some time. What was striking was that about 80% of the older consumers in the age bracket of 56 years plus have switched to digital payments, which is way higher than global benchmarks,” said Sudhir Pai, chief technology officer for the consulting firm’s global financial services business. “There are certain events that trigger a shift in behaviour. Covid-19 has forced people to self-isolate, which is making people unlearn old methods and move to the new world,” said Pai. Other findings of the survey are that 85% of the Indian consumers prefer to save more in 6-9 months as compared to 80% in the current period and 72% before Covid-19. India also topped demand for insurance coverage with 83% consumers opting for an increase in life insurance coverage in the six-nine months from 80% currently, and 70% in the pre-Covid period. According to Pai, working remotely is going to increase. “Most of our clients are talking about looking at the new normal state. But it is not going to an extreme where everything is going into a remote mode. There is going to be a transition where essential services will remain face-to-face and personal. In banking, every country has reached out to us for developing a contactless approach, whether it is for onboarding customers or any other transaction,” he said. According to the study, Indians interacting on mobile apps increased to 67% from 57% in the pre-Covid period, and 74% Indian consumers will prefer interacting over a mobile app in the next 6-9 months. The global average on a mobile app as a digital touchpoint stood at 47% during the pre-Covid period, 52% in the current phase and 55% in the next 6-9 months. The study further mentions that 40% of Indians were using voice assistants and chatbots pre-Covid as a preferred digital touchpoint for banking, this surges to 52% currently, and will further increase to 59% over the next 6-9 months. This was the highest among the countries surveyed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/indians-to-lead-in-post-covid-adoption-of-e-payments-study/articleshow/75664921.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Business||FM to meet banks today to track their progress||Mumbai: Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman will hold a review meeting with banks via video conferencing on Monday to track their progress in delivery of credit and chart the way forward for restarting economic activity. With less than three weeks for the moratorium to end, banks are seeking an extension or the launch of a one-time restructuring scheme, whereby borrowers can be given relief on repayments without the loans being classified as default. The finance ministry has already asked banks to provide a daily update on the number of businesses and value of credit that banks have provided as part of Covid-19 relief. On Saturday, the FM had tweeted, “PSBs have contacted more than 95% of borrowers eligible for emergency credit lines & working capital enhancements between March 20 and May 6. The amount sanctioned jumped to Rs 54,544 crore, more than double the amount two days ago. Number of cases covered more than tripled.” Earlier, she had announced that 3.2 crore borrowers had availed of the three-month moratorium on loan repayments announced by the RBI and that public sector banks had sanctioned loans of Rs 77,383 crore between March 1 and May 4. This included Rs 26,500 crore availed in the form of emergency capital requirements and working capital enhancements.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/fm-to-meet-banks-today-to-track-their-progress/articleshow/75664934.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Hyderabad||50 workers on foot stopped at Karkhana||Hyderabad: Around 50 migrants, who were walking from Nizamabad to Secunderabad railway station in the hope of catching a train to go to their native cities, were stopped by Karkhana police on Saturday night and shifted to a function hall. According to ACP Mahankali Vinod Kumar, the workers, who walked over 160 km, were stopped near Patny X roads at around 11.30 pm. “Most of the workers were from Bihar and were shifted to Anubhav function hall in Karkhana,” said the ACP. “Among them, nearly 15 were women and seven children. The cops and our organisation provided them with food and they were asked to stay put in the shelter,” said Parmanand Sharma, the president of Jana Seva Sangh (JSS). Even though the state government had announced that 40 trains would be operated daily to ferry migrant , only limisted number of trains are running. Sharma said that this is leading to anxiety among the migrant workers. According to Karkhana police, cops have regularly been stopping people who are found walking either to the railway station or towards their home town.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/50-workers-on-foot-stopped-at-karkhana/articleshow/75665000.cms||Aditi Mallick
May 11, 2020||Jaipur||Poonia urges NRRs to contribute to PM Cares fund||Jaipur: BJP state president Satish Poonia has urged non-resident Rajasthanis (NRR) to contribute in the PM Cares Fund to fight the battle of coronavirus effectively. During a video conferencing with select NRRs on Sunday, Poonia shared the efforts taken by the BJP in providing relief to all sections of the society. Responding to a question on how India is battling the pandemic, Poonia said Prime Minister Narendra Modi has sensibly handled the situation and emerge as a world leader. “India has strengthened its position globally by providing hydroxycholoroquine, which is seen as an antidote to Covid-19, to several countries while first meeting the domestic demand,” Poonia said. Harendra Singh Jodha, head of Rajasthan Association UK, in London, shared the relief works they have been doing for Indians in the UK. “The NRIs are open to collaborate with anyone who is with the people of the state in fighting coronavirus. Already we have promised financial assistance for ICUs at different locations in the state to strengthen the healthcare system,” Jodha said. The interaction came a day after CM Ashok Gehlot held a similar interaction with NRRs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/poonia-urges-nrrs-to-contribute-to-pm-cares-fund/articleshow/75665472.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Lucknow||Husband plays midwife as woman gives birth onboard Shramik Special train||LUCKNOW: A woman migrant worker -- helped by her husband and a male relative -- gave birth to a girl while travelling on Shramik Special train from Anand to Lucknow on Sunday morning. After arriving at Charbagh railway station in Lucknow, the mother and the newborn were rushed to KGMU on an ambulance where doctors said that both were fine. Later, on the request of her family, they were discharged in the evening and sent home on an ambulance. The woman was rushed to KGMU in 102 ambulance“Sunita, who was nine-month pregnant, was travelling with her husband Saligram, two kids - eight-year-old son and six-year-old daughter - and a male relative. They all boarded the train along with other migrant workers at Anand in Gujarat and were to deboard in Lucknow and go to their village in Sultanpur in bus,” said Somveer Singh, inspector, GRP. However, the woman went into labour soon after the train crossed Kanpur, still 90 km from Lucknow. Her husband and the male relative helped her and she gave birth to a girl in the moving train. The duo travelled about half-an-hour with placenta and umbilical chord attached. After coming to know about the incident, the escorts of RPF travelling in the train alerted Charbagh railway station authorities. A staff nurse of railway hospital was called to cut the chord and remove placenta as soon as the train reached Lucknow before a 108-ambulance rushed the duo to KGMU’s Queen Mary’s hospital, said GRP officials. Prof SP Jaiswar, Queen Mary's Hospital, said "The woman came on 102 ambulance around 7 am. We examined both the baby and mother and found them normal. Though we asked her to get admitted but she refused and said she would like to go home. We allowed them to go after taking an undertaking and necessary instructions for follow up examinations.” On Saturday, two such incidents were reported in the state. In both the cases, the mother and newborn were allowed to go home as they were fine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/husband-plays-midwife-as-woman-gives-birth-onboard-shramik-spl/articleshow/75665808.cms||Vivek Singh Chauhan
May 11, 2020||Coimbatore||10 test positive for Covid-19 in Krishnagiri||COIMBATORE: Ten people tested positive for Covid-19 in Krishnagiri on Sunday, taking the total count in that district to 20. All the 10 are close contacts of the two women, who tested positive for the virus in Shoolagiri panchayat a few days ago. The new patients comprise a family of four – a 37-year-old man, his 33-year-old wife, 14-year-old daughter and 11-year-old son – and six of their neighbours – a man and five women. In six days, 20 people have tested positive for the infection in Krishnagiri, which was in the green zone until last week. Health officials have sealed the localities, from where the new cases have surfaced, to contain local transmission of the virus. Meanwhile, 52 people reached Coimbatore from Maldives on Sunday. They were put in a quarantine facility in the district. They were brought by sea route to Kochi from where they were taken to Coimbatore in a special bus that was arranged by the state government. While three of them are from Coimbatore, the remaining are from Trichy, Erode, Dindugal, Ranipet and Karaikal. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/10-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-krishnagiri/articleshow/75665467.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Blind, homeless, she realised partner’s death after hours||CHENNAI: Every morning, Jaya would talk to Thangappan for about an hour at their home – a converted tricycle on a pavement – on Kutchery Road, Mylapore. On Sunday, more than an hour into her ritual, the 65-year-old realised her 70-year-old partner was dead. Others on the pavement realized it earlier, but she was blind. Thangappan, who was also visually challenged, may have passed away late the previous night, police said later. Her sobs brought to her side a few volunteers who had been providing food to the elderly couple during the lockdown. Suspecting that he may have died of Covid-19 and wary of coming near, they handed over a garland for the body to Jaya and left. The blind woman kept vigil, sat beside Thangappan’s body until afternoon before corporation workers arrived and buried the body. Jaya was shifted to a home in Santhome where several pavement dwellers are in quarantine. Thangappan, a mahout in Kerala who had trained several elephants to perform at temple festivals, moved to Chennai four years ago. He met Jaya, a widow, at a temple in Mylapore and they soon became close. Thangappan too began losing his eyesight and they shifted to the Kutchery Road pavement, seeking alms from people who came to churches in the area. Some gave money, others provided food, a few donated clothes. A few of their fellow pavement dwellers say the two travelled from churches to temple depending on the festive season and the amount of crowd that gathers. A couple of months ago, an advocate presented them with a tricycle that they converted into a home using a tarpaulin that was also provided by someone. Thangappan, despite having lost his eyesight, was active till last week. “Since the lockdown began in late March the couple did not move anywhere and kept receiving food and tea from a few volunteers,” said Santhappan, their neighbour on the pavement. Last week, Thangappan complained of uneasiness. On Saturday morning, he complained of breathlessness and Jaya informed the volunteers who came to give them food. They and a few pavement dwellers took the couple to Government Royapettah Hospital where doctors took samples from Thangappan for Covid-19 tests, gave him a few medicines and sent them home. On Sunday morning, Jaya woke up and began their routine – speaking to Thangappan about the pleasant times they shared and about life’s vicissitudes. It was to continue till a fellow pavement dweller came with their cups of tea. “I had been talking to him without even knowing he was no more,” Jaya told this reporter over phone from the quarantine centre where she was shifted. “I have lost my only strength,” she said. Losing the only source of strength in her life left her remained inconsolable, said people at the home. No word of comfort – either from volunteers or from her pavement dwellers – could console her, they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/blind-homeless-she-realised-partners-death-after-hrs/articleshow/75665471.cms||Sindhu Kannan
May 11, 2020||Coimbatore||Construction workers to seek funds||Coimbatore: The construction workers’ union under the All India Trade Union Congress (AITUC) has decided to protest seeking financial assistance for all construction workers, among other benefits. N Selvaraj, general secretary of Tamil Nadu AITUC Construction Workers’ Union, said members would protest in front of 80 offices of village administrative officers in the district, apart from making a representation to the construction workers welfare board in the city. The union is demanding Rs 7,500 per month for each construction worker for the lockdown period, whether registered in the welfare board or not. Selvaraj said of the 31lakh unorganised workers registered in the welfare board, only 12lakh had received Rs 1,000 financial assistance promised by the state. “The state says the rest had not renewed their membership. This is not the time to discriminate... as all unorganised workers are in crisis,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/construction-workers-to-seek-funds/articleshow/75665470.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Chennai||Man kills pal in fight over side dish for booze||Chennai: A man was stabbed to death by his friend after he picked a fight with the latter for not buying side dish for liquor, in Guduvanchery on Saturday. The deceased Vinayagam, 43, of Selaiyur and the accused, Vasu, 38, of Guduvanchery, worked as real estate brokers and were friends. They also drove cabs and sold flowers to make a living. They had decided earlier that Vinayagam was supposed to buy liquor (when the Tasmac shops were open for two days) and that Vasu should buy duck meat for them to eat when they drank. On Saturday, Vinayagam invited Vasu for a drink and the two went to a tamarind farm in Dargas near Guduvanchery. Only after they reached the spot and made their drinks, did Vasu tell that he did not get the side dish. Upset over this, Vinayagam got into an argument with Vasu. In the melee, Vasu stabbed Vinayagam and fled the scene. Passersby noticed Vinayagam lying in a pool of blood and called police control room. The Guduvanchery police rushed to the spot and sent the body for post-mortem. A case has been registered and a few suspects have been detained for inquiry. Vasu is on the run.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/man-kills-pal-in-fight-over-side-dish-for-booze/articleshow/75665477.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Ahmedabad||113 cases in areas near Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: The total number of Covid-19 positive cases in Ahmedabad’s outskirts has increased to 113 with six — three cases each — being reported from Daskroi and Dholka talukas. These include one case from Shreeji Bungalows in Bopal which falls in Daskroi taluka, two cases from Manjipura village in Daskroi taluka and three cases from Mangiya Chowk village and Ambaliya village in Dholka taluka. Detroj taluka in the district happens to be the only taluka from where not a single Covid-19 positive case has been reported since the outbreak of novel coronavirus. The highest number are in Dholka taluka (49 cases) and Daskroi taluka (47 cases), while Sanand taluka has reported seven cases till date. In all, only three persons have died of Covid-19 in Ahmedabad district, claim officials. In Ahmedabad district, a total of 2,096 individuals have been placed under quarantine. A total of 3,484 people were screened for the virus on Sunday. Through the Gram Yodha surveillance, village panchayats have been monitoring the movement of 64,000 individuals entering and exiting the village. Keeping in mind that essential provisions like vegetables are important, the district development officer has issued 1,106 street vendor cards in two days. Another 2,118 vendors who have been screened will be issued the cards in the coming week based on the vendor population ratio. “We have ensured that social distancing is maintained at all vending areas in small towns and villages. The panchayats send pictures of vending activities to the respective district authorities,” says an official from Ahmedabad district administration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/113-cases-in-areas-near-ahmedabad/articleshow/75665474.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Coimbatore||Coimbatore: Narrow escape for forest workers as tusker gives chase||COIMBATORE: A group of forest department field staff had a narrow escape when a rogue tusker charged towards them and damaged the patrol vehicle at Sarkarpathy near Pollachi on Saturday while they were trying to chase the animal into forest. According to a forester, the lone tusker was raiding agriculture fields at Sarkarpathy. When alerted, the field staff attached to Pollachi forest range rushed to the spot. Watch: Narrow escape for a group of forest department field staff when a rogue tusker charged towards them and dama… https://t.co/YZxdRKIOCv— TOI Coimbatore (@TOI_Coimbatore) 1589174382000“The lone tusker, however, charged towards the patrol vehicle. While the driver immediately reversed the vehicle, that didn’t stop the wild elephant from damaging its bonnet. The staff have escaped without any injuries,” the forester said. The forest field staff, meanwhile, chased the elephant away into the forest by bursting firecrackers. The team is monitoring the movement of the elephant in Pollachi forest range. The video of the elephant charging towards the patrol vehicle has, meanwhile, gone viral on social media. Watch Watch: Forest officials miraculously escape rampaging elephant||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/lone-tusker-gives-forest-staff-a-chase/articleshow/75665475.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Delhi||DDA’s public hearing may go the digital way||New Delhi: If you are waiting for the Delhi Development Authority (DDA) to resume public hearing at Vikas Sadan for your property-related queries and complaints, get ready to use your phone for the same as the authority is planning to shift to videoconferencing in the wake of Covid-19. On public hearing days, Vikas Sadan, the DDA headquarters, used to witness a footfall of 600 to 700 people to meet senior officials, mostly of the land and housing departments, regarding applications and grievances. While DDA resumed its operations last month after the lockdown norms were relaxed, public dealing is yet to start. Still many people are turning up to enquire about public hearing. To maintain social distancing to fight novel coronavirus, DDA is, therefore, planning to replace physical public dealing with videoconferencing. Its IT department has already put in place a mechanism to implement the plan. “We can start as soon as the decision is finalised,” said V S Tomar, director (systems). The registration will be online and an applicant will be sent a link for a video call and a time slot during which the DDA officer concerned will be available for videoconferencing, Tomar said. Officials will check files online and the complainant will be provided with the relevant information or solution. If the complainant’s grievance remains unaddressed, another time slot will be allotted. It is likely that the videoconferencing will be recorded and monitored to ensure transparency. “The technical arrangement has been done by our department,” Tomar said, adding that they were expecting a decision soon. While initially popular videoconferencing applications will be used, DDA also has plans to develop one of its own if this becomes the new normal, he pointed out. “We can develop a videoconferencing application, which is not very difficult to do as long as we have data storage capabilities,” the officer said. While DDA was already adopting digital ways, the pandemic has made IT’s role even more important. “IT’s role is huge now as files are being cleared through e-office, all meetings, trainings and presentations are being carried out through videoconferencing, payments are made online and recruitments are also being done online,” Tomar said. Most officials have now adapted to the work-from-home and online culture, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/ddas-public-hearing-may-go-the-digital-way/articleshow/75665479.cms||Sidharatha Roy
May 11, 2020||Varanasi||Weather continues giving surprises in Varanasi||Varanasi: Fluctuating weather kept the conditions changing from pleasant to hot and humid on Sunday while two minor children lost their lives due to lightening in Ballia district. In Varanasi, weather took a pleasant turn in morning with sky covered with clouds and strong winds. However, by noon the conditions changed with high humidity leaving the people sweating. Humidity was recorded as 68% by Indian Meteorological Department. Again in the evening, weather changed again with dust storm and thunderstorm. Meanwhile, Sudhanshu (14) and Pragati (10) of Maldah village in Sikandarpur area of Ballia district were killed due to lightening during thunderstorm in morning. They were collecting mango in an orchard at the time of the incident. They were rushed to the district hospital where doctors declared them brought dead.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/weather-continues-giving-surprises-in-varanasi/articleshow/75663839.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Jaipur||1,200 Bihar workers leave Barmer for home||Jaisalmer: Around 1,200 Bihar labourers who were stuck in Barmer due to the lockdown left for their home state in Shramik Express on Sunday. Barmer district collector Vishram Meena and SP Anand Sharma and other administrative and police officers were present on the occasion. All the labourers were screened and medical check-up was done before they boarded the special train. Preparations for sending the labourers started on Saturday night with social distancing being implemented from Sabji Mandi Road to the station. The labourers were given sanitisers, food and mask. To maintain law and order police, RAC, railway police, RPF and home guard jawans were deployed in sufficient numbers. The station and platform was fully sanitised before the train left. The district administration paid for the tickets. The district administration and Cairn Oil and Gas gave food packets, sanitisers, water bottles and masks to the labourers. To ensure social distancing, coach and seat numbers were allotted. Jodhpur rail division senior PRO Gopal Sharma said the special train will go up to Motihari station. He said that good facilities were provided to labourers so that they could reach home with good memories of the journey.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/1200-bihar-workers-leave-barmer-for-home/articleshow/75665484.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Ajmer||Train with devotees, workers from Bihar leaves Ajmer||AJMER: A special train carrying around 1,000 devotees and migrant labourers left for Purnia in Bihar from here on Sunday evening. The district administration said all the passengers were screened before they boarded the train. This was the second train from Ajmer. The first train carrying devotees stuck in the dargah was sent to West Bengal recently. The devotees stranded in the dargah region were brought by buses to the station where they were screened before boarding the train. One of the devotees said she was happy to return home. She thanked the state government for arranging the train. There were around 4,500 devotees stuck in dargah region after the lockdown was announced and the dargah committee as well as local leaders demanded the state government to make arrangements for them so that they can reach their homes. Similarly, arrangements were made for labourers who were stuck in Nagaur, Bhilwara and Tonk through buses and trains. Meanwhile, labourers from Gujarat and western Rajasthan were seen moving on foot to Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh. One of the groups said they were coming from Pali as the contractor stopped making arrangements for their food. The nine-member group, comprising two gamilies and a four-year-old kid, are on way to Bhopal and hopes to reach their village safely.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/train-with-devotees-labourers-leave-ajmer-for-bihar/articleshow/75665480.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Wait to return home likely to get longer||Visakhapatnam: The residents of the areas affected by the vapour leak, who are currently staying at various shelters, may have to wait for a few more days before they can return home. The experts’ team collected samples of air, soil, water and affected plants on Sunday and the preliminary test results may only arrive on Monday evening. Moreover, district officials want to implement a comprehensive sanitary and sterilisation protocol in all the households of the affected villages and other measures suggested by the experts’ team before giving a nod for the public to return to their homes. However, in an encouraging sign, the internal committee on Sunday informed the state government of safe conditions in the tank, from which the styrene vapour leaked, after conducting a chemical analysis. Even the temperature in the tank further fell to 82 degrees Celsius on Sunday from 98 degrees on Saturday. The styrene level in the air in the majority of the areas is currently at 0.1 ppm. State agriculture minister K Kanna Babu said their top priority is public safety. “We will wait for 24 hours even after the styrene level reaches zero in all areas surrounding the plant. Based on the findings of the experts’ committee, we will allow the public to go back to their homes. Even the discharged patients will be kept in special shelters and provided with amenities, best medical care and assistance on all fronts” said Kanna Babu. Meanwhile, GVMC commissioner G Srijana and other officials visited the Meghadrigedda reservoir in the vicinity of the LG Polymers on Sunday. The regional testing laboratory has already collected water samples from it. Srijana has asked officials to to not draw water from the reservoir till the results are satisfactory. On the other hand, the five-member high-power committee, constituted by the state government to probe the vapour leak, visited the plant on Sunday and interacted with the representatives of the management and the affected people. Later at a review meeting, special chief secretary (environment, forests, science and technology) Neerabh Kumar Prasad, who is heading the committee, asked the local officials to assess the situation in other industries and suggest measures to prevent accidents and pollution. He also directed the officials to prepare a list of industries, which fall under hazardous and non-hazardous categories and prepare short- and long-term contingency plans so that such mishaps can be averted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/wait-to-return-home-likely-to-get-longer/articleshow/75664176.cms||Nalla.Babu
May 11, 2020||Varanasi||Elderly man dies of cancer at Deoria quarantine centre||Gorakhpur: An elderly man who had returned from Mumbai and was in the last stage of cancer, died at the quarantine centre in Deoria district on Sunday morning. As per health in charge OP Singh, the man was admitted at the Tata Memorial Hospital in Mumbai for cancer treatment, but the doctor had advised his elder son to take him home as he was in the last stage of cancer and there was no scope of further treatment. On May 7, he reached Deoria along with his family members, and after being screened, he and six members of his family were quarantined at Haraiya Basantpur quarantine centre in Rampur Karkhana area of Deoria. He died at the quarantine centre on Sunday. Before his cremation, his swab sample for Covid-19 test was collected, informed Singh. Meanwhile, more than 3,500 migrant labourers reached Gorakhpur from Punjab and Gujarat in three special trains. All returning migrants were sent to their native districts in UPSRTC buses. “First train reached Gorakhpur railway station from Srihind, Punjab, and carried 1,368 passengers of 39 districts, second train from Sabarmati, Gujarat, carried 1,218 passengers of 53 districts and third train from Surat carried 1,242 passengers of 43 districts,” said Sadar SDM Gaurav Sogarwal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/elderly-man-dies-of-cancer-at-deoria-quarantine-centre/articleshow/75663853.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Varanasi||BJP's UP vice-chief Upendra Shukla passes away at 60||GORAKHPUR: BJP state vice-president Upendra Dutt Shukla passed away after suffering a cardiac arrest on Sunday afternoon. He was 60 years old. He is survived by sons Arvind and Amit. Many political personalities, including Chief minister Yogi Adityanath, expressed grief over his sudden and untimely demise. Expressing grief, the CM said: “He was a popular leader who dedicated his entire life in service of the nation. He successfully shouldered many important responsibilities while remaining committed to the nationalist ideology. With his demise, the party has lost a committed worker and people a real wellwisher.” Shukla, a native of Sariya Tiwari village in Khajini area of Gorakhpur, had been residing at his house in Alahdapur area of Gorakhpur since many years. His sudden demise triggered shock waves across the political fraternity and his supporters. Members of the BJP, including zonal president Dr Dharmendra Singh, zonal vice-president Dr Satyendra Sinha, district president Yudhishthir Singh and media in charge Brijesh Ram Tripathi paid tributes to the deapted leader. Shukla’s supporters took to social media to offer condolences and posted his 2018 byelection campaign photos with the chief minister, home minister Amit Shah and other dignitaries. During the 2018 Gorakhpur bypolls, he was chosen as the BJP candidate but he lost to the then Samajwadi Party candidate Praveen Nishad by a narrow margin. Nishad, however, joined the BJP later. BJP spokesperson Rahul Tiwari said, “Around 3.30 pm on Sunday, Shukla suffered a heart attack at his Alahdadpur residence following which he was rushed to the hospital where he died. The entire party is grieving his sudden demise. We will always remember him as an honest and dedicated party worker.” Shukla was a member of the RSS since 1975, and in 1977, he campaigned for the Janata party as a student. He then joined the BJP in 1980 soon after its inception. He became an active member of the BJP in 1981, and served the party ever since. After the byelections in 2018, he was appointed as BJP’s state vice president. Shukla had, during his lifetime, contested three elections from Kaudiram assembly seat, and one byelection from Gorakhpur, but was not able to win. In 2012, Kaudiram seat was dissolved and it became part of Gorakhpur Rural.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/bjp-state-vice-chief-upendra-shukla-passes-away-at-60/articleshow/75663870.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Lucknow||BJP's UP vice-chief Upendra Shukla passes away at 60||GORAKHPUR: BJP state vice-president Upendra Dutt Shukla passed away after suffering a cardiac arrest on Sunday afternoon. He was 60 years old. He is survived by sons Arvind and Amit. Many political personalities, including Chief minister Yogi Adityanath, expressed grief over his sudden and untimely demise. Expressing grief, the CM said: “He was a popular leader who dedicated his entire life in service of the nation. He successfully shouldered many important responsibilities while remaining committed to the nationalist ideology. With his demise, the party has lost a committed worker and people a real wellwisher.” Shukla, a native of Sariya Tiwari village in Khajini area of Gorakhpur, had been residing at his house in Alahdapur area of Gorakhpur since many years. His sudden demise triggered shock waves across the political fraternity and his supporters. Members of the BJP, including zonal president Dr Dharmendra Singh, zonal vice-president Dr Satyendra Sinha, district president Yudhishthir Singh and media in charge Brijesh Ram Tripathi paid tributes to the deapted leader. Shukla’s supporters took to social media to offer condolences and posted his 2018 byelection campaign photos with the chief minister, home minister Amit Shah and other dignitaries. During the 2018 Gorakhpur bypolls, he was chosen as the BJP candidate but he lost to the then Samajwadi Party candidate Praveen Nishad by a narrow margin. Nishad, however, joined the BJP later. BJP spokesperson Rahul Tiwari said, “Around 3.30 pm on Sunday, Shukla suffered a heart attack at his Alahdadpur residence following which he was rushed to the hospital where he died. The entire party is grieving his sudden demise. We will always remember him as an honest and dedicated party worker.” Shukla was a member of the RSS since 1975, and in 1977, he campaigned for the Janata party as a student. He then joined the BJP in 1980 soon after its inception. He became an active member of the BJP in 1981, and served the party ever since. After the byelections in 2018, he was appointed as BJP’s state vice president. Shukla had, during his lifetime, contested three elections from Kaudiram assembly seat, and one byelection from Gorakhpur, but was not able to win. In 2012, Kaudiram seat was dissolved and it became part of Gorakhpur Rural.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/bjp-state-vice-chief-upendra-shukla-passes-away-at-60/articleshow/75673172.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Delhi||Delhi Metro reboots projects with ‘in-house’ hands||NEW DELHI: The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) has resumed the construction work of its much-delayed Phase IV project and the extension of the Airport Express Line (AEL) and Grey Line (Dwarka-Najafgarh). In the guidelines on lockdown measures announced by the Union home ministry last month, continuation of work on construction projects was allowed where workers are available on site and no workers are required to be brought from outside. DMRC had prepared a detailed standard operating procedure for the resumption of construction work following the guidelines as workers were available at its sites. “At present, DMRC had about 3,500 workers available across five to six different sites in the city including actual work sites of Dhansa, Airport Express Line expansion work in Dwarka as well as sites and casting yards for Phase IV projects,” a DMRC official said. The official said that all guidelines set by the government agencies are being implemented while resuming work and workers have been sensitised about the precautionary guidelines. “Displays with the necessary information regarding social distancing are being installed at the work sites. Masks, sanitisers and thermal scanners are being provided at the sites as well,” the official said. He said DMRC’s engineers are keeping a very close eye at the sites to ensure all norms are followed. Sources said that limited construction material and machinery were available at the sites for immediate resumption of work and adequate availability of all these materials in the long run may depend on further relaxation of lockdown guidelines. The 4.3-km-long Dwarka-Najafgarh section of Grey Line was opened to public in October last year and work is going on at its 1.2-km-long underground extension to Dhansa Stand. Construction work has also resumed extending AEL from Dwarka Sector 21 to exhibition-cum-convention centre at Dwarka Sector 25. Ever since construction work was stopped, DMRC has been ensuring that the nearly 3,500 labourers living in different worker camps and casting yards don’t face any food shortage or health related issues. “All arrangements for food, sanitisation and health check-ups during the lockdown have been undertaken by the contractors and sub-contractors of different projects, which is inspected by our personnel,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/metro-reboots-projects-with-in-house-hands/articleshow/75665490.cms||Sidharatha Roy
May 11, 2020||Vijayawada||Sanitation drive must in villages around LG Polymers plant: Jaganmohan Reddy||AMARAVATI: Chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy has directed Visakhapatnam district collector V Vinay Chand to launch sanitation drive in the five villages surrounding the LG Polymers plant. He also asked the officials to allow locals to return to homes only after completion of the drive. The chief minister gave the directions while reviewing the measures taken to restore normalcy after the gas leak mishap with officials at his camp office on Sunday. The chief minister directed them to complete the disbursement of ex gratia payments to the kin of the deceased by night and to all those recovering in the hospitals by Monday. He enquired after their health and asked the officials to provide best possible medical aid to all the victims. He also enquired about the measures initiated to improve the air-quality levels in and around the factory. The officials explained that the air-quality has reached safe levels. They said that the experts from Pune and Nagpur are closely monitoring the situation and their help will be sought to remove styrene residues from local drains and villages.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/sanitation-drive-must-in-villages-around-plant-cm/articleshow/75664186.cms||Samdani MN
May 11, 2020||Goa||Goa: Health minister visits Candolim health centre||PANAJI: Goa health minister Vishwajit Rane visited Candolim to assess the status of the health centre on Sunday. Rane interacted with health officer Dr Roshan Nazareth and other staffs and assured them they will be provided with necessary protective gears and equipments to ensure their safety. The coastal belt centre has set up a flu out-patient department. “I took stock of the pharmacy in addition to identification of the location for the pandal, where the citizens can sit comfortably,” he said. With the support of port minister, who is also a Calangute MLA, he said they are working towards providing top-notch facilities to citizens of Candolim. The Candolim centre sees high patient turn out as it is being in the coastal village having higher concentration of migrant population.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-health-minister-visits-candolim-health-centre/articleshow/75666058.cms||Bindiya Chari
May 11, 2020||Jaipur||789 migrants reach Banswara, quarantine notices stamped outside homes||Udaipur: As many as 789 migrant workers who were stuck in other states returned to their homes on Sunday following the relaxation granted by the state government on their movement to return home during the lockdown period. Additional collector Naresh Bunkar said of the 789 people who reached Banswara on Sunday, 54 were from Gujarat, 33 from Madhya Pradesh, 119 from Maharashtra, 30 from Andhra Pradesh, 497 from Tamil Nadu, 27 from Haryana, and 29 were from Telangana. Meanwhile, 38 people from Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra and Uttar Pradesh were sent back to their home towns, he said. The medical teams deployed at the district check-post screened the workers before they were let in and transported to their respective villages through buses arranged by the government. Since the lockdown, so far, 11,945 migrants have returned to Banswara from various cities of Gujarat, Maharashtra, Himachal Pradesh, Punjab, Chattisgarh, UP, AP, Tamil Nadu, Haryana, Delhi, Karnataka, Kerala, Odisha and Bihar. While 892 residents of other states who were working here have left for their homes. The medical department and para-medical staff are on a door-to-door survey and are counselling workers to stay indoors during the quarantine period so as to check the community transmission of the disease. Asha and the anganwadi workers along with ANMs are imparting precautionary instructions to such people and notices are being pasted on the entrance of their homes to alert the neighbours about the quarantine period as well as the significance of maintaining social distance during the pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/789-migrants-reach-banswara-quarantine-notices-stamped-outside-homes/articleshow/75665489.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Allahabad||Separated by lockdown, but connected by social media||Prayagraj: Being forced to stay indoors because of the lockdown on Mother’s Day might have dashed their plans, but many in the city made up for it by posting emotional messages on social media on Sunday for their mothers. As the world celebrated Mother’s Day on Sunday, there were many in the city who could not be with their mothers on the special day because of the lockdown enforced because of the novel coronavirus (Covid-19) outbreak. Social media users shared their emotions via posts, photographs, songs and poems to thank these special women in their lives. Anjali, a teacher by profession, took to social media and wrote an emotional post for her mother. She was was not able to visit her mother’s native town in Gujrat due to the lockdown. “Social media is a great tool to share feelings for people like us who could not visit their mothers on this special day,” she said. Another Prayagraj resident Sanjeev said, “My mother lives Lukcnow. I wrote a post for my mother as I couldn’t visit my her because of the lockdown. I could not be there with her, so I talked to her over a video call.” “Social media is flooded with users wanting to write about what they feel for their mothers,” said Ravi Kesarwani, another local resident. Salori resident Ajay Tripathi said, “Everyone wants to make their mother feel special on this day. However, for those who cannot, there is always social media.” “There are a lot of us who do not live with their parents, which makes it difficult for us to meet them often. While it was not possible for me to visit my mother on this day, social media made it possible for me to connect with my mother,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/separated-by-lockdown-but-connected-by-social-media/articleshow/75663892.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Empty water tanks in Vizag gas leak affected areas: Experts||VISAKHAPATNAM: The fivemember team from CSIR-National Environmental Engineering Institute that is in the city to look into the impact of the styrene vapour leak at the LG Polymers plant has recommended that water tanks in the affected areas be emptied out and cleaned thoroughly. Another recommendation for villagers who are currently in shelters is to throw out provisions, including groceries, which were left out in the open, upon returning home. The Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) has already stopped taking drinking water for supply from the Meghadrigedda reservoir which is located close to the plant in consideration of public safety. Meanwhile, the Union and state governments have set up several committees to study the various aspects of the vapour leak and its aftereffect. An internal committee has been formed under the chairpersonship of the director of factories to ascertain whether LG Polymers has followed due process. A team of professors from a cross-section of departments from Andhra University (AU) have also taken up the responsibility of studying the impact and making recommendations to the district administration. The Indian Institute of Science Education and Research (IISER) in Tirupati has been requested to coordinate with the various committees and advise the administration. AP agriculture minister K Kannababu said that CSIRNEERI is conducting an environmental impact assessment of the vapour leak. The state government has also constituted a medical and health committee to study the impact of the vapour leak on the health of the public. The team has been tasked with studying both the immediate as well as long-term effects on public health and devise ways to protect people from the impact.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/what-next-empty-water-tanks-throw-away-uncovered-food/articleshow/75664208.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Pune||Pune: Cops worry about migrants walking home||PUNE: Nearly 7,000 migrant workers in the city’s containment zones have so far applied for travel permission, but police are worried that the workers — rather than wait for the permits — may attempt to walk back to their hometowns. Pune Municipal Corporation has declared 69 containment areas — most of these come under the jurisdictions of the Samarth, Faraskhana, Khadak, Swargate and Market Yard police stations. No one is allowed to move in or out of these areas. After the central government allowed the movement of the migrant workers and arranged special trains, police and the local revenue authorities asked the migrants to visit nearest police station to get passes that would allow them to board the trains. The workers staying in the containment areas also filled up the forms requesting travel. Most of them hail from Jharkhand, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Chhatisgarh, and West Bengal. “We have informed the migrants about restrictions in containment areas, but the images and video footage on television channels showing migrants going back by trains, buses or even walking their way back home is making these people restive,” a senior police officer said. These workers are continuously visiting the police stations seeking passes. “However, we have asked them to wait for a few more days, when they will be able to travel,” said senior inspector Balkrushna Kadam of Samarth police station. “We have stepped up our vigil in and around the containment areas. We will not use force against migrants. We will just request them to return to their present homes,” senior inspector S S Nimbalkar of Market Yard police station. The PMC recently sealed all the entry and exit points to these areas. A senior police officer told TOI that there was fear that the workers might jump the barricades in the dark and start walking towards their hometown. “We have stepped up vigil, especially in the night, to avert such attempts,” an officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cops-worry-about-migrants-walking-home/articleshow/75665491.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Visakhapatnam||More PTBC to be brought in for remaining styrene stock||Visakhapatnam: More PTBC (paratertiary butyl catechol) will be airlifted to Visakhapatnam to avoid any further incident with the remaining styrene monomer stock at the LG Polymers plant. Apart from PTBC, LG Polymers has also ordered two more chemicals, including a polymerisation inhibitor and a green retarder. In a letter to the special chief secretary, industries and commerce, LG Polymers requested the state authorities to arrange for emergency air support for the transportation of the chemicals from Daman and Mundra airports. In the letter, it mentioned that the technical team at their headquarters in South Korea has suggested using the chemicals to avoid any further incident with the remaining monomer stock. The quantity of chemicals ordered include 1,000 kilograms of PTBC and 3,600 kilograms each of Actify 2680 (polymerisation inhibitor) and Actify 2673 (green retarder). According to the industry experts, the combination of an inhibitor and retarder work well in controlling a styrene unit. The state government has already airlifted nearly 500 kilograms PTBC, a chemical, which works as a neutralizer to prevent the effects of vapour leak, from Gujarat immediately after the mishap. The teams involved in the counteraction efforts at the LG Polymers plant for the last four days have been utilising the PTBC. The prolonged storage of styrene during the lockdown period of nearly 40 days is believed to have led self-polymerisation instead of the controlled polymerisation process. The counteraction efforts have yielded results with the near-complete plugging of the emissions in the last two days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/more-ptbc-to-be-brought-in-for-remaining-styrene-stock/articleshow/75664195.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Dehradun||Nepalese communist parties protest new road to Kailash Mansarovar, allege it is built over ‘disputed territory’||Pithoragarh: Representatives of two communist parties of Nepal in Darchula area (in Nepal) have registered their protest at the inauguration of the Ghatiyabagar-Lipulekh road that is expected to significantly cut travel time to Kailash Mansarovar. In a statement on Sunday, both parties said the road is “built on disputed area and violates Nepalese sovereignty.” Defence minister Rajnath Singh had inaugurated the new road built by the Border Roads Organisation through videoconferencing from Delhi on Friday. The road connects Dharchula (in Pithorragarh district) to the Lipulekh Pass, and will allow better movement for armed forces on the India-China border, besides facilitating road travel for pilgrims on the Kailash Mansarovar Yatra. However, members of Nepal’s ruling communist party claimed that the road encroaches upon Nepalese territory as it passes through Ward Number 1 under Byas village municipality of their country. A joint statement issued by party secretary Uday Singh Badal and president Ganesh Singh Khatri alleged that “even though both countries had agreed to amicably settle the border dispute, India had taken unilateral action in this regard.” The statement added that “construction of road and other development work in Limphiyadhura, Lipulekh and Kalapani areas disrespects Nepali sovereignty and integrity.” It further said that “according to the Sugauli Treaty, areas of Limphiyadhura, Lipulekh and Kalapani located to the east of Mahakali river historically belong to Nepal.” and demanded that work on the road be stopped immediately. The Darchula district committee of Nepal Communist Party (Revolutionary Maoist) also condemned the road construction work in Kalapani, Gunji and Lipulekh, demanding that work be stopped immediately. A press statement issued by Comrade Karan, identified as the district secretary of the party, also condemned the Nepal government for not protecting national interests and asked the government to take a firm stand on the matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/nepalese-communist-parties-protest-new-road-to-kailash-mansarovar-allege-it-is-built-over-disputed-territory/articleshow/75664203.cms||Prem Punetha
May 11, 2020||Jaipur||Virus claims 2 lives in Jaipur and Banswara, total infections at 3,814||Jaipur: Two persons died while 106 tested positive for Covid-19 in the state on Sunday, taking the tally of infected persons to 3,814. The deaths were reported from Jaipur and Banswara. While Jaipur reported its 57th death, Banswara recorded its first taking toll to 108 in the state. The districts which reported cases are Udaipur (30), Jaipur (23), Udaipur (11), Kota (17), Ajmer (9), Tonk 94) and Nagaur 93). Two persons each were found infected in Baran and Pali, while one each case was reported from Jalore, Rajsamand, Sirohi, Bikaner and Dungarpur. In Jaipur, 10 persons were found infected with the virus in Shastri Nagar, four from Ramganj, three from Chandpole, while one each case was found infected in Purani Basti, Nahri Ka Naka, Murlipura, Mahesh Nagar, Dadi Ka Phatak and Malviya Nagar. However, 79 persons recovered from the disease in the state. Out of those, 45 recovered in Jodhpur, 16 in Pali, six from Chittorgarh, four in Banswara, three in Jaisalmer, three in Nagaur and two in Bharatpur. In the state, as many as 1,993 persons have been discharged from hospitals till date after being cured. However, there are 1,465 active cases undergoing treatment in different districts. There are 3,780 samples still pending in the state the results of which are awaited. The health department has expanded testing facilities to 20 centres with permission from the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), the latest being a centre in Bhilwara. A health department official said all the medical colleges run by the government directly and run by forming societies in different districts are conducting tests.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/virus-claims-2-lives-in-jaipur-and-banswara-total-infections-at-3814/articleshow/75665497.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Allahabad||Accident kills two men on way to Bihar||Prayagraj: A contractor and his relative were killed after a motorcycle collided with a truck transporting LPG cylinders near Devkali village in Hanumanganj area on Sunday morning. The accident occurred on Prayagraj-Varanasi highway under Sarayinayat police station. The victims Amresh Kumar Rai (32) and Rajiv Kumar Rai (28) alias Raju were residents of Bihar’s Madhepura and Purniya districts respectively. The accident occurred around 5.30am and they two migrants were on their way to Bihar from Ghaziabad. Police have arrested the accused driver and seized the truck. Police said that while Amresh was a contractor in a Ghziabad-based firm, Rajiv was a mason. Rajiv had gone to Ghaziabad about four months back and was one of Amresh’s relatives. They had left for Bihar on May 7 on a motorcycle. On Sunday morning when they reached near Devkali, a speeding truck laden with LPG cylinders collided with the two-wheeler. Amresh and Rajiv died on the spot. Local residents rushed to the spot and caught the truck driver before he ciuld escape. The bodies have been sent for postmortem examination.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/accident-kills-two-men-on-way-to-bihar/articleshow/75663923.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Pune||Implement plan to kickstart economy: Yohan Poonawalla||PUNE: The government will have to kickstart the economy soon or there will be massive implications, said Yohan Poonawalla, chairman and managing director, Poonawalla Engineering Group. “The government has to realise that the virus is here to stay. It is not going anywhere in a hurry. There has to be a plan and the government has to quickly start unwinding by taking due precautions,” he said. “No country in the world has enforced a lockdown of the scale India has and this is already having repercussions,” Poonawalla said. Citing the recent spate of salary cuts and lay-offs, he said there are bound to be consequences. “When you hard-stop a gigantic vehicle carrying 1.3 billion people, it has to be properly planned and implemented. It is true that a hard-stop was required because the virus was spreading and nobody knew what the consequences might have been. But you must also have a plan in place. You have to roll it out and implement it very quickly,” he said. The industrialist, who also runs the marquee stud-farm business of the group, said it was a folly to hotspot an entire city like Mumbai and Pune. “After the hard-stop, restarting businesses will be difficult because the entire ecosystem has to kickstart. Raw materials have to come in and our products have to start going to different parts of the country. Unless road transport happens, no goods can move. I am afraid we are losing too much time. States will have to co-operate,” he said, adding that the group has decided not to lay off any of its 1,000 workers. “Just moratorium does not make any sense. In India’s case, the interest meter continues to run. In other countries, they are paying 80% of the salary to individuals besides rent. We are the only country that is talking about increasing the tax (for the rich),” he said. Talking about the migrants’ crisis, Poonawalla said the government ought to have given the workers at least 48 hours to return home. “I have seen horrific images of them walking back home. If they are going only now, how are they going to come back? When the lockdown started, they should have been quickly allowed to go back to their families and farmlands in the villages. By planting them here, there was no real plan or thought process on who was going to take care of them or who was going to feed them,” he said. Poonawalla said that had the migrant workers been allowed to go back on day one, they would have been in a much happier place and now they would have been prepared to come back and start work.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/implement-plan-to-kickstart-economy-yohan-poonawalla/articleshow/75665506.cms||Satyanarayan Iyer
May 11, 2020||Pune||Cab driver cons woman, flees with cash and valuables||PUNE: An illegal attempt to travel to Mumbai in a cab cost a 65-year-old woman from Ambegaon dearly on Saturday morning when the driver abandoned her along the Katraj-Dehu Road bypass near Wakad bridge and drove away with her bag containing Rs25,000 and gold ornaments, collectively worth Rs1.55 lakh. The woman later approached the Hinjewadi police and lodged an FIR against the driver. Sub-inspector Mininath Warude of the Hinjewadi police told TOI that the complainant wanted to go to Mumbai and had applied for travel pass. “When she did not get the pass she booked a cab through some contact,” Warude said. “There was one more passenger in the cab,” Warude said adding, “When they reached near Wakad bridge, the driver stopped and requested them to deboard the cab.” He said the driver asked them to wait along the road till he refuelled. “He told them he could not take them to the petrol pump as policemen were patrolling the road,” Warude said. The complainant got down without taking her bag along with her. The other passenger, however, did not keep the bag in the cab. “After waiting an hour when the driver did not turn up, the woman realized that she had been conned,” Warude said.  “The woman has given us the registration number of the cab, our probe is on,” Warude said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cab-driver-cons-woman-flees-with-cash-valuables/articleshow/75665495.cms||Mihir Tanksale
May 11, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: Desperate workers try to take rail tracks route in Talegaon||PUNE: The authorities at the Talegaon railway station, at 10am on Saturday, were confronted by a tricky problem — a group of 13 migrant workers, including women and children — attempted to walk down the tracks to their hometown in Chhatisgarh’s Raipur district. It took a lot of convincing, but the group finally moved off the tracks and walked away onto the road. “They were not ready to listen and were bent on walking down the railway track,” a railways official said. “They appeared to be very desperate and argued with us when we stopped them,” the official said, adding, “They had no clue about the direction of their hometown. They just wanted to walk. We had a hard time convincing them.” On Friday afternoon, the alert loco pilot of a goods train running from Daund towards Pune stopped the train just 100 metres from a large group of migrant workers, who were walking the tracks between the Uruli and Loni stations. “We were at the platform, when we saw them trying to get onto the tracks. With an RPF officer, we rushed towards them and told them there were no trains plying,” the official said. To this, the workers said they wanted to go to Raipur. They told the officials they had applied for travel permits, but had yet to hear from the district administration. “They said they used to work on a construction site and had very little money left. They further said they were not getting proper food and that it was becoming impossible for them to stay on,” the official said. The officials told the workers that only the special trains for migrants were operational. “At this, all of them got very angry,” the official said. “They said if the train won’t come for them, then they would walk,” the official said. The group comprised five-six children, the official said. The railway officials further asked them why they weren’t taking the road. “They said police were not allowing them to move freely,” the official said. The workers said they would take all precautions and be safe. “We simply couldn’t allow them to do it. The RPF officer told them to leave the track and they walked towards Chakan Road,” the official said. All railway stations have been put on full alert for such instances. “Loco pilots have been asked to blow the train whistle frequently. Any information about assembly on the tracks is passed on to the pilots who then reduce the speed of the train,” an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/desperate-workers-try-to-take-rail-tracks-route-in-talegaon/articleshow/75665500.cms||Joy Sengupta
May 11, 2020||Pune||Sugar cane workers stranded in Tamil Nadu look to state for help||PUNE: For 190 sugar cane harvesters from Beed and Parbhani stranded in Tamil Nadu and desperate to get home, the 55-day wait is now getting excruciating. “We have been stranded here for two months. We are hardly getting enough food to eat. I want to go home to be with my children. I request the Maharashtra government to bring us back,” said Nilabai Rathod, a sugar cane harvester. Rathod is among 190 sugar cane workers from Beed and Parbhani districts stuck at Keezhapalur village, Ariyalur district, Tamil Nadu since the lockdown. “Officials from the sugar mill give us a 10kg pack of aata, 1kg potatoes, few tomatoes and 1kg oil for a group of 20 people. This was supposed to last for 10 days. How can we survive like this,” said Vilas Pawar, another sugar cane harvester. Pawar said the group had come to Ariyalur district to cut sugar cane over one month. “We have cut about 300 metric tonnes sugar cane and had almost completed the work before the lockdown ,” Pawar said. He said that for the past 1.5 months the entire group has been staying at the sugar cane farm. The workers had been requesting the sugar mill authorities to make arrangements for their return home. “They have been giving us oral assurances only,” Pawar said. About 15 days ago the entire group was shifted to a school at Keezhapalur village but now the workers are struggling to get enough to eat. In the last 15 days authorities haven’t conducted a medical examination of workers or given them masks, Pawar said, adding when they demanded travel arrangements, authorities called police to threaten them. The group is ready to travel in a trucks. “We told them to drop us till the state border. We want to return home,” Pawar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/sugar-cane-workers-stranded-in-tamil-nadu-look-to-state-for-help/articleshow/75665494.cms||Mihir Tanksale
May 11, 2020||Allahabad||Special trains bring UP migrants stranded in Guj, AP back home||Prayagraj: Seven Shramik Special trains and several UPSRTC buses ensured that hundreds of migrants native to Uttar Pradesh reached their home towns on Sunday amidst the lockdown enforced in the wake of the novel coronavirus (Covid-19) outbreak. These migrants had been stranded in various cities of Gujarat and Andhra Pradesh because of the lockdown. While three Shramik Special trains arrived at Prayaraj Junction, two arrived at Kanpur Central station. Besides, one train arrived each at Etah and Aligarh railway stations. Public relations officer (PRO) of North Central Railway’s Prayagraj division SK Gupta said, “Of the three, one Shramik Special (07609) train arrived at Prayagraj Junction’s platform number 1 from Kurnool around 9.10 am. It was carrying 1,248 passengers in its 24 coaches. These passengers were later sent to their respective native districts via 42 buses.” At around 12.55 pm, another Shramik Special train (09579) arrived at Prayagraj Junction from Navsari with 1,151 passengers on board. The migrants were sent to their towns via 37 roadways buses. The third Shramik Special train arrived at Prayagraj Junction around 6pm and had 1,200 passengers travelling in its 22 coaches. It arrived at platform number 1 of the junction from Surat. “After the migrants’ arrival, Railway Protection Force (RPF) and Government Railway Police (GRP) personnel, and ticket checking staff directed the passengers to stand in queues in marked circles,” said Gupta. The passengers were then made to undergo a medical check up and provided food and water. They were then sent to their respective hometowns by UP State Road Transport Corporation (UPSRTC) buses. In Kanpur, the train from Godhra (Gujarat) arrived at 8.30am with 1,300 passengers on board. The 22-coach train arrived at platform number 9. The migrants headed home in 52 UPSRTC buses, after a medical examination. Another Shramik Special train arrived at Kanpur Central station around 11.50am at the same platform from Surendra Nagar, carrying 1,228 passengers in its 24 coaches. These passengers were also sent to their native home towns by 46 buses after all formalities. In Aligarh, the Shramik Special train from Dahod arrived at 7.30am with 1,281 passengers on board. There were 22 coaches in the train. The migrants were sent to their home towns via 50 state buses. A Shramik Special train carrying 1,200 passengers arrived at Etah railway station from Veeramgam on Sunday. These migrant were later sent to their home districts by 48 buses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/special-trains-bring-up-migrants-stranded-in-guj-ap-back-home/articleshow/75663904.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Delhi||Hospitals to blame for untimely updates on Covid-19 deaths: Delhi government||NEW DELHI: Facing criticism for allegedly under-reporting Covid-19 deaths, Delhi government on Sunday issued a standard operating procedure for designated hospitals to ensure that all casualties due to novel coronavirus are communicated to the government by 5pm every day. Blaming hospitals for the delay in informing about the deaths and not providing case summaries of deceased patients, resulting in “incorrect” reports being submitted to the government, Delhi chief secretary Vijay Dev warned health facilities of strict action if they failed to “scrupulously” follow the SOP. “It has come to notice that both public and private hospitals (dedicated Covid and non-Covid hospitals) are not reporting deaths of positive cases occurring in their hospitals in a timely and regular manner,” the chief secretary, who also heads the state executive committee of Delhi Disaster Management Authority, said in his order. “… it has further been observed that despite repeated reminders, death summaries of deceased patients are not being provided to the death audit committee, resulting in incorrect/ delayed reports,” it stated. Delhi government has come under criticism following a difference in the number of Covid-19 deaths between the data provided in the daily health bulletin and shared individually by various hospitals in the capital. The government had formed the death audit committee on April 20 to scrutinise each case, in which the patient was tested Covid-19 positive, on a daily basis in all hospitals before releasing the data. Seeking more “transparency,” opposition parties had on Saturday said the people had a right to know about the severity of the outbreak with correct number of deaths due to the coronavirus. There are six Centre and Delhi government-run hospitals, four private, three dedicated health centres and 11 care centres for Covid-19 patients in the city. Dev, in Sunday’s order, asked all health facilities — government and private — to provide the death data strictly as per the SOP. As per the new guidelines, hospitals will have to appoint a nodal officer to send a daily report to the government, along with scanned copies of death summary, medical files and other relevant data by email to district and state surveillance unit by 5pm every day. Even if there is no death reported in a particular hospital, it will have to send an email clearly stating the same to the surveillance agencies. The death audit committee will meet at 5.30pm every day to examine the reports and declare “death due to Covid-19 or otherwise” after due diligence, the SOP stated. In case a hospital fails to send the communication by 5pm, the officer concerned at of the surveillance teams will take up the matter with senior officials of the health facility. An explanation will have to be submitted by the hospital to the secretary (health and family welfare) by 11am next day in case the report is not sent by 6pm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/govt-hosps-to-blame-for-untimely-updates/articleshow/75665846.cms||Atul Mathur
May 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Businessman stabbed by relative over property dispute||HYDERABAD: A 40-year-old businessman was stabbed to death by his brother-in-law at Azampura in Chaderghat on Saturday night. According to Chaderghat police, Afzal Rehman, a resident of Kachiguda, was stabbed by Dastagir at around 11 p.m. A severely injured Rehman died before locals shifted him to the nearby hospital. Police said that both Rehman and Dastagir reside on different floors of a same building in Kacheguda. “They had a dispute regarding this building. Dastagir attacked Rehman and killed him. The accused is at large now.” said Chaderghat inspector, P Sateesh. The incident took place when they were holding discussions to resolve their property dispute.  Police have registered a case under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code and are on the look out for the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bizman-stabbed-by-relative-over-property-dispute/articleshow/75665501.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Pune||PCB plans to set up three Covid-19 care centres||PUNE: The Pune Cantonment Board (PCB) has sought approval from the district collector on a proposal to set up three Covid-19 Care Centers of 100-bed capacity each. Two such centres will be set up in Modikhana and one in Ghorpadi. The centres will cater to positive, asymptomatic patients, who must be kept under observation. “Anticipating the collector’s approval, we have started working on the proposed facilities at Mahadji Shinde High School and Babasaheb Ambedkar Industrial Training Institute in Modikhana and Ghorpadi High School. We will hire the services of para-medics from private hospitals for the facilities. The board has approved a proposal to the effect,” PCB chief executive officer Amit Kumar told TOI. The PCB has recorded 68 Covid-19 positive cases, including three deaths, since the second week of March. It has since set up a 120-bed Covid-19 health care centre at Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel Cantonment General Hospital. The three upcoming facilities would augment PCB’s health infrastructure to fight the contagion. District collector Naval Kishore Ram said, “We will provide all kind of assistance to the PCB. I have conducted a spot review of the affected areas and we feel the board is in need of the proposed Covid care centres in the cantonment.” Meanwhile, CEO Kumar said, “Considering the density of population and violation of social distancing norms, we have started collecting samples of as many residents as possible to identify positive cases and trace their contacts.” The use of common public toilets, proximity to severely affected areas like Bhavani Peth, and concealment of health conditions are some factors causing a spike in cases in the cantonment, an analysis by the PCB revealed. Kumar said, “Most positive patients from New Modikhana and Bhimpura had come in contact with residents of Bhavani Peth.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pcb-plans-to-set-up-3-covid-19-care-centres/articleshow/75665507.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Hyderabad||No Shramik special trains to Bengal yet: Railway officials||Hyderabad: Putting rest to speculations, officials have clarified that no Shramik special has train left from Telangana to Bengal until Sunday evening. As around 17,000 are stranded migrant workers in state from Bengal, as many as 10-12 trains would be required to ferry them home. Considering the fact that they had to adhere to the social distancing guidelines, only 54 people instead of the usual of 72 people can be allowed in a compartment. “Most labourers are from Malda, Murshidabad, Nadia, East and West Midnapore, North and South 24 Parganas and Bankura districts. They were employed in the construction sector,” sources said. Not only the workers, several patients, their attendants, students, pilgrims, employees and tourists from West Bengal are waiting to leave for home. “I am stranded in Secunderabad and want to travel to my native place, Kolkata. However, I don’t have my own vehicle or any means of transport. I have applied for e-pass but have not received any notification,” tweeted a techie, tagging the concerned state authorities. Railway helpline operating in the state have also been flooded with requests regarding trains. “We have received numerous calls from people enquiring about trains to Bankura, Purulia, New Jalpaiguri, Kharagpur, Howrah, Hooghly district and West Bardhawan district,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/no-shramik-special-trains-to-bengal-yet-railway-officials/articleshow/75665031.cms||Arya Sharan
May 11, 2020||Delhi||Police story: Morning diaries go paperless||NEW DELHI: In a paradigm shift, Delhi Police is learnt to have done away with the archaic practice of “morning diaries”, which required cops to report happenings of the previous day and night to their supervisors every morning in person. Police commissioner SN Shrivastava has implemented an online reporting system to reduce unnecessary paperwork and improve efficiency of policemen. The new system has been designed with the help of National Informatics Centre. Policemen will now be able to upload their reports early in the morning and the same can be accessed by their supervisors, including the top cop, in real time. The system is interactive and feedback and comments by superiors can be given on the same file and viewed by the officer concerned immediately. While the proposal was in the pipeline since April, the decision to go paperless came after the nationwide lockdown was put in place because of the novel coronavirus outbreak. Since the lockdown, Shrivastava was facing the huge challenge of frequently communicating with his officers, including joint commissioners, special commissioners and DCPs, apart from charting strategies. At this time, all hands are required on the deck and seniors need to lead from the front. The top cop has replaced physical meetings with virtual ones and started videoconferencing with his subordinates. Shrivastava subsequently floated the idea of doing away with the decades-old manual diary system, which had been consuming valuable hours of policemen every morning. The trial went on for about 10 days. When the results came out positive, the project was launched on Sunday. The facility is available to officers till the rank of deputy commissioner of police, as of now. It will be soon available to subordinates too, said an officer. TOI has learnt that the commissioner also intends to cut down on routine meetings that require field officers, including DCPs, to report to Delhi Police headquarters. The brass has 6-7 such meetings every week. Each meeting usually takes 4-5 hours, including travelling time and tea breaks of half an hour. Apart from additional fuel cost, a lot of manpower is wasted in carrying files from the offices of the DCPs to the police HQ and back, said a DCP-rank officer. Moreover, many DCPs call it a day after the meeting and return to their residences if they are posted in far-flung areas. “Making these meetings virtual and asking officers to be physically present only when it’s of utmost importance will enhance productivity and more time will be devoted to the public,” a senior officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/police-story-morning-diaries-go-paperless/articleshow/75665856.cms||Raj Shekhar
May 11, 2020||Pune||MSRTC puts its buses into action to help take migrants up to state borders||Pune: The state transport department has suspended its plan to transport stranded people from one district to another until further notice, senior officials have said. State transport commissioner Shekhar Channe said that the service has been put on hold and Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) buses will now be used to transport migrant workers to the state border. “The MSRTC buses will only focus on transporting migrant workers up to state borders. While the details are being worked out, the service will be free for migrant labourers. Their home state will have to prepare for their travel further,” said Channe. Transport minister Anil Parab told TOI, “The MSRTC buses are picking up migrant workers walking on roads and dropping them at the nearest state or district border. Today, around 300 people walking along highways in the state were picked up. The entire fleet of MSRTC buses are on the job now. Proper social distancing is being maintained in the buses and the exercise will continue.” Sources said the fresh decision was taken to help migrant workers get home. “The train accident in Aurangabad was shocking. The state government wants all resources to be concentrated on transporting migrant workers for now,” an official said. Meanwhile, another special Shramik Express left from Pune railway station to Prayagraj at around 8.30pm on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/msrtc-puts-its-buses-into-action-to-help-take-migrants-up-to-state-borders/articleshow/75665517.cms||Joy Sengupta
May 11, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Fresh cases in Churu, Bhilwara and Sirohi have Gujarat connect||JAIPUR: The health department is cautious over the migration of labourers from Gujarat to ward off risk of spread of Covid-19 in the state. The fresh cases reported in Churu, Sirohi and Bhilwara have a Gujarat connect. The migrant labourers travelling from Gujarat’s Surat and Ahmedabad have tested positive in some districts of the state. Textile town Bhilwara, which hogged the limelight for its ruthless containment model across the country, is once again on alert mode after four more persons tested positive for Covid-19 on May 8. They travelled from Ahmedabad. The health authorities are alert on the people coming from Gujarat and other states. “We are keeping them in quarantine facilities and also testing them for Covid-19,” said a health department official. A 35-year-old man from Kumharon ka Mohalla in Raipur of Bhilwara, who worked as a mason in Ahmedabad, returned on May 2 along with his wife, two sons and four other relatives. They all rode bikes from Ahmedabad and reported at the community health centre in Raipur. The doctors put them in home quarantine. After two days, he was sent to MG Hospital for Covid-19 test along with 18 others in a bus. He was tested positive on May 8. A 22-year-old man from Goma Ji ka Badiya in Senuda Kareda area of Bhilwara also tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday. He was employed at a shop in Hariom Park Society of Ahmedabad. He returned with six other people in a car and a bike and reached Raipur of Bhilwara on May 4. He visited a community health centre in Kareda. Two days later, his samples were tested positive for Covid-19. All six people who travelled along with him from Ahmedabad and seven members of his family and the driver’s family have also been quarantined. A 44-year-old man, a resident of Chhipa Ka Mohalla Raila of Bhilwara, who worked at a laundry in Ahmedabad, travelled by a car from Ahmedabad. He tested positive after reaching Bhilwara. A 30-year-old woman, resident of Senuda of Bhilwara, also tested positive for Covid-19. She worked as a labourer in Ahmedabad. She reached Bhilwara on May 4 by a car. Besides, in Sirohi, a 25-year-old person tested positive two days ago, which is the first case in the district. “He had come from Ahmedabad on May 2. He is a vegetable seller,” said a health department officer. He travelled in a bus in which 63 others had travelled. The health department officials have all the details of his co-passengers. In Churu, too, two cases were reported after a gap of 27 days. Two persons travelled from Surat of Gujarat and reached Churu on May 5 and May 6. They were found infected with the virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/fresh-cases-in-churu-bhilwara-sirohi-have-gujarat-connect/articleshow/75665514.cms||Syed Intishab Ali
May 11, 2020||Pune||Pune: Lohegaon sizzles at 41.1°C, Met dept forecasts light rain this week||PUNE: The India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) Lohegaon observatory, which covers the eastern fringes of the city, recorded maximum temperature of 41.1°C, while the Shivajinagar observatory that covers the rest of the city recorded 40.5°C on Sunday. The day temperatures were two to three degrees above normal and keeping up with the trend of 40°C and above temperatures consistently recorded for the past week. In fact, Lohegaon had touched the season’s highest so far at 41.8°C on May 7, while the Shivajinagar observatory recorded a highest of 40.6°C on May 9. The day temperature in the city will hover around 40°C, while the night temperature will remain around 23-24°C in the coming days, an IMD official said. “The day temperatures are as per the normal pattern observed in summer conditions. There are variations in maximum and minimum temperatures in Vidarbha and Marathwada regions because of rainfall and presence of northerly wind components in atmosphere,” a senior met official said. The IMD has forecasted light rainfall associated with thunderstorm in Pune district during the next few days. This kind of weather will persist till May 16. “Due to continuous streams of western disturbances, cooler winds are reaching central India region and interacting with moist sea winds coming in from both the Arabian Sea and the Bay of Bengal. So, there are regular events of thunderstorms over the state and Madhya Maharashtra region, which include Pune district,” a senior IMD official said. The overcast condition will prevail over the district in the afternoon hours and there is a chance of getting light rainfall in this period. Intermittent light rainfall has kept the heat checked so far in the state as it has experienced only two instances of heatwaves this summer, so far. Vidarbha has reported hot day conditions from April-end, when the mercury soared to 45°C. The rest of the parts of the state have recorded temperatures in normal range of summer season. The met officials predicted that the temperatures over Marathwada and North Madhya Maharashtra will gradually rise in the coming days. On Sunday, at 44.3°C Akola was the hottest spot in the state and the temperature was 2 degrees above normal. Malegaon also sizzled at 43.2°C, 2.9 degrees above normal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/lohegaon-sizzles-at-41-1c-met-dept-forecasts-light-rain-this-week/articleshow/75665522.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Kanpur||Serpentine queues seen outside pan masala shop in Ghatampur||Kanpur: After visuals of long files outside liquor shops, a new sight intrigued Kanpur residents on Sunday. A large number of people including women formed serpentine queues outside a pan masala wholesale shop in Ghatampur area of Kanpur on Sunday. The state government had recently lifted ban on sale of pan masala which does not contain nicotine and tobacco. No sooner did a prominent wholesale agency of pan masala reopened in Ghatampur than customers and retailers flocked towards it and queued up. Social distancing norms were conveniently flouted by customers leading to a chaos. Many of them were not wearing masks. Quite a few fought among each other and indulged in who-came-first arguments. Retailers and customers bought pan masala in bulk stocked it up in large bags they had carried along. Owing to the gathering of large crowds and the chaos that followed, police intervened and used mild force to disperse them. But after a few minutes, people gathered again and continued to defy lockdown rules. The rush at the pan masala wholesale agency continued till the owner declared that the stock was over.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/serpentine-queues-seen-outside-pan-masala-shop-in-ghatampur/articleshow/75664359.cms||Abhinav Malhotra
May 11, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Migrants arriving from Assam and Odisha complain of neglect||JAIPUR: The stranded migrant labourers from Odisha and Assam, who were provided free bus ride till Jaipur, claimed that they got no assistance from state and had to manage their own transport for reaching Kuchaman City in Nagaur. After seamless bus travel for three days from Assam to Jaipur and Odisha to Jaipur via Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi and Haryana, they were left unattended in Jaipur. TOI had met these 17 labourers on Saturday evening. They reached their native village at Kuchaman City of Nagaur by arranging some vehicles on their own on Sunday morning. “It is a pity that we got free travel to cover a distance of almost 2,000km, still the government failed to ferry us to Kuchaman City from Jaipur, which is merely 105km away. After reaching here on Thursday night, we were told that since there weren’t sufficient number of migrant labourers to be taken to Kuchaman City, the authorities will wait. Till then, we were asked to wait at Sindhi Camp bus stand,” said Prema Ram, a labourer. However, after waiting for two days when no buses were provided, these labourers had initially decided to cover the distance of 105km from Jaipur to Kuchaman City on foot. “We were in touch with our villagers. Thankfully, we got three different vehicles in which we managed to reach our village early on Sunday,” said Ashok Pareekh, who works at construction sites and puts floor tiles. The labourers said that they had no option other than coming back to their homes. Now as a responsible citizens, these workers are staying at the quarantine centre in a school building of Kuchaman City. “It is better to stay in our village school as we are already at home before finally reaching our homes,” said Prema Ram.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/labourers-arriving-from-assam-odisha-complain-of-neglect/articleshow/75665530.cms||Ashish Mehta
May 11, 2020||Jaipur||Ajmer engineer suspended for neglecting duty||Ajmer: PHED headquarters has suspended assistant engineer Bijender Singh Meena deputed as feeder supply of Ajmer. He allegedly left the headquarters before the lockdown without getting permission from his office which resulted in irregular supply of drinking water. The chief engineer of PHED issued the suspension orders of Meena after there were complaints that drinking water on Foisagar Road and surrounding areas was being supplied after a gap of 2-3 days due to absence of AEN from office. On other hand, police on Sunday arrested two youths for violation of lockdown and hindrance in government work. Police produced them before court which sent them to jail. According to police, about seven youths were roaming in Jatiya Colony. Constable Pintu asked them not to roam uselessly after which they started beating the cop. The control room got the information and a team was sent that asked the youths to return to their houses but Pawan (34) and Bharat (28), both resident of Jatiya, did not obey, hence, police arrested them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/ajmer-engineer-suspended-for-neglecting-duty/articleshow/75665558.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Dehradun||Freak weather claims 4 lives in Kumaon, crops damaged||Nainital: Four people lost their lives in the Udham Singh Nagar district on Sunday as storm and heavy rains uprooted several trees and collapsed walls in the Kumaon region. The deceased have been identified as Harjinder Singh, 42, from Kichha, Babu Ram Saini, 35, from Bajpur, Balvir Singh, 38, from Pantnagar and Zakir Ali, 30, from Kashipur. According to district administration officials, while Harjinder had gone on her roof to collect clothes when the rains started, Saini and Balvir Singh were travelling on their motorcycles when trees fell on them. “Harjinder was accompanid by her daughter, Lavjeet Kaur when a two storey wall fell on them. Harjinder died at Base Hospital at Haldwani while Kaur is undergoing treatment,” an official said. The official added, “Saini worked at a motorcycle showroom on Nainital Road. He was on his way home when a tree fell on him. The locals took him to the hospital but he was declared brought dead. Meanwhile, Balvir Singh was spotted by 108 ambulance in Lalpur area. He was brought to Rudrapur district hospital where he was also declared brought dead,” said the official adding that Saini is survived by three children and wife. “Labourers were loading rice in a truck to be dispatched to Food Corporation of India (FCI) warehouse, when a wall at the rice mill fell on Zakir, Shahid Hussain and Azad Hussain. The injured were taken to the hospital but Zakir succumbed to injuries on the way. The other two have been admitted to a private hospital by the rice mill owner. We are investigating the matter and a case of unnatural death has been registered,” said circle officer (CO) of Kashipur, Manoj Thakur Rain and storm also uprooted several trees on Nainital Mall Road. “Clouds had covered the entire town and within minutes there was darkness. Soon the winds blew over many tin sheds and even uprooted several trees on the Mall Road. Some of these trees fell on the power lines near the Classic Hotel and damaged them as well,” said Rohan Kumar, a local resident. Meanwhile another local said that the electricity supply in much of the town was also snapped and could only be restored much after the rains had stopped. “The entire town was without electricity and it was only in the evening the supply was restored much after the winds and the rains had stopped completely,” said Deepak Yadav. The Nainital district administration said that electricity in the town has now been restored and the Mall Road has also been cleared. “We had got the information that some trees have fallen on the Mall Road. Our teams were sent to the spot and the trees were removed. No one was injured in incident and we have also restored electricity supplies in Nainital,” said Nainital district magistrate Savin Bansal. Farmers, especially the fruit cultivators from across the region also reported damage to crops. “I own an apple orchard which had just started to flower. However, in the past few days, the untimely rains and hailstorm as well as the winds on Sunday have damaged much of the orchard,” said Vimal Singh, an apple cultivator from Nainital’s Bhimtal area. The administration now says that they are assessing the damage done to the crops especially in the horticulture sector and adequate compensation will also be paid. “The district agriculture officer is assessing the damage these untimely rains have caused. Once the survey is complete the adequate compensation will be paid to the farmers and cultivators,” Bansal said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/freak-weather-claims-4-lives-in-kumaon-crops-damaged/articleshow/75664259.cms||Prashant Jha
May 11, 2020||Bareilly||RAF men pool in money to buy ration kits for slum dwellers||BAREILLY: With the lockdown affecting people's livelihood, Rapid Action Force (RAF) personnel pitched in to help residents of slum areas in Moradabad by contributing a part of their salary to buy ration for them. On Sunday, they distributed kits to the slum dwellers comprising to ration, soaps, masks, vegetables and other items of daily use Reaching out to the people rendered jobless due to the lockdown that has entered the eighth week now, several RAF personnel came forward to help such needy persons by pooling in money voluntarily to arrange for as many as 250 kits containing ration, soaps, mask and other items of daily utility. Each bag contained 10 kg of flour, 10 kg of rice, 2 kg of sugar, 2 kg of pulses, salt, mustard oil and vegetables, including potatoes and onions. Additional superintendent of police (city) Amit Kumar Anand said such an effort is truly commendable.It is an example for others to follow and come forward to do their bit for those in need. Deputy commandant of RAF, Yogendra Kumar Mishra, said, “We understand our responsibility for the poor and that is why, we decided to help the slum dwellers."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/raf-men-pool-in-money-to-buy-ration-kits-for-slum-dwellers/articleshow/75663438.cms||Pankul Sharma
May 11, 2020||Jaipur||Labourer in Kota turns lockdown into money-spinning opportunity||KOTA: The adversity of lockdown amid Covid-19 pandemic has turned into an opportunity for 40-year-old Mamta Prajapat, a daily wage labourer. She has earned at least Rs 2 lakh sewing masks. Mamta, who is also a member of a self-help group under the aegis of Deendayal National Urban Livelihood Mission (D-NULM) programme at Kota Municipal Corporation (KMC), used to earn less than Rs 100 by tailoring one or two blouses in a day. Now, like a proprietor of a trade unit, she has earned around Rs 2 lakh and paid another Rs 60,000 to 20 members of her SHG by making and selling 26,000 face masks within one-and-a-half months. When the lockdown was enforced, Mamta was very distressed and worried over means of livelihood as her husband Manoj Kumar, also a daily wage labourer, was forced to sit at home. An advertisement on social media by NULM’s social development officer Hemlata Gandhi on demand for mask making came as an unexpected chance for Mamta. But, having no money to purchase cloth was another hurdle. Mamta borrowed Rs 1,500 from her daughter married in a neighbouring family, bought the cloth and made 600 pieces of one-layer masks. “I sent 600 masks to Hemlataji on March 22. She informed me that masks prepared by me were up to the mark and paid me Rs 6,000 (Rs. 10 per mask) cash the same day. that really encouraged me, my family and group members,” Mamta told TOI on Saturday. “The first thing I did was return the borrowed money to my daughter and served her homemade sweets. There has been no looking back at the adversity of lockdown,” she added. Mamta is also a terracotta artist and sells clay items in the fairs held in the city on various occasions but constant labour with clay has made her a PIVD patient that restricts her from sitting longer. “I do only cutting and designing of the masks due to the disease while stitching and tailoring is done by SHG members,” she said, adding that her son, who studies in Class X, and her husband also help her in the task. “Now, the environment at home is filled with positivity and enthusiasm as we are earning what we could never hope for earlier and I am very grateful to NULM and SHG,” she further added. Order for another 10,000 masks is pending while other orders keep pouring in, he said. Impressed by her performance in mask-making, KMC commissioner Vasudev Malavat and deputy commissioner Ashok Tyagi on Friday visited her home and took stock of mask-making. “Not only me but my neighbours too were filled with enthusiasm and pride when the commissioner and dy commissioner visited my house as it was for the first time that some senior officer of KMC visited our area,” Mamta said trying to contain her joy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/labourer-in-kota-turns-lockdown-into-money-spinning-opportunity/articleshow/75665560.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Pune||Burglar molests woman near in Maharashtra's Chakan||PUNE: A burglar broke into a couple’s rented house near Chakan early on Saturday, sexually harassed the 28-year-old woman in her sleep and fled with a cellphone and cash, collectively worth Rs20,000. The woman on Saturday afternoon lodged an FIR with the Chakan police. An officer from the Chakan police told TOI, “The man entered their house by opening the latch through the window. The burglar decamped with a cellphone worth Rs15,000 and Rs5,000 cash. Before leaving the house he sexually harassed the woman in her sleep.” “The shocked woman woke up and raised an alarm. She and her husband tried to nab the suspect but he beat them and fled by pushing them down,” the officer said. “The duo sustained minor injuries in the incident,” the officer added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/burglar-molests-woman/articleshow/75665533.cms||Mihir Tanksale
May 11, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Pokhran remains free of infection for last 13 days||JAISALMER: There have been no Covid-19 cases in Pokhran in the last 13 days. Out of the 35 cases, all but one have been discharged from hospital. The report of one patient is expected in a day or two. The district administration, however, is not taking any risks and is adhering to the lockdown and curfew. District collector Namit Mehta and SP Kiran Kang on Sunday held a meeting of officers and praised them for their efforts for making Jaisalmer corona-free. Mehta stressed on random sampling of migrants and villagers to find out if anybody was suffering from the disease and needed to be quarantined. The collector said it is a relief that there has been no positive case from Pokhran in the last 13 days and all samples turned out to be negative. He said though a large number of people from other states have come, so far no one has tested positive, which was a very good news. Kang said that directions had been given to officers to ensure that all provisions of the lockdown and curfew along with Section 144 are strictly followed. She said borders have been sealed and there is strict vigilance at the checkposts. She added that local people have extended full support because of which the district is only a step away from beating coronavirus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/pokhran-remains-free-of-infection-for-last-13-days/articleshow/75665554.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Corona claim triggers concern among judges||NEW DELHI: Delhi’s jail officials went into a tizzy last week when a woman judge handling remand of newly arrested persons inside the jail premises complained that “one of them was novel coronavirus positive and he signed on a register prior to her”. Even as a swift probe conducted by the deputy inspector general (prisons), Tihar revealed that the accused was not infected, the woman judge posted in Saket court and her judge husband were tested for the novel coronavirus. They were likely to go for home isolation. The episode triggered immediate changes in the way judges hearing matters interact with police and jail officials. On Saturday, the district judge asked the director general (prisons) to ensure that all personnel and accused persons mandatorily undergo thermal screening before any interaction with magistrates or legal aid lawyers who visit jail complexes. In further changes, police and jail administration have to now also ensure that before producing an accused in court, doctors conduct a Covid-19 symptoms’ assessment of that person and mention the findings in the medico-legal case accompanying the police file that is placed before the court. In case of the woman judge, a probe by the authorities revealed that it was not the accused, but a policeman who had tested positive. The Mandoli jail administration then conducted tests on 18 inmates suspected to have been infected due to contact with the police officer, but they all tested negative, as per a report sent to the district judge of the area. However, the incident has sparked fears in subordinate judiciary circles because unlike the Supreme Court or Delhi high court, judges in district courts get physical files of cases and they also record statements that require in-camera proceedings, such as under Section 164 of Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) for a rape victim. As per the communication by the woman magistrate to her superiors, she suspected of catching the infection because as per the existing procedure, an accused brought before a judge signed a document authorising a lawyer to represent him. The register was also signed by the lawyer and finally by the judge physically. She said even though she was wearing gloves and mask while conducting the jail proceedings, there was a risk of infection. She suggested proper screening mechanism for fresh arrestees and police personnel. A senior judge told TOI: “The Supreme Court in its April order has made it clear that due to the outbreak of Covid pandemic, it is necessary that courts at all levels practise social distancing and ensure they do not contribute to the spread of virus. Steps must be taken to reduce physical interaction even in jails or in recording 164 CrPC testimony.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/corona-claim-triggers-concern-among-judges/articleshow/75665865.cms||Abhinav Garg
May 11, 2020||Kanpur||Woman dies of Covid-19, city toll now seven||Kanpur:A 60-year-old woman Covid-19 patient died at Neuro Science Centre of Covid 19 hospital of Lala Lajpat Rai hospital on Sunday even as two more persons tested positive for the novel coronavirus infection. With these, the total number of Covid-19 cases rose to 302 while the total number of deaths reached seven. The seven dead persons include four women and three men. All close contacts of Covid-19 deceased, besides corona positive patients will be tested. Meanwhile, three persons who were corona suspects, and undergoing treatment at Covid 19 hospital of Lala Lajpat Rai hospital died on Saturday. “A 60-year-old confirmed patient of Covid 19 who died at Neuro Science Centre of LLR, was a resident of Babupurwa. Two persons meanwhile were tested positive for Covid 19 on Sunday. One among the person is a resident of Cantt area. Similary, three corona suspects who died at Covid 19 hospital include a 70-year-old woman from Rasoolabad area of Kanpur Dehat, an 80- year-old man from Barra area and a 50-year-old man from Bangarmau area of Unnao,” said chef medical officer Dr Ashok Shukla, who added that the sample report of a 70-year-old corona suspect deceased however tested negative. The test report of two other corona suspects is awaited. Their bodies have been preserved ar per Covid-19 protocol, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/woman-dies-of-covid-19-city-toll-now-seven/articleshow/75664377.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Mysuru||After lockdown woes, onion farmers hit by twister blight||MYSURU: Onions grown by farmers on hundreds of acres in Chamarajanagara district have been infected by the twister blight, as the lockdown woes continue. The twister blight twists the leaves of the crops, causing the onions to decay rapidly. In Gundlupet taluk alone, onions on nearly 1,000ha are affected by the twister blight. Severely affected areas include Deshipura, Baragi, Hongahalli, Chemmamallipura and neighbouring villages in the taluk. Farmers growing around 80 quintals of onion on an acre, are not able to grow even 30 quintals this year, due to the disease. Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha (KRRS) Gundlupet taluk general secretary Mahadevappa said the onions grown on over 300ha in Hangala and two neighbouring villages are affected by the disease. “This is the first time that the twister disease has damaged crops in such a large scale. The disease has affected the entire district. Onions are one of the major commercial crops in the district. After the disease started to destroy the crops, we consulted with horticulture department officials. They claim that moisture in the soil is causing the damage, but we have had good yield for years despite heavy rainfall,” he said. Farmer leader Mahadevappa said, “Farmers, without assistance cannot identify the pesticides to be sprayed for different diseases. They spray the pesticides suggested by agrochemical shops, who in turn recommend only those that fetch them commission. So, if the government wants farmers to grow good crops, they should open agri-clinics with technical assistants, who can guide farmers in every gram panchayat,” he said. “The current scenario in the district calls for a survey of the onion crop loss, and to ensure that farmers who lost their crop are compensated,” he added. Haradanahalli’s Krishi Vigyan Kendra scientist B Pampana Gowda suggested that farmers spray a mix of water and methyl on the crops. “After five to six days, boron, zinc and magnesium should be sprayed,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/after-lockdown-woes-onion-farmers-hit-by-twister-blight/articleshow/75663463.cms||Lakshmikantha BK
May 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Drunk driver, biker on phone lead to collision||Hyderabad: A two-wheeler rider’s alleged negligence and an inebriated car driver’s reported rash driving resulted in a head-on collision at Laxmapur village near Shamirpet on Sunday. The rider and his son suffered severe head injuries and the former is said to be in a critical condition. The car driver, whose blood alcohol content (BAC) was found to be over 250mg/100ml (30mg/100 ml being the normal), has been taken into custody. At around 2.30pm, B Ramesh, 29, a plumber and his five-year-old son, Bunny, from Laxmapur village, left on a Pulsar bike to a kirana store.  According to CCTV footage, Ramesh, who was riding without a helmet, was seen using his phone, when a speeding Innova car dashed into him minutes later. “The accused car driver, coming from the opposite direction, was driving in a rash manner. Suddenly, he rammed into their bike,” Shamirpet inspector S Santosham said. Car driver Bala Krishna, 26, a resident of Mudchintallapally village, was taken into custody. “His BAC level was 259 mg/100 ml,” the inspector added. A case was registered against Bala under Section 337 of IPC, while the victims were shifted to RVM Hospital in Siddipet. Ramesh is said to be in critical condition, while Bunny is out of danger. The traffic police tweeted the video stating, “Today afternoon in Shamirpet area: Who is at fault ? Video says it all... The car driver too was found to be in drunken condition. #RoadSafety #RoadSafetyCyberabad.” (sic)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/drunk-driver-biker-on-phone-lead-to-collision/articleshow/75665069.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Parents wary of sending kids back to school: Study||Hyderabad: Parents across the country are in no hurry to send their pupils back to school immediately after they reopen, a survey has revealed. According to the survey conducted by ParentCircle, a parenting platform, a whopping 92% of parents want to absolutely sure of the containment of Covid-19 before they send their children to schools. The nationwide survey, conducted 50 days after the lockdown was announced and with 12,000 participants, covered key areas of a child’s life, including schooling, playing with other children, birthday parties, visits to malls, movies, restaurants, activity classes, public transport, and vacation. It revealed that there is evident fear in the minds of the parents at the moment. The trend was not confined to one city or a particular hotspot, but across cities. In Hyderabad, only 6.41% of respondents said that they will send their kids to school immediately after reopening. A majority, 53.42%, said that they will monitor the situation at least for a month before taking the call. As many as 21.79% of parents said that they won’t send their children to schools at least for another six months. Home schooling, a method not often adopted in India, saw a surge in ratings with 15% considering home-schooling as an option. Same is the case with sports, activities, movies and vacations as majority said that they are not inclined to let their kids go back to their normal life immediately after the lockdown is lifted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/parents-wary-of-sending-kids-back-to-school-study/articleshow/75665077.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Pune||Dial-an-Auto operators not to increase vehicles||PUNE: The ‘Dial-an-Auto’ service, which will complete two months of operations in Pune this month, will not increase the number of vehicles as some drivers and unions were not abiding by the regulations. The service was meant to provide a means of transportation to people in distress amid the lockdown. “We started with around 200 autorickshaws, currently the number has increased to 357. There had plans to increase the number, but we don’t think it is a good idea now,” CEO of CityGlide Auto Rahul Shitole told TOI that his organization was running the service in coordination with the traffic police. “Cases have been reported where drivers have been quoting double and triple the fare. Many permits were cancelled because of this. Some drivers were not taking calls and running the vehicles as per their will. Some would park in front of hospitals and charge passengers exorbitant fares to ferry them,” Shitole said. “There also have been cases of duplication of the passes that were provided to the drivers. We have complained to the police about these issues,” Shitole added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/dial-an-auto-operators-not-to-increase-vehicles/articleshow/75665543.cms||Joy Sengupta
May 11, 2020||Jaipur||Corona cases hit 250-mark in Kota city||Kota: With the detection of 17 fresh cases, including 11 women, the number of corona positive patients jumped to 250 in Kota city on Sunday. With nine positive cases being reported on Sunday, Bakra Mandi emerged as a fresh epicentre in the district. Besides, two persons from Baran — a 27-year-old woman who is recovering from delivery at JK Lon Hospital and a 75-year-old man at MBS Hospital, tested positive. Another eight cases, including four women recovering from delivery, were detected in Gadepan, Mahavir Naga, Dadabari and Bajajkhana areas of Kota city. All the five women, who are recovering from delivery and tested positive for coronavirus, have been shifted to the corona isolation ward in New Medical College Hospital, Dr Suresh Dulara, superintendent of JK Lon Hospital, said. The sampling of the newborn babies as well as family members and attendees of the five women is being carried out, he added. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/corona-cases-hit-250-mark-in-kota-city/articleshow/75665550.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Vadodara||Sizzling Sunday: 41 more discharged||Vadodara/Anand: It was a perfect gift to their mothers, incidentally on Mother’s Day, as eight-month-old boy and a 17-month-old girl were discharged from COVID-19 hospital at GMERS Medical College and Hospital, Gotri on Sunday. Eight-month-old Mohammed Hussain from Halol and 17-month-old Siya Rana, a resident of Panigate area of Vadodara, bid happy farewell to the hospital as their mothers profusely thanked the doctors and nurses for all the help that they had provided to their kids. The duo had caught infection from elder members of their families, hospital sources said. Dr Vinod Rao, senior IAS officer and OSD for COVID-19 at Vadodara, said a total of 41 patients were discharged from two hospitals and two from Covid care centres on Sunday as per new discharge guidelines of union health ministry. The 41 include four from GMERS Medical College and Hospital, Gotri, eight from SSG Hospital, 13 from CCC at ITI and 16 from High Speed Rail Training Institute. Rao said 93 have been discharged since Saturday. “With total 291 out of 528 patients getting discharged, the recovery rate has reached 55 % while 39 % patients are under treatment. The mortality rate in Vadodara stands at 6 %,” he said. Anand district too witnessed a happy Sunday after 17 went home in the highest single-day discharge, taking the total number of recoveries to 64. Of these 11 are from Khambhat, five from Umreth and one from Petlad. Six were discharged from Shree Krishna Hospital, Karamsad, 10 from Anand general hospital and one from SVP Hospital, Ahmedabad. On Sunday, a 56-year-old woman from Akbarpur area of Khambhat tested positive, taking the total number of cases to 83. “Now, there are only 11 patients undergoing treatment in Anand,” said collector R G Gohil. “Most patients discharged were asymptomatic. While the new discharge guidelines state that patients with mild or very mild symptoms can be allowed to go after 10 days of symptom onset, majority of those discharged on Sunday had already completed 14 days stay at three hospitals,” Gohil said. Of the 11 patients still getting treated, 10 are at Shree Krishna Hospital, Karamsad while one is at the cardiac care centre at Khambhat. Two patients are under ventilator while one is on oxygen and condition of eight others is stable.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/sizzling-sunday-41-more-discharged/articleshow/75663629.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Kanpur||Two kids drown as boat capsizes in river Yamuna||Kanpur: Two kids drowned while three other members of a family were saved after a boat capsized in the Yamuna on Sunday morning. In order to bypass the police check post, the family had hired a boat to reach Auraiya district from Etawah. The kids were admitted to Rajpur Community Health Centre from where doctors referred them to Etawah district hospital where they were declared dead by the doctors. Pappan Singh Sengar, 45, a native of Bawain village of Auraiya, works as a conductor in a private transport agency in Gwalior. On Sunday, he, along with his wife Neeraj Kumari, sons Ritik (13), Aryan (12) and niece Preeti (7), left on a motorcycle and a scooty to reach their native district Auraiya to see his ailing mother Kamlesh Kumari. Since the borders were sealed and there was heavy police presence near the check post, the family decided to halt at the banks of the Yamuna in Machal Ki Madaiya village of Etawah. Pappan then sought help of a local boatman who agreed to ferry them across the river in two rounds. He agreed to take all family members and their motorcycle in the first round and and their scooty in the second. All five got into the boat. However, as soon as the boat reached the middle of the river, it capsized. The entire family started drowning while the boatman managed to swim across the river. Hearing the cries of the family, locals raised alarm and alerted divers who jumped into the river and pulled them out of the river. The couple and their elder son Ritik regained consciousness, while younger son Aryan and niece Preeti remained unconscious. All five were rushed to the Rajpur CHC where doctors referred Aryan and Preeti to district hospital. However, at the district hospital, the two were pronounced deadon arrival. “The tragic incident has claimed lives of two kids. Further investigations are on,” said circle officer Chakarnagar Massa Singh. “Pappan works as a conductor in a private bus in Gwalior and was going to Auraiya along with his family to see his ailing mother in his ailing mother,” he added. “Police will take strict action against the boat owner. His boat has been impounded," said the CO.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/two-kids-drown-as-boat-capsizes-in-river-yamuna/articleshow/75664387.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
May 11, 2020||Pune||Rahatni: Parents, close kin held for man’s murder||PUNE: A 50-year-old man, his wife and their elder son were arrested for strangulating their younger son following a dispute in their house at Rahatni on Saturday evening. The trio, Ramdas Vakhare (50), his wife Chanchal (48) and elder son Ganesh (30), initially created a scene by claiming that the younger son, Vijay (28), had ended his life by strangulating himself. “The police probe however revealed that the trio had strangulated the man to death. We have arrested them,” said senior inspector Vivek Mugalikar of the Wakad police. He said the suspects had a brawl with Vijay over some dispute. “At the time, Vijay had assaulted his brother with a knife and had also bitten his father,” Mugalikar said adding, “They had lodged an FIR against Vijay.” Furious by this, the trio on Saturday evening tied Vijay’s limbs with a rope and strangulated him to death, police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/parents-close-kin-held-for-mans-murder/articleshow/75665546.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Jodhpur||Jodhpur guesthouse owners seek govt help to beat coronavirus crisis||JODHPUR: Guesthouse owners of the Walled City of Jodhpur have sought a relief package from the state government in the face of the bleak future of tourism and the loss sustained since March due to Covid-19 pandemic. They have also sought relaxations like exemption from electricity and water bills from March to July, switching bills’ category from commercial to domestic, licence of selling beer from excise department on discounted rates and bank loans on competitive interest rates. A memoranda to this effect was submitted by the Jodhpur Guest House Association to chief minister Ashok Gehlot stating that the corona pandemic had spelt doom for their business not in existing period but for future also. “Given the threat of Covid-19, we do not hope that the tourism industry would be recovering from this lingering shock and regain its sheen as earlier for a long time to come,” said president of the association Poonam Chand Gaur. He said that almost all of these guesthouses in the city are family run entities, which attract foreign touristsin large numbers. “Thus, these families are fully dependent on tourism and are set to lose their business and hence livelihood abjectly,” Gaur said. Vice-president Manish Lodha said that these guesthouses provide boarding and lodging to the tourist at highly competitive prices and offer them a first-hand experience of the Indian culture by allowing them to mingle with the families running the guest houses. “Ours is a major role in tourism economy. But now it is quite obvious that next few months are disastrous for us. Even the foreign tourists would stop travelling for many months until this Covid-19 threat is mitigated,” said Lodha. There are close to 100 guesthouses in the Walled City of Jodhpur with an average of five rooms each. All these rooms are lying vacant and the owners of these guesthouses do not see any recovery in the sector before July 2021.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/jodhpur-guesthouse-owners-seek-govt-help-to-beat-crisis/articleshow/75665553.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Navy facilitates remote monitoring of Covid patients at VIMS intensive care||Visakhapatnam: In an attempt to reduce the risk of coronavirus (Covid-19) transmission to the health staff of Visakha Institute of Medical Sciences (VIMS), the Eastern Naval Command (ENC) has devised and provided a remote monitoring facility to check on the parameters of ICU patients. Director of VIMS Dr K Satyavaraprasad had requested to explore the feasibility of remote monitoring of vital parameters when the Indian Navy handed over the Portable Multifeed Oxygen Manifold recently. Following the request, a core team comprising two officers and four workers of the Naval Dockyard-Visakhapatnam expeditiously designed and came up with a solution. The audio-visual output of the bedside Patient Monitoring System was converted to HDMI (High Definition Media Interface) output and multiplexed for all 48 beds in ICU through a digital video recorder and provided on a big display outside the ICUs where the staff sits. The facility includes monitoring of all patients simultaneously or selecting as required including zooming on a patient and an audio alarm if any vitals are beyond. Further, the same parameters through HDMI ethernet converter have also been provided to the doctors on their mobile phones. The doctor can at any time from any place, with internet connectivity, monitor his 48 patients in the ICU. The conceptualisation to final implementation at VIMS and handing over to the VIMS director was completed in six days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/navy-facilitates-remote-monitoring-of-covid-patients-at-vims-intensive-care/articleshow/75664271.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Kanpur||Four attack cops in Kanpur during lockdown, arrested||KANPUR: Seven policemen including a senior sub-inspector from Rasoolabad police station of Kanpur Dehat district were attacked and injured on Sunday while trying to disperse a group of men who were roaming on the road near Kanjadan Dera, defying lockdown rules. Four of the accused have been arrested. Kanpur Dehat ASP Anup Kumar said, “The patrolling team reached Kanjadan Dera Tulsi Nagar pocket after receiving inputs that a group of seven to eight men without masks was roaming on Billahur road near Kanjadan Dera on Sunday morning. When the policemen tried to disperse them, the group misbehaved with and attacked them.” “Seven of our policemen including SSI Umesh Sharma, constables Vinod Kumar, Sukhbeer Singh, Jaya Yadav, Divya, Sanjeev Kumar and Avneesh Kumar were injured in the attack. They somehow escaped and alerted their seniors following which a heavy police force was deployed in the area,” added Kumar. “Four of the accused have been arrested. Interrogation is underway,” said the ASP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/cops-attacked-while-trying-to-disperse-group-of-men/articleshow/75664411.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
May 11, 2020||Visakhapatnam||VZM to start random testing of vendors||Visakhapatnam: Vizianagaram district administration has decided to increase the number of people being tested and carry out random testing, especially in places with community and primary health centres. The district, which was a green zone till recently, reported four Covid-19 cases earlier this month. Sources in the district health department said they expected an increased number of rapid testing kits in the next few days to cover the enhanced sample base. District collector M Hari Jawhar Lal said, “We are taking certain proactive measures such as random testing of vendors in all the major towns and pnachayats of the district along with improving the conditions in the quarantine centres.” Quarantine centres in the district have proved to be a source of worry, with three different centres reporting three cases. The administration is on the lookout for quarantine centres with attached toilets and is planning to build temporary additional toilets if required. District medical and health officer (DMHO) Dr SV Ramani Kumari said, “We are training staff from PHCs and CHCs to help in the sampling-testing process, so that the pace of sampling can be increased.” Joint collector GC Kishore Kumar said, “Our agenda is to increase the sample base and gather as many samples from diferent parts of the district. The vigil has to be tightened.” On the random testing of vendors in the district, the joint collector said the focus would be on main municipalities and major pachayats.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/vzm-to-start-random-testing-of-vendors/articleshow/75664285.cms||Venkatesh Bayya
May 11, 2020||Mysuru||After lockdown woes, onion farmers hit by twister blight||MYSURU: Onions grown by farmers on hundreds of acres in Chamarajanagara district have been infected by the twister blight, as the lockdown woes continue. The twister blight twists the leaves of the crops, causing the onions to decay rapidly. In Gundlupet taluk alone, onions on nearly 1,000ha are affected by the twister blight. Severely affected areas include Deshipura, Baragi, Hongahalli, Chemmamallipura and neighbouring villages in the taluk. Farmers growing around 80 quintals of onion on an acre, are not able to grow even 30 quintals this year, due to the disease. Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha (KRRS) Gundlupet taluk general secretary Mahadevappa said the onions grown on over 300ha in Hangala and two neighbouring villages are affected by the disease. “This is the first time that the twister disease has damaged crops in such a large scale. The disease has affected the entire district. Onions are one of the major commercial crops in the district. After the disease started to destroy the crops, we consulted with horticulture department officials. They claim that moisture in the soil is causing the damage, but we have had good yield for years despite heavy rainfall,” he said. Farmer leader Mahadevappa said, “Farmers, without assistance cannot identify the pesticides to be sprayed for different diseases. They spray the pesticides suggested by agrochemical shops, who in turn recommend only those that fetch them commission. So, if the government wants farmers to grow good crops, they should open agri-clinics with technical assistants, who can guide farmers in every gram panchayat,” he said. “The current scenario in the district calls for a survey of the onion crop loss, and to ensure that farmers who lost their crop are compensated,” he added. Haradanahalli’s Krishi Vigyan Kendra scientist B Pampana Gowda suggested that farmers spray a mix of water and methyl on the crops. “After five to six days, boron, zinc and magnesium should be sprayed,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/after-lockdown-woes-onion-farmers-hit-by-twister-blight/articleshow/75663482.cms||Lakshmikantha BK
May 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Curious case of transmission chain baffles GHMC officials||Hyderabad: The officials of Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), who are tracing the secondary contacts of Covid-19 positive patients, have been perplexed due to several cases where chain transmission was difficult to detect. A senior citizen in Jubilee Hills, who had no travel history recently tested positive. It was later found that the man’s son, a Yunani doctor, had also contracted the virus. “We are trying to crack the chain of people in touch with the doctor,” a GHMC official told TOI. In another incident, two children from Khairatabad zone had tested positive for Covid-19, even though their family displayed no symptoms. “We are tracing their contact history now” said an official. In LB Nagar, an old woman who runs a grocery store tested positive. Later, her daughter and son-in-law were also found to be suffering from Covid-19. “We are not able to figure out whether the virus transmitted from the woman to her son-in-law who had visited Malalpet Gunj or vice versa,” said a GHMC official. Two people, who tested positive in Malakpet Gunj on April 30, had infected their families in LB Nagar. After 25 primary contacts of these two people in LB Nagar zone tested positive, 28 people were identified as their secondary contacts, all of whom were shifted to King Koti.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/curious-case-of-transmission-chain-baffles-ghmc-officials/articleshow/75665081.cms||Nabinder Bommala
May 11, 2020||Udaipur||Udaipur administration tightens its grip on containment zones||UDAIPUR: With 29 more positive cases reported on Sunday, the district administration tightened its grip in the containment zones of the rural and urban areas. The total tally reached 133 by Sunday evening with 9 new cases in Kanji ka Hata, 7 from Maheshwariyon ki Sehri, one each from Ashok Nagar, Devali, and rest from Kumharwada and Rao ji ka Hata in the urban area and one from Menar of Vallabhnagar block in the rural area. At Helawadi, the epicentre of the virus, where 87 cases have been reported since Friday, authorities shifted people to quarantine facilities in Bedwas and Debari. Fifteen buses were used to ferry residents from narrow congested lanes inside the Walled City. People were asked to come out from their homes with essential items like clothes and medicines. Health and police officers had a tough time convincing people to come out of their houses at many places. “These were people who tested negative but are neighbours of positive cases. They had to be quarantined to check community transmission,” an official of the health department said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/udaipur-admn-tightens-its-grip-on-containment-zones/articleshow/75665549.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Jaipur||Nine posts set up on Indo-Pak border for quick response to locust invasion||JAISALMER: The locust control department is establishing nine posts at Indo-Pak border adjoining Jaisalmer for quick response to locust attacks. Till Saturday, locusts were destroyed over 2,100 hectares in Barmer and 1,500 hectares in Jaisalmer. Seven teams have been formed for the purpose. Union minister Kailash Choudhury on Sunday held a review meeting with the officers of agriculture ministry and gave necessary directions for controlling locust menace. Lakhs of locusts from Sindh area in Pakistan have entered into Gadra road area in Barmer district and various places in Jaisalmer. In last 4-5 days, these locusts have covered 150km area in hundreds of villages in Barmer district. “This time, locusts have entered 10 spots at a go and are camping in Barmer’s Chauhatan, Sheo, Gadra road, Ramsar, Barmer, Baytoo, and Dhorimanna areas. The locust control department’s teams are making efforts to control the pest,” said Barmer collector Vishram Meena. In Jaisalmer, 5 km-long swarms of locusts can be seen in many areas at Rasala and Moolana. Jaisalmer collector Namit Mehta said that we are coordinating with BSF and have given directions to the officers. We have made control rooms at all SDM headquarters. Additionally, we have made nine posts for locust control at Indo-Pak border adjoining Jaisalmer to ensure quick response. Union minister of state for agriculture Kailash Choudhary raised the issue in a meeting called under the chairmanship of agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar at the agriculture ministry and later held a review meeting with the agriculture officers separately. Choudhary said that last year due to continuous attacks by locusts from across the border, farmers suffered heavy crop loss. “After the directions from agriculture ministry, the locust control department has started destroying locusts by visiting the border areas. Three days ago, the locusts entered Jaisalmer border and reached Barmer border the following day. Locusts that had come to Pokhran have reached the rural areas of Jodhpur,” he said. “According to the report, Barmer and Jaisalmer districts adjoining Pakistan are worst-hit by locusts,” Choudhary said. He asked the officers to coordinate with the farmers and take their help in controlling locusts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/nine-posts-set-up-on-indo-pak-border-for-quick-response-to-locust-invasion/articleshow/75665566.cms||Vimal Bhatia
May 11, 2020||Bareilly||Storm, heavy rain claim five lives in Rohilkhand region||BAREILLY: Five people were killed in Bareilly and Budaun districts due to a duststorm followed by heavy rain in Rohilkhand region on Sunday afternoon. Several trees and electric poles were uprooted forcing villagers to stay in the dark. It all so happened when Bengali Patel, a resident of Babat village of Kunwargaon area in Budaun district, had stepped out to collect some raw mangoes from an orchard in the afternoon. Suddenly, the storm arrived and Patel took shelter under a mango tree when a large branch fell on him. He suffered serious injuries and died on way to hospital. The second incident was reported from Sahaswan area of Budaun where a farmer, Parshuram, died after he was struck by lightning. Another incident was reported from Wazeerganj area where 52-year-old Shivraj died after a wall collapsed on him. Also, Brijlal, a 59-year-old farmer, who was working in his crop field, died after a large branch of a mango tree, under which he had taken shelter, fell upon him in Kisan Tola Nayi basti locality in Aonla area of Bareilly district. A 60-year-old woman Hardevi died in Jallapur village of Bareilly after a tree trunk fell on her. Hardevi sustained fatal head wounds and died before receiving any medical help. Budaun DM Kumar Prashant said that the compensation under State Calamity Act will be provided to family members of the victims after a proper survey by the area's sub-divisional magistrate||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/storm-heavy-rain-claim-five-lives-in-rohilkhand-region/articleshow/75664291.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
May 11, 2020||Bareilly||Three booked for packing bovine meat in farm field||PILIBHIT: Three persons were booked for allegedly packing bovine meat in polythene bags at an agricultural field on the Jahanabad-Nisra road in Pilibhit district. The meat which they were most likely planning to sell during Ramzan, was seized by police around 6.30pm on Saturday. The accused were booked after the meat was reportedly tested by a government veterinary officer. According to the station house officer of Jahanabad police station, Harish Gautam, the key suspect who was arrested from the spot was identified as Ubais of Pareva Vaishya village while his two accomplices managed to escape. After the police team found 60 kilograms of bovine meat, it was sent to the government veterinary officer at Amaria tehsil headquarters, Dr Rajul Saxena. After clinically testing the meat, he claimed that "it was beef". An FIR was lodged following the concerned test report under sections 3, 5 and 8 of the UP Prevention of Cow Slaughtering Act. Police have also recovered a weighing tool, some sharp objects and packaging materials from the accused. The accused has allegedly confessed and disclosed that the meat was being packed for sale. Police are now on the lookout for the two other absconding individuals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/three-booked-for-packing-bovine-meat-in-farm-field/articleshow/75664301.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Visakhapatnam||AP DGP suggests surveillance along borders to check liquor smuggling||SRIKAKULAM: Director general police (DGP) Gautam Sawang toured the district on Sunday and held a meeting with the police personnel. He suggested increased surveillance along the Andhra-Odisha border to check illegal transport of liquor among other smuggling goods like ganja and sand. Police sources, who attended a meet, said that this was the first time liquor has been mentioned a product the officers should keep a look out for. They say that the increased surveillance is part of the government’s move to close down 3,000 odd liquor shops across the state in a phased manner. Sawang inquired about the present strength of police forces in the district and the requisite number of teams to increase surveillance along the district borders. Ban on liquor sale was one of the nine election promises made by chief chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy. He plans to do it in three phases. “If liquor shops are closed and alcohol becomes unavailable in the state, there are chances of smuggling from neighboring states like Odisha, Tamil Nadu and Karnataka. So, our department is presently chalking out plans to set up a surveillance system,” the source said. Sawang also inquired about the department’s role in controlling the spread of Covid-19 in the district and superintendent of police RN Ammi Reddy said that the DGP was happy with the district police’s performance in implementing lockdown regulations and limiting Covid-19 positive cases to only five till Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/dgp-suggests-surveillance-along-borders-to-check-liquor-smuggling/articleshow/75664298.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
May 11, 2020||Delhi||Guiding light of Indian sociology Yogendra Singh passes away||NEW DELHI: Yogendra Singh, who played a seminal role in reorienting and modernising Indian sociology as a discipline and authored the pathbreaking and bestselling Modernization of Indian Tradition, passed away after a heart attack at his south Delhi residence on Sunday. He was 87. “He was intellectually alive till the very end. On Saturday night he told us about the need to come up with new concepts to study post-industrial society in a post-Covid19 world. He said it is a new challenge for social scientists and they must develop new tools to analyse the problem without ideological bias,” his daughter Neerja Singh told TOI on phone. The cardiac arrest happened around 10 am. “He was gone in 10 minutes,” she added. Due to the coronavirus restrictions, only family members attended the cremation at south Delhi’s Lodhi Road. “Indian sociology was for quite some time under the shadow of British social anthropology. He extricated it from that orientation and made it what we call modern sociology in the Indian context,” said eminent sociologist and colleague TK Oommen. “He helped create a new post-graduate syllabus where theory, methodology and Indian social reality became integrated with the subject,” Oommen added. Historian Mridula Mukherjee said, “He was a crucial figure in the construction of JNU’s egalitarian culture in teacher-teacher, student-teacher relationships. His home was always open to students.” Singh set up JNU’s Centre for the Study of Social Systems in 1971. Among his areas of expertise were social stratification, social change and sociological theory. “But not many know that he was equally knowledgeable in literature, popular science and nutrition or that he turned down various offers of vice-chancellorship in different universities,” recalled former Jawaharlal Nehru University professor KL Sharma, also his student. Singh’s magnus opus Modernization of Indian Tradition was published in 1973. “It has been reprinted multiple times. The book is also sought-after among civil service aspirants,” he said. Singh was born in Chowkhara village in east Uttar Pradesh’s Basti district. He went to Lucknow University and taught in Rajasthan before moving to JNU, where he retired as professor emeritus. His long list of students include Dipankar Gupta and Pradip Bose, well-known academics in their own right. From all accounts, Singh was a hugely popular teacher whose lectures were often attended even by students of economics and history. He lived with catholicity, taught with relaxed calm and expounded dense theories with lucidity. “When he taught Marx, you thought he was a Marxist. When he taught Weber, he sounded like a liberal ideologue in German tradition,” said Sharma, also former vice-chancellor Rajasthan University. Singh’s former student Suman R Timsina wrote on Facebook, “There is no reading on modernisation of society where I do not think of his lectures.” Now he is gone. But a generation of JNU students and others he interacted with would always remember the ease with which he explained complex sociological concepts and that ever-present twinkle in his eyes. As Mukherjee said, “His death marks the end of an era.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/guiding-light-of-indian-sociology-yogendra-singh-passes-away/articleshow/75665881.cms||Avijit Ghosh
May 11, 2020||Kanpur||Pvt offices to open today, to comply with Covid-19 rules||Kanpur: The district administration has allowed opening of private firms and companies in the city from Monday between 10 am and 5 pm subject to compliance of all Covid-19 rules. Following opening of liquor shops and permission to open the transport sector, the government and semi-government offices had sought to open their offices under certain restrictions. Representatives of firms had met the district magistrate and pleaded that like liquor shops they too should be allowed to open their offices. The DM , after considering their demand, issued an order to this effect. Following the order, around 50,000 offices in the city would open on Monday. According to the order, the proprietors/heads of offices have to give a self-declaration and an undertaking on their letter heads or by email at gmdickpr@gmai.com. The head of the firm In the self-declaration have to mention that the office/ firm or company premises would be sanitized daily, vehicles would be allowed to enter the premises only after sanitization, thermal scanning of each employee would be done and recorded daily and hand sanitizer and hand washing facilities would be provided in the office. There would be one hour lunch break between two shifts, mass lunch and meetings would not be allowed, maximum four persons would be allowed to use lift at a time, consuming guthka and tobacco and spitting would be prohibited. Similarly, visit and entry of outsiders would not be allowed to avoid infection and a list of hospitals treating Covid -19 patients would be displayed in the campus. The copy of self-declaration would be given to the area police station and also pasted on the outside wall of the office. The DM in his order also stated that any violation of conditions by any employer or would attract penal action. The private sector and self-employed persons while welcoming the order said that it would help both the employers and the employees as more than forty days lockdown has stopped all financial activities. RC Bajpai, a chartered accountant said, “The order would help the system to normalize to some extent”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/pvt-offices-to-open-today-to-comply-with-covid-19-rules/articleshow/75664425.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Lucknow||Maharashtra: Workers from UP made to pay Rs 595 for Shramik ticket||AURANGABAD: Two days after 16 migrant workers died in a train mishap, the district administration on Sunday arranged for a special train to help stranded people to reach Uttar Pradesh from Jalna. Around 1,154 migrants boarded the train that left for Unnao from Jalna railway station at 6pm. In order to avoid crowding at the station and nearby areas, the district administration had imposed curfew in the entire city. Politicians, including Jalna BJP MP Raosaheb Danve and Congress MLA Kailas Gorantyal, were present during the departure. However, amid different claims made by the Centre and the state government, about bearing the travel expenses of migrant workers travelling to their hometowns, those who boarded the Shramik special train on Sunday had to pay Rs 595 for getting a seat. Earlier, TOI had highlighted how migrants from eight districts of Marathwada were forced to board the trains from Aurangabad despite four other districts from the region having rail connectivity. Jalna sub-divisional officer Keshav Netke said the health check-up of all migrant worksrs was carried out before allowing them to board the train. “We provided them face masks, food and packaged drinking water for their journey. The railways is expected to provide them lunch tomorrow (on Monday),” he said. Jalna district collector Ravindra Binwade said another Shramik special train has been planned for Unnao on May 12. "Considering the number of migrant population from Uttar Pradesh, we have decided to run another train to Unnao. The departure timing of train will be announced shortly," he said. Even if four out of eight Marathwada districts — Jalna, Nanded, Parbhani and Latur — have rail-connectivity, migrants in these districts were compelled to reach all the way to Aurangabad for boarding Shramik special train for reaching their home states during the current extended lockdown. The 16 migrants, who died on Friday morning, were part of a group from Jalna. They had undertaken the journey on foot to reach Aurangabad in order to board the special train. Meanwhile, the fact that the poor migrant workers had to pay for their own tickets drew flak. Labour leader Ram Baheti said it was ironical that neither the government, nor the political parties were paying for the travel of stranded workers. “These workers do not have money to make ends meet. Instead of offering them timely help, they are asked to pay Rs 595, which is a big amount for them,” he said. Binwade said, “The railway authorities had offered us journey tickets for all workers in bulk after paying the necessary amount. We tried to contact authorities in UP government seeking the release of money towards the train fares, but no favourable response was received. When we discussed the issue with the workers, they expressed their willingness to pay themselves.” Binwade said a group of stranded workers recently left for MP onboard a Shramik train from Aurangabad, but they did not have to pay as the MP government took care of their tickets. Upinder Singh, divisional railway manager for South Central Railway (SCR), said the Indian Railways was charging money towards journey of passengers boarding Shramik special trains from respective district administrations. “The respective district administration can recover money from the state governments or raise it from charity or CSR funds. We can’t offer free travel as these trains are already running half of the loading capacity," he said. BJP MP Bhagwat Karad said migrants reaching states ruled by his party would get the money reimbursed. “Certain communication gap must have occurred between Jalna administration and Uttar Pradesh government. We have contact details of all stranded workers who boarded the train for Unnao and they will get complete refund,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/shramik-special-train-starts-from-jalna-passengers-made-to-pay-595-ticket-fare/articleshow/75670251.cms||Prasad Joshi
May 11, 2020||Aurangabad||Maharashtra: Workers from UP made to pay Rs 595 for Shramik ticket||AURANGABAD: Two days after 16 migrant workers died in a train mishap, the district administration on Sunday arranged for a special train to help stranded people to reach Uttar Pradesh from Jalna. Around 1,154 migrants boarded the train that left for Unnao from Jalna railway station at 6pm. In order to avoid crowding at the station and nearby areas, the district administration had imposed curfew in the entire city. Politicians, including Jalna BJP MP Raosaheb Danve and Congress MLA Kailas Gorantyal, were present during the departure. However, amid different claims made by the Centre and the state government, about bearing the travel expenses of migrant workers travelling to their hometowns, those who boarded the Shramik special train on Sunday had to pay Rs 595 for getting a seat. Earlier, TOI had highlighted how migrants from eight districts of Marathwada were forced to board the trains from Aurangabad despite four other districts from the region having rail connectivity. Jalna sub-divisional officer Keshav Netke said the health check-up of all migrant worksrs was carried out before allowing them to board the train. “We provided them face masks, food and packaged drinking water for their journey. The railways is expected to provide them lunch tomorrow (on Monday),” he said. Jalna district collector Ravindra Binwade said another Shramik special train has been planned for Unnao on May 12. "Considering the number of migrant population from Uttar Pradesh, we have decided to run another train to Unnao. The departure timing of train will be announced shortly," he said. Even if four out of eight Marathwada districts — Jalna, Nanded, Parbhani and Latur — have rail-connectivity, migrants in these districts were compelled to reach all the way to Aurangabad for boarding Shramik special train for reaching their home states during the current extended lockdown. The 16 migrants, who died on Friday morning, were part of a group from Jalna. They had undertaken the journey on foot to reach Aurangabad in order to board the special train. Meanwhile, the fact that the poor migrant workers had to pay for their own tickets drew flak. Labour leader Ram Baheti said it was ironical that neither the government, nor the political parties were paying for the travel of stranded workers. “These workers do not have money to make ends meet. Instead of offering them timely help, they are asked to pay Rs 595, which is a big amount for them,” he said. Binwade said, “The railway authorities had offered us journey tickets for all workers in bulk after paying the necessary amount. We tried to contact authorities in UP government seeking the release of money towards the train fares, but no favourable response was received. When we discussed the issue with the workers, they expressed their willingness to pay themselves.” Binwade said a group of stranded workers recently left for MP onboard a Shramik train from Aurangabad, but they did not have to pay as the MP government took care of their tickets. Upinder Singh, divisional railway manager for South Central Railway (SCR), said the Indian Railways was charging money towards journey of passengers boarding Shramik special trains from respective district administrations. “The respective district administration can recover money from the state governments or raise it from charity or CSR funds. We can’t offer free travel as these trains are already running half of the loading capacity," he said. BJP MP Bhagwat Karad said migrants reaching states ruled by his party would get the money reimbursed. “Certain communication gap must have occurred between Jalna administration and Uttar Pradesh government. We have contact details of all stranded workers who boarded the train for Unnao and they will get complete refund,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/shramik-special-train-starts-from-jalna-passengers-made-to-pay-595-ticket-fare/articleshow/75665090.cms||Prasad Joshi
May 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Price hike dampens tipplers’ spirits, sales run dry||HYDERABAD: The increased rates of alcohol introduced after the resumption of sales in Telangana has led to a slump in the purchase of liquor, with only 100 crates of alcohol being sold across the state. Industry insiders say that the euphoria they witnessed among alcohol consumers has tapered down drastically in the last few days. Sales at most shops are reflecting the sentiment, with a majority of them recording poor numbers. The drastic drop in sale has impacted wine sellers the most, say experts. “The state government had some really good polices in place earlier. But the recent 16 per cent hike in liquor rates has led to the overall sales taking a back seat. We have been extending various schemes to further push sales, but we struggled to sell even 100 cases,” P Kishan of Telangana Wineries Suppliers Association said. The queues outside liquor shops are turning shorter by the day, says K Ramana, a wine shop owner said.“On the second day, the number of people who turned up was significantly lower than the first day. Now, with all sectors being affected, purchasing power has reduced significantly,” added Ramana. Seconding this, Vijay Kumar, a private employee said “The price hike would not have been an issue before the lockdown. But now, with families losing their source of income, the fall in sales is no surprise.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/price-hike-dampens-tipplers-spirits-sales-run-dry/articleshow/75665096.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
May 11, 2020||Hubballi||Hubballi techie’s mortal remains to arrive today from London||Hubballi: The mortal remains of a techie from Hubballi, who allegedly committed suicide in London on March 13, is likely to arrive in the city on Monday morning. The deceased is a 37-year-old resident of Navanagar in Hubballi, and was working in London since the last seven years. His body remained in London due to suspension of international flights due to the Covid-19 pandemic. His parents wanted to perform their son’s last rites in Hubballi. The government of India launched Vande Bharat flights to repatriate stranded Indians, and one such flight will be landing in Bengaluru, in which the authorities have permitted to transport the techie’s mortal remains, said an official from the district administration. Since the mortal remains are being brought from a Covid-19 affected area, the deceased’s parents and family members have been intimated to follow standard protocols, and those who are coming to Hubballi along with the mortal remains, as well as those who attend the final rites, should undergo institutional quarantine at their own cost. Only 20 people will be allowed to take part in the final rites, sources added. The deceased’s parents and family members were reluctant to speak to the media.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/hubballi-techies-mortal-remains-to-arrive-today-from-london/articleshow/75663524.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Pune||Saliva test could boost Covid-19 detection||Pune: New research from the Yale School of Public Health has found that saliva samples are “preferable” indicators of Covid-19 infection than deep nasal swabs. The study conducted on 44 in-patients and 98 healthcare workers (HCWs) found that saliva samples taken from just inside the mouth had better test sensitivity (accuracy) and consistency. Testing for Covid-19 hitherto relies on deep nasal swabs which are uncomfortable for the person undergoing the test and dangerous for the tester. Insertion of the swabs can cause people to cough or sneeze. If there is infection in a person, the ejected respiratory droplets can put the lives of nearby HCWs at risk. To make matters worse, both swab tests and protective gear for HCWs remain in short supply. The Yale research also found that saliva testing can spot infection even in the mildly ill, something that nasal swabs have missed. “In our paper, looking at matched samples of in-patients, saliva had higher viral load than the NP (nasopharyngeal) swab,” said first author Anne Wyllie, an associate research scientist at the Yale School of Public Health. The findings have the potential to boost Covid-19 testing to a whole new and reliable level. One of the most dangerous capabilities of the present coronavirus has been stealth — it rides on asymptomatic carriers to enter populations. Interestingly, the Yale researchers reported that their saliva-based approach had detected the new virus in two asymptomatic healthcare workers who had previously been cleared as negative by NP swab tests. The study is still in pre-print and is yet to be peer-reviewed. But Wyllie explained some key features of saliva sampling. For one, the saliva can be self-collected by the patient, so there is no risk to a HCW. In NP swabbing, a HCW can be at risk if a patient sneezes or coughs. Even just the time required with the patient can be dangerous to the HCW. Second, when cities and communities emerge from lockdowns, this ease-of-use and accuracy of saliva tests could prove invaluable. In the US, these tests are already being offered in some parts of New Jersey. Wyllie said tests using saliva samples could help countries like India, which have densely populated neighbourhoods and some handicaps in testing infrastructure, rapidly improve their Covid-19 detection. “Sampling saliva will definitely increase sample capacity. You only need something to collect it in — a tube or cup. You do not need a swab or fancy device so that already makes it cheaper. As for testing, that is different and depends on how people choose to test the saliva sample,” she said. Box: Swab tests often rely on the extraction technique of a healthcare worker. If not done properly, they could trigger false negatives Saliva sampling is simple. For tests, you don't even need much saliva Remember, saliva sampling is NOT a test by itself. Studies just show saliva is a better human sample that can be used in tests for Covid-19 Clear advantages: Saliva collection is not as invasive as nasal swabs Saliva samples can be reliably self-collected Saliva has exhibited comparable sensitivity to nasopharyngeal swabs in detection of other respiratory pathogens Source: Yale School of Public Health||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/saliva-test-could-boost-covid-19-detection/articleshow/75665571.cms||Govind Vijaykumar
May 11, 2020||Aurangabad||Drivers put brakes on long-distance jobs||Aurangabad: The government may have allowed people stranded in various places to return home, but for most, finding a ride back home is difficult. Drivers in most places do not want to venture out of their cities as they fear being quarantined on their return. In Beed, 32-year old Anil Wadmare turned down a lucrative driving job, only because it would have taken him out of his city and on his return, he would have had to spend a long time in quarantine. He was offered considerable money to drop a stranded family to Aurangabad, a red-zone. “I need the money as I have not been able to earn anything in over 40 days. Car owners want to hire me for long-distance trips, but the authorities here have warned that on returning to Beed, I will be quarantined for 28 days. This has forced me to turn down Rs 2000 for driving to Aurangabad and back,” Wadmare said. Similarly, in Aurangabad, 28-year-old Shaikh Rehan is in a dilemma. He has been contacted by a private company for dropping its staff in Delhi. “I don’t know if I should go to Delhi or not. The company is ready to pay me more than the market rate, but the fear of getting quarantined after returning to the city is holding me back,” Rehan said. The situation is no different in Parbhani, Nanded and other districts of the Marathwada region.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/drivers-put-brakes-on-long-distance-jobs/articleshow/75665103.cms||Mohammed Akhef
May 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Cops book four for gambling||Hyderabad: The Special Operation Team, Malkajgiri, raided a house in RTC colony in Moula Ali and nabbed four people for gambling on Sunday. The police seized matka chits, Rs 4,180, two two-wheelers and four mobile phones from their possession. The accused, Mohammed Hanny, who was the organiser, is absconding. Meanwhile, his associates, identified as Syed Sabeer, Mohammed Amjad, Sayeed Wajeed and Mohammed Yasin were nabbed by the cops. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cops-book-four-for-gambling/articleshow/75665104.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Kolkata||Property registry offices to reopen today||KOLKATA: The office of the registrar of assurances, Kolkata, and district registrar offices — where property sale agreements and deeds are registered along with legal documents like wills and testaments — will reopen on Monday after a month and a half since March 19. Collection from registration and stamp duty is the fourth-highest revenue grosser for the state after SGST, excise collection from liquor and VAT on petroleum products. Resumption of the RA office and the district sub-offices will not only supplement the government coffers during the Covid-19 crisis, but also enable home buyers to complete housing loan formalities after registration of sale agreements and even move into apartments after registering property sale deeds. The state had set an annual revenue target of Rs 6,872 crore from registration and stamp duty in 2020-21. The RA office in Kolkata alone generates around Rs 1,100 crore a year. Though the government had introduced e-registration and offered monetary benefits up to Rs 20,000 on registration and stamp duty, response was lukewarm and the system was beset with glitches. In the notification issued by the directorate of registration and stamp revenue, the RA office in Kolkata and all registrar offices have been asked to open from Monday with the staff assigned duty on rotational basis. Only offices in the confinement zones are exempt. Of the four additional registrar of assurances offices in Kolkata, two offices each will function on alternate days. While the offices will function from 10am to 5pm, the time for presentation of documents at the RA office has been set from 11am to 4pm. Those seeking to register either property documents or wills and testaments will have to book e-appointments in advance. To ensure social distancing, only seven persons will be allowed into the office at a time. Also, the number of properties to be registered has been limited to 20 against the average of 200 registrations that happened at the RA office opposite Raj Bhavan in Dalhousie daily. “The economy has to restart and the registration of documents is key to set the real estate sector in motion,” said an official. Developers welcomed the move. “This will allay the uncertainties,” said Merlin Group chairman Sushil Mohta, who is also president of Confederation of Real Estate Developers Assiociation of India (Credai). Credai Bengal president Nandu Belani said it would help ease the revenue crunch that builders were facing. Because, “till sale agreements are registered, builders are not entitled to collect more than 10% of the project value,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/property-registry-offices-to-reopen-today/articleshow/75665575.cms||Subhro Niyogi
May 11, 2020||Bareilly||Elderly man dies in police raid to nab ‘cow killers’ in Budaun||BAREILLY: A 64-year-old man died during a midnight swoop at his home by a group of 12 policemen who were looking for his son in connection with the killing of cattle in Bhasundara village of Budaun district. The family of Abdul Basheer alleged that he was beaten to death by the policemen on Saturday night, a charge denied by brass. There was no recent case registered against Basheer’s son. Similar raids to arrest alleged cow slaughterers were conducted in various parts of western UP on Saturday. A senior police officer, on condition of anonymity, said that district police chiefs have been given a target to arrest at least 10 cow slaughterers in their respective regions. When contacted, DIG Bareilly Rajesh Pandey said there is a campaign going on against illicit liquor and cow slaughterers in the state. But the DIG said that he had no information about the any target given to anyone. Meanwhile, police in Budaun have set up a probe to look into the death of Basheer. According to police, an autopsy conducted by a panel of three doctors revealed that Basheer had problems in his kidneys and in spleen. “There was no injury mark on his body,” a police officer said citing the report. The family members have refused to accept the body, “until action is taken against guilty officials”. Villagers also staged a protest and senior officials had to intervene in this matter. Budaun SSP Ashok Kumar Tripathi said, “I got information about the death at 2am. Immediately, additional SP (city) Jitendra Srivastava rushed to the village. Impartial investigation would be done. An autopsy was conducted by a panel of three doctors and videography was also done. Its report said that there was no injury on the body and the reason of death was ‘septic shock’ due to chronic pulmonary disease with septicemia. The investigation of this incident has been given to the additional SP and action will be taken if any policeman is found guilty of harassing the family.” Family members, however, alleged that the policemen brutally thrashed Basheer while asking about his son’s whereabouts. The son of the deceased, Ateeq, said, “About 12 policemen raided my house at 12am and they thrashed my father after they didn’t find me in the house. Police had raided my house two days ago also but they didn’t find anything. It looks like they want to frame me, and my father paid the price.” In Muzaffarnagar and Bijnor districts, four persons were arrested after an alleged encounter with police. They are said to be “cow slaughterers”. Three of them received gun shots in their legs. A bullet also brushed passed a policeman’s arm in Bijnor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/elderly-man-dies-in-police-raid-to-nab-cow-killers-in-budaun/articleshow/75664310.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
May 11, 2020||Nagpur||From green to orange & red, thanks to travellers||Nagpur: Washim was Covid-19 free since April 23, the day when the first and only patient from the district recovered and got discharged. The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) included the district in green zone in update of its dynamic colour coding released on April 30. On May 2, a truck cleaner from Uttar Pradesh, who was on way to Nagpur from Mumbai in his truck, died of respiratory illness in Washim. The deceased was tested positive for Covid-19. Later, his companion truck driver also tested positive. Now, Washim has recorded a Covid-19 deceased and a new patient, taking total number of cases in the district to three. And, now it will be categorized Orange Zone once again in the next update of ICMR’s dynamic colour coding. “Truckers take halts at several locations. This makes it difficult to trace the source of infection. In Washim, we took samples of more than 40 people from the petrol pump where this truck was parked. All have tested negative. Even on Sunday, 13 more samples from Washim tested negative,” said Washim district collector Hrishikesh Modak. Yavatmal, which is currently in Red Zone, was in fact the first district in Vidarbha to get a Covid-free tag on March 28 after three patients having travel history to Dubai were treated and discharged. No patient was reported in the district until April 8 when six travellers from UP, West Bengal and Delhi tested positive. This started a chain that led to 84 confirmed positive cases, placing Yavatmal in Red Zone for a long time. For Wardha, which was Covid-19 free until May 10, the story is no different. Here, the traveller is not even from other state, but a patient from Washim district. A 64-year-old man from a village in Washim district was admitted to Vinoba Bhave Rural Hospital here for treatment of pneumonia two days ago. As all pneumonia patients are mandatorily tested for Covid-19, swab samples of the patient were collected. Result came positive on Sunday, and Wardha got its first active Covid-19 case. Earlier on Sunday, a 35-year-old woman who died of respiratory illness tested positive for Covid-19 post death. With this, Wardha now has two cases — one active and one deceased. This means, Wardha will also land into Orange zone in the next update. The three districts are recent examples of how travellers can bring coronavirus with them, changing risk level of places where local spread is negligible. Government is all set to resume public transport soon, which means more travellers will be moving to various cities and towns. Looking at the recent incidents, a proper policy is needed to check spread of coronavirus through travellers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/from-green-to-orange-red-thanks-to-travellers/articleshow/75665892.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
May 11, 2020||Hyderabad||HRC orders DEO to pay teachers’ wage||Hyderabad: Telangana State Human Rights Commission has directed District Educational Officer to take necessary steps to ensure immediate payment of teachers’ salaries for February and March of a school in Shaheen Nagar. “We have already informed the education department but their is no response from them,” reads the letter from the complainant. The human rights commission has ordered the DEO to conduct a detailed enquiry to find out if the allegations are true and then file an action report before the commission by June 8. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hrc-orders-deo-to-pay-teachers-wage/articleshow/75665110.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Kolkata||Spike in spice prices burns holes in pockets||KOLKATA: The lockdown saw the sharpest rise in the prices of spices, with household expenditure making a steep climb. The spike will adversely affect the restaurant and food business, which is reeling due to the long lockdown. The lockdown hit the supply and resulted in a 20-25% rise in the prices of spices across. Now, even the halim, which consists of a variety of pulses and spices of delicate proportion, may cost higher. Costs of small cardamom, black pepper and nutmeg — the bulk of which come from Kerala — are moving upward, with their supply drying up following the long lockdown. Small cardamoms are now dearer by at least 20% and black pepper and nutmegs have seen a steeper climb, said retailers in the city. “The absence of labourers in the spice factories, transportation issues and shortage of packaging materials have hit the spice trade hard. Since a majority of spices comes from southern and western India, supply-chain issues have widened the demand-supply gap,” said a wholesaler in Posta. The spice trade has been hit hard by the complete halt in export of spices to Gulf countries during the Ramadan month. This has also affected the food prices, said a Masalapatty trade insider. “The sharpest rise was seen in the price of small cardamom. Before the lockdown, its price was around Rs3,000/kg. Now, it is selling at Rs 5,000/kg, said Arun Gupta of Janbazar, a spice hub in central Kolkata. United Planters’ Association of Southern India, which largely controls the spice trade in India, has calculated a loss of not less than Rs 510 crore in pepper plantation as 30-40% of the crop is yet to be harvested. In the cardamom sector, 700 tonnes worth Rs 180 crore have piled up in the absence of domestic and export trade with the suspension of auctions. “Staple prices are already burning holes in our pockets. Now, costs of spices are adding to our woes. If this continues across all categories of daily essentials, we will end up spending more on food without even visiting restaurants,” said Anamika Ghosh, a New Alipore resident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/spike-in-spice-prices-burns-holes-in-pockets/articleshow/75665582.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
May 11, 2020||Nagpur||Stimulus must now to increase production, consumption:||The economy is going south and industries are worried. Then, there is the migrant problem to contend with. Where will the workers come from, once factories and infra projects start in full swing. To find the answers, TOI speaks with Kirit Joshi, co-founder and director of Spacewood. The over Rs500 crore city company, now flush with FDI from a Japanese conglomerate, had opened several showrooms and was on an expansion spree just before the lockdown. What are the problems being faced by industries?There are multiple challenges and it is not just one problem. The largest problem is one of consumption. If consumption is less during this period, it filters down to the factory. Inventory has not moved in the last three months, and we don’t know what the future is going to be. So that cascades to a bigger problem in the coming period. How do you view what is happening with migrants? Will they have the confidence of returning to work?We are opening up the economy again and they migrants should have been held back. The government should have given them the confidence to stay back. The migration is happening even as we are trying to ease the lockdown, resume industrial activity, and open up construction sites. They should have been incentivized to stay back. For infrastructure projects, this is going to be a big challenge. NGOs are doing their bit to hold back migrants, isn’t it?Out of 100, only 5-10 are staying back. Employers are unable to give assurance that they will be employed and given money. An NGO can’t do anything beyond supplying food and helping them in some way. Migrants needed long-term assurance. Confidence has to come from different angles. That is missing. Did you try to hold back migrants in your company?In the industrial scenario in Nagpur, there are not many migrants, who are largely into infrastructural projects. In industries, there are casual or permanent employees. The casual workers are from nearby areas like Gondia, Wardha or Bhandara, and none from West Bengal and Bihar. If you go to Guwahati or Sri Nagar, you will find people from Bihar or UP. Primarily, migrants travel from these states as there are fewer opportunities in their own states. Also, the local people are not so hard working as the migrants. They don’t want to work on road or bridge constructions. It’s sad, but that’s the way it is. Are you having regular conversations with other industrialists?I am involved in two kinds of discussions. One, among local industries about industrial products, auto components, packaging and others. Second, with those in the furniture business. The local discussions veer towards wages, issues due to lockdown, permissions and primarily on government regulations. At the national level, we discuss the future, steps to be taken for furniture industry, and how to survive and sustain during the crisis. The mood must be tense. Some days it is up and on other days down. Lately, it is more cautious rather than cheerful or sad. Everyone wants to conserve cash as we don’t see a good future. It is also tough to deal with lockdown problems. Nervousness and frustrations are increasing. Do you discuss layoffs and salary cuts?Of course. Employers feel layoffs are a better option, it is the only remedy left. There are less chances of the white-collared losing jobs. There are two kinds of fights happening: From the health point of view and the survival of a factory or business model. If both have to survive, both will have to take cuts, face restrictions. Pain has to be suffered by everyone. If the cash flow is good, there will be no layoffs. You may be a strong company but with no cash flow. What do you do then? It is very tough. Sinking economy vs human health. What do you save?Both have to be saved parallelly. India is lucky that there are fewer deaths. We should emerge from the health issue soon if we fix the fatality rate. The virus spread cannot be controlled beyond a point. Once lockdown is lifted it will spread. Death rate here is pretty low as compared to international numbers. If deaths had been higher we could have said health issue is not fixed. We are not economically strong. The government cannot fund people endlessly as we are not as cash rich as US or countries in the European Union. What’s been the response of your Japanese investors?We are conversing with Sumitomo Forestry at regular intervals. They are a 300-year-old conglomerate and have seen many ups and downs. World Wars, plague, Spanish flu ... they have gone through all this. The company is very mature in handling such situations. We discuss various scenarios, the measures we are taking, the global effect on furniture companies across the globe, which economies are doing well etc. The discussion helps us explore alliances in the future. We also discuss what furniture companies in Indonesia, China and Singapore are doing. Have their sales dropped? Would it be the same in India? States are tweaking labour laws. Maharashtra too has done it. Two things are happening: States are acting on their own and so are the courts. The Supreme Court is saying one thing, the high court is saying another and states are not following rules. There will be so much litigation. Unless things settle, nothing can be said. Who do you follow. the courts or the government. Some states are saying it is OK to fire employees. There is so much turbulence now. Best to keep quiet for some time now and see what is best for your organization right now. I have to survive first. I will talk to my workers and people. If I follow government diktat, my company will not survive beyond 2-3 months. What is relevant now may not be applicable later too. Is it possible to open up industries with Covid-19 rules in place?The death percentage is very low here. People who have died were primarily sick or ailing. There are rare cases too of a health person getting infected. But with precautions in place, we need to be aggressive and courageous. Things need to normalize in green zones with norms and safety measures in place. Some measures, like maintaining 6 feet distance, are difficult to follow. It cannot be done on the assembly floor. But with masks, sanitizers and washing of hands, work can be done. Companies, individuals and firms can take decisions on their own. I have been talking to my Chinese suppliers. They say things are normal there. Masks are not a compulsion unless you are in a theatre or public area. Usage of masks in factory is reducing. So, what will be the new normal?There will be temporary and permanent changes. Interacting on video will be high, convenient and productive. I can hire talent from across the world. The temporary changes would be distancing. Hygiene will be a priority. Namaste will do but there will be no hugging. Government coffers are empty and industries are unlikely to get any sops. We are aware that tax rates will not go down. People will have to be encouraged to increase consumption. For one year, government will have to give a stimulus to industries. Banks will have to increase credit limit and play an aggressive role not just to help industries but consumers too. Consumers will have to be given finance facilities to buy new homes, consumer durables and automobiles. Sops just for industries will not help. When should the stimulus come in?This is the right time. Sentiments are low and scary. The Aam Admi is scared of losing job and income. The industry is trying to reduce costs. The government has to step in now. US, Italy and some countries are pumping in money. Wages are being reimbursed by different government from various funds. There has to be some tangible action by our government. If you were the PM, what is the one thing that you would change?Stimulus is what comes to my mind. I would pump in money like anything. Flush money to people through banks and finance firms so that the consumption goes up. If you pump blood, the body will work. Similarly, the economy will work if people have liquid cash. You have been doing quite a lot for the welfare of stray animals. After adopting a stray in 2008, a stray dog became my close buddy. I am a son of a farmer and animals like cows, buffaloes, dogs have been part of my eco system. Along with some activists I have been supporting stray animals, facilitating their adoption and paying for their medication. Now, strays are not being fed, earlier the restaurants would do that. Everyone is working for migrants, I want to do something for strays. If they die, many diseases will crop up that one cannot imagine. Some even more severe than Covid-19. All of us have a moral responsibility. If you find a stray dog or animal, please feed them is my appeal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/stimulus-must-now-to-increase-production-consumption-joshi/articleshow/75662739.cms||Sunil Warrier
May 11, 2020||Dehradun||Lack of quarantine facilities across state concerns officials||Dehradun: With Uttarakhand government accelerating efforts to bring back stranded locals under its “Ghar Chalo Abhiyan”, health department and district administration are grappling to arrange adequate quarantine facilities in the state. Health department officials say that the lack of quarantine facilities in the state is a matter of concern as Uttarakhand government is planning to bring back 1.5 lakh stranded locals to the state in the next few days. Notably, five people among those migrant workers who were brought back to the state tested positive for coronavirus in the last 48 hours.  Most of the people who have registered on the state government website are stuck in states like Maharashtra, Delhi, and Gujarat — where Covid-19 pandemic is more severe. “As per protocol, everyone coming from red zone to green/orange zone must be institutionally quarantined,” said a health department official. According to health department data, the state has 1,031 beds for confirmed Covid-19 cases and 8,021 beds for suspected cases of the disease. The state currently has 120 ventilators and 236 Intensive Care Unit (ICU) beds. Talking about institutional quarantine facility available, Abhishek Tripathi, nodal officer of Covid-19 war room, told TOI that 18,022 beds are available in the state of which 2,514 are already occupied. “The maximum number of beds — 3,836 — at institutional quarantine facilities are available in Haridwar, followed by 3,813 beds in Udham Singh Nagar, 1,861 beds in Pauri, 1,838 beds in Nainital, and 1,563 beds in Dehradun. Institutional quarantine facilities in hill districts have a capacity of 150-800 beds,” said Tripathi, while adding that it will be difficult to quarantine all cases if the numbers shoot up. “We will conduct screening at various levels and then people with no symptoms and safer travelling history can be quarantined at their homes. District administrations are also working on increasing the quarantine facilities,” he said. Meanwhile, a group of men, who had recently returned to the state, were allegedly put under quarantine in a cow shed in Pauri’s Amdanda Palla village under Rikhnikhal block. The district administration took cognisance of the matter and the men were shifted elsewhere. Pauri’s sub-divisional magistrate Aparna Daundiyal told TOI, “They themselves decided to remain under quarantine in the shed. We are trying to convince locals and make them aware of the disease and its prevention methods. We have contacted the village heads and told them to put beds inside the empty houses, schools, and community halls of the area. If this doesn’t serve the purpose, we will put those who return to the state in quarantine at their homes.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/lack-of-quarantine-facilities-across-state-concerns-officials/articleshow/75664328.cms||Ishita Mishra
May 11, 2020||Aurangabad||50 Covid-19 +ve cases in city takes district tally to 558||Aurangabad: As many as 50 confirmed Covid-19 cases emerged from the city on Sunday, taking the tally of positive cases to 558 in the district. Most of the cases were reported from Ram Nagar and Silk Mill Colony. Meanwhile, a 50-year-old man, a resident of Roshan Gate in Baijapura who had contracted the infection, died while undergoing treatment at Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) on Sunday. This is the 13th case of a patient succumbing to the infection in the city. GMCH’s nodal officer for media interaction Arvind Gaikwad said that the man was admitted to the district civil hospital on May 2 after he tested positive for Covid-19. However, as his oxygen levels in the blood were low, he was admitted to the GMCH on May 3. “He was suffering from diabetes and a kidney disease. He had acquired pneumonia due to Covid-19. He underwent dialysis four times. As he was having difficulty breathing, he was placed on ventilator on May 6. His health was deteriorating in the last two days due to the comorbid conditions. The man died at 7.50am on Sunday,” said Gaikwad. The cause of the man’s death has been identified as uremic encephalopathy Covid-19 associated with coagulopathy in case of diabetes mellitus nephropathy with chronic kidney disease. 27 patients discharged Municipal officer for health Nita Padalkar said that as many as 27 Covid-19 patients were discharged from different health facilities in the city on Sunday after they tested negative for the two consecutive tests conducted after 14 days of quarantine. This takes the tally of cured patients in Auranagabad to 92. While the district civil hospital sent home eight patients, 19 more were discharged from Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC)‘s Covid care centres in Qile Ark and Padampura Emergency Operations Centre. Padalkar said that following the instructions from the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and the state government on discharge guidelines, it has been decided to discharge Covid-19 patients after 10 days if they were asymptomatic. “They will be discharged without needing to undergo throat swab test again. However, they will be placed in home quarantine for seven days. Residents and patients need not worry as the virus load starts reducing after 10 days,” said Padalkar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/50-covid-19-ve-cases-in-city-takes-district-tally-to-558/articleshow/75665106.cms||Arpita Sharad
May 11, 2020||Vadodara||Three disposing chemical waste held||Vadodara: Three persons including a local operator of a Mumbai-based healthcare products manufacturing company were arrested on Saturday for disposing waste chemical in a pit at their under-construction unit in Savli taluka. Based on a tip-off, cops from the local crime branch (LCB) of Vadodara rural police raided the premises of Synergia Life Sciences Pvt Ltd on the outskirts of Tundav village and found two persons, identified as Umesh Parmar and Ranjitsinh Gohil, disposing the waste chemical in an underground pit within their premises. Police said that the duo had emptied around 4,400 litres of chemical in the pit which was emitting severe stench. When questioned about their illegal action, they couldn’t give any satisfactory answer, said cops. Police called one Biren Patel, the operator of the unit who lives in Fatehgunj, along with officials from the Gujarat Pollution Control Board (GPCB) for inspection. “The operator tried to hide under excuses that he wasn’t aware about the illegal activity,” said a police official. However, cops arrested Patel, Parmar and Gohil and booked an offence at Bhadarwa police station for negligent conduct with poisonous substance, endangering life and personal safety of other and different sections of the Environment (Protection) Act. “GPCB officials will let us know what chemical it was after their tests are over. However, our investigation has revealed that chemical was being disposed in a similar manner around 20 days ago too,” said inspector D B Vala of LCB. He added that since the unit is still under-construction, the company was sending the waste chemical from its other facilities over here for disposal. “We will also be making the directors and other administrators of the company as the accused in the case,” Vala added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/three-disposing-chemical-waste-held/articleshow/75663717.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Kolkata||NRI lady’s effort makes online classes possible for slum kids||Bishwabijoy.Mitra@timesgroup.com The nation-wide lockdown has turned life on its head for almost all of us. But those on the lower rungs of the economic ladder are the worst hit. True, governments and many citizens have been working hard to ensure that they are not deprived of food or basic necessities during the lockdown, but most missed another fundamental need — connectivity, especially for school kids. This is where retired banker Manju Basu comes into the picture. The US resident, who couldn’t fly back home after her annual Kolkata visit due to the lockdown, has decided to cater to this necessity. And on Saturday, she and her friend Tamisra Das distributed a few refurbished smartphones among school kids in a north Kolkata slum. Their aim: to provide these kids the means to catch up with their studies and attend online classes being conducted by their schools. Speaking to us about how she got the idea, Manju said, “As I was bored sitting at home, I joined Tamisra in distributing food among slum dwellers and villagers. During one such visit, I met this little girl and asked her about studies. She told me that her school was conducting online classes, but she was missing them as her parents couldn’t afford a smartphone. I was heartbroken. No one should be deprived of education just because they can’t afford a smartphone and to stay connected.” That’s when she decided to ensure connectivity for these kids so that they don’t miss classes. She and Tamisra managed to gather eight smartphones and get them repaired. And these are the phones they distributed on Saturday. Among the beneficiaries is Shouvik Paul, a Class XII student of Shyambazar AV School, whose parents couldn't afford a smartphone. The son of a tea seller told us that he has to fully rely on school lessons as his parents cannot afford private tuitions. "For two months now, I have been missing classes and couldn’t even collect notes from my friends because of the lockdown. So, this phone has come as a boon for me,” he said. Class VII student Shibham Paul, whose father is a small-time idol maker, said that owning a smartphone was way beyond his dreams till Manju gave him one. "Now that I have a smartphone, my mother has told me that she will only let me use it during school hours. But at least now, I will be able to attend regular classes," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/nri-ladys-effort-makes-online-classes-possible-for-slum-kids/articleshow/75664336.cms||Bishwabijoy Mitra
May 11, 2020||Hubballi||Chigateri General Hosp to treat Covid-19 patients||Davanagere: The Chigateri General Hospital (CG hospital) in Davanagere has been converted into a full-fledged Covid-19 hospital, due to a rise in patients, said deputy commissioner Mahantesh Bilagi, at a press conference on Sunday. The total Covid-19 cases rose to 68, including a patient that tested positive in Davanagere on Sunday, said the DC. We have kept the 40-bed neonatal intensive care unit (NICU) and gynaecology ward attached to the CG Hospital main building insulated, by putting a strong barrier with separate entries, from the Covid-19 hospital, as many rural women and children visit these units, the DC said. “We have designated Bapuji hospital as a general hospital for medical care, apart from Covid-19 cases. People can get treated under government schemes in private nursing homes and hospitals in Davangere city,” the DC said. “All local lodges, including Rathan lodge, Abhiman lodge and Trishul lodge were cleaned up and disinfected on Sunday, to quarantine patients suspected to have Covid-19,” the DC said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/chigateri-general-hosp-to-treat-covid-19-patients/articleshow/75663552.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Pune||Pune among 5 cities for clinical trials of Ashwagandha to treat Covid-19||PUNE: The city, besides Mumbai, Lucknow, Varanasi and Delhi, will participate in the AYUSH’s clinical trials on the use of ayurvedic medicines on Covid-19 patients and healthcare workers. Private hospitals in the five cities have come forward to conduct the trials organized by the ministry of ayurveda, yoga and naturopathy, unani, siddha and homoeopathy (AYUSH) on their health workers and patients for a period of three months. Two eminent experts from Pune, including Bhushan Patwardhan, chair of the inter-disciplinary AYUSH Research and development task force, and Arvind Chopra, chair of the clinical trial group at AYUSH ministry, are playing important roles in the clinical trial programme. The experts are planning to administer formulation of Ashwagandha tablets. instead of hydrocloroquine (HCQ). to healthcare workers, such as doctors, nurses and ward boys, who are in direct contact with the Covid-19 patients. In the second programme, the experts will advice formation of Guduchi and Pippali, Yashtimadhu and Ayush 64 tablets as an add-on medicine to the current treatment of the Covid-19 patients. Analysis and assessment will be conducted after three months and the success will be determined. AYUSH secretary Rajesh Kotecha said, “The study period for the trial will be 12 weeks. After that, an analysis will be done and the report will be ready for publication in three months from now. We will study the intervention of Ashwagandha, which has been tried in several medical cases. It is known to be a very good drug to enhance the immune system to fight all infections. For the second trial, we have selected three ayurvedic medicines as an add-on to the standard Covid-19 treatment regimen.” Patwardhan said, “The protocol has been drafted and the ethics committees of different hospitals will be approved. This will take about two-three days. The clearances will come by next week and the clinical trial registration shall be done. The actual trials will start by the third week of May. The task force has identified about 8-10 hospitals in the five cities. Though more hospitals are coming forward, health hubs from the five cities will be considered for the first round of trials.” He added, “The protocol designing took two weeks and it gives a detailed methodology of how clinical trials will be conducted. There is a need to have a safer alternative to HCQ. We think Ashwagandha is the answer to this.” AYUSH chief clinical coordinator Arvind Chopra said, “We are conducting a random comparison between Ashwagandha and and HCQ. Ashwagandha will be given to health workers, who have not taken HCQ earlier and are actively involved in the medical management of Covid-19 patients. We also plan to scientifically pick 1,000 people, other than healthcare workers such as policemen, drivers and officials, and also monitor them for the effects of Ashwagandha.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pune-among-5-cities-for-clinical-trials-of-ashwagandha-to-treat-covid-19/articleshow/75665584.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
May 11, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Some jewellers resume business, others await state instructions||KOLKATA: While a few jewellers have opened their shutters in the non-containment zones in Kolkata and other districts, others are waiting for the state to declare the showroom areas as non-containment zones. Some of the jewellers in the city are planning to open showrooms in non-containment zones after getting a nod from the cops. Senco Gold and Diamonds opened their showrooms in Salt Lake, Baguiati and Nagerbazar apart from Barasat, Kanchrapara and Howrah. “We have started to operate at selected stores in four states, including West Bengal after getting approvals from authorities concerned. We are following all safety measures and emphasizing on digital payments,” said Suvankar Sen, executive director of Senco Gold and Diamonds. Anjali Jewellers, which opened its Durgapur showroom on Saturday, is awaiting a nod from the police to open their Kolkata showrooms. “All our showrooms in Kolkata are in containment zones. We are talking to the administration if any of those can be opened after the area is cleared,” said Anarghya Uttiya Chowdhury, director of Anjali Jewellers. “It is not about the sales now, but reopening a shop conveys a sense of life coming back to normalcy,” Chowdhury said. Some of the jewellers in Nimta opened their stores on Saturday between 10am and noon. “There was confusion over necessary permissions and they closed showrooms again on Sunday,” said Tagar Poddar, general secretary of Bangiya Swarnashilpi Samiti. Nilanjan Sen of B C Sen Jewellers said that they were assessing customers’ response before they reopen shops. “We will observe the situation for a while and take steps accordingly,” Sen said. Rupak Saha, zonal member of Gem and Jewellery Trade Council of India felt that the jewellery industry, which has been witnessing a slump for a prolonged period, needs some positive move. “Our workers are getting demoralized. Reopening shops will send a positive note among the buyers as well,” he said. Some jewellers like Sawansukha Jewellers and R R Agarwal Jewellers are waiting for May 17 to assess the situation. “We shall wait for the May 17 when the Prime Minister is scheduled to deliver a message,” said Ratan Lal Agarwal. Sawansukha Jewellers is continuing online sales, said Siddharth Sawansukha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/some-jewellers-resume-business-others-await-state-instructions/articleshow/75665631.cms||Rohit Khanna
May 11, 2020||Vijayawada||Medical camps at airport for foreign returnees||Vijayawada: Authorities of Krishna district administration heaved a sigh of relief as the district registered only one new Covid-19 positive case on Sunday. The cumulative tally of the district increased to 339 cases by Sunday with around 189 active cases. Containing the spread of the novel coronavirus at Krishna Lanka, Karmika Nagar, Islampet and other red zones in the city has become a major challenge for the district administration. Officials are shifting all close contacts of Covid-19 positive patients to quarantine centres and implementing geographical quarantine by restricting the movement of locals within red zones. Krishna district collector A Mohammed Imtiaz urged the residents of red zone areas in the city to cooperate with them and not to come on streets for silly reasons. He asked the public to make use of M-marts established by the Vijayawada Municipal Corporation to get door delivery of essentials. The police have been strictly implementing lockdown at red zones and seizing the vehicles on the streets during lockdown hours. Meanwhile, the Krishna district administration is making elaborate arrangements to quarantine foreign returnees, likely to land in the city soon. The first batch of foreign returnees is expected on Monday evening. Officials have decided to set up medical camps at the airport to perform basic medical examinations of foreign returnees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/medical-camps-at-airport-for-foreign-returnees/articleshow/75664344.cms||Venu Lanka
May 11, 2020||Hyderabad||KTR seeks Centre aid for textile sector||Hyderabad: State has sought 50% subsidy from the Centre on yarn for the textile industry in the state and also urged the GST council to consider waiving the tax on handloom products for two years to support the sector. Industries and MAUD minister KT Rama Rao requested Union textiles minister Smriti Irani to give as a short term measure, support of up to 50% of wages, contingent on continued employment of workforce for 6 months as long repayable in the long run. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ktr-seeks-centre-aid-for-textile-sector/articleshow/75665113.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Kolkata||Three Covid-19 suspects near Posta spark fresh concern||KOLKATA: The administration has expressed concern after three persons in Malapara, on the periphery of the congested Posta wholesale hub, were taken away by healthcare workers on Saturday evening after they showed symptoms of Covid-19. The government is already struggling to find an alternative spot for either the market or for the unloading of trucks to contain the transmission risk in a pocket where hundreds of labourers, drivers and helpers work daily. The number of cases in the Burrabazar and Posta areas has not declined despite strict enforcement of lockdown measures. Cops have approached senior traders in the market seeking suggestions to keep the place safe from the virus without disturbing the supply chain of essential commodities ,like flour, rice, onions, potatoes, oil and pulses. “It is a worrisome development. Malapara is like an entry point to Posta if one is coming from the direction of Ganesh Talkies. Even today, trucks carrying essential commodities are parked on Kali Krishna Tagore Street. Thousands visit Posta daily for purchases and can become carriers if the virus spreads. Hundreds of labourers, drivers and helpers, too, work in close proximity here in the market,” said an officer from Posta police station. Posta and other markets in Burrabazar are important for the supply of edibles to retail markets in the city and the suburbs. But this also means that people from different parts of the city assemble here every day. This poses a risk of the virus spreading to even parts of the city where no case has been detected yet. “It also means a risk of the virus infecting more people within this pocket,” said a source in the local administration. However, Biswanath Aggarwal, general secretary of the Posta Bazar Merchants’ Welfare Association, said, “We have not been officially approached by anybody from the government to either relocate the market or ferry goods in smaller vehicles.” Earlier, the police had to shut down Raja Katra, a wholesale market for pulses and oil, when two labourers were found Covid-positive. They also sealed several pockets of Posta, Sikdar Para Lane, Hanspukur Lane, Shiv Thakur Lane and Kalakar Street for the next week to break the transmission chain. “The number of cases has refused to come down in the area because of defiance by a section of residents. For the time being, we are thinking of conducting stricter checking of drivers and helpers before they enter the city,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/three-covid-19-suspects-near-posta-spark-fresh-concern/articleshow/75665114.cms||Zeeshan Javed
May 11, 2020||Aurangabad||Containment strategy in hsg units not feasible for slums: Activists||Aurangabad: A pattern has been observed in the Covid-19 cases detected in the city. The transmission of the virus is manifold in slums and congested colonies. With small houses and shortage of ration supply, residents have to frequently come out of their houses unlike in well-planned housing societies. Under the cluster containment plan, the Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) seals a locality after a confirmed case is reported from the area. A team of health workers is deployed to carry out door-to-door screening of all houses in the area. Residents in the locality are asked to stay at home with little or no movement outside. The plan, activists say, works for housing societies where residents are from better off financially. Residents in such areas can afford to stock a week’s grocery and greens in advance so that they don’t have to step out of the house—a stark contrast to the practice prevalent in slums and congested colonies.According to corporator Bhausaheb Jagtap, the Mukundwadi-Sanjay Nagar area is chiefly inhabited by families severely affected by the lockdown. “Many people here have lost their livelihood ever since the lockdown was imposed. The daily wagers here have a habit of purchasing groceries in small quantities. Now, their purchasing power has also dropped. We have been distributing grocery kits to many people so that they can sustain amid the lockdown,” said Jagtap. Madhukar Khillare, vice president of State Unorganised Workers Union, said instead of providing 5kg grain for each member of a family to ration-card holders, the fair price shops under the public distribution system provided only 15-20kg grain for a family of five to six members. Most families don’t even have ration cards. “The government should follow the Kerala pattern and facilitate doorstep delivery of food grain to the needy families, irrespective of whether they have ration cards or not, atleast in the containment zones,” said Khillare. Residents living right next to a lane in Mukundawadi-Sanjay Nagar, from where 22 Covid-19 positive cases have been reported, said that their household waste has not been collected in the last five days. With 88 cases, Mukundwadi-Sanjay Nagar has recorded the highest number of Covid-19 cases in Aurangabad. In stark contrast, Samata Nagar locality contained the spread of the infection with timely measures. Asfaque Qureshi, who handles the office of Samata Nagar corporator, said that as soon as the first case was detected in the area, 150 people were encouraged to go for testing. “Due to counselling, people readily agreed to get tested. We also provided ration kits to the locals so that they don’t step out of the house. This helped in containing the virus transmission,” Qureshi said.City engineer Sakharam Panzade said that people were not paying heed to rules and venturing out of their houses unnecessarily. “100 grocery kits have been distributed among the residents of Sanjay Nagar-Mukundwadi as part of an initiative undertaken by MLC Ambadas Danve. We are undertaking massive testing in the area. We can facilitate doorstep delivery of greens and grocery so that people do not have to step out,” said Panzade.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/containment-strategy-in-hsg-units-not-feasible-for-slums-activists/articleshow/75665112.cms||Arpita Sharad
May 11, 2020||Kolkata||Students stuck in Bangladesh make return-plea on FB||KOLKATA: Indian youths studying in various medical colleges in Bangladesh, who have been stranded there, have sought help from Indian authorities through a Facebook video post to get back home. The Facebook post by 17 students — studying in different medical colleges of Bangladesh — appealed to the ministry of external affairs, along with the PMO, to help them return to India. There are over 700 Indian students who are stranded in Bangladesh after a flight left for Srinagar with 167 students on May 8, said Sounak Ghosh, a third-year MBBS student of Delta Medical College of Dhaka. The Kalyani resident said more than 300 students from Bengal alone are stuck in Dhaka. However, since a majority of the Indian students studying MBBS in Bangladesh are from Jammu & Kashmir, Ghosh said they will be shifted out by the next flight on Tuesday. However, the flight will head for Delhi and J&K without any stopover at Kolkata. There are many students from Bengal, Bihar and Jharkhand who don’t know how they will return if there are no flights and they aren’t allowed to use the land border. Ghosh said the students had also appealed to the Indian high commission in Dhaka for their repatriation. “I visited the high commission at Dhaka last week, but was only provided with a helpline number. They promised to communicate once the return journey is arranged,” Ghosh said. He is also worried as his father is a government doctor who has been attending to patients at a Covid hospital in Kalyani. Promit Saha, a resident of Behala who is a second-year student in Bangladesh, appealed for their evacuation in the Facebook video post. “We have also tagged everyone in our Tweet, including the Prime Minister, to help us out of this problem,” Saha said. Similarly, Arijit Chatterjee, a third-year student originally from Tripura, is anxious to get back home. He said that if the Akhaura border of Tripura is opened, then the students from northeast India can easily return. There are around 150 students from the northeast region stuck in Bangladesh, he said. “My father Bhaskar Chatterjee, a doctor at Dharampur Hospital, has appealed to the chief minister of Tripura and all senior officials to allow us to return. But as this is an international matter, they have referred it to the ministry of external affairs,” Chatterjee explained. Most of the students said they were facing problems in withdrawing cash from ATMs and, since most shops are closed, they were having trouble buying essentials. A foreign ministry official said that, under the Vande Bharat Mission, seven flights had been planned from Dhaka for repatriating Indians and the high commission in Dhaka is trying to provide all support. “They are collecting data of stranded Indians who want to return,” he said. However, he could not say anything about the resumption of flights to India or if and when flights will operate to Kolkata. Alapan Bandopadhyay, additional chief secretary of Bengal home department, said arrangements were being made to bring back Indians stranded abroad and provisions have been kept ready for their quarantine and health check-up.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/students-stuck-in-bdesh-make-return-plea-on-fb/articleshow/75665120.cms||Debasish Konar
May 11, 2020||Pune||SPPU issues post-lockdown plan for affiliated colleges, institutes||PUNE: The Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) has released the first draft of the Covid-19 prevention protocol to be followed by 705 affiliated colleges, 234 recognized institutes, 46 on-campus departments and 71 research institutes when they reopen after the lockdown. The advisory will address further concerns in due course, said university officials. The 30-page protocol document seeks to address every minute detail that goes into the running of academic establishments. From completing 1/3rd of the syllabus online, staggered lunch breaks and curbs on the presence of outsiders in hostel rooms, to cancelling all social gatherings and sports events until further notice, the university has created a list of safety measures to be followed in classrooms, hostels, laboratories, canteens, etc. SPPU registrar Prafulla Pawar said, “This is an advisory to all institutes, not a binding document. It has been published so that whenever institutes re-open, some measures are in place to curb the spread of the virus.” SPPU pro vice-chancellor NS Umrani said, “Senior academics Kuldip Charak and Mahesh Abale have authored the document after perusing various literature available currently.” The e-booklet will be sent to all affiliated colleges and other institutes under SPPU, added vice-chancellor Nitin Karmalkar. “Social distancing is key to preventing the spread of the coronavirus hence we need to avoid all large gatherings for the next academic year. Sanitization and fumigation of the entire campus would be done at least twice daily. All institutes and departments would be asked to install a sanitizer spray machine at the entrance,” he said. Karmalkar further said that it has become imperative that all teachers be trained in online communication tools so that at least 1/3rd of the syllabus can be taught virtually. “The university will create a separate link to upload course-wise and topic-wise content. While regular counselling will now be a feature, we have also given an opportunity for interested students to complete a course on counselling online so that they can help college students resolve and handle psychological concerns post-lockdown.” The document also includes points such as the compulsory use of hand sanitizers and face masks for the long term. Charak, a director of the Navsahyadri Group of Institutes, explained, “Subjecting staff and visitors to non-contact thermal scanner checks or temperature checks at the time of entry will also be among the measures that must be adopted by institutes for the long term.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/sppu-issues-post-lockdown-plan-for-affiliated-colleges-institutes/articleshow/75665588.cms||Ardhra Nair
May 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Bizman stuck in lift, lodges plaint||Hyderabad: A business has lodged a complaint after he, along with his son, was stuck inside the lift at a prominent apartment building for about 50 minutes. He alleged that the security staff and the society did not respond to their distress call on time. “Srinivas Reddy claimed that after being in the lift for 50 minutes, he forcefully opened the it through a small gap. We need to verify the claim by CCTV footage besides taking the statements of technical experts dealing with lift,’’ said SI Anjaiah Goud.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bizman-stuck-in-lift-lodges-plaint/articleshow/75665118.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Vijayawada||Meat ban fails to keep buyers away, surprise raids conducted in Vijayawada||VIJAYAWADA: Despite a ban on sale of meat, chicken, and fish in the city on Sundays, many people were caught buying meat from sellers on the stealth. This came to light after the veterinary wing of Vijayawada Municipal Corporation (VMC) conducted surprise inspections at meat shops and Sunday markets and destroyed stocks. Vijayawada city has emerged as a Covid hotspot with around 160 active cases. Krishna Lanka, Machavarama and Ajith Singh Nagar are among the areas in the city that have been sealed. In a bid to control large gatherings at markets, Krishna district collector A Mohammed Imtiaz, restricted the sale of meat on a Sunday three weeks ago. Since then he has been extending the ban after reviewing the situation each week. Yet on Sunday, fish and chicken sales continued at BRTS Road, Madhuranagar, Kandrika Road, and a few other areas. No social distancing was followed at the stalls. “On the one hand, officials are suggesting that we eat chicken and fish to boost immunity. On the other hand, they are imposing a ban on these food items,” said M Satyanarayana, a private company employee, who bough fish at the Satyanarayanapuram Railway colony. A few people even traveled all the way to Adavinekkalam, Ganavaram, and other areas in the city outskirts to buy chicken and mutton. Speaking with TOI Dr Ravichand said, “A majority of people in the city are used to eating meat on Sundays. But that is leading to crowds at markets. Our special teams conducted a row of inspections in the city and destroyed the stocks.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/meat-ban-fails-to-keep-buyers-away-surprise-raids-conducted/articleshow/75664352.cms||Venu Lanka
May 11, 2020||Madurai||Tuticorin MCH dean shunted out||Madurai: A day after a controversial video purportedly featuring Tuticorin government medical college hospital dean Dr B Thiruvasagamani went viral, director of medical education (DME) Dr R Narayanababu said preliminary action has been taken against him by transferring him to Virudhungar Medical College Hospital on Saturday. In the 14-second video clip, the authenticity of which could not be independently verified, the dean, seated in his car, could be seen telling final year medical students, house surgeons or compulsory rotatory residential interns (CRRIs) to mark themselves as negative for Covid-19 test results. When a student questions him how he could do so without taking the test, the doctor was heard saying “That’s how it is done”. Dr Thiruvasagamani has maintained that the clip was doctored and that his transfer did not have anything to do with it. Speaking to TOI, the DME said that because of the nature of the case, preliminary action was taken first after which an inquiry will be initiated to thoroughly investigate the matter. “We’ll ask for an inquiry and explanation for the video and then, on investigation subsequently, departmental action will be taken,” he said. Senior authorities at Tuticorin Medical College Hospital were unavailable for comment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/tuticorin-mch-dean-shunted-out/articleshow/75665586.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Aurangabad||Beed citizens forget distancing to get screened for virus symptoms||Aurangabad: A medical camp organised in Beed to monitor the health of the citizens and identify Covid-19 suspects took an unfortunate turn when it defeated the purpose for which it was set up on Sunday. NGO Gopinath Munde Pratishthan, under former minister Pankaja Munde and MP Pritam Munde, has facilitated a ward-wise health check-ups for Beed residents for the last 32 days. The NGO has roped in private doctors, who check locals for symptoms of Covid-19 and also for diabetes and blood pressure. Though the district is currently in the green zone with no positive Covid-19 cases, the initiative was implemented to ensure no one contracts Covid-19 and the district continues to remain free of the viral infection. Those found with high body temperature, cold or cough were referred to the district civil hospital. According to district president of Gopinath Munde Pratishthan Rajendra Mhaske, more than 80,000 people have undergone primary check up at the medical camp. Around 2,000 people were checked at the Gandhinagar area in Beed on Sunday alone. A large number of men, women and children were checked at the medical camp. However, the citizens failed to observe social distancing at the camp. People were standing less than a feet away from each other and many were spotted without masks, thereby defeating the purpose of the medical camp and exposing the people to the risk of infection. The organiser failed to ensure people stand atleast a metre away from each other— the distance recommended by the government for preventing spread of Covid-19. Mhaske ruled out the possibility of violation of social distancing norms at the medical camp. “The camp will continue for a few more day. We will ensure that the citizens follow distancing norms,” he said. Mhaske added that the camp has now been extended to the rural areas of the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/beed-citizens-forget-distancing-to-get-screened-for-virus-symptoms/articleshow/75665121.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Pune||Covid-19: Shops to shut in 69 hotspots in PMC areas from midnight||PUNE: Barring hospitals and clinics, all emergency and essential goods services and distribution in the 69 containment areas of Pune Municipal Corporation limits will remain shut with effect from the midnight of Monday (May 11) till May 17. Pune municipal commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad passed an order to this effect on Sunday evening, stating that the decision was spurred by the continuing violation of social distancing norms at the essential shops, which were allowed to operate in the containment areas between 10am and 2pm since May 3. “The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) and the police will oversee arrangements for doorstep delivery of essential items like milk and vegetables or will make the same available at bigger open and spacious places in the areas as per requirement,” the order stated. The PMC has declared total 69 containment zones _ mostly the central parts or the peth areas, the slums and some densely populated localities which are the worst affected by the COVID-19 contagion. Civic officials pointed out that 80% of the city’s 2,400-odd nCov positive cases have been reported from these 69 containment zones. As many as 1,900-odd cases are from these areas, which stand sealed since May 3. A civic officer said, “Our survey teams which are constantly moving around in the containment areas and our ambulances placed at strategic locations will play a role in providing emergency services. Similarly, at all entry point of the containment areas, a policeman and a PMC representative will be stationed aiding doorstep delivery. People can approach their nearest entry point in case of need of delivery of essential items. The ward offices and the local corporator can also be contacted for help.” The PMC had declared some areas of the city as containment zones on April 6. These areas included Peth areas from Maharshi Nagar to RTO and parts of Kondhwa. More areas were added in these zones on April 13. They were Shivajinagar, Parvati, parts of Kondhwa, Ahmednagar Road, Satara Road and Yerawada. On April 20, the whole city was declared as the containment zone. Restrictions were put on movements of people and vehicles. The city’s containment zones were reduced to only 3 per cent of the total city’s area on May 3. The other areas were converted into red zones (noncontainment areas), giving mobility to the residents. The civic administration had decided to open the shops across non-containment areas from May 6. The shops in red zones were opened between 7 am and 7 pm they were all essential shops and five non essential shops per 1km areas. The shops with essential items in the 69 containment zones were kept open from 10am to 2pm. Even those have now been shut from Monday, till the next order.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/shops-to-shut-in-69-hotspots-in-pmc-areas-from-midnight/articleshow/75665592.cms||प्रसाद श. कुलकर्णी
May 11, 2020||Kolkata||Health department wary of equipment at private hospital testing facilities||KOLKATA: Even though the health department has asked private hospitals to scale up Covid tests and equip their laboratories for the purpose, it is wary of the instruments at their disposal and are worried whether the staff are adequately trained. Two private laboratories with a national presence have been asked to enhance their Kolkata facilities and conduct Covid tests, according to health department sources. An inspection of laboratories across the city’s private hospitals has begun. Laboratory equipment needed to conduct RT-PCR tests may not be up to the mark, felt a senior health official. “First, they need to get a clearance from the National Accreditation Board for Testing and Calibration Laboratories (NABL), for which they must apply and satisfy the conditions. It has to be followed by an inspection. But, more importantly, they need to calibrate their instruments rightly or get new ones, which would be difficult for most,” he said. The official added that two private facilities had the right set-up for RT-PCR and have been approached. “They had initially told us that they were ready to conduct the tests in other cities But we have insisted on creating facilities in Kolkata, which will ensure that the tests can be quickly done,” added the official. Meanwhile, the NABL has started inspecting laboratories in other private hospital. On Friday, an NABL team visited the Salt Lake unit of AMRI Hospitals and inspected the Dhakuria centre — which has applied for setting up a Covid lab — on Sunday. AMRI has applied for an approval of Truenat — a rapid screening system which has to be confirmed by RT-PCR — at its Dhakuria unit. “While our Salt Lake unit will continue RT-PCR tests, Trunat test will be introduced at Dhakuria, which will allow faster screening of suspects,” said CEO Rupak Barua. He added that though patients testing positive in a Truenat test will have to undergo an RT-PCR, the negatives will not require a confirmation, While three-four of the leading private hospitals, including AMRI, Apollo Gleneagles and Peerless, have labs adequate for RT-PCR test, the other off-shore private labs were below the mark, felt a private hospital consultant. “Many of these are not NABL-accredited,” he said, adding that the NABL system was unlikely to certify the ones which seemed doubtful. Fortis Hospital has a tie-up with private laboratory SRL, which has an NABL clearance for Covid tests. “Fortunately, we have access to a good laboratory and are in the process of scaling up our hospital lab,” said Fortis pulmonologist Raja Dhar. Peerless Hospital, too, has applied for an NABL accreditation for its Covid testing facility. “Our systems are being upgraded,” said medical superintendent Sudipto Mitra. RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences, too, has applied for an accreditation and is in the process of setting up an RT-PCR lab.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/health-dept-wary-of-equipment-at-private-hosp-testing-facilities/articleshow/75665124.cms||Prithvijit Mitra
May 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Two cops accept bribe, suspended||HYDERABAD: Two constables of the Afzalgunj police station were suspended on Sunday after a video of the duo accepting alleged bribe went viral on social media. Around 8am on Sunday, police constables D Pancha Mukesh and B Suresh stopped an auto trolley reportedly carrying non-essentials near Jambagh. A local captured the duo stopping the auto trolley and taking money from the driver. The person posted the video on social media. Hyderabad police commissioner Anjani Kumar ordered an inquiry and subsequently placed them under suspension. “They were placed under suspension with immediate effect as they were found indulging in act of grave misconduct,” an official release issued by the Hyderabad police said. Afzalganj inspector Gyanender Reddy has been given a charge memo for poor supervision and control. “The initial investigation revealed that the auto trolley was carrying non-essential items. The constables were planning on booking a case, to avoid news spreading that the driver bribed them,” a senior official said. Watch On cam: Two constables accept bribe, suspended||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/two-cops-accept-bribe-suspended/articleshow/75665125.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Nagpur||Wardha gets 1st +ves and death on same day||Nagpur: Wardha district, which did not have a single case of Covid-19 since the beginning, recorded its first on Sunday. A 35-yr-old woman from a nomadic tribe hamlet in Arvi tehsil, who died on May Friday, tested positive for Covid-19. Also, a pneumonia patient from a village in Washim district tested positive on Sunday in a Sevagram hospital taking Wardha’s positive cases to 2 in a day. There were two more deaths registered on Sunday. A 50-yr-old woman, who was admitted in GMCH Akola from May 7, died of Covid-19 during treatment. A cancer patient from Achalpur (Amravati district), who came in a critical condition to Nagpur’s GMCH, was declared brought dead. His swab samples taken post death tested positive on Sunday. The total death count of Vidarbha is now 30. With 13 patients in Nagpur, 7 in Akola and 2 in Wardha, Vidarbha recorded 22 new Covid-19 positive cases on Sunday. But, for the first time, the number of patients who recovered and were discharged — 48 — was more than double the number of patients detected with Covid-19. Twelve in Nagpur, 15 in Amravati, 18 in Yavatmal and 3 in Buldhana were discharged on Sunday. With this, 185 out of total 655 total patients have recovered. The recovery rate of Vidarbha is more than 24% against the state’s 19%. The 35-year-old deceased woman of Hiwara Tanda hamlet in Arvi tehsil of Wardha had no travel history. Civil surgeon P Madavi informed that the woman was admitted in private hospital in Arvi on May 8 morning. A patient of severe asthma, she was referred to sub-district hospital in Arvi the same afternoon. Later, she was sent to Vinoba Bhave rural hospital, Sawangi, the same evening. Madavi said she died before reaching Sawangi hospital where her swab sample was taken. After the positive case, administration has sealed the area of nearby 7 villages in a 3km radius of Hiwara village. The second positive patient of Wardha is a 64-year-old from Washim district who was admitted to Vinoba Bhave Rural Hospital two days ago for treatment of pneumonia. His corona test report was also received on Sunday. It was a Sunday of relief to Amravatians who voluntarily observed a strict janata curfew, bade good bye to the stranded labourers from Bihar, UP and Andhra Pradesh and welcomed back in their fold 15 positive persons following their full recovery. Civil surgeon Dr Shyamsunder Nikam, doctors and nurses at the Covid hospital wished the 10 men and 5 women a happy recovery. 18 patients tested negative on 14th and 15th day samples in Yavatmal and they were discharged on Sunday from the isolation ward of GMCH. With Saturday’s 4, total 22 patients have recovered in the last 48 hours from Yavatmal. This reduced the number of active cases from 85 to 63. Yavatmal has total 95 cases of Covid-19, including 22 discharged till date. Many more are asymptomatic are on the road to recovery. A 64-year-man from Dhanora village of Umarkhed tehsil of Yavatmal tested positive on Sunday in Nanded Medical College. According to SP M Rajkumar of Yavatmal, as soon as the report of the positive patient landed, they sealed Dhanora and the villages in its vicinity. According to the medical superintendent of Mahur rural hospital Dr VN Bhosale, this patient visited his daughter and her family in Mahur in Nanded district on May 6. He was already suffering from cough, fever and other symptoms of coronavirus and consulted two private doctors in Dhanki of Umarkhed. On May 7, his son-in-law took him to Mahur rural Hospital from where he was shifted to the Covid-19 care centre. On May 8, his swab sample was taken and sent to the Nanded district. On Saturday, his test was positive. He was sent to the Nanded Medical College where he is admitted in the isolation ward. For the eighth consecutive day, no positive patient was detected in Chandrapur which got it first on May 2. District health officer Rajkumar Gahlot informed that health department has prepared a list of 89 contact persons of the positive patient. Samples of 57 contacts were sent for test and all the reports including that of family members of patient have turned to be negative.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/wardha-gets-1st-ves-and-death-on-same-day/articleshow/75665898.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Hubballi||Four more test positive in Kalaburagi||Kalaburagi: Four more persons tested positive for Covid-19 in Kalaburagi on Sunday, taking the total number of patients to 71 in the district. They have been mentioned as P-805, a 35-year-old resident of Afzalpur town; P-806, a 34 year old from Kamalapur town and P-807, a 72-year-old resident of Mominpur Kalaburagi and P-808, a 35-year-old man. P-805 had been to Mumbai a month ago and he was complaining of fever and cough for the past 10 to 12 days. His 16 family members have been home quarantined. Out of the total 71 who tested positive in the district, 31 have recovered and discharged from hospitals. Six have died and 33 still remain positive in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/four-more-test-positive-in-kalaburagi/articleshow/75663569.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Dehradun||Two special trains to bring back U’khand residents from Surat||ehradun: The railway ministry is going to run two special trains on May 11 and 12 to bring back Uttarakhand residents stranded in Surat, Gujarat, CM Trivendra Singh Rawat said on Sunday. Expressing gratitude towards railway minister Piyush Goyal for approving the trains, CM Rawat said, "At 4am on May 11, the first train will start from Surat and ferry state residents, mainly of Kumaon division, to Kathgodam in Nainital district. The second train will run between Surat and Haridwar on May 12, although the timing has not been finalised yet." State government spokesperson Madan Kaushik said in a press briefing during the day that around 30,000 state residents who were stranded in other states had been rescued till now. Maximum 11,482 people were stranded in Haryana who have now come back, followed by Chandigarh (4,838), Uttar Pradesh (3,526), Rajasthan (2,409), Delhi (482), Punjab (327) and Gujarat (319), the minister said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/two-special-trains-to-bring-back-ukhand-residents-from-surat/articleshow/75664355.cms||Gaurav Talwar
May 11, 2020||Vijayawada||35 of 50 new nCoV cases from Rayalaseema dists||Tirupati: Out of the 50 new Covid-19 cases and one death reported in the state, Rayalaseema districts accounted for 35 of the overall cases and the lone Covid-19 death reported in the last 24 hours. With 16 new cases reported in the last 24 hours, Chittoor district topped Andhra Pradesh’s Covid-19 tally, followed by Kurnool district with 13 cases, Anantapur district with five cases and Kadapa district with one case. The lone Covid-19 death reported in the last 24 hours was from Kurnool district. The number of cases in the district have crossed the century mark and now stand at 112. Chittoor district collector Dr Narayana Bharat Gupta, who held a review with officials at the district collectorate on Sunday, directed officials to strengthen vigil at the inter-state borders, in the wake of a spike of cases linked to Chennai in the district. “Revenue, police, and medical departments have to maintain round the clock vigil at inter-state check-posts and ensure proper Covid-19 screening is carried out,” the disrect collector said. Expressing concern that the Covid cases linked to Koyambedu market were going up in the district in the last 72 hours, Dr Narayana Bharat Gupta underlined that the district machinery had intensified sample collections at V Kota, Piler, Punganur, Satyavedu and other parts of the district. Officials said that of the 250-odd persons with links to the Koyambedu market in Chennai, 26 tested positive in the district so far, while test results of others are awaited. Meanwhile, with 13 new cases reported in the district, the overall number of Covid-19 cases went up to 566 in Kurnool district on Sunday. The death toll also went up to 16.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/35-of-50-new-ncov-cases-from-rayalaseema-dists/articleshow/75664365.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
May 11, 2020||Vijayawada||Central team reviews Kurnool’s Covid response||Tirupati: The central public health team on a visit to Kurnool district on Sunday reviewed the outbreak of the virus in the district and appreciated the efforts of the state government in containing the disease in parts of Andhra Pradesh. At the review held in the district collectorate, collector G Veerapandian and other officials briefed the two-member team comprising Dr Madhumita Dubey, director at the All India Institute of Hygiene and Public Health and Dr Sanjay Sadhukhan on containment measures taken by the administration. Dr Dubey said the state government has surpassed many other states in terms of screening and in containing the outbreak in parts of the state. “We have come here to advise the Andhra Pradesh state government as well as the Kurnool district administration on more effective measures to be taken to flatten the Covid-19 curve in Kurnool district which has the highest number of coronavirus cases in the state. We will thoroughly study the scenario in the district and help the Kurnool district administration with foolproof strategies to contain the virus spread,” Dr Dubey said. Dr Sadhukhan said the lockdown will eventually have to be lifted and people will have to learn to live with the virus, while adhering to health and hygiene protocols.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/central-team-reviews-kurnools-covid-response/articleshow/75664375.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
May 11, 2020||Madurai||Homeo docs chip in with immunity kits||Madurai: Around 200 practicing homeopathy doctors across Madurai district are chipping in to help in Covid-19 prevention by distributing kits of immunity boosting medicines for free during the past week. Doctors said that they have reached lakhs of people and are trying to create as much awareness as possible about homeopathy and Covid-19 prevention. As per a GO dated April 23 passed by government of Tamil Nadu, the implementation of ‘AAROKYAM’ special programme with AYUSH interventions for COVID-19 was ordered. According to the GO, for homeopathic medicine, Arsenicum Album 30C was recommended to boost immunity. “Since it was officially recognised by the state government, we started to openly distribute them as immunity boosters. Then, as individual homeopathic doctors, in our own capacity, we started distributing immunity booster kits for public free of cost within the communities in our different areas,” said Dr S Sekar Pandian, a homeopathic doctor from K Pudur. The kits distributed contained Arsenicum Album 30C tablets in containers, printed with the name of the tablet and dosage to ensure transparency. The recommended dosage is that the medicine needs to be taken daily once a day in empty stomach for three days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/homeo-docs-chip-in-with-immunity-kits/articleshow/75665589.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
May 11, 2020||Vijayawada||Mother’s Day in the time of lockdown||Vijayawada: With the lockdown still in force, no public events were held to celebrated Mother’s Day on Sunday. Most of the families confined their celebrations to their homes. Speaking to TOI, K Naveen a techie, said, “This year we decided to do somthing that will have a lasting results. So we have told our mother that from now on Sundays will be her day off and we will take care of cooking, cleaning and other household responsibilities,” said . Meanwhile, many people posted pictures of their family celebrations on social networking platforms and expressed their love and affection towards their mothers. A few leaders and celebrities conveyed Mother’s Day wishes on Twitter. Chief Minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy tweeted, “A confidante, a mentor, a caregiver & most importantly an inspiration; a very Happy Mother’s Day to all the remarkable mothers who don various hats in their lifetime. Truly, there is no love like a mother’s love.” Jana Sena party president Pawan Kalyan in a press release conveyed his Mother’s Day wishes. He wrote a poem on the significance of mother and her role in shaping young minds of the future citizens of the nation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/mothers-day-in-the-time-of-lockdown/articleshow/75664391.cms||Venu Lanka
May 11, 2020||Pune||New mother tests positive, baby well, but 12 doctors & medical staff quarantined||Pune: A 27-year-old woman, who delivered through an emergency C-section at DY Patil Medical College, Hospital and Research Centre in Pimpri last week, tested positive for Covid-19 five days after her delivery. The baby, a boy, did not catch the virus. However, 12 doctors and staff members of the medical college have been screened and put under home quarantine. Hospital authorities said the mother and the baby were moved to Yashwantrao Chavan Memorial Hospital in Chinchwad after the test results. “She developed fever on the first post-operation day. By the third day, the symptoms had worsened and she was getting breathless. We conducted a test which came back positive on the fifth day. She had no symptoms before the C-section done in an emergency situation as the baby was in distress,” they added. Twelve staff members, including gynaecologists and paediatricians, were screened. “ All three gynaecologists have tested negative while we are awaiting reports for the others. All have been placed under home quarantine for two weeks,” the authorities added. Gynaecologist Mahesh Asalkar said the mother was doing well and will undergo treatment 14 days. “We have had several new mothers who have tested positive for the virus. Most delivered at other hospitals and were brought to YCM after testing positive,” he added. Child specialist at the hospital Deepali Ambike said the baby tested negative and was sent home with family members and a “maushi” after a short stay in the NICU. The mother could not breastfeed the baby as there were chances of contracting the virus. “We have advised formula to feed the baby till the mother recovers.” According to Ambike, the youngest COVID-19 patient in the hospital is a nearly two-month old baby, who was delivered at the Terna Medical College. “The baby started developing fever and tested positive. Later, the mother tested positive followed by other members of the family. They seem to have returned from some other location where they had contracted the virus. The baby now has no signs or symptoms of the virus. We saw that babies have better immunity against the virus. Some studies have been conducted in Wuhan, similar research is needed here,” Ambike said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/new-mother-tests-positive-baby-well-but-12-doctors-medical-staff-quarantined/articleshow/75665594.cms||Rujuta Parekh
May 11, 2020||Madurai||Man kills sister, 27, for extramarital relation||Madurai: A woman and a man were murdered in two separate incidents on Saturday and Sunday. Sagunthala, 27, was hacked to death by her elder brother in Keelapatti village near Melur in Madurai district in the early hours of Sunday. Sagunthala was married to Mohan from Kallampatti 10 years ago. The mother of two had parted ways with her husband and was living with her mother and her seven-year-old daughter. Their elder son was taken care of by Mohan Police sources said that Sagunthala was in a relationship with a relative from the same village. Her elder brother, S Soundarapandi, did not approve of the relationship. He had warned Sagunthala many times to end the relationship. In the wee hours of Sunday, Soundarapandi went to Sagunthala’s house armed with a weapon. Sagunthala’s mother and daughter were sleeping outside the house. He barged into the house and attacked her. She suffered grievous injuries to her head and died on the spot. On hearing the wails of Sagunthala’s mother, villagers rushed to the house. They alerted the local police. A police team led by Melur deputy superintendent of police, Subash, reached the spot and shifted the body to a government hospital for postmortem. A case was registered against Soundarapandi and police are on the lookout for him. In another incident, a homeopathy doctor from Melapandarapuram in Tirunelveli district was found murdered in a well on Saturday night. The victim, S Thirupathi Lingaraja, 37, was running clinics in Thisayanvilai and Sathankulam. On Saturday when he did not reach home late into the night his family members entered into a search for him and sought the help of local police. Later he was found dead in a well. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/man-kills-sister-27-for-extramarital-relation/articleshow/75665593.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Kolkata||Third Bangladeshi flight repatriates 73 citizens||KOLKATA: Biman Bangladesh operated a charter flight on Sunday, the third during the lockdown, to airlift citizens stranded in Kolkata and elsewhere in the east since March 24. Several hundred Bangladeshi nationals who were in Kolkata on short-term visa, either for medical reasons or tourism and business, or mid-term study visa, have been holed up in hotels on Marquis Street, Free School Street and Sudder Street and in guest houses around hospitals off EM Bypass ever since international flight operations were suspended and the border sealed. The Bangladeshi national carrier operated a special flight on Sunday afternoon to repatriate 73 passengers. It took off for Dhaka at 2.45pm. Earlier, 132 passengers had been airlifted in two flights operated by Biman Bangladesh. Since the coronavirus outbreak in South Asia, Bangladeshi carriers have facilitated return of around 3,500 Bangladeshi nationals from India. At least another 2,500 Bangladeshi students, tourists and patients are still stranded in different Indian cities. Bangladesh, too, has suspended domestic and international flights till May 7. The Civil Aviation Authority of Bangladesh (CAAB) said the suspension is applicable to 16 countries, including India. However, cargo flights and special flights will continue to operate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/third-bangladeshi-flight-repatriates-73-citizens/articleshow/75665128.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Vijayawada||28 discharged in Kurnool district||Tirupati: Twenty-eight patients were discharged from Covid hospitals in Kurnool distroct on Sunday, taking the total number of discharged up to 267. The number of patients undergoing treatment in the district stands at 283. District collector G Veerapandian said the number of patients discharged has been higher than the number of new Covid-19 cases reported in the district in the last four days. The collector appreciated the efforts put in by doctors, paramedic staff, government staff, policemen and other stakeholders in combating the virus outbreak in the district. The collector also urged frontline workers against getting complacent with the results and called upon the public to cooperate with the district administration to bring down the number of cases. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/28-discharged-in-kurnool-district/articleshow/75664382.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
May 11, 2020||Aurangabad||Strigent rules roadblocks in starting industrial ops||Aurangabad: The representatives of industries raised concerns about the difficulties they have been facing to start operations with stringent rules. They have sought cooperation from district administration to continue the operations.Representatives of the Marathwada Association of Small Scale Industries and Agriculture (Massia) said that the operations of industries in Waluj, Shendra, Chikalthana and Railway Station MIDC have been stopped due to the lockdown for the last 45 days having a severe impact on the industrial economy of the district. “The industries are in a dilemma as they are clueless about how to pay their workers when there has been no production and capital generation over the last one-and-a-half-month. The cessation in manufacturing will lead to a major crisis for the availability of workers as they have started to return to their native places,” Massia president Dnyandeo Rajala said.The state government had allowed the function of industries by issuing permits to several industries on May 2 based on certain conditions. The conditions included transportation of employees with maintaining physical distancing in buses, providing accommodation to workers within factory premises or at close distance, provision of masks, frequent use of sanitisers, and 1m of distance among workers during manufacturing processes. The government prohibited industry workers in municipal limits to travel to the industrial areas outside the city. However, representatives of Massia, which is the biggest association of small scale industries in Marathwada, said that most of the workers and industrialists stay in the city and due to the prohibition by the Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation (MIDC) they cannot travel to their industries. In addition, until travel pass is issued such employees cannot go to the industries. They said that due to these restrictions the industries cannot function even though they have secured the permit from MIDC leaving the small scale industries helpless. The industries have demanded relaxations of norms so that they can resume the operations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/strigent-rules-roadblocks-in-starting-industrial-ops/articleshow/75665126.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Nagpur||Over 400 go without food at MLA Hostel Q-centre||Nagpur: More than 400 inmates, including several kids, women and elderly, quarantined at MLA Hostel Wing II and III went without breakfast and lunch on Sunday after the new caterer roped in by Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) a day earlier failed to provide food. By evening, the services of this caterer were terminated and another hired who served the dinner. Upset inmates came out in the porch of Wing II appealing authorities to let their relatives supply homemade food to them. The crowd swelled as infuriated inmates kept coming out, leading to a major scare of infection spread while NMC officials were conspicuous by their absence. The breach of isolation guidelines raised a question on security failure as cops deployed on the premises miserably failed to keep the inmates inside the building. Soon, senior cops reached the spot and charged at the crowd to send it back. Yet, the chaos continued till 4pm with inmates running for cover only to come out again. Additional CP Nilesh Bharne, additional municipal commissioner Ram Joshi and sub-divisional officer Shekhar Gadge brought the situation under control by holding talks with inmates and later with both the new and old caterers. Besides MLA Hostel, other state-owned quarantine centres at Ravi Bhavan and Vanamati had so far not seen any service issues even as complaints of poor quality and worm-infested food continued to come from all other centres managed by the NMC. As the NMC slashed the meal rates to Rs160 per day per person, the MLA Hostel canteen operator stopped the services, for which he was paid Rs370 per day per person on same conditions earlier. Joshi said, “The PWD caterer wrote to us stating that he is unable to continue at the NMC rates. Other caterers are giving us the service at Rs160. PWD asked its caterer to provide food at NMC rate. The new agency brought food very late which led to some problems.” The food packets were brought in a van used to supply building material around 3pm. The packets were insufficient. Regarding quality and quantity of food, Joshi said, “I ate the food from the same packet. Three chapatis, rice, one vegetable and dal are being given. Quality and taste do differ, but rest of the 2,500 inmates at other centres are eating the same. We made it clear that they will get this food only.” Some inmates told TOI the quantity of food is not sufficient even for a child. “They are not allowing us to let our relatives send food. They are also not serving proper and enough food. Since morning, our children didn’t eat anything. Many old persons too suffered a lot,” the inmates said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/over-400-go-without-food-at-mla-hostel-q-centre/articleshow/75665904.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
May 11, 2020||Pune||ICMR nod to Sassoon for plasma therapy on nCov patients||PUNE: The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has given its approval to the Sassoon General Hospital here for the conduct of trials in plasma therapy for the treatment of Covid-19 patients. The plasma therapy trials are expected this week.Hospital authorities said they have collected two samples and would use them for the therapy. “Two recovered patients have given consent to use their blood. Now we are matching the samples. Once the matching is completed, actual plasma transmission will be done. We are hoping to do it in a day or two,” Murulidhar Tambe, acting dean of B J Medical and Sassoon General Hospital, told TOI on Sunday. Pune divisional commissioner Deepak Mhaisekar said, “We are in talks with more patients who have recovered from the infection. All of them had tested positive and latest test results confirmed that they are negative, The blood samples of such people will be collected with their permission. It will be used for plasma treatment on the existing positive patients, who are willing to give consent to the method.” According to the experts, the therapy is based on the concept of “passive immunity”. The plasma treatment consist of extracting antibodies from the blood of a person and its transfer in a patient’s body for treatment. The blood sample are collected from patient, who has recovered from the virus infection, and are given to the infected patients. It is assumed that the infected person could recover as antibodies have fought with the virus. They will also help in fighting the infection once they are translated into other person’s body. Such experiments and treatment were carried out in parts of the world and also in India. Hospitals in Mumbai have also tried to use this method for treating the patients infected due to Covid-19. Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) data revealed that over 820 Covid-19 patients have so far recovered, while the number of patients was around 2,400.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/icmr-nod-to-sassoon-for-plasma-therapy-on-ncov-patients/articleshow/75665601.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Kolkata||Foresters donate ration to tiger-poaching accused||KOLKATA: The Covid-19 pandemic and the subsequent lockdown have bridged a key gap in the Sunderbans that will go a long way in protecting the fragile habitat and its wildlife. A group of foresters probing the tiger poaching case that took place last April in South 24 Parganas Division have reached out to the families of the villagers who have been accused of poaching the big cat and thrashing the foresters during a routine probe. “These are hard times. And, above all, we now have to keep in mind that they are poor and we need to stand by them. Hence, we pooled funds and supplied ration to some villagers living on the fringes of the buffer forest, including the families in Bhasha Guguria village where we were beaten up,” said a senior forest department official. The move was part of the department’s initiative to provide ration to 600 families in Jharkhali and Raidighi areas. “At least 100-150 families of Bhasha Gurguria village in Raidighi, locatedclose to the spot where the tiger was found dead, were covered under this programme,” the official said. Forest guards like Gour Shit, Aamir Chand Mondal, who sustained severe eye injuries, and beat officer Debobrata Pramanik, handed over relief material to the families, including those of Anita and Bimal Das — the prime accused in the case. All seven accused are now out on bail. Last April, a tiger was found dead trapped in a wire snare of galvanised iron in the forest of Ajmalmari-I. Almost two weeks later, on the night of April 21, 2019, a group of foresters, including DFO G R Santhosha, were beaten up by about 100 villagers. Meanwhile, the forester said the department, in association with WWF-India Sunderbans chapter (which has donated about Rs 10 lakh) and another NGO, Archi, distributed ration to over 2,100 families in Ramganga, Raidighi and Matla. Members of HEAL and PUBLIC also came together last week to distribute relief material to 240 families in Kultoli block. The department has initiated a similar initiative in villages on the fringes of tiger reserve area too. “We have selected 2,300 families. WWF-India’s Sunderbans chapter is providing us with Rs 13.5 lakh,” said Sudhir Das, field director of Sunderbans Tiger Reserve.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/foresters-donate-ration-to-tiger-poaching-accused/articleshow/75665144.cms||Krishnendu Mukherjee
May 11, 2020||Delhi||You’ll have your jobs back, don’t go: Delhi CM to migrants||NEW DELHI: With several reports of migrant workers hitting the road to go back to their home states emerging in the last few days, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday urged them to stay back saying that the lockdown was going to be lifted soon. Kejriwal also asked senior citizens to take precautions and stay at home as nearly 82% of the total Covid-19 fatalities were of people aged over 50. He added that the government would requisition ambulances from private hospitals to ensure that people don’t face any inconvenience because of shortage. Addressing a digital press conference, Kejriwal said the images and videos of people walking on the roads for days without food or any help pained him. “This lockdown is going to end soon and everything will be back on track. You will soon be employed again. Please do not leave Delhi. My government will take care of your basic necessities,” he added. Following the Union home ministry’s guidelines, Delhi government has allowed factories in industrial estates, construction projects and private companies to open, besides giving permission to work to self-employed service providers such as electricians, mechanics and domestic workers. Delhi was under complete lockdown for over six weeks from March 25 to prevent the novel coronavirus from spreading. However, with the Centre allowing stranded workers, pilgrims, students and tourists to be brought back to their native places on special trains and buses, a large number of migrants across the country have again hit the roads with their families. While urging the migrants to stay back, Kejriwal said that his government would make arrangements for those who were still desirous to return to their home states. He added that Delhi government was in talks with the Centre to arrange for more trains. “Migrant workers are still on the roads trying to get back home, but their condition is very unfortunate since they have been walking for days. They have not eaten anything for days and nobody is helping them on the way. This makes me feel that all governments and systems have failed,” Kejriwal said. The chief minister added, “Please wait for a few days and do not walk to your homes like this. This is not safe. Some people lost their lives on the railway tracks and some died in a road accident. Please do not do anything that puts your lives at risk. We are here to take care of you.” On Sunday, about 150 stranded migrants from Punjab were sent back in buses from a shelter in a government school at Nehru Vihar. Two trains carrying about 2,250 migrants left Delhi for Madhya Pradesh and Bihar last week. A total of 6,923 Covid-positive have been reported till date in the capital. While 1,476 are in hospitals, the rest are either asymptomatic or with mild symptoms. Of those in hospitals, only 91 are in ICU and 27 on ventilator, Kejriwal said, adding 2,069 patients have been cured.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/youll-have-your-jobs-back-dont-go-cm-to-migrants/articleshow/75665608.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Trichy||5 pregnant, 4 others test positive in Perambalur||Trichy: The total number of active Covid-19 cases in Perambalur district reached 104 on Sunday as nine people tested positive in Perambalur, including five pregnant women. Ariyalur and Perambalur together reported 13 fresh cases on Sunday. Pudukottai and Karur also recorded one positive case each. With this, the tally in central region is 640. The five pregnant women have no family contacts, officials said. The other four tested positive in Perambalur were found to have returned from Koyambedu. “We have strengthened the borders to screen and quarantine people returning from Chennai and Koyambedu. The women who tested positive are expected to deliver in the next 10-15 days. They were referred to MGM government hospital for special care,” an official source in Perambalur district said. Out of the 97 active cases in Perambalur district, 66 are under treatment in Perambalur GH while four are admitted at Ariyalur GH. The remaining 27 identified as risk cases were admitted at MGM. Results of 105 samples from Perambalur district are still awaited. Ariyalur recorded four new positive cases including three Koyambedu market returnees and one of their family members, all hailing from Ariyalur, Thirumanur and Jayankondam blocks. In the last few days, 178 people have tested positive for Covid-19, but asymptomatic were moved to quarantines facilities. The rest were admitted to MGM, Ariyalur GH and Ariyalur Covid Care Centre established in slum clearance board complex. A 56-year-old man from Pallapatti of Karur district tested positive on Sunday. Like the last five positive cases, he too has returned from Maharashtra on May 8. A 37-year-old man from Medukattupatti village from Viralimalai, is the sixth person from Pudukottai to test positive. He was a vegetable trader in Chengalpet district and used to visit Koyambedu market daily. The number of positive cases in Trichy, Thanjavur, Nagapattinam and Tiruvarur remained unchanged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/5-pregnant-4-others-test-positive-in-perambalur/articleshow/75665603.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Aurangabad||With less than a month to go for kharif season, financial aid sought for farmers||Aurangabad: Stating that the farming community has been among the worst-hit groups due to the Covid-19 outbreak, different political parties and advocacy groups have sought special help for farmers ahead of the upcoming kharif season. As the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) has forecast good monsoon for the upcoming season, timely help has been sought for the farmers to undertake kharif activities. Soybean, cotton and different pulses are among widely sown crops in Marathwada that also has belts of sweet lemon orchards. BJP spokesperson Shirish Boralkar on Sunday said the state government must provide free seeds, fertilizers, pesticides and other essential agricultural items to farmers across Maharashtra. "The kharif season is hardly a month away and farmers have run out money to buy essentials. The farming community has witnessed heavy losses due to outbreak of the current pandemic and need financial assistance from the government to gear up for upcoming season," he said. Demanding per hectare substantial financial aid for every farmer, Boralkar said absence of helping hand will lead to agricultural crisis. "Maharashtra, especially Marathwada, has witnessed considerable number of farmers’ suicides in the past. If the government does not come forward to help the farming community, we fear rise in such incidents in near future," he said. Jayaji Suryawanshi of Annadata Shetakari Sanghatana said closure of markets resulted into no proper return for the farmers for their yield during Rabi season. "Many farmers are yet hoarding their Rabi produce due to closure of markets. Thus, the farming community is facing unprecedented financial crisis and need financial help from the government to undertake activities for Kharif season," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/with-less-than-a-month-to-go-for-kharif-season-financial-aid-sought-for-farmers/articleshow/75665134.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Dehradun||Green zone Uttarkashi reports first Covid-19-positive case||Dehradun: Uttarkashi district, which was in ‘green zone’, recorded its first Covid-19 case late on Saturday after a migrant worker who returned from Surat in Gujarat tested positive, making it the fifth Covid-19-positive case of a migrant worker returning to Uttarakhand from other states in the past two days. Earlier, four migrants in Udham Singh Nagar had tested positive. With the new case, the state’s tally has now reached 68. Uttarkashi chief medical officer Dr DP Joshi confirmed that the Covid 19-positive patient had returned to his village in Dunda block of Uttarkashi on May 8 along with three others on bikes. “Four people drove two bikes from Surat to Uttarkashi, almost 1,700 km in four days and reached here on May 8. We have scanned all of them and while three have been kept in institutional quarantine, the person who tested positive was brought to hospital as he was symptomatic,” he said, adding that his samples were sent for testing to All India Institute of Medical Science (AIIMS) Rishikesh where his samples tested positive late on Saturday. Uttarakhand has a total of 21 active cases, including nine in US Nagar, eight in Dehradun, two in Haridwar and one each in Uttarkashi and Nainital. While the state health department has tested 9,668 samples till now, the positive rate of samples in the Himalyan state is 0.75%. The state has now a 67.65% recovery rate. The maximum samples, 3,928, were tested from Dehradun followed by 1,736 in US Nagar. As many as 1,472 samples were tested from Haridwar and 1,184 from Nainital. No hill district, apart from Nainital, has seen major testing till now. Meanwhile, local residents expressed concern over the increasing number of migrants coming to Uttarkashi from other states and districts, after the migrant worker who came from Surat was found Covid-19-positive. Zila Pradhan Sangathan of Uttarkashi demanded to keep all migrants in institutional quarantine facilities. Pratap Rawat, president of Pradhan Sangathan, said, "Many migrants are getting quarantined inside panchayat buildings and government schools of their respective villages. Quite a few are breaking quarantine rules. Due to this, local villagers are getting agitated." Uttarkashi district magistrate Ashish Chauhan meanwhile said that “residents shouldn’t panic and stay away from rumours.” (With inputs from Abhyudaya Kotnala)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/green-zone-uttarkashi-reports-first-covid-19-positive-case/articleshow/75664397.cms||Ishita Mishra
May 11, 2020||Aurangabad||Cong declares 2 candidates from Marathwada||Aurangabad: Congress has given tickets to two party loyalists from Marathwada for the upcoming Member of Legislative Council (MLC) polls, taking the tally of the the total number of candidates from the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) to six as compared to the quota of five seats. The move, if not reconsidered, will lead to actual polling for the elections to be held on May 21 instead of earlier possibility of having unopposed elections. While the decision taken by Congress to field two candidates has already led to bickering among the MVA, it may also prompt the BJP to declare another candidate in addition to earlier list of four candidates. Names of Rajesh Rathod from Jalna and Rajkishor Modi from Ambejogai (Beed) have been declared by state Congress chief Balasaheb Thorat for election to the Upper House of the State Legislature. Rathod, who represents Banjara community, is ex-president of Jalna zilla parishad and has actively served National Students Union of India — a student wing of Congress. The current secretary of Maharashtra Pradesh Congress Committee, Rathod has been picked by the party over heavyweights such as Manikrao Thakare, Rajani Patil among others. Modi, a party loyalist, has kept the identity of Ambejogai as Congress bastion for last many years in spite of changes in the political scenario at the state and national level. His name was announced by Congress hours within giving ticket to Rathod, raising many eyebrows. As per reports, chief minister Udhhav Thackeray is unhappy with Congress fielding two candidates instead of one. While he said to have conveyed his displeasure to top-brass of Congress, the differences in MVA has prompted to BJP to take a dig at ruling alliance. BJP spokesperson Ashish Shelar, in a tweet made on Sunday, said it was the responsibility of ruling parties to ensure unopposed election for the Legislative Council during current pandemic. "Now don’t drag us into the issue, if Congress is not paying heed to you and causing differences (between ruling parties)," Shelar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/cong-declares-2-candidates-from-marathwada/articleshow/75665153.cms||Prasad Joshi
May 11, 2020||Hubballi||8 from Bagalkot test +ve in Belagavi||Bagalkot: Even though eight people from Bagalkot tested positive for Covid-19 on Sunday, as per the bulletin issued by the state health department, they were not counted in the positive list of the district. DHO Anant Desai said, “All the 8 patients had travelled to Ajmer in Rajasthan. As per WHO guidelines, Covid-19 patients should be in the district for at least 14 days, to be counted in the positive list of that particular district. These 8 patients have not resided in Bagalkot district for the stipulated number of days, and above all, these patients were quarantined in the border limits of Belagavi district, and did not enter Bagalkot district, and so they will not be included in the Covid-19 list of Bagalkot.” Our department appealed to the state level office in this connection, hence in the evening bulletin, these 8 patients were included in the Belagavi district list. The total number of Covid-19 cases in Bagalkot stands at 51,” said the DHO. 8 patients discharged in V’pura, 2 in Bagalkot A total six Covid-19 patients were discharged from hospital in Vijayapura on Saturday evening, and two of them were discharged on Sunday. With this the number of discharged patients in Vijayapura has increased to 33. Two Covid-19 patients were discharged from hospital in Bagalkot, including a police constable and a boy, and with this the number of patients discharged in Bagalkot stands at 21. A 27-year-old woman, designated P-399 and 17-year-old youth designated P-457, were discharged from the Vijayapura Covid hospital on Sunday, while a 50-year-old woman patient P-397, 28-year-old man designated P-402, 14-year-old boy designated P-407, 18-year-old woman designated P-410, 27-year-old man designated P-467 and 27-year-old man designated P-511, were discharged from a hospital in Vijayapura on Saturday evening.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/8-from-bagalkot-test-ve-in-belagavi/articleshow/75663598.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Trichy||Tamil Nadu: Bhel ancillary units seek loans, orders to avoid closure||TRICHY: In the last seven years, at least 150 ancillary units around Bharat Heavy Electrical Limited (Bhel) into engineering and fabrication have closed down. Even as dip in orders from Bhel and mounting debts had kept ancillary units in troubled waters, the lockdown has come as a double whammy for the fabrication units here. Unless a rehabilitation package for MSMEs is provided, entrepreneurs said that more units may face closure and artisans lose jobs. Bhel ancillary MSMEs said that their output has come down by more than 50% from 3.50 lakh tonnes in 2013 to 1.50 lakh tonnes in 2019. At least 250 ancillary units had invested around Rs 1 to Rs 3 crore per unit for strengthening machinery and infrastructure, anticipating a surge in orders. However, the orders for fabrication units has been heading south in the last few years. Owing to policy change and the trend against thermal power plants, the number of orders from Bhel took a nosedive. At a time when the surviving fabrication units were coping with available orders to stay afloat, the lockdown has sent them in deeper waters. “To revive the ancillary units, we need interest-free loans. The delay in initiating rehabilitation measures will sound the death knell for the MSME fabrication units post the lockdown,” said Rajappa Rajkumar, president of Bhel Small Scale Industries Association. Delay in shipping the finished products and suspension of work during the lockdown has put MSMEs in trouble. The lack of orders and mounting debts has resulted in the closure of 150 fabrication units in Ariyamangalam, Thuvakudi and Mathur near Trichy and left around 15,000 people unemployed. The number may increase further, say entrepreneurs. “As the job orders from Bhel declined, governments should help us by facilitating orders for commissioning infrastructure projects in roadways, railways and airports. Trichy MSMEs are experts in welding technology,” said Prabhu Venkatramani, proprietor of an MSME unit in Thuvakudi. The defence industrial corridor project seems to be dormant for MSMEs to resurrect their operations. Post the lockdown, ancillary units have sought the governments to invite MSMEs for a discussion to offer monetary support and solutions to avail job orders form railways and defence ministries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/msmes-demand-interest-free-loans-orders-to-avoid-closure/articleshow/75665606.cms||Deepak Karthik
May 11, 2020||Kolkata||Tribute to power dept workers||Kolkata: Saluting the workers in the power sector who have been providing 24x7 service during the nation-wide lockdown, the state power department, in association with celebrities from Tollywood and the Bengali TV industry, has made a short film to boost their morale. The six-minute film shows vignettes of several power sector workers in various departments, working in power plants, distribution sites, offices — and some even working from home. “This is one sector that is working tediously during the lockdown to provide emergency services, even though it often is the most forgotten. We have almost 100% attendance in all our power generation plants and thousands of employees are working relentlessly far away from their homes. Hence, we though this is the least we could do to boost their morale,” said Ashim Roy Chowdhury, a senior corporate communication official of West Bengal Power Development Corporation Limited (WBPDCL), who conceptualized the film. The film features state power minister Sovandeb Chattopadhyay in a cameo, attending calls from a village in Panskura as he instructs officials to immediately attend to the crisis in the village. “The film is an attempt from our end to inform the people that we are with you in this crisis. I humbly request everyone else to follow the lockdown strictures and stay home while we from the power department fight it out on the roads to ensure your home-stay is not hampered,” Chattopadhyay says at the end of the film.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/tribute-to-power-dept-workers/articleshow/75665155.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Kozhikode||3 test positive in Wayanad||Kozhikode: Three more tested positive for Covid-19 in Wayanad on Sunday, taking the total number of active cases in the district to seven. The new positive cases include a 25-year-old from Cheeral who was working as a salesman at Koyambedu market in Tamil Nadu. He had returned to the district on May 7 through Walayar checkpost by car and had been in quarantine at a Covid- care centre in the district. The other two new cases had contracted the disease through contact with persons who were tested positive earlier. A 20-year-old man from Kammana near Edavaka, who is a friend of the truck cleaner's son who had tested positive on May 5, is one of them. The other positive case is a 45-year-old woman from Meenangadi who is a secondary contact of the truck driver who too was tested positive on May 2 after his return from Koyambedu. The woman is the wife of an employee of the firm who had issued the bill to the truck driver. Her husband, who is the primary contact of the truck driver, has however been tested negative. With the three new cases, the total that has been reported so far in the district has reached 10. Three of them have been discharged after recovering from the infection. As many as 140 others were added to Covid-19 observation on Sunday, taking the total number of people under observation to 1,752.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/3-test-positive-in-wayanad/articleshow/75663608.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Trichy||Demand for panel to assess lockdown impact||Trichy: A day after Tamil Nadu government formed an expert committee to suggest the way forward for the state to come out of the lockdown, micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) have sought a similar expert committee to assess the impact on the sector. Small scale entrepreneurs said that MSMEs were not represented in the expert committee constituted under former RBI governor C Rangarajan. Stating that MSMEs will face a turbulent period even if the lockdown is lifted, MSME associations sought for a discussion with policymakers on remedial measures. “Employer’s contribution to Employees’ Provident Fund (EPF) in MSME sector can be borne by the government. Such suggestions can be made only if we have a representation in the expert committee,” said R Ilango, president of Tiruchirapalli District Tiny & Small Scale Industries (Tiditssia). There are over 2,000 MSMEs in the district employing at least 1 lakh workers in various sectors including grill gate production, woodwork, food production and engineering. As the functioning and requirements of MSMEs differ from large-scale industries, entrepreneurs pitched for an exclusive expert committee comprising members from Tamil Nadu Small and Tiny Industries Association. “MSME associations in districts should be consulted by the authorities to hear our woes and demands,” said N Kanagasabapathy, former president of Tisitssia. Though a few MSMEs resumed operation through the relaxation provided during the ongoing lockdown, entrepreneurs still face a daunting task ahead such as bringing employees to workplace and gathering raw materials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/demand-for-panel-to-assess-lockdown-impact/articleshow/75665610.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Kolkata||Missing Tallah woman traced after 72 hours||KOLKATA: A 28-year-old woman, who had left her in-laws’ house at Tallah on May 6 with her one-year-old child on the pretext of buying medicines, was traced after 72 hours at Rabindra Sarani in north Kolkata. According to the police, the woman had reportedly tried to commit suicide by jumping into the Hooghly. Some people saved her, though she refused to disclose her identity to them. The woman alleged torture by her in-laws in the absence of her husband, a migrant labourer who had gone to Ghazipur in UP for work and got stuck there due to the lockdown. She also accused her father-in-law and brother-in-law of behaving with her in an objectionable manner. After being traced by the police, she refused to return to her in-laws’ house. Eventually, she opted to stay with her elder sister in Howrah. “She told us she will return to the Tallah house after her husband comes back from UP,” said a police officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/missing-tallah-woman-traced-after-72-hours/articleshow/75665160.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
May 11, 2020||Trichy||Lesson not learnt: Trichy markets see huge crowds||TRICHY: As the fish market and meat stalls resumed business on Sunday, after being banned to function on Sundays for a month, residents thronged the shops ignoring and violating all social distancing norms. To avoid a huge crowd at these stalls and market, district administration had, since April, banned the fish stalls and meat shops to function on Sundays. While the state is attempting to identify the daily wagers, who returned to their native districts after the closure of Koyambedu vegetable market, fish markets and meat stalls were given a relaxation by the district administration to do business from Sunday (May 10). The crowd gathered at these stalls appeared to have forgotten the Koyambedu episode. With very limited space, Puthur fish market on Sunday saw most of the people wearing facemasks but they did not maintain social distance. Although, a few shops in Puthur market had signs for buyers to maintain social distancing, the rush to finish the purchase made the markings useless. “Residents should show responsibility. Market places are still vulnerable to the Covid-19 spread,” said, M Sekaran, president, federation of consumer and service organisations. Meanwhile, the Trichy Corporation sealed at least 20 shops including bakeries in the past few days for not maintaining social distancing, but the lack of preventive measures in Puthur fish market did not attract the attention of the civic body. Police personnel deployed in the fish market appeared helpless as their instructions were ignored. “We will enhance the surveillance to ensure social distancing,” a corporation official assured. The civic body was also urged to penalize the shops and residents caught violating social distancing norms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/trichy-folk-throng-fish-market-meat-stalls-violate-social-distancing-norms/articleshow/75665613.cms||Deepak Karthik
May 11, 2020||Dehradun||Managements of Char Dham shrines to suffer dip in revenue due to Covid-19 outbreak||Dehradun: All the four Char Dham shrines are likely to suffer huge financial losses this year due to the Covid-19 outbreak, which is set to impact the pilgrim footfall severely, said officials associated with the shrines’ management . In 2019, a total offering of Rs 22 crore was collected by the four shrines — Badrinath, Kedarnath, Gangotri, and Yamunotri. The maximum donation amount — Rs 18 crore — was collected by Badrinath, followed by Kedarnath and Gangotri (Rs 2 crore each), and Yamunotri (Rs 22 lakh). However, the revenue figures may dip significantly this year, say observers. Not just the temple management committees, the district where these shrines are located are also likely to suffer loss of revenue. Rudraprayag district magistrate Mangesh Ghildiyal told TOI, “This year, our earning will not be in comparison to that of the last year. With social distancing and other measures, footfall is expected to dip.” Uttarkashi district magistrate Ashish Chauhan also added, “We are not expecting much turnout at Gangotri and Yamunotri shrines this year due to the pandemic.” Acharaya Shiv Prasad Mamgain, vice-president of Char Dham Vikas Parishad, said, “Although large number of pilgrims are not expected in initial months of this Char Dham Yatra season, we hope that the footfall will go up in September.” Meanwhile, tourism minister Satpal Maharaj told TOI, “We are working on a three-point strategy — to equip all hotels with sanitiser tunnel and thermal imagers; to issue third-party certification of cleanliness; and to allow pilgrims to the Char Dham shrines according to their capacity.” The minister added that he is hoping the situation will improve and religious gatherings will be permitted. “I am sure that people from across the country would come to Char Dham shrines to pay their obeisance,” said Maharaj.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/managements-of-char-dham-shrines-to-suffer-dip-in-revenue-due-to-covid-19-outbreak/articleshow/75664435.cms||Yogesh Kumar
May 11, 2020||Kozhikode||Love for his mom neccessitated this invention||Kozhikode: Necessity is the mother of invention, but love for mother can be a reason for invention too! Amal Varun Mathew, 20, hailing from Kattangal in Kozhikode invented an automatic sensor-triggered sanitizer dispenser which does not require touch to operate. Amal developed an automatic hand sanitizer dispenser for Amala Rural health Centre where his mother Dr Mary Joseph, works as centre director. The equipment reduces the risk of virus spread as people can disinfect their hands without touching the dispenser. The major highlight of the dispenser is that he made the instrument which comprises of only four electronic components which costs just Rs 200. In addition, the device needs a box made of plywood, pipe and wire with a total cost of Rs 400 including labour charges. Amal, pursuing his final year Polytechnic in Mechatronics at Thalassery-based Nettur Technical Training Foundation (NTTF) has been receiving many inquiries from educational institutions, churches and shop owners for his invention. The equipment is sensor triggered and if one extends their hand in front of the sensor, the machine automatically dispenses the sanitizer onto the hand to avoid human touch. The invention gains momentum as washing hands using soap and sanitizer is recommended as one of the most effective Covid-19 preventive measures there is. Amal has already installed the automatic sanitizer dispenser in vigilance special cell, Thondayad and Kunnamangalam police station. “A total of 10 new machines would be donated to my college following request put forth by the college authorities,” he said adding that he had developed it for his mother’s clinic. “I have never thought of manufacturing it in bulk quantity so far,” he said. Professor Varughese Mathew, principal, LISSAH College, Kaithapoyil, Kozhikode and Amal’s father said that they are getting inquiries for the automatic hand sanitizer dispenser from educational institutions, churches and shops. “Many inquiries came from traders and other commercial establishments demanding a trendy and contemporary design,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/love-for-his-mom-neccessitated-this-invention/articleshow/75663728.cms||Sreedevi Chitharanjan
May 11, 2020||Trichy||117 Malaysia returnees quarantined at engg college||Trichy: A team led by the district collector inspected the boys and girls hostels of government college of engineering at Sethurapatti, where 117 Tamils who arrived here from Kuala Lumpur on Saturday night have been put under quarantine. The remaining 60 people have been isolated at various hotels in the city, monitored by health officials. One person has been admitted to Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital for a kidney-related ailment, officials said. A total of 178 passengers including 60 women, six children and an infant landed at the Trichy international airport at 10.20 pm on Saturday. Subsequently, health officials conducted a preliminary screening that prolonged for hours. Health and revenue officials have arranged food and other facilities for the people quarantined at the facility established at the engineering college. Those staying in hotels have to bear their expenses. Meanwhile, airport authorities said the Trichy-Kuala Lumpur-Trichy rescue flight under Vande Bharat Mission was operated by women pilots led by Captain Kavitha Rajkumar. As per earlier schedule, another rescue flight should have been operated from Trichy on Sunday to bring back Tamils stranded in Singapore. However, the service was suspended citing operational reasons. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/117-malaysia-returnees-quarantined-at-engg-college/articleshow/75665614.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Kolkata||48 patients likely to be shifted to Covid hospital||HOOGHLY: The state government is planning to shift 48 patients, who tested positive for Covid-19, from Singur quarantine centre to a Covid hospital. The positive patients, all residents of Wards 11 and 12 in Urdibazar under Chandannagar Municipal Corporation, are likely to be shifted by Monday, said an official. They were among 62 people undergoing treatment at the centre. Trouble broke out in the quarantine centre on Saturday when some officials from health department and district administration had gone there to shift the positive patients. They had refused to get admitted to a Covid hospital and allegedly gone on a rampage, assaulting cops. Two cops, touched by some patients were quarantined.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/48-patients-likely-to-be-shifted-to-covid-hospital/articleshow/75665166.cms||Falguni Banerjee
May 11, 2020||Agra||UP, Raj police spar over entry of migrant labourers, two cops hurt||AGRA: Two police personnel in Mathura sustained minor injuries after they were allegedly pushed around by their Rajasthan counterparts over the issue of closing the district’s border at Jajanpatti area and disallowing entry of migrant labourers in UP on Sunday morning. The spar between the Mathura and Udyog Nagar cops took place around 7:30 am when the latter forcibly tried to remove the barricades in a bid to push in about 300 migrants who had gathered at the border. Two Mathura cops, who were trying to resist the push on the barricades by their Rajasthan counterparts, got their fingers injured. Mathura district magistrate Sarvagya Ram Misra said, “The border was sealed after the entry of around 15,000 migrant labourers from Rajasthan to UP on May 7 and 8. While only 10,000 migrant labourers had to enter the UP border as per information provided to the administration, all 15,000 labourers were sent to their respective destination from here." He added that an unfortunate incident took place at UP-Rajasthan border on Sunday morning, entirely due to Rajasthan’s Udyog Nagar inspector’s behaviour. He said he was "very aggressive and misbehaved with our policemen". A complaint in this regard has been made to Bharatpur SP and appropriate action will be taken action him, said the DM, adding that the entry of migrant labourers will be allowed once the matter is settled. Talking to TOI, Bharatpur SP Haidar Ali Zaidi said that the matter has been resolved. “It has been decided that all 300 migrant labourers from Bihar and Jharkhand will be sent to their respective destinations by buses arranged by the local administration,” he said, adding that the inspector’s role is being probed and action will be taken accordingly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/up-raj-police-spar-over-entry-of-migrant-labourers-two-cops-hurt/articleshow/75664442.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
May 11, 2020||Agra||Covid spreads to rural parts of Agra dist, 19 villages marked as hotspots||AGRA: In what could be a major challenge for local administration, the deadly Novel Coronavirus (Covid-19) has started spreading its tentacles to the rural parts of Agra district. So far, 98 people of 19 villages in the district have been tested Covid-19 positive. Fatehpur Sikri Block, villages of Baroli Ahir Block have emerged as the district's major hotspots. From Fatehpur Sikri, 29 positive cases have been reported. In Block Baroli Ahri, 22 Covid-19 positive cases have surfaced in four villages. Out of these, 16 cases have been reported from village Kakua, four from Rajrai and one each from village Shyamo and Nadhot. From village Nagla Kali, located on Devri road, 10 positive cases have been reported. The health department has started screening people in all the villages marked as hotspots. Notably, since May 1, around 250 villagers who had come in contact with the infected people have been quarantined. Besides, all the villages marked as hotspots have been sealed. Barricades have been put to block roads. Police are checking all the vehicles moving in and out of these villages. Besides Fatehpur Sikri and Baroli Ahri Block, Covid-19 cases have also surfaced in Bah, Achnera, Bichpuri, Khandoli, Akola, Etmadpur and Shamshabad block. Meanwhile, at least 15 positive cases have been confirmed in Kaushalpur, semi-urban area under the Dayalbagh Nagar Panchayat. District magistrate Prabhu N Singh said, “Nineteen villages have been marked as Covid-19 hotspots. All of these villages have been sealed by the police. Besides strict enforcement of lockdown, sanitisation is being done in different parts of these villages daily. The health department is regularly screening people. Samples of people with breathing difficulties are being sent for lab testing.” The Centre has also sent a two-member expert team to investigate reasons behind the increasing number of Covid-19 cases in Agra district. The team will help the local administration to check the spread of the virus. Led by Dr Sanjay Gupta, the team visited the city's various hotspots and chaired a meeting with administration and health department officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/covid-spreads-to-rural-parts-of-agra-dist-19-villages-marked-as-hotspots/articleshow/75664453.cms||Deepak Lavania
May 11, 2020||Aurangabad||Panel to set eligibility rules for qazis||Aurangabad: The state minorities department has formed a committee to lay down the eligibility criteria for identifying and appointment of qazis across Maharashtra. The 11-member committee has been given two months to submit its report. This is for the first time that such a committee has been formed for drafting the criteria for appointment of qazis. The government resolution (GR) issued by the state minorities development department states: "To determine the eligibility criteria of person/persons to be appointed as qazi, chief qazi and additional qazi, guidelines have been issued to regulate their appointments. The following committee has been formed for the suggesting amendments in the guidelines." The committee will be headed by additional chief secretary/chief secretary/secretary of minorities development department. In addition to this, religious leaders representing different schools of thoughts, former judge DU Mulla, Waqf Board CEO, among others would be member of the committee. The state minorities development department that had initiated steps for appointment of qazis at all the places with considerable Muslim population in the state for solemnizing of marriages, has put the process on hold.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/panel-to-set-eligibility-rules-for-qazis/articleshow/75665162.cms||Mohammed Akhef
May 11, 2020||Agra||Live webinar on opportunities post Covid-19 on May 15||Agra: Eminent academicians across the globe will address a live webinar on "Invisible Opportunities Post Covid-19" on May 15 at 9.30am, organised by the department of commerce of Aligarh Muslim University.The list of panelists include renowned academicians like professor Said Malki (department of economics, State University of New York at New Paltz and member of the American Economic Association), Veronica Vazeri (gender communication educator and certified relationship coach, UK), Paul Epping (chairman and co-founder, Eqxponential, UAE) Dr Mohammad Rishad Farid (department of marketing, Prince Sattam Bin Abdulaziz University, KSA), professor Imran Saleem (dean, faculty of commerce) and professor Nawab Ali Khan (chairman, department of commerce).According to professor Nawab Ali Khan, the webinar will be graced by AMU vice-chancellor professor Tariq Mansoor. “The panelists will speak on diminishing opportunities in various fields after Covid-19. Faculty and students are welcomed to join the webinar,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/live-webinar-on-opportunities-post-covid-19-on-may-15/articleshow/75664448.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Agra||Woman from containment zone delivers stillborn as pvt centre refuses scan despite written order by CMO||Agra: A woman in Mathura delivered a stillborn baby on Saturday as a private diagnostic centre refused to do an ultrasound scan because she was from a containment zone. She then sought help from the CMO who gave a written order, which, too, was ignored by the private centre. Soon afterwards, the woman started bleeding and gave birth to a stillborn.Subhash Sharma, husband of the victim Reena Sharma, said, “We initially approached the private ultrasound centre as the district women hospital’s ultrasound unit was shut due to non-availability of the doctor, but they refused to examine her.” According to him, the victim had completed her full term of pregnancy and was having some problems when they approached the district women’s hospital. “We rushed to the CMO’s office, which issued written directions to the centre to conduct the ultrasound. But they still refused to do it maintaining that the woman hailed from a containment zone area,” he said.Babli, a relative of Reena, told TOI that their only fault was that they hailed from Rani Ki Mandi, an area that had been declared a red zone. She said soon after the diagnostic centre refused for the second time, Reena started bleeding and later gave birth to a stillborn baby.She told reporters that an ambulance service was also not provided to them on time. “If medical services would have been provided to Reena on time, the baby would have probably been alive,” she said. Mathura district magistrate Sarvagya Ram Misra said, “We have asked the chief medical officer to give a detailed report. If the private diagnostic centre is found guilty of any wrongdoing, their licence will be cancelled.”He added that he has also directed the chief medical superintendent to immediately start the ultrasound facility at district women’s hospital, so that “residents do not have to face any problems”.According to health officials, the doctor who conducts ultrasound at the government facility hails from Agra and has not been coming to the centre due to the lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/woman-from-containment-zone-delivers-stillborn-as-pvt-centre-refuses-scan-despite-written-order-by-cmo/articleshow/75664459.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Trichy||Bus collides with water tanker in Karur, 24 injured||Trichy: A private bus carrying natives of Kerala, who were stranded in Bengaluru since the lockdown, collided with a water tanker on the Karur-Salem national highway in Karur district on Sunday. Out of 27 passengers which include, college students, IT professionals and some daily wagers, 24 sustained minor injuries. One of them was referred to a private hospital in Trichy for further treatment. The bus was coming from Bengaluru carrying passengers to Kottayam in Kerala. They had obtained travel passes and the special bus was also given an e-pass to drop the stranded people to the home state. The accident took place on Sunday afternoon when the water tanker was crossing the highway near Kongu College. The tanker lorry was taking U-turn from a passage on the highway when the bus hit the truck on the side. All the injured were rushed to nearby hospitals for treatment. Transport minister M R Vijayabhaskar made arrangement for a TNSTC bus facilitating onward journey for the passengers. After first aid, the passengers proceeding onward to Kottayam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/bus-collides-with-water-tanker-in-karur-24-injured/articleshow/75665619.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Agra||Discharged ‘forcibly’ from govt hospital, cancer patient suffers without treatment in Agra||AGRA: For the last five days, 42-year-old Indra Khandelwal is running from pillar to post to get treatment for his wife Sakshi Khandelwal who is a third-stage cancer patient. Indra alleged that his wife was forcefully discharged from Sarojini Naidu Medical College (SNMC) on Tuesday after rats nibbled her toe as she lay unattended for four days in the emergency ward. A video showing the bleeding foot of the woman, and her husband’s desperate calls for help had gone viral on Tuesday afternoon. Since then, the family members have tried several private hospitals but are unable to get treatment. Requests made to the senior officials of the district administration and health department have yielded no results. Notably, Agra district magistrate Prabhu N Singh had assured this correspondent earlier this week that the woman would be provided treatment. “I have seen the video of the patient and her husband. I am inquiring about it from the SNMC administration. Suitable action will be taken. The patient will be provided required treatment,” the DM had told TOI on Tuesday. Khandelwal said, “My wife is in a critical condition and urgently needs medical assistance. I have tried all options but failed to get treatment for my wife. I beg the district administration to help us.” A resident of Lohamandi locality, jeweller Indra Khandelwal’s wife Sakshi was diagnosed with cancer in June 2019. She was getting treatment from a cancer specialist in New Agra area. But, due to lockdown, the hospital was shut. On April 28, when her health deteriorated, the family members tried several private hospitals, but in vain. They took her to SNMC later. “Her sample was collected for testing of Covid-19. The report came negative. But, even after repeated requests, no doctor came to attend my wife. After four days of admission, staffers just provided oxygen support to my wife when she was having difficulty in breathing,” Khandelwal said. “In the morning of April 4, when I removed her blanket, I was shocked to see her badly injured foot and blood on the bed. Rats had bitten her toe. I screamed but no one came for help. Even no bandage was provided. I had to leave my wife who was crying in pain to buy an ointment and bandage from outside,” Khandelwal said. On Tuesday afternoon, Sakshi, in spite of her poor health, was discharged, with her husband alleging that it was done forcibly. Chief medical officer of Agra district, Mukesh Kumar Vats didn’t respond to the calls made by TOI. RC Pandey, recently appointed by the state government as officer on special duty in the health department, said, “I am aware of the incident where a patient at SNMC was bitten by a rat. However, I did not know that she was not provided any treatment. I will look into it”. Agra mayor Naveen Jain said, “It is highly unfortunate that a cancer patient has to suffer for treatment due to negligence of officials. I will ensure that the patient is admitted to hospital and provided suitable medical treatment.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/discharged-forcibly-from-govt-hospital-cancer-patient-suffers-without-treatment-in-agra/articleshow/75664468.cms||Deepak Lavania
May 11, 2020||Agra||Agra sends 1,080 migrant workers home to Bihar, Jammu & Kashmir||AGRA: After getting permission from the state government for sending 2,202 migrant workers home to Jammu and Kashmir and Bihar, the district administration on Sunday sent 630 people to Jammu and Kashmir and 450 to Bihar. The migrants to Bihar will be dropped at Chandausi, bordering Bihar. The migrants to Jammu and Kashmir were sent in private buses. Those from Bihar were taken in Uttar Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation (UPSRTC) buses to Chandausi. District administration claimed that the migrants were not charged any bus fare. Prabhu N Singh, Agra's district magistrate, said, “So far, we have compiled details of 1116 people of Jammu and Kashmir, who are stranded in Agra. Taking help of the employers of the workers, we have sent 630 of them to Jammu by private buses. Special passes were issued to these buses. Similarly, 1,086 people who wanted to go to their homes in Bihar have been identified. As many as 450 of them were sent to Chandausi border in UPSRTC buses. From there, the Bihar government will transfer them to their respectove home districts. "Soon, we will be sending 1,122 more workers to Jammu and Kashmir and Bihar," the DM said. Singh added, “Following the state government's orders, no charges are being levied on the workers. They are also being provided food packets and water. We are not sending more than 30 people in one bus." Besides, Jammu and Kashmir and Bihar, workers from West Bengal, Madhya Pradesh, Jharkhand, Odisha and Maharashtra are also stranded in Agra. So far, 2,000 people of these states have been identified in Agra district. These people will be transferred after approval of their respective state governments. Meanwhile, 1,475 migrant labourers and students from Uttar Pradesh who were stranded in Gujarat arrived here on Sunday afternoon. The passengers were from Ahmedabad and brought to Agra Cantt station by a special train.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/agra-sends-1080-migrant-workers-home-to-bihar-jammu-kashmir/articleshow/75664476.cms||Deepak Lavania
May 11, 2020||Bhopal||Indore: Industries grapple with restrictions||INDORE: Industries have raised serious concerns over restricted movement of employees in factories at Pithampur and Dewas from Indore and nearby areas amid the lockdown. Industries said the absence of supervisory and mid-management staff in factories is hurting operations that is already affected due to the break of the supply chain. They claimed that most mid-management employees reside in Indore and Dewas and restrictions on commute due to the lockdown is hitting day to day operations. A Pithampur pharmaceutical company human resource deputy manager Rajeev Mujumdar said, “Many new industries have been permitted to operate in past few days but operations on site has become an issue because employees are not able to reach the plant as they get obstructed by police. Industries are making accommodation arrangements for workers inside the campus but still a few have to travel daily to report to work.” Industry department and district administration issued permission to many industries to operate in the last few days and still continue to do so to give a thrust to industrial activity in the region that has taken a sharp hit. A Pithampur packaging firm corporate affairs head Dinesh Mishra said, “Staff movement is not smooth because they get interrupted on their way to plant. This hampers work and efficiency of plants that is already working on limited capacity.” District administrations are gradually allowing various industries to function on a priority basis and maintain safety measures and social distancing at the workplace as a measure to combat the spread of coronavirus Industries claimed that staff need to travel from Indore and Dewas to Pithampur and they face problems in reporting to work.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/industries-grapple-with-restrictions/articleshow/75665621.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Bhopal||Jabalpur widow ends life after feeding poison to kids||Jabalpur: A 40-year old woman gave poison mixed food to her two kids and then consumed the same in Jabalpur district late on Saturday night, killing the children and herself. The incident took place at Shobha Khurd village under Majhauli police station. The deceased were identified as Anuradha Choubey, 40, Kanha,7, and Arth,8. Anuradha was a widow and used to live with her mother-in-law Meena Chaubey and brother-in-law Satish Chaubey, along with her sons. Majhauli police station incharge, Saleem Khan said, “The family was not having severe financial crisis, however after the death of her husband, Anuradha was in depression. The family members had also offered her to marry with her brother in law Satish but she refused.“Prima facie it seems that she had taken the extreme step due to depression. However investigations are on and things would be clear once the investigations are over”, Khan said. “As per the information available so far, the woman cooked food for the entire family and served it to her mother-in-law and brother-in-law. After they had their food, she mixed some poisonous substance in the food and served it to her children and then she herself consumed the same food”, he added. “Around 10 pm they started vomiting and the three were rushed to community health centre in Sihora from where they were referred to Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose Medical College and Hospital after providing primary treatment. They however died during treatment”, he said. Sources said that the family owns more than 6 acre land and was dependent on farming for their living.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/jabalpur-widow-ends-life-after-feeding-poison-to-kids/articleshow/75665625.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Agra||12 prisoners of Agra Central Jail test positive for Covid-19, junior doctor infected||AGRA: At least 21 new Covid-19 positive cases were reported in Agra district on Sunday evening, taking the district tally to 764. Out of these, 12 cases were related to prisoners of Agra Central Jail. Besides, one junior doctor of SN Medical College was also found positive. Talking to TOI, deputy inspector-general (prisons) Luv Kumar said, “We have sent 24 samples of prisoners for lab testing - out of these, 12 reported Covid-19 positive by SN Medical College. Now, fresh samples have been collected for lab testing at the National Jalma Institute for Leprosy." Significantly, on Saturday afternoon, a 60-year-old convict of Agra Central Jail, who was tested positive for Covid-19, had died during treatment at the SN Medical College. According to jail officials, the convict was admitted to the emergency ward of SNMC on May 3. He had high blood pressure and suffered a brain stroke. His samples were collected and sent for testing on May 4. He was confirmed Covid-19 positive on the evening of May 6. Apart from the 12 prisoners and a junior doctor, a fourth-grade worker of SN Medical college and a ration dealer were also diagnosed with the deadly virus. Chief medical officer (CMO) Mukesh Kumar Vats said, “All the new patients have been shifted to an isolation facility. A team of doctors is attending to them. Their contacts are being identified. We will conduct a health check of all these people." According to health department, at least 90 active cases are related to people who had attended the Tablighi Jamaat event in Delhi and their contacts, while 80 are linked to a private hospital on National Highway-2. Another 22 are linked to a private hospital in Rakabganj locality and a clinic in Ghatiya Azam Khan locality. Besides, 50 cases are related to healthcare workers and their contacts. These include a senior resident doctor and four junior doctors of SN Medical College. So far, 30 vegetable sellers have also been tested positive in Agra. The CMO added, “Till now, 326 people have recovered and discharged from hospital. All the people who had come in contact with any Covid-19 patients are being screened."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/12-prisoners-of-agra-central-jail-test-positive-for-covid-19-junior-doc-infected/articleshow/75664485.cms||Deepak Lavania
May 11, 2020||Trichy||Govt teachers’ aid to families may fetch school admissions||Trichy: Many government school teachers have extended their help to families living around their school in getting essentials during the lockdown. This is likely to pay them dividends in the form of admissions for the ensuing academic year.While new private schools have been affecting the growth of government schools, the lockdown has given them an opportunity to connect with families around the schools who have children.Though there was no communication yet on reopening schools, many teachers have hit the streets. They are extending helping hands to families affected by unemployment due to Covid-19 lockdown.Teachers said that they know about the economic condition of families of their school children and they want to help them by sourcing funds.Headmistress of Government Middle Schools at Pirattiyur K Asha Devi says that they reached out to 400 families. This includes families of 250 children studying in the school.While we went on to distribute rice, we could not avoid families who were not sending their children to our school. Majority of them are daily wagers, and all are affected by the lockdown. Parents of some of the children going to private schools said that they would send their children to our school seeing our efforts, she said.This is just the first phase and we are trying to source more funds and people to come and help the needy as the lockdown is likely to be extended for a few more weeks, she said.H Pushpalatha, assistant teacher from the corporation primary school in Edaimalaipattipudur, said that many of the parents were hesitant to accept the help as they were not sending their children to our school.“We told them that, it is not just the teachers, but many others have also contributed to extending the help. But they did say that they would sent their children to our school,” she said. We expect many other schools to come forward to help the families around their school, she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/govt-teachers-aid-to-families-may-fetch-school-admissions/articleshow/75665622.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Nagpur||Over 1,200 units resume partial operations in dist||Nagpur: There has been a slight improvement in industrial activity in the region. After an initial lukewarm response, Nagpur district now has over 1200 units running employing around 25,000 workers. They are operating with 25% to 30% of the workforce. There are 5,000 big and small units in the district which includes those outside of MIDC estates too, said a source. According to the figures shared with TOI by the state’s industries department and MIDC independently, 1700-odd industries are operational in entire Vidarbha employing close to 35,000 workers. This is half of the 3600 units that have been granted permission to operate after lockdown was eased on April 20. Units are also convincing their workers to start working at 50% to 70% of their earlier wages, citing funds crunch as the reason. Payment of wages to the workers temporarily laid off and demand for the finished products down the line remains an issue. As Nagpur comes under red zone, a number of industries are not able to engage the workers living in the city. According to the Covid-19 standard operating procedure (SOP) for industries, if workers come from city areas they will have to remain at the unit till lockdown ends. Nitin Lonkar, president of Butibori Manufacturers Association (BMA), said a number of industries opened in the last one week. He agreed payment to the remaining workers not deployed was still a question. “We have been asking our members to start the units even if the capacity is not entirely utilized. This will help keeping the economy running,” said Suresh Rathi, president of Vidarbha Industries Association (VIA). As many units are facing a funds crisis, at some places workers too are being convinced to start at partial wages, he said. This was confirmed by Chandrashekhar Shegaonkar, president of MIDC Industries Association (MIA) at Hingna too. He said most of the large units in Hingna estate have begun partial operations. A source at CEAT Tyres, one of the recent investors in Butibori estate of MIDC, said the company was operating with around 300 persons as against a total workforce of 1900. “There is a demand for the tyres because some automakers have also started production. However, getting manpower from Nagpur is difficult. There may be issues in maintaining feasibility,” the source said. Other industrialists said they were mainly catering to the orders that could not be completed earlier due to the lockdown. A representative in NECO Industries said the company was focusing on finishing pending orders. The exim trade is also fast regaining normalcy, said sources. According to a senior official at CONCOR, the inland container depot at Nagpur has been able to achieve nearly 80% of its normal volumes. As against a monthly average of 2500 containers prior to lockdown, an average of 2000 containers is expected to be achieved at present. The volumes had completely died from March 23 to April 4, but slowly began picking up. Shivkumar Rao, a C&F agent, said exports had picked up despite logistics bottleneck. There is a major demand for Indian rice in West Africa. Even imports have started. These include inputs used by the local industries like scrap that goes into steel units, said the Concor source.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/over-1200-units-resume-partial-operations-in-dist/articleshow/75665912.cms||Shishir Arya
May 11, 2020||Nagpur||Kabootar baazi helped Covid-19 fly to Parvati Ngr||A group from one area challenges another from the other area. The amount of bet is finalized. Two members each from both groups reach the other’s area for verification. Then both groups let their pigeons fly. The group whose pigeon is first to land loses. Welcome to the world of ‘kabootar baazi’, popular sport in some slums of the city. It came into focus when a 22-year-old football player died at Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) on Tuesday and he tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday. Preliminary investigations by the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) revealed the deceased was in contact with a group engaged in kabootar baazi at Parvati Nagar. They also revealed that members of the group had visited Mominpura, city’s second Covid-19 hotspot, several times in last 15 days. Police probe revealed the group, including the deceased, had also travelled to Satranjipura, city’s first corona hotspot, a few days ago thus establishing the game’s link with spread of coronavirus in city. TOI talked to many in Parvati Nagar and Mominpura to discover the game and passion around it. Shockingly, the game has continued unabated despite lockdown and Mominpura being a containment zone since April 4. Four more persons from Parvati Nagar have tested positive after the death of the youth. Among them, one is said to be part of a kabootar baazi group. Dr NV Kurkure, director (research) of Maharashtra Animal and Fishery Sciences University (MAFSU) told TOI, "Breeding of pigeons is not prohibited but betting on them is not allowed." Corporator Dayashankar Tiwari, who lives near Mominpura ,said, "Kabootar baazi is a severe addiction and many are affected. High stakes betting is done. It is going on at many areas in Mominpura as well as a few slums like Hansapuri, Jalalpura, Bajeria, Cotton Market etc. A week ago, I informed Tehsil police station about kabootar baazi in the premises of NMC school in Hansapuri khadan area. Police came and dispersed them and all were from Mominpura." Unfortunately, Covid-19 emerged during the kabootar baazi season. TOI talked to a former kabootar baaz from Gandhibagh who quit sometime ago. "The season begins from mid January and ends with monsoon. It is not played in rainy and winter seasons. It is being played now. People are waiting for this season and they can’t stop," he said. He stated pigeons are in air for five-six hours. Sometimes, they do not return and might die due to heat. In such case, the group whose pigeon lands first wins. Tiwari added, "People wait for hours watching the sky. Youths even chase the pigeons on two-wheelers and bicycles to see the flying area. They can identify the breed even when pigeons are in the air," he said. TOI saw some videos of pigeons in Mominpura on social media. Mominpura is major centre for breeding of pigeons. People get breeds from other states that can fly higher or longer. One breed is named after Nagpur. They identify the breed by colour of eyes, nose, wings, tail etc. A market used to operate at Lakadganj where pigeons used to be sold every Sunday. Since lockdown, it has been stopped. Those indulging in kabootar baazi also get addicted to other harmful substances, NMC and police probe has revealed. The day samples of deceased’s reports came positive, the so called ‘kabootar khana’ of Parvati Nagar disappeared. "We learnt about all this and went to check on kabootar khana. But it was gone," an NMC official said. The game is played between two groups or individuals. People breeding the pigeons undertake several practice sessions for their birds. They also give them special diet to help them fly longer. Though not as popular cock fighting, kabootar baazi traces its origin to Mughal period. Therefore, it seems more popular in Muslim majority areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/kabootar-baazi-helped-covid-19-fly-to-parvati-ngr/articleshow/75665185.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
May 11, 2020||Trichy||Farmers capture horses damaging their crops||Trichy: Farmers in Somarasampettai stepped up the ante against stray cattle menace by capturing them and also approached the police seeking steps to stop crop damaged. The villagers captured 13 stray horses on Saturday night and seek compensation from the owners. While the police are yet to file a case on their complaint, M P Chinnadurai, district president of Tamizhaga Vivasayigal Sangam, said that concerned departments like animal husbandry and revenue have failed to get their grievance addressed. “Stray cattle have been a real menace in this area as cows have damaged our crops. I had even staged a hunger protest last week but there wasn’t any solution,” said Chinnadurai. While a complaint has been lodged in the Somarasampettai police station, a case is yet to be field. When contacted, a senior official from the revenue department said that appropriate action would be initiated after identifying the owners of the cattle. “In most cases, the owners don’t turn up,” said the official. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/farmers-capture-horses-damaging-their-crops/articleshow/75665628.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Delhi||Call of the wild: Quiet brings out animal instincts at zoo||NEW DELHI: An eerie silence pervades the otherwise bustling lanes of National Zoological Park these days with humans locked inside their homes. However, the animals inside the enclosures seem delighted with the conditions prevalent for the last two months. The foxes, which were rarely seen and often hid themselves from visitors, could be seen frolicking around. The hippopotamus were happily splashing in the pool in the summer heat. The tigers, which generally got the most attention, have been enjoying their “me time” by sprinting around and taking a dip to cool off. For Delhi zoo, this has been the longest spell of quiet since 2016 when it was shut down for over two months due to bird flu. An official said, “The carnivores are making the most of it. They seem to be loving this quite spell the most and are quite active despite the heat. We are keeping them well fed. Despite the lockdown, fresh meat is being procured and provided to them.” After a tiger tested Covid-positive at the Bronx Zoo last month, Central Zoo Authority issued guidelines ordering extra care while feeding animals, carnivores in particular. Officials say they are the only human interaction for animals left now. Each ranger and beat official has been asked to make sure the animals don’t feel low or fall ill because of the heat. “We are taking extra care of the animals during this period. Most are liking the peace. But with increased activity, one needs to be careful as the summer heat can cause heatstroke,” said an official involved with the feeding process. The lack of human attention, however, seems to be affecting the birds as they appear to be less active than before. “They could be missing the large number of people who visited that portion of the zoo. We are trying to keep them well fed and are regularly interacting with them,” said an official. Gauri Maulekhi, trustee at People For Animals, feels the silence of the birds could be due to lack of stress. “Birds generally chirp a lot when stressed. If they seem quiet, that could be a good sign. Animals tend to thrive when there are little or no people,” she added. Recently, a tigress, Kalpana, died at the zoo, but that was due to old age and renal failure. The authorities said regular exercises to sanitise the zoo will continue. “Each enclosure is being cleaned and disinfected regularly. The food is boiled and sanitised before the animals are fed. No official is allowed near the animals without proper equipment,” said an official. The zoo shut down on March 18, ahead of the lockdown, on an order by Central Zoo Authority prohibiting visitors inside. A call on reopening the premises will be taken once conditions improve.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/call-of-the-wild-quiet-brings-out-animal-instincts-at-zoo/articleshow/75665638.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
May 11, 2020||Bhopal||MP: Congress targets Jyotiraditya Scindia over Covid-19 relief items||BHOPAL: State Congress on Sunday came down heavily on former Union minister Jyotiraditya Scindia who in March had left the party and joined BJP with 22 former Congress MLAs as well as ministers. On Saturday, the state Congress first posted a video claiming that Scindia got his supporters to remove the tag of Reliance Foundation from the relief rations sent by the company and replaced it with tags which had his and Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s photographs on them. Along with the video, state Congress tweeted, “Chindi-chori (petty theft) of Reliance relief materials. Reliance Relief Fund sent materials and rations to Ashoknagar district. Scindia pasted his photo and became the fake donor.” The video claimed that the relief had come to Ashoknagar, which is part of Guna Lok Sabha constituency, which he lost for the first time in May 2019. It claimed that the huge pile of relief materials came to Ashoknagar last week and was kept in the municipal corporation office. Here, the tag of Reliance Foundation was removed and PM Modi and Scindia’s photographs pasted. Senior Congress leader Digvijaya Singh tweeted, “Maharaj (Scindia is maharaja of the Gwalior royal family), your ancestors have left so much and you have so many private trusts through which you could have given relief during these critical times. How fair is it that you remove the tag of Reliance Foundation and replace it with the photos of PM Modi and you.” By Sunday afternoon, Digvijaya’s son and former minister in the Kamal Nath government, Jaivardhan Singh joined the fray against Scindia. He tweeted, “On this day, the torch of country’s first Independence struggle was lit from Meerut.” He was referring to the 1857 uprising against the British, which started from Meerut on May 10. “Had the ambition of a Maharaj not come in the way, then the immortal sacrifices of Mangal Pandey, Bahadur Shah Zafar, Rani Laxmibai, Tatya Tope and our freedom fighters would have written independence history in 1857 itself,” Jaivardhan tweeted, reminding that Rani Laxmibai had gone to the then Maharaja of Gwalior to join the uprising against the British but he declined. Replying to the Congress party’s allegations, Scindia spokesman Pankaj Chaturvedi tweeted, “Some persons today are questioning Scindiaji for helping and supporting people in these times of coronavirus crisis. The biggest question to these persons is, what did they do to help the people? The Scindia family has stood by the common man. It is surprising that even during an epidemic, people are doing petty politics.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/cong-targets-jyotiraditya-over-covid-19-relief-items/articleshow/75665630.cms||Suchandana Gupta
May 11, 2020||Delhi||Delhi high court asks LG to decide on Katara convict’s plea||New Delhi: Delhi high court has asked lieutenant governor to treat parole plea of Vishal Yadav, who is serving life term for killing business executive Nitish Katara in 2002, as a representation and dispose it of within 15 days. The court’s order came on a petition by Yadav seeking immediate release for an eight-week parole on the ground that he was at an increased risk of contracting Covid-19 in jail as he has a history of tuberculosis. “The matter requires to be considered by the competent authority in the first instance,” the court of Justice AK Chawla said, following which the convict’s lawyer suggested that the plea be treated as a representation and be disposed of in a time-bound manner. Delhi government on its part assured the court that the representation would be considered on its merits and decided within three weeks, following which the court gave 15 days starting May 1. “The decision taken shall be communicated to the petitioner forthwith. Writ petition stands disposed of in the foregoing terms,” it added. The prosecution had opposed any relief to Yadav saying there was no risk of the novel coronavirus to the convict in the prison. It had also said the prison records indicated the convict’s medical condition to be stable and not suffering from TB. The prosecution added that, under the prison rules, grant of eight weeks “emergency” parole amounted to a remission of sentence. While sending Yadav to jail in February 2015, the high court had said he be not considered for any remission till he completes 25 years of actual imprisonment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/hc-asks-lg-to-decide-on-katara-convicts-plea/articleshow/75524653.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Dehradun||Four poachers held for killing Sambar in Rudraprayag forest division||Dehradun: The forest department team of Rudraprayag division has nabbed four poachers from district’s Badma village in North Jakholi forest range for killing a Sambar, a vulnerable species on the Red List of International Union for Conservation of Nature. All the four accused were sent to judicial custody on Sunday, a day after they were arrested. TOI has learnt that one of their accomplices is at large. Sambar is a protected animal under Schedule-III of the Wildlife (Protection) Act of 1972 and is one of the most sought-after prey for tigers. Thus, Section 9 (hunting) and 49-B (cooking or serving meat derived from any scheduled animal in a house) of the Wildlife (Protection) Act of 1972 have been imposed on the poachers. The officials, during the raid at the poacher’s house, recovered fresh pelt and meat from the spot. Several kilograms of meat, country-made fire arm, butcher axe, and chopping knives were also recovered by the forest team. The accused were chopping the animal further, most likely for consuming its meat or for selling it. The arrest was made following a tip-off from a villager. “One of the friends of the accused clicked a picture of them while they were chopping the meat and he mistakenly sent it to the wrong WhatsApp group. Soon after, our team swept into action and nabbed them. We had nabbed five villagers for hunting a sambar last month as well. Our teams are actively patrolling the area but the frontline staff crunch remains a concern,” said Vaibhav Singh, divisional forest officer, Rudraprayag. At present, 60% of the posts for frontline workers in Rudraprayag forest division remain vacant making wildlife and other forest resources vulnerable to poaching and smuggling. “We have about 20 forest guards and 32 foresters on the field at present,” added Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/four-poachers-held-for-killing-sambar-in-rudraprayag-forest-division/articleshow/75664533.cms||Shivani Azad
May 11, 2020||Trichy||NIT-Trichy to get supercomputer worth Rs 17 crore||Trichy: The National Institute of Technology (NIT) Trichy will soon have a supercomputer at a cost of over Rs 17.11 crore. Based on the proposal submitted by NIT-T to National Supercomputing Mission (NSM) - infrastructure team three years ago, the department of science and technology (DST) and Ministry of electronics and information technology (MeiTY) have sanctioned a supercomputer for the institute as NIT-T has been inducted to be part of the NSM, a mission by the government of India. The objective of NSM is to empower technology institutions with high-performance computing capabilities that can be used for solving computationally intensive problems. The supercomputer involving central processing unit (CPU) and graphics processing unit (GPU) at a ratio of 70:30, will be installed at the institute by the centre for development of advanced computing (C-DAC), Pune, soon, at an additional installation cost of about Rs 2 crore. Administrators from the institute said that the facility will be helpful for the research scholars and faculty members, who are working on various research and sponsored projects involving high-end computing. “The supercomputing facility will attract Prime Minister’s Research Fellow (PMRF) and other research scholars to the institute and will be a boon for the faculty members,” said Mini Shaji Thomas, director, NIT-Trichy. She added that NIT-T is the first NIT in the country to get the supercomputing facility. She congratulated the team led by Ramakalyan, HOD, computer support group and the team, which submitted the proposal and the team that implemented it, which includes M Umapathy, dean, research and consultancy, and Rajeswari Sridhar, HOD, computer science engineering.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/nit-trichy-to-get-supercomputer-worth-rs-17-crore/articleshow/75665632.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Dehradun||Over 9,000 kg tea leaves dumped in storage as it couldn’t be sent for auction||Pithoragarh: More than 9,000 kilogram of tea leaves grown in Champawat has been kept in the warehouses of the tea factories of the district as the stock could not be sent to Kolkata for auction due to the lockdown. TOI has learnt that no driver is ready to transport the stock until the lockdown is lifted. “The stock, worth Rs 36 lakh, was ready to be sent for auction in April itself but we have not been able to transport it due to the lockdown. If the stock is not sent to Kolkata soon, those involved in tea plantation and its selling may face financial strain,” Desmond Brikbeck, manager of several tea gardens in Champawat, told TOI. Notably, tea is grown in 21 villages — including Silingtak, Chhedapani, Mudiyani, Mauradi, among others — of Champawat district and it gives employment to around 400 locals.  These tea leaves are in high demand in countries like United States of America, Germany, United Kingdom, France, Italy, Russia, and others because of its exotic taste and aroma. These leaves have a life of around two years and the tea board will send the stock to Kolkata for auction as soon as the lockdown is lifted, added Brikbeck.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/over-9000-kg-tea-leaves-dumped-in-storage-as-it-couldnt-be-sent-for-auction/articleshow/75664529.cms||Prem Punetha
May 11, 2020||Bhopal||35000 labourers have reached MP||Bhopal: As many as 35,000 migrant labourers reached Madhya Pradesh in Shramik trains in last week. As many as 29 Shramik trains have terminated in MP, including sevenin Bhopal. In all, 31 trains are to terminate in MP. State government has demanded another 56 trains to bring rest of the migrants from other states. As per officials, another 40,000 migrants are stranded in other trains. Shramik trains have come so far from Maharashtra, Delhi, Telangana, Gujarat, Kerala and others. Sources said that more such trains will start to bring other migrants to the state. DRM Uday Borwanker said during the journey, passengers are given free meals and water. “Only in Bhopal division around 28500 food packets and equal number of water bottles have been given even in those trains which were not terminated in Bhopal division,” said Borwanker The trains are being run by the Railways only after concurrence is given both by the state that is sending the passengers and the state that is receiving them. Maximum 1,200 passengers can travel in each of these special trains. Every Shramik Special train has 24 coaches, each with a capacity of 72 seats. However, only 54 people are allowed in a coach to maintain social distancing norms and the middle berth is not allotted to any passenger.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/35000-labourers-have-reached-mp/articleshow/75665634.cms||Ramendra Singh
May 11, 2020||Trichy||Trichy: Won’t go back, will find job here, say Maharashtra returnees||TRICHY: Many of the native people who arrived at Trichy by a Shramik special train from Maharashtra on Sunday said they have no plans to go back to take up work if things improve. After all the sufferings and uncertainty they faced there, these people say they would rather find a suitable job here and get settled. A large number of the returnees were working in a multi-level marketing company. C Tamilmaran, a native of Udayarpalayam in Ariyalur district, is an aeronautical engineering graduate who has been working as marketing executive in the company for the last one year. “I left for Maharashtra after finding that people here need recommendation to get a job. However, Covid-19 has completely changed my view. Come what may, I will be in our home state. After the completion of lockdown I will have to find a suitable job to look after our parents”, he told TOI. K Renukadevi, a BSc Physics graduate from Karur, had gone to Maharashtra three months ago where she served as a trainee at a MLM company. “My cousin was working there for more than a year. It was on his reference that I went there”, she said when asked whether the textile town of Karur does not offer much prospects for graduates like her. Renukadevi agreed that she would have earned much more than what she got in Maharashtra had she joined one of the textile companies in her native place. However, Vineeth of Madurai who worked as a distributor is firm to rejoin once the lockdown is lifted. “I cannot find a job here, so, I have decided to go back. My parents are trying to change my mind and stay back,” he said. The Shramik special which was scheduled to reach here at 6.40 am chugged into Trichy more than 4 hours late with 962 passengers. Among the passengers,163 hailed from the districts of Trichy, Karur, Pudukottai, Thanjavur, Nagapattinam, Tiruvarur, Ariyalur and Perambalur. Arrangements were made to send them to 34 districts across the state by 30 special buses. The collector said 29 passengers hailing from Trichy have been isolated at Kallikudi market building and they would be sent home after 14 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/wont-go-back-will-find-job-here-say-maha-returnees/articleshow/75665640.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
May 11, 2020||Nagpur||City researchers patent novel disinfection devices||Nagpur: City educationists have come up with two patented inventions to combat the Covid-19 pandemic. A multifocal and a drone-based disinfection device have been invented by four professors of the Nagpur University — Sanjay J. Dhoble from Department of Physics, Bharat A. Bhanvase from the Department of Chemical Engineering at LIT, Nishikant Raut and Dr Dadasaheb Kokare from Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences. Both the devices are for disinfection of Covid-19 contaminated surfaces. Amidst continuously increasing cases of Covid-19, a major challenge is to check the rate of spread. “One of the methods to restrict the spread is to disinfect contaminated surfaces. There are several methods to disinfect the surfaces but none is 100% effective. However, a combination of two or more methods can get the job done,” the researchers stated. The invention aims at designing and fabrication of multifocal disinfection device including UV, chemical and heat disinfection. “Embodiments include UV light irradiations that emit high intensity with wavelength ranging from 200 to 350nm. High level of UV radiations is considered lethal for most microorganisms, bacteria, viruses etc,” the researchers stated. Furthermore, UV sterilization is more effective on the surfaces than airborne pathogens. “As per the reports, this virus can be killed at temperature more than 56 oC. Therefore, in the current invention, air blowing is planned with temperature 60oC to ensure the complete killing of these viruses,” they added. The devices can be used at hospitals, isolation places, quarantine rooms and mortuary. As per the researchers, the multifocal sanitization system is operated from a surface to 5-10 feet height and it is safe to handle. With the drone-based UV disinfection device, selected area or broader area can be disinfected. “The chemical disinfectants can harm personnel manually disinfecting the required area using chemical disinfectants. The drone based disinfection device will be untouch and unmanned being controlled from considerably long-distance. It reduces the risk of exposure of the personnel disinfecting the area,” the researchers added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/city-researchers-patent-novel-disinfection-devices/articleshow/75665203.cms||Manka Behl
May 11, 2020||Nagpur||60-yr-old woman in pvt hospital among 13 from Mominpura to test +ve||Nagpur: A 60-year-old woman is among 13 persons from Mominpura who tested positive for Covid-19 on Sunday, taking the district’s tally to 296 and cases from Mominpura to 145. The woman allegedly got admitted to a private hospital situated at Kamal Chowk, Kamptee Road, despite alerted to go in for institutional quarantine two days ago. Now, the doctors and staff from this private hospital will have to be quarantined.Now, Mominpura accounts for 48.98% of the total cases of the district. This locality, city’s second Covid-19 hotspot, is now well ahead of the first hotspot — Satranjipura, whose tally is 116.A pregnant lady from Kala Jhanda area in Mominpura got admitted for delivery at IGGMCH on May 5. She tested positive the next day. Zonal medical officer of NMC Mahal-Gandhibagh Zone Dr Khwaja Moinuddin told TOI, “We quarantined 12 family members of the woman, of whom eight tested positive.”The woman was a tenant in a building, so NMC alerted other tenants to enter quarantine on May 6. NMC also quarantined 22 other people from the building and neighbourhood. Then, NMC came to know that a 60-year-old woman among the tenants had got admitted at the private hospital at Kamal Chowk after she developed a fever on May 8. “Our team went to the hospital and brought her to institutional quarantine. Her samples tested positive on Sunday,” Moinuddin said.He added, “The private hospital is also at fault. NMC has time and again alerted private hospitals to inform about COPD and SARI patients immediately.”NMC has clearly said private hospitals should avoid admission of patients from containment zones and send them to government hospitals authorized for Covid-19 testing and treatment. “The hospital administration had in fact earlier denied admission to any person from Mominpura,” he said.A team of NMC from Mahal-Gandhibagh zone and Ashi Nagar zone reached the private hospital to identify all those exposed to the woman late on Sunday night. The hospital had continued functioning over two days too, even after the woman was brought to institutional quarantine.NMC, late on Sunday night, quarantined at the same hospital 11 doctors and staff, and also four patients admitted there. This makes it the fifth private hospital where doctors and staff are quarantined after being exposed to patients who tested positive later.Meanwhile, municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe notified Jawahar Nagar in South Nagpur as containment zone. This is the 20th containment zone, of which 15 are still being enforce.The containment zone has been notified with boundaries at Manewada cement road, road connecting Inner Ring Road with Sharda Chowk, road connecting Sharda Chowk with Manewada cement road, Peer Baba Durgah etc.Also, a 51-year-old SARI patient admitted to GMCH tested positive a day ago. NMC has quarantined 10 family members and will trace more people from Monday onwards.NMC’s preliminary investigation revealed the person was taking care of accounts of a travel agency at Kalamna. His wife runs a beauty parlour at home.Though no positive patient has been reported from Kalamna, this area is famous for wholesale vegetable, fruit, foodgrains market, and movement of lot of heavy vehicles from other districts of Vidarbha and states.The person is so far the fourth corona positive whose source of infection is yet to be ascertained. The others were the cancer patient of Sangam Nagar in North Nagpur, youth from Pandhrabodi slum in West Nagpur, and homeopathy practitioner from Bada Tajbagh in South Nagpur.On Sunday, 12 more positive persons — seven from IGGMCH and five from GMCH — were discharged after recovering from Covid-19. Nine are from Satranjipura, two from Mominpura and one from Shanti Nagar. This takes total number of recoveries in the district to 92.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/60-yr-old-woman-in-pvt-hospital-among-13-from-mominpura-to-test-ve/articleshow/75665205.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
May 11, 2020||Dehradun||2 pvt schools in Haridwar get notice for charging inflated fees||Haridwar: The Haridwar education department has issued a notice to two private schools for allegedly forcing parents to pay extra fees, in violation of a government order. Block education officer Deepti Yadav told TOI, “Notices have been sent to the administration of both the schools after we received complaints of them charging extra examination fees, among other inflated charges. The schools have been asked to submit their reply within a week, failing which strict action will be taken.” The education department had earlier imposed a penalty of Rs 1 lakh each on two private schools in the district for running classes without permission from the department. It had also sent a notice asking to suspend the affiliation of a private school in Roorkee for violation of the Right to Education (RTE) act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/2-pvt-schools-in-haridwar-get-notice-for-charging-inflated-fees/articleshow/75664547.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Patna||6th Covid death in Bihar, 85 +ve cases in a day||Patna: The state recorded the largest single-day spike with 85 fresh Covid positive cases and sixth death due to coronavirus on Sunday. They took the tally of coronavirus cases in Bihar to 696. A 60-year-old man from Belchhi in Patna district died at PMCH before his test report came positive on Sunday morning. He was suffering from chronic obstructive pulmonary disease that causes obstructed airflow from the lungs, a health department official said. The total number of active cases in state now stands at 336 while 354 have recovered from the virus infection. Nine fresh cases were reported from Patna district, taking its tally to 61. Of them, five cases were reported from Barh, two from Pandarak and one each in Alamganj and Belchhi. However, 23 Covid patients in the district have recovered and discharged from hospitals so far. Principal secretary (health) Sanjay Kumar said the man was in the last stage of lung disease. PMCH superintendent Dr Bimal Karak said the man complaining breathlessness was admitted on May 8. “He, along with his son and other family members, had returned from Delhi in a private vehicle on May 4,” he said. “The man was kept in isolation ward as he had symptoms of Covid-19. His sample result came positive after his death,” Dr Karak said. Meanwhile, Nalanda and Munger reported maximum positive cases on Sunday with 11 each, followed by nine each in Patna and Bhagalpur, eight in Kishanganj, seven each in Saharsa and Madhepura, four in East Champaran, three each in Muzaffarpur and Arwal, two each in Nawada, Araria, Darbhanga and Gaya and one each in Khagaria, Bhojpur, Aurangabad, Samastipur and Begusarai. Sanjay said almost all the new cases are those who had returned to Bihar by special trains from Delhi, Gujarat, Maharashtra and other states this week. “Their samples were collected from the quarantine centres where they have been kept for 21 days. The health department teams collected the samples randomly as it is not possible to test all the people coming from other states for want of enough testing kits. However, we are arranging more testing kits,” he said. “Now, we have to make sure that those at quarantine centres do not mingle with other people and complete their 21 days in isolation,” Sanjay said. State nodal officer for Covid-19, Dr Ragini Mishra, said eight of the nine positive people in Patna had come from outside the state last week. “Only a 56-year-old woman from Alamganj has no travel history. She is suffering from cancer as per the report at PMCH on April 28. Later, she went to IGIMS for treatment on May 2 and Mahavir Cancer Sansthan on May 3,” she said. Dr Ragini said the woman was first admitted to NMCH after she developed high fever on May 8. “Her sample was collected on May 9 and her report came positive. Now, we are tracing her infection trail because she had also visited some private hospitals in Patna City area in April. We are also collecting the samples of her family members,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/6th-covid-death-in-bihar-85-ve-cases-in-a-day/articleshow/75664565.cms||Faryal Rumi
May 11, 2020||Nagpur||Buldhana Covid-free now, only Vid dist to be through all 3 zones||Nagpur: Last three Covid-19 patients of Buldhana, who tested positive on April 25, have recovered and discharged on Sunday. With this, the district, which once had 24 positive cases and was in Red Zone, has become Covid-free and marching towards Green Zone. Buldhana is the first and only district in Vidarbha that had been in all three zones (Red, Orange and Green) between March 29 and May 10.“Buldhana is free of Covid-19 now. We had total 24 cases, including one deceased. We treated 23 patients successfully. They responded to recovery protocol and were discharged accordingly. Today, last three of them were discharged,” said district collector Suman Chandra.“Since the last three detections on April 25, we have tested more than 300 samples and all have been reported negative. This indicates our containment strategy has been largely successful,” she added. Technically, Buldhana has zero active Covid-19 cases at present. The district has reported no new case after April 25, i.e. more than 14 days now. This qualifies Buldhana to be a Green Zone. But, as per Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) protocol, the district should not record new case for 14 days after recovery of last patient. So, the district will have to wait for next two weeks to get the official Green Zone tag.Buldhana recorded its first Covid case on March 29 when a 45-year-old teacher, who died in a government hospital, tested positive after death. Later, four of his close contacts tested positive. The chain ended right there. Second chain of Buldhana started from April 5 when people connected to Nizamuddin Markaz were identified and tested. Total 12 such persons and four of their close contacts had tested positive. All of them have recovered and discharged.Last three patients of Buldhana, discharged today, are in fact members of Tablighi Jamaat (a religious group) from Kamptee near Nagpur. An 11-member group was staying in Buldhana district. When they requested the collector to allow them to return to Nagpur, they were tested for Covid-19 and three of them had tested positive on April 25.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/buldhana-covid-free-now-only-vid-dist-to-be-through-all-3-zones/articleshow/75665216.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
May 11, 2020||Vadodara||Padra man arrested for ferrying liquor tests positive||Vadodara: A prohibition case accused, who was arrested in Padra on May 8, tested positive for coronavirus on Sunday. Rahul Patel, 33, was tested immediately after he was nabbed on Sokhdakhurd Road in Padra town as per protocol. On Sunday, his positive report arrived following which six cops of Padra police station, who had directly and indirectly come in contact with him were sent on leave. Patel is first patient of coronavirus in Padra town.“The six staff members will be home quarantined for precautions for two weeks. We have informed health department about it. Their samples will be collected for test once the health department decides on it,” said inspector S A Karmur of Padra police station. On Sunday, as the case was reported the entire area of Odhavbhula Ni Khadki where Patel lives was sanitized. By evening, the locality was also sealed for cluster quarantine of the residents. A team of district administration and health department also visited the area for contact tracing of people who had come in contact with Patel.Patel was arrested on May 8 when he was transporting 14 quarter-sized bottles of Indian made foreign liquor. Patel had told police that he got the liquor from Ranjit Patanwadiya of Ankhi village in Vadodara district and was going to deliver it to his brother Umesh alias Monto Patel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/padra-man-arrested-for-ferrying-liquor-tests-positive/articleshow/75663738.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Dehradun||Kumaun University gets new V-C||Dehradun: Governor Baby Rani Maurya issued a notification on Sunday to appoint Professor NK Joshi as the new vice-chancellor (V-C) of Kumaun University. Joshi’s appointment comes a month after the university’s interim V-C KS Rana resigned from the service citing personal reasons. An alumnus of Massachusetts Institute of Technology in Boston (1990 batch), Professor Joshi had been serving as the dean (academic affairs) of Dehradun-based Uttaranchal University. Prior to this, he has also served in various capacities at different reputed educational institutions like — Teerthanker Mahaveer University in Moradabad (Uttar Pradesh), Shri Venkateshwara University in Gajraula (UP), Banasthali University (Jaipur), Institute of Management Technology in Ghaziabad, Management Development Institute in Gurugram, and in an affiliated college of Missouri University of Science & Technology in Rolla (USA) at Muscat (Oman), among others. The new V-C of Kumaon University has over 30 years of experience in teaching, corporate training, faculty development, consultancy, research, and administration. He has published and presented many papers in international journals and conferences and has authored three books. He has also supervised many PhD scholars in the field of Computer Science and Engineering.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/kumaun-university-gets-new-v-c/articleshow/75664554.cms||Ishita Mishra
May 11, 2020||Bhopal||23% Covid-beaters in MP were treated in Bhopal||Bhopal: As many as 343 people who were infected with Covid-19 have recovered in Bhopal. The state capital has a recovery rate of 52%. Of the 743 people diagnosed with Covid-19, 343 have recovered, according to the health bulletin. Bhopal has the best recovery rate in MP. It is followed by Indore, which has a recovery rate of about 47%. Bhopal has reported 30 deaths, whereas Indore has reported 89 deaths. In the last 15 days, the recovery rate has increased. On April 25, Bhopal had 388 positive patients and 156 of them had been discharged, deemed recovered. The recovery rate then was 40%. By April 30, the scenario was better with 33% or one-third of people who tested positive in Bhopal having recovered. More people who were hospitalised after testing positive for Covid-19 are being discharged. Early detection is a path to recovery, said Bhopal chief medical and health officer (CMHO) Dr Prabhakar Tiwari. Bhopal has three main Covid-19 treatment centres — AIIMS Bhopal, Chirayu Medical College and Hamidia Hospital. Besides, it has four laboratories, National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases, Bhopal Memorial Hospital and Research Centre, All India Institute of Medical Sciences and Gandhi Medical College. As of May 10, MP had reported 3,614 cases of which 1,676 had recovered, thereby showing a recovery rate of 46.37%. At any point of time, prior to discharge from care centre, if the patient’s oxygen saturation dips below 95%, the patient is moved to a Dedicated Covid-19 Health Centre (DCHC). After discharge from the facility, if he/she again develops symptoms of fever, cough or breathing difficulty, he will contact the Covid-19 Care Centre or State helpline or 1075. His/her health will again be followed up through tele-conference on the 14th day, according to MoHFW guidelines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/23-covid-beaters-in-mp-were-treated-in-bhopal/articleshow/75665646.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Nagpur||Opticians to open shutters from today||Nagpur: Those using specs may no longer feel scared about being left handicapped if their glasses break during the lockdown. Opticians have decided to start their shops from Monday.Even as the opticians were allowed to remain open like other shops dealing in essential goods after an order was issued on April 13, members of the association had decided to keep the outlets shut. “Now, as calls for repairing broken specs or replacement of disposable contact lenses increased, it was decided to open the shops,” said Dinesh Chabra the president of Vidarbha Opticians Association.Chabra said there are 200 odd outlets in the city. “As we approached the NMC, we were told that no fresh order was needed and the outlets can straightaway open,” he said.The shops were sanitized on Sunday so that business can begin from Monday onwards, he said.However, as social distancing and other safely protocol has to be maintained services like eye tests will not be offered at the outlets.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/opticians-to-open-shutters-from-today/articleshow/75665222.cms||Shishir Arya
May 11, 2020||Mangaluru||3,420 migrant labourers take Shramik Special trains to Bihar, Jharkhand, UP||Mangaluru: Three Shramik Special trains, carrying stranded migrant labourers, have left Mangaluru since Saturday. While the first one with 1,168 passengers left Mangaluru Junction for Bokaro Steel City around 10pm on Saturday, two more trains with almost an equal number of labourers left for Uttar Pradesh and Bihar on Sunday. The district administration and railways ensured orderly departure of 3,420 labourers – a far cry from Saturday’s chaos outside Mangaluru Central railway station when more than 1,000 people gathered falling prey to a rumour that train services were available for their return home. The railways has pared the passenger capacity in these 24-ICF coach special trains to meet social distancing norms. Sources in Southern Railway under whose jurisdiction Mangaluru Junction railway station comes, said that 54 passengers are being accommodated in the sleeper class coaches against the capacity of 72. In the second class general coaches, 34 are travelling against the capacity of 54 and 24 in 12 berths available in guard-cum-luggage vans. Each Shramik Special passenger should compulsorily have registered in the Seva Sindhu portal of the state government, said Dakshina Kannada deputy commissioner Sindhu B Rupesh. “We have a large number of migrant labourers from Jharkhand, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and West Bengal in camps here. Trains are being dispatched to these states with concurrence of their governments to receive these migrant labourers there,” she said. Apart from the base fare, which varies to each destination, the labourers are also required to pay superfast charge and surcharge of Rs 30 and Rs 20 respectively. The IRCTC is tasked with providing food to passengers at pre-designated places. The local administration takes care of the same at the departing station, sources said. Railways is collecting fare from every passenger aged above 5 on these special trains. After the riot-like situation at Mangaluru Central railway station on Saturday, Dakshina Kannada MP and state BJP chief Nalin Kumar Kateel petitioned minister of state for railway Suresh Angadi to operate these special trains. Sindhu said with more than 6,000 migrant labourers in town, the administration will coordinate with KSRTC to bring them to the railway station and with the railways to facilitate their departure from this coastal city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/3420-migrant-labourers-take-shramik-special-trains-to-bihar-jharkhand-up/articleshow/75662907.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
May 11, 2020||Mysuru||Simha denies Ramadas’s charge of bio-remediation project going ahead without people’s knowledge||MYSURU: The dispute between two leading members of the BJP – Krishnaraja MLA and former minister SA Ramadas and Mysuru MP Pratap Simha – escalated on Sunday with the parliamentarian dismissing charges of not having invited the former to meetings where the bio-remediation project to be undertaken at the Vidyaranyapuram Sewage Farm were discussed. Simha has been batting for the implementation of the bio-remediation project at the sewage farm, which has been stretched beyond its capacity in disposal of solid waste. The MP said that more than 2.5 lakh tonnes of solid waste was accumulated at the site. “It is wrong on Ramadas’s part to claim that people are in the dark about the project,” said Simha, responding to the MLA’s charge that the project was being executed without it’s having been discussed among the people. Among Ramadas’s objections against the bio-remediation project is his contention that it may lead to contamination of groundwater aquifers. He has also cited that transport of solid waste between multiple locations could lead to a rise in air pollution levels, besides questioning the efficacy of the Nagpur Model, which is the system that Simha is keen on emulating in Mysuru. On the other hand, Simha said that he had invited Ramadas to meetings convened to discuss the project. “But he chose not to attend them,” said the MP. Simha said that then Mysuru district in-charge minister V Somanna had endorsed the bio-remediation project. “Along with Somanna, I had visited the plant in November and we interacted with the people,” said Simha, adding that he was determined to find a permanent solution to the longstanding problem. Pointing out that residents in the vicinity of the sewage farm had been living with the stench that emanated from the facility. A delegation of elected representatives and officials, including Mysuru City Corporation commissioner Gurudutta Hegde and deputy commissioner Abhiram G Sankar had visited Nagpur to study the methods used in the Maharashtra city in the disposal of solid waste.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/simha-denies-ramadass-charge-of-bio-remediation-project-going-ahead-without-peoples-knowledge/articleshow/75663996.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Kolkata||Calcutta University issues exam directives to colleges||KOLKATA: Calcutta University on Sunday instructed all affiliated colleges to sanitize their campuses within ten days of opening the institutes. In a notice to the heads of individual colleges, vice-chancellor Sonali Chakravarti Banerjee also informed about the decision to hold the terminal semester examinations — i.e. sixth semester for the undergraduate courses and tenth semester for the postgraduate programmes — within a month of re-opening the university. The decision was taken on Saturday after a meeting with education minister Partha Chatterjee. The decision to conduct the semester examinations for all the universities is, however, unlikely to be implemented. Sources in the higher education department said, “It will be an unprecedented decision. If the students are allowed to appear for exams at home-centres. It is known that most colleges award high marks to all students in the internal evaluations or for project works, where the faculty is involved.” President of Calcutta University Teachers’ Association (Cuta) Parthib Basu said, “The decision to hold semester exams can be detrimental to a students’ future. We would request the university to discuss options with the government. Also, the modalities of the exams will have to be placed before the faculty council for approval.” Among the immediate sanitization measures, colleges have been told to target the classrooms, compound and hostels. Masks will have to be arranged and hand sanitizer dispensers will have to be installed outside classrooms and gates. Thermal scanning is a must at every entrance. It has also been decided that terminal semester examinations will be held within a month after lockdown restrictions are removed. All varsities, except Presidency University and Maulana Abul Kalam Azad University of Technology (Makaut), will hold the terminal examinations in batches. Meanwhile, Rabindra Bharati University, JU and Presidency University have refused to reopen the hostels immediately after reopening the campuses. CU has sought a month’s notice before reopening the sixteen hostels. The common areas in all the universities will remain closed. Makaut has proposed to conduct the examinations online while at Presidency University, no practicals or written tests will be conducted as the last semester evaluation will be replaced by weightage on cumulative grade points averagein the former semesters, viva-voce, project work and internal continuous assessment. Some other universities outside Kolkata have also proposed to conduct exams online.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cu-issues-exam-directives-to-colleges/articleshow/75665647.cms||Somdatta Basu
May 11, 2020||Chennai||Government doesn’t believe Covid-19 killed all victims||CHENNAI: Two of the three Covid-19 patients who died in TN on Sunday had co-morbidities – a 59-year-old man with diabetes and cardiac disease and a 55-year-old with renal failure, diabetes and hypertension. "Most people who died of the viral infection in Tamil Nadu had severe co-morbidities. We don’t know what killed them," said health secretary Beela Rajesh. Last week, during a meeting with Union health minister Harsh Vardhan, the state asked for reclassification of some deaths. "Some of our patients had additional risk factors. They were above 80 years of age or were obese," she said. The state, which on Sunday received a revised format for death declaration asking for details on co-morbidities, hopes protocols will be revised. Among the 47 who died of Covid-19 until Sunday, 17 of the 2,450 women who tested positive died and 30 of the 4,752 men died. Twenty of the 503 patients admitted above the age of 60 died including one at 96 and one at 98. A 27-year-old woman who died on the labour table in Government Kasturba Gandhi Hospital for Women was the youngest Covid-19 patient. A 54-year-old Madurai businessman with lung disease, hypertension and diabetes was the first Covid death in TN, on March 25 when passed away at the Rajaji Government General Hospital. "Since May 1, we have seen 20 deaths. And at least 50% of the patients have been in hospital for less than 48 hours. That is because they had severe co-morbidities," said a senior directorate of medical education doctor. "Health department records show 20 of the 47 died within two days of admission." "If the cause of hospital admission for the heart failure patient is Covid-19 and his heart or kidney failure worsens the outcome, the cause of death is Covid-19," said infectious diseases expert Dr Subramanian Swaminathan. "The mode of death could be respiratory failure or cardio-respiratory arrest. Heart or kidney diseases are incidental." Others say it may not always be the same, adding that if a patient with hip fracture develops sepsis, cause of death will be sepsis and not fracture. "What we need now is some integrity. Doctors should be judicious in including or excluding Covid as cause of death. If we don’t get this right now, we may never know the seriousness of this viral infection. It may affect policies and research as well," said Dr George Thomas, former editor of the Indian Journal of Medical Ethics.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/govt-doesnt-believe-covid-killed-all-victims/articleshow/75665224.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Patna||Bihar govt may take decision on vehicle passes today||PATNA: CM Nitish Kumar on Sunday indicated a major policy announcement on Monday with regard to the issuance of passes for inter-district as well as interstate movement of the needy persons. Replying to the suggestions made by the MLAs of alliance partners BJP and LJP at an interactive session convened through videoconferencing on Covid-19, Nitish said the pertinent decisions would be taken at the high-level meeting to be attended by the heads of disaster management and other departments on Monday. The CM, however, ruled out the possibility of bringing back the trapped migrant workers by buses. Deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi also spoke on the occasion. BJP’s Sanjay Sarawagi and more than a dozen other MLAs suggested that the government should plan something concrete to give relaxations by allowing the use of small vehicles for the movement of trapped persons from one district in Bihar to their home districts. Similarly, there were persons from other states who were trapped in various parts of Bihar, but were finding it difficult to return to their home states owing to the lockdown. Besides, several parents wanted to bring back their wards studying outside state, while others wanted to bring back their relatives working in other states and had got trapped, Sarawagi said, adding that work opportunities should be provided to skilled migrant workers who had returned home. BJP’s Chhapra MLA Dr C N Gupta said the legislators made general suggestions, besides thanking the CM and deputy CM Modi for the “satisfactory” running of the quarantine centres and relief distribution, including the payment of Rs1,000 to the migrant workers and ration card holders. The MLAs wanted speedy sanction and clearance to the schemes taken up under Mukhya Mantri Yojana, like roads and other developmental measures, as no work had been done in the last four months owing to the budget session of the state legislature and the lockdown, Dr Gupta added. Among the BJP and LJP MLAs who gave their suggestions were Narayan Prasad, Dr Ajay Kumar Singh, Ram Chandra Sahni, Raju Tiwari, Shyam Babu Yadav, Neeraj Kumar Singh, Vijay Kumar Khemka, Tara Kishore Prasad and Jiwesh Mishra, among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/govt-may-take-decision-on-vehicle-passes-today/articleshow/75664581.cms||Abhay Singh
May 11, 2020||Kochi||Op Samudra Setu: Navy ship reaches Kochi port with 698 stranded in Male||Kochi: Indian Navy’s INS Jalashwa, carrying 698 Indians stranded in Maldives, arrived at the Cochin Port on Sunday morning. It was the first mission of Operation Samudra Setu launched to evacuate Indians stuck abroad due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The ship entered the port area with the escort of a naval helicopter and two interceptor boats and docked at the Samudrika cruise terminal at 9.30am. The ship had sailed out of Male port on Friday night after a day-long embarkation process. The passengers included 595 males, 103 females, including 19 who were pregnant, and 14 children below 10 years. Out of them, 419 were Keralites and 206 were from Tamil Nadu. The rest of the passengers belonged to other parts of India. Ernakulam district administration said two passengers were symptomatic and they were shifted to hospital for swab test. As many as 60 passengers belonging to Ernakulam were shifted to a retreat centre and 73 passengers belonging to other states were shifted to a hospital in Kakkanad for quarantine. As many as 357 passengers belonging to other districts were sent in KSRTC buses to quarantine centres in their respective districts. The passengers belonging to Tamil Nadu were sent to their native places in buses sent by TN government. During the disembarkation, passengers were brought to the terminal in batches of 50 and underwent statutory clearances and health screening. They submitted self-declaration forms and received new BSNL sim cards. The passengers were also told to install Arogya Setu app in their mobiles. The disembarkation exercise was carried out under the administrative control of the officer representing district administration, and followed Covid-19 protocols.  The onward transport of passengers to institutional quarantine centres was coordinated by regional transport officer deploying KSRTC buses. Extensive arrangements were put in place by the government for speedy completion of health screening and immigration formalities at the terminal. Glassed counters were set up at the terminal in accordance with medical protocol for customs, immigration, police, health department, BSNL and district administration. The second mission to evacuate more Indians from Maldives is underway as INS Magar, based at the Southern Naval Command, Kochi, has set sail with 202 passengers and is expected to reach Kochi by Tuesday afternoon or Wednesday early morning.  Two more flights arrive in Kochi: Two more flights, one from Doha, and another one from Kuala Lumpur, landed at Kochi on Sunday. The Air India Express flight (IX 476) from Doha, carrying 178 Keralites landed at 1.40am. One of the passengers, who belonged to Ernakulam district, was found symptomatic and shifted to a Covid care centre. The repatriation flight (IX-683) from Kuala Lumpur with 179 passengers, including two kids, touched down in Kochi airport at 10.11pm. It is the first repatriation flight from the South-East Asia to Kochi after the Vande Bharat mission was started. On Monday, another repatriation flight from Dubai is scheduled to reach Kochi by 8.10pm. Flight to TVM cancelled: In a setback for as many 183 passengers who had reached Doha airport on Sunday, a repatriation flight from Qatar, scheduled to reach Thiruvananthapuram at 10.45pm, was cancelled after the Doha interior ministry declined to give permission for the flight’s landing in the Qatar capital. “We are in contact with Indian embassy in Doha to arrange facilities for the stranded passengers. The flight has been rescheduled for Tuesday,” said Thiruvananthapuram district collector K Gopalakrishnan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/op-samudra-setu-navy-ship-reaches-kochi-port-with-698-stranded-in-male/articleshow/75664006.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Hubballi||No active Covid-19 cases in Gadag||Hubballi: Close on the heels of Mysuru turning into Covid-19-free district, with all patients being discharged, Gadag has now secured a place on the list of districts with zero active cases. On Saturday evening, the three Covid-19 patients who were undergoing treatment at the Gadag Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS) were discharged. Gadag deputy commissioner MG Hiremath was understandably proud of the district’s handling of the pandemic. “We have been successful in preventing the spread of the pandemic in Gadag. All the 19 primary contacts and most of the secondary contacts have tested negative for the novel coronavirus. We are waiting for the results of few others,” Hiremath told TOI.  “The challenge confronting the district administration is to prevent fresh cases being reported in Gadag. Doctors are testing more people now, and residents displaying symptoms are being tested, and asked to isolate themselves,” Hiremath added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/no-active-covid-19-cases-in-gadag/articleshow/75663771.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Bhopal||Silver lining: Recoveries in MP outnumber fresh cases||Bhopal: In a silver lining for the state, the number of patients recovered from Covid-19 outnumbered the number of new people who had tested positive for the disease on Sunday. While 196 people recovered from the disease, 157 new people tested positive for the disease in the state. Apart from these 157 people who tested positive, 4 casualties were also reported from the state. The districts where these deaths were reported includes Indore where 2 deaths were reported and 1 death each was reported from Bhopal and Dhar districts. With these new deaths toll due to covid-19 in the state reached 215. The districts where new patients were reported includes Indore (78 cases), Bhopal (39 cases), Ujjain (10 cases), Dewas (7 cases), Gwalior (5 cases), Jabalpur (4 cases), Neemuch (2 cases) and 1 case each was reported in Hoshangabad, Satna, Dindori and Bhind districts. So far, a total of 39 districts of state have been affected by Covid-19 and positive patients have been found in these districts. However there are three districts, Sheopur, Betul and Alirajpur in these 39 districts where 4, 3 and 1 patients were respectively tested positive, but all these patients have now recovered. And no new patient has been reported in these districts since past 21 days. A total of 196 patients who were admitted at hospitals all across the state recovered and were discharged on Thursday, with these patients who recovered total number of patients recovered in the state reached 1,676. Thus of the total 3,614 patients reported positive so far in the state, more than 46% have recovered from the infection. Among those admitted at hospitals, 243 patients are in critical condition and remaining 1480 patients are in stable conditions and admitted at different hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/silver-lining-recoveries-in-mp-outnumber-fresh-cases/articleshow/75665651.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Dehradun||Cracks appear in Nainital’s popular tourist site Tiffin Top||Nainital: Days after landslides at the Cheena Peak in Nainital, cracks have now appeared in another of the lake town’s attraction – Dorothy’s Seat, popularly known as Tiffin Top. Located in the Ayarpatta Hill, Tiffin Top allows tourists to enjoy a view of the Naini Lake and the entire town. Residents said that they saw the cracks last week soon after the rains. "We had heard that some boulders are falling in the area but when we visited the spot after the rains, we noticed the cracks in the rocks below Tiffin Top. Now a rift, at least two feet wide, can also be seen in the rocks," said Pranjal Sah, a local resident. Tiffin Top was built by a British officer Colonel JP Kellett in the memory of his wife, Dorothy Kellet, after she died aboard a ship to England in 1936. The place is also known as Dorothy’s Seat after her. Sah added that because of the lockdown, tourists are not visiting Dorothy’s Seat yet but once the lockdown is lifted and tourists start flocking to the spot, it will pose a threat to the entire area. "The cracks in the rocks not only pose a threat to the shops and small establishment here but also the entire area where many people have built their homes. In case of a major landslide, there will be a huge problem," he said. The cracks in the rocks at Dorothy’s Seat come just months after recurring landsildes at the Cheena Peak in the lake town. Rains over several days in February had led to landslide on the Cheena Peak at least twice, following which the district administration had called in experts from Dehradun’s Wadia Institute of Himalayan Geology as well as the Disaster Management and Mitigation Centre. Meanwhile, raising concerns over the recurring landslides, environmentalists said that the lake town has passed its holding capacity and continuous construction coupled with deforestation is leading to such situations. Nainital has had a history of devastating landslides which killed many people over the years. Ajay Singh Rawat, former professor of Kumaun University and an environmentalist, said that the excess load on the geologically sensitive hill town as well as rapid deforestation are the major reasons for these recurring landslides in the recent years. "Just over a year ago, a part of Mall Road had collapsed after the rock underneath it loosened. Then there were landslides on Cheena Peak and now the Tifffin Top area has cracks. The major reason for this is that we are way past our carrying capacity. In fact, the Ayarpatta area where the Tiffin Top is located has seen rapid construction over the past few years. This, coupled with traffic strain and rapid deforestation are major reasons for these landslides," said Rawat. The Nainital district administration meanwhile said that they will send an expert team to the spot to assess the damage. "If the team finds that a further study is needed, then that will also be conducted. We have been studying these changes and are taking steps like rejuvenating catchment areas and strengthening the Mall Road. All the necessary steps will be taken to protect the geology and ecology of Nainital," said district magistrate Savin Bansal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cracks-appear-in-nainitals-popular-tourist-site-tiffin-top/articleshow/75663783.cms||Prashant Jha
May 11, 2020||Mysuru||Mysuru dist admin plans quarantine facilities at GP level||MYSURU: The Mysuru district administration, which has won appreciation at the national level for handling the Covid-19 crisis in a scientific manner, and for providing quality treatment and quarantine facilities, is leaving no stone unturned to face any eventuality with regards to the pandemic. According to the authorities, even though Covid-19 cases are decreasing by the day in the district, as a precautionary measure, the district administration has started identifying quarantine facilities at the gram panchayat (GP) level. Deputy commissioner Abhiram G Sankar confirmed that panchayat development officers (PDOs) across the district have been asked to keep a list of facilities available in all GPs, which can be converted into quarantine centres, if the need arises. Mysuru taluk panchayat executive officer Krishna Kumar said that the government has asked them to prepare such a list in all GPs in the district. “As of now, in Mysuru taluk, we have listed 7 hostels, including two Morarji Desai Schools, for quarantine facilities. The Morarji Desai School at Varakodu is notified for high-risk patients, while the Morarji Desai School at S Hoskote is notified for low-risk patients. Apart from this, 5 hostels have also been shortlisted for quarantine facilities,” he said. The biggest concern expressed by parents was that if schools and hostels in the village are used to quarantine people, it may adversely affect the children, once academic activities start. “The main fear is that those who are quarantined may not maintain hygiene in the hostels and schools, leaving them filthy, when the institutions reopen. There is also the concern that institutional facilities can get damaged. The health of the children is an important issue,” said Vasanth Kumar, a parent from Mysuru. However, the authorities said that this fear is unfounded. “The hostels which have been turned into quarantine facilities are disinfected every day,” said Krishna Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/mysuru-dist-admin-plans-quarantine-facilities-at-gp-level/articleshow/75663790.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Dehradun||Three men including 2 yoga teachers arrested for making sexual advances on Japanese woman||Haridwar: Police in Rishikesh have arrested three men including two yoga teachers and a staffer of a yoga centre on the charges of “using abusive language and attempting to outrage the modesty” of a Japanese woman who had come to learn yoga in the city. A case was registered against them under sections 354 (a) and (d) of the Indian Penal Code. According to police, the 27-year-old woman was taking yoga classes in early March this year at a yoga teacher training school at IDPL in Rishikesh when the accused started harassing her. On Saturday, she approached police and registered her complaint, after which a team was constituted by the Dehradun SSP to probe the matter. Providing details of the matter, senior sub-inspector of Rishikesh police station Omkant Bhushan told TOI, “The complainant told us that the accused tried to make advances on her and used obscene language seeking sexual favours. A case has been registered against all three accused under sections 354 (a) (assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty) and 354 (d) (stalking) of the Indian Penal Code.” The accused have been identified as Harikishan, 43, Chandra Kant, 32, both yoga teachers and Somraj, 23, kitchen helper, all residents of Aam Bagh colony at IDPL in Rishikesh. The official added that they have been arrested and will soon be produced in court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/three-men-including-2-yoga-teachers-arrested-for-making-sexual-advances-on-japanese-woman/articleshow/75663793.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Nagpur||Cop to prioritize ‘Covid distancing’ in front liquor shops||Nagpur: Police have prepared their blueprint to maintain discipline outside the liquor shops once they are opened in the city prioritizing ‘Covid distancing’.Maharashtra government on May 4 decided to allow liquor shops to open in some zones. The state government also had asked the police to ensure there was no ruckus outside the shops once they open.Last week, collector Ravindra Thakare and NMC chief Tukaram Mundhe decided against opening of the liquor shops in entire district citing its status as ‘red zone’ using their discretionary powers under the Epidemic Act. After Mundhe’s order, there were much deliberations over the revenue loss, possible threat over aggravating of corona spread along with questions over law and order following which Thakare too had decided against the opening of the liquor shops. The liquor merchants approached the high court against the orders to keep their outlets, including ones outside the containment zones, shut. Following the direction from the state government, the state director general of police (DGP) had issued a circular for the unit commanders to ensure there was no law and order situation outside liquor shops and also that customers followed the norms of Covid distancing.There have been several videos of chaos and long queues outside liquor shops doing rounds in social media after the outlets were allowed to function. CP BK Upadhyay said police station in-charges have been told to deploy security arrangements at liquor shops whenever they are permitted. “We will have to ensure there is discipline and Covid distancing after the liquor shops receive permissions,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cop-to-prioritize-covid-distancing-in-front-liquor-shops/articleshow/75665234.cms||Soumitra Bose
May 11, 2020||Mangaluru||St Mary’s Island turns into party haven despite restrictions||Udupi: Notwithstanding prohibitions against general movement of public after 7pm, leave alone revelry, a purported ‘night out’ at St Mary’s Island – around 7km off the Malpe Coast – has stirred a controversy. What has muddied the waters further is the involvement of Sudesh Shetty, the promoter of Malpe Beach. Both St Mary’s Island and Malpe Beach are under the purview of the Beach Development Authority, which, in turn, comes under the jurisdiction of the Udupi deputy commissioner. Entry to the island is prohibited to public between 7pm and 7am every day. Superintendent of coastal security police (CSP) R Chethan confirmed that Shetty, along with seven others, stayed on the island overnight. “We have ordered an investigation into the incident. However, Shetty is contending that, he and the others were at St Mary’s Island to dismantle equipment there prior to the onset of the monsoon. He said that they could not return to shore before 7pm owing to the high tide,” Chethan told TOI. Shetty’s presence at St Mary’s Island would have slipped under the radar of the security forces concerned but for a few people pausing when they saw the island illuminated around 9.30pm on Saturday. When they found that the lights were still on around 11pm, they intimated CSP and cops at the Maple police station. A car parked on the Malpe jetty were confirmed to be those owned by Shetty, while another was found to be registered to Nirmithi Kendra. When the cops called Shetty on his mobile, he admitted to being on the island, and explained why he was stranded there beyond permitted hours. However, when CSP deployed its patrol boat around 1am, the personnel found a group of men in an inebriated state, and telltale signs of a party having been concluded at the island. All the individuals who were found on the island were taken to the CSP station around 3.15am. Udupi DC G Jagadeesha said that he was awaiting a report from the CSP authorities before taking any action. “If the report confirms a breach in the norms prescribed for keeping the beach pristine, and it is found that tethering or transporting equipment having been tampered with, we will take initiate action against those found guilty,” Jagadeesha told TOI. Vadabhandeshwara ward counciller Yogish Salian lodged a complaint with CSP seeking a probe into the incident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/st-marys-island-turns-into-party-haven-despite-restrictions/articleshow/75662942.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
May 11, 2020||Nagpur||PWD starts work on compost projects in Ravi Nagar||Nagpur: The state’s public works department (PWD) has started construction of two smart compost projects at government quarters, Ravi Nagar. The plan is to produce compost from kitchen waste of 850 quarters and leaf litter generated in the colony. It will be city’s first project of its kind and a model for other townships and flat schemes. After halting for over 50 days due to lockdown, PWD has resumed works at a few of its projects. PWD superintending engineer Vidyadhar Sardeshmukh told TOI, “Works on two compost projects have been started. Expansion and concretization project of Inner Ring Road and district court’s new building works have also been started.” Executive engineer JH Bhanuse said, “PWD has proposed two more smart compost projects at SRPF Colony, Hingna, and police quarters, Police Line Takli. They will be state-of-the-art systems on the lines of one developed at Bandra under Swachh Bharat Mission.” A few residents of Ravi Nagar government quarters are worried about the project. Junior engineer Vidya Lanjewar said there would will be no smell smell or any problem from the project. One is being constructed adjacent to Ambazari police station for 392 quarters of old colony and the other is adjacent to overhead water tank for 458 quarters of new colony. Our vehicles will go home to home and collect kitchen waste. Leaves falling from colony’s trees will also be collected. “These will go directly into the tanks. There would be no dumping of waste. I had personally visited Bandra project and replicated it here,” she said. The projects can be scaled up in coming years. They will solve a major problem of unscientific disposal of garbage and be model of wealth from waste. PWD’s operator will produce and sell compost and also give revenue to it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/pwd-starts-work-on-compost-projects-in-ravi-nagar/articleshow/75665235.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
May 11, 2020||Bareilly||2,900 migrant workers arrive in two trains from Gujarat||Bareilly: Nearly 2,900 migrant labourers from several districts of western Uttar Pradesh, who were stuck in Gujarat, arrived in Bareilly by two special trains on Sunday. So far since May 5, five of these special trains have arrived in Bareilly, carrying around 6,000 labourers from Gujarat and Punjab. The first train, with 1,495 migrant workers, arrived at 7.30am on Sunday, with the second, carrying 1,388 migrants, arriving in the evening. Both trains started from Jamnagar on Saturday morning. Upon reaching Bareilly, the labourers were provided breakfast and water bottles, and after screening for Covid-19, most of them were sent by district administration to their respective hometowns in buses. Station superintendent of Bareilly junction, Satyaveer Singh, told TOI, “Nearly 2,900 passengers arrived in two trains from Jamnagar. All passengers were found to be fit and sent to their respective districts in buses, after they were provided food. We sanitised the train after the passengers deboarded.” A migrant from Bahraich said, “All our savings have vanished in our struggle to survive during the lockdown. We were thrashed by police while looking for food, paid extra for pulses and milk. On top of that, we had to face humiliation because of being an outsider and not knowing their language. As Hindi-speakers, we were treated differently. When factories were open, we were needed. But suddenly, owners treated us like garbage and let us adrift. I don’t intend to go to other states for work ever again, especially if the government provides us some work even at minimum wages.” Elsewhere, several migrants from Bihar who were working in Punjab, crossed the Bareilly district border on motorbikes and bicycles. Many of them claimed they had been working in Punjab for the past 15 years, but after the lockdown, they were suddenly forgotten by their employers. After finding no support from the government, some of them bought second-hand bikes from their savings and left for home. Munish Kumar (42) told TOI, “I used to work in a shoe manufacturing unit. Life was smooth till coronavirus changed everything. I had to buy a second-hand bike for Rs 21,000 from my savings so that I could return home.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/2900-migrant-workers-arrive-in-two-trains-from-gujarat/articleshow/75662945.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
May 11, 2020||Bareilly||Dust storm, heavy rainfall lashes city||Bareilly: Heavy dust storm, followed by rains lashed the city on Sunday, as clouds and dust turned the sky dark in the afternoon, bringing a slight dip in both minimum and maximum temperatures. Residents shared videos of gusty winds and thunderstorm on social media. As per Indian Meteorological Department (IMD), maximum temperature was recorded at 34.5°C (five degrees below normal) and minimum temperature at 24.2°C. IMD has predicted more thunderstorms and rainfall in the city till May 13. Maximum and minimum humidity was recorded at 89% and 57% respectively, with 8.3mm of rainfall recorded during the day. The stormy conditions lasted for around an hour, disrupting electricity supply. Waterlogging was reported from several pockets of the city, even as de-silting of drains and manholes was being undertaken by the civic body. Anuj Goel, who lives in Shubash Nagar, said, “With the lockdown enforced, city areas looked deserted as people remained indoors, which is why they didn’t face much difficulties due to the waterlogging on roads.” “Black clouds covered the sky at around 2pm, followed by lightning and dust storm that lasted for several minutes. Then it started to rain, which continued for over an hour,” said Abdul Naeem, a resident of Quila. “Power supply was disrupted for around two hours in our locality,” he added. According to predictions of IMD, similar weather conditions, with possibility of thunderstorms and rainfall, are likely to prevail in the city till May 13. The maximum and minimum temperatures are expected to hover around 35°C and 22°C, respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/dust-storm-heavy-rainfall-lashes-city/articleshow/75662936.cms||Maria Khan
May 11, 2020||Bareilly||28 migrants hurt after vehicle on way from Punjab collides with truck in UP||BAREILLY: At least 28 migrant workers and driver of a passenger utility vehicle (PUV) sustained injuries, on Sunday, after the vehicle in which they were travelling rammed into a truck stationed on UP's Moradabad-Haridwar Road under Chhajlet police station limits. The incident took place around 3:30 am. Police said that it appears the driver dozed off and lost control of the vehicle. The injured were later shifted to district and two private hospitals. The migrant workers were coming from Moga district in Punjab, where a contractor who had hired them arranged a PUV. The PUV was moving towards Kushinagar district in UP since most of the workers were from the area. Additional superintendent of police (rural area) Uday Shankar Singh told TOI, “All the injured are conscious and out of danger. Six of them have been discharged while 23 are kept under observation. All were working at a local company in Punjab and travelling home to east UP and Bihar.” The ASP added that 15 workers are from Kushinagar while 13 belong to Bihar's West Champaran district. After recovery, all the workers would be shifted to quarantine centres following government guidelines, the police officer said. “At least 14 injured workers were later shifted to two private hospitals, since necessary medical facility was not available at district hospital,” ASP Singh further said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/28-migrants-hurt-after-vehicle-on-way-from-punjab-collides-with-truck-in-up/articleshow/75662953.cms||Pankul Sharma
May 11, 2020||Nagpur||MSRTC gears up, shifts 1,100 migrants on Day One||Nagpur: The district administration has expedited shifting of migrants a day after Maharashtra government issued directions to ferry stranded people to state border. While ST buses shifted 1,100 migrants till late night on Sunday, 1,082 were sent by train to Ballia in Uttar Pradesh. On Saturday, the government had directed Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) to carry migrants free of cost up to state border. On Day One, over 1,100 migrants were shifted in 46 ST buses to Maharashtra-Madhya Pradesh border at Khawasa and Chhattisgarh border at Shirpur (Deori). The government has set aside Rs21 crore for MSRTC for expenses towards shifting the migrants in the entire state. The state public transporter has been given a deadline of May 17 to shift all the stranded people. Senior ST officials were stationed since morning at Ganeshpeth bus stand to ensure smooth going. Divisional commissioner Sanjeev Kumar said, “Apart from shifting migrants through Shramik special trains, ST buses will ferry all those kept in shelter homes. We are also roping in private buses to shift them by coordinating with our counterparts in the respective states.” Till the filing of this report, 46 buses had left from Ganeshpeth for Khawasa (100km) and Deori (150km). The shifting started at 3pm and continued till late night. MSRTC was told to be ready with 40 buses, but had to call six more buses considering the heavy rush. “We are ready with buses and will continue the operations based on the lists provided by the district administration. The migrants are being brought to the bus stand after health check-up. On Sunday, with the help of NGOs, we distributed meals and water bottles to all migrants. In each bus, only 24 migrants were allowed,” said MSRTC divisional controller Nilesh Belsare. In the meanwhile, a Shramik special from Nagpur to Ballia in Uttar Pradesh left at 8pm on Sunday with 1,082 migrants. “The train was slotted for 1,122 people, but railway sources said 40 persons did not report. We charged Rs560 per head and tickets were issued to district administration,” they said. Among the passengers included 153 from Bhandara, Gondia (1), Gadchiroli (8), Wardha (7), Hingoli (2), Nagpur rural (734) and Nagpur city (224). However, 40 of these passengers did not turn up. This was the fifth special train to UP and Bihar and more trains are lined up till May 14. On payment of tickets, district officials said, “Money was taken from migrants and the same was deposited with the Central Railway. For those who could not pay, money was arranged through NGOs.” Meanwhile, on Sunday, the chief minister’s office (CMO) has directed all the district collectors to pay ticket fare of migrants who are unable to pay.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/msrtc-gears-up-shifts-1100-migrants-on-day-one/articleshow/75665239.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
May 11, 2020||Nagpur||Many Bihar migrants still waiting for their turn to go back home||Nagpur: Everyday thousands of migrant labourers heading back to their respective home states from various parts of the country but around 70-80 Bihari migrants residing at Nizamuddin Colony under the jurisdiction of Yashodhara Nagar police station are still waiting for their turn. The migrant workers, who work as hand craft on contract basis in the city, have been running from pillar to post to get themselves registered for their travel back to their home state.“I have been living in Nagpur for the last five to seven years, but I regularly used to visit my home district Madhubani in Bihar every few months. “We rent room in Nizamuddin Colony and work hand craft for garments. Since the lockdown, we spent whatever we had and were facing severe crisis,” said Zakir Mohammad after making a visit to the Yashodhara Nagar police station to get permission to return to his state along with 80 other labourers.The days in the city are getting worse for the migrants as they don’t have money and are dependent on food from NGOs. “We stand in queues to get food everyday. Sometimes we get, sometimes we don’t. We are living like animals here and need to go home,” Zakir said.The labourers said they were told to fill up an online form to get accommodation to return home. “We approached a computer operator and passed on all information to him to fill up the forms but did not receive any call from the administration. We waited for several days but nothing happened, then, we were told that we could approach police stations and get ourselves registered for travel,” said another labourer.They claimed that they visited the police station several times. “Now the cops are saying that they have organized a bus for us after two days. We are hoping that they take us back home,” another labourer said.Haidar Ali, a social worker from the area, claimed that some of the labourers were also tenants at his home. “They are indeed facing several problems and need to go back home. A few days back, they were asked to go to the Ajni railway station to catch a train to their home state. But when they walked all the way to the station, they were asked to return,” he said.Sources said that there were around 800 to 900 labourers from different states in the nearby places of Yashodhara Nagar and all of them are trying separately to get back home.Senior PI of Yashodhara Nagar police station Deepak Sakhre said that everyday several migrants approached the police station and provided all the necessary information. “We transfer the information to our senior officials who later make a group of migrants. Following which the migrants are contacted and sent to their hometowns via buses and trains. Till now, around 250 migrants who registered at my police station have been sent back home,” PI Sakhre said.Recently, the police department had claimed that around 5,000 migrant labourers had been sent to their states via buses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/many-bihar-migrants-still-waiting-for-their-turn-to-go-back-home/articleshow/75665240.cms||Viraj Deshpande
May 11, 2020||Bareilly||20 booked for violating lockdown rules in Pilibhit||PILIBHIT: Twenty people were booked in two separate cases for violating the lockdown orders in Pilibhit city at Pilibhit Kotwali police station here on Sunday. In addition, 10 motorcycles were seized from people for moving about aimlessly on the roads when all shops and commercial activities had been closed. Shrikant Dwivedi, SHO, said the first case was lodged under IPC sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life and 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), besides, and provision of the Disaster Management Act, against various shopkeepers for keeping their premises open beyond permissable hours. Apart from this, 16 commuters were booked under IPC section 188 for moving on the roads on their bikes despite lockdown orders to remain indoors. Police seized 10 bikes of these people, Dwivedi said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/20-booked-for-violating-lockdown-rules-in-pilibhit/articleshow/75662950.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Nagpur||Shutdown, lack of admissions hurting coaching classes financially||Nagpur: Many stand-alone, and even big coaching classes, are hurting financially as the extended lockdown has put a halt on admissions actually materializing. Admission period differs for all coaching classes, from Std X exams getting over to results coming, as the popularity of the classes determines the demand-supply matrix. The coronavirus pandemic has thrown up both short and long term challenges for the classes. While the lockdown has put a spanner in their immediate finances, Covid distancing may mean lesser students per classroom. One such class owner said that cash flow has been impacted severely. “We collect our fee at the start of the year itself. Some give multiple payment options, but usually the amount is recovered before the session reaches halfway point,” the owner said. “This time no new admissions are happening because, obviously, parents want to wait and watch how long the lockdown goes on. Parents who enquired about classes and fee are citing inability to pay up during the lockdown,” said the owner. The core cash flow of classes comes from students of Std XI, who plan to appear for competitive exams post their Std XII. The other revenue source for classes is coaching for school students, starting right from Std VIII and test series for students about to appear for either medical or engineering entrance examinations. Another class owner said lifting of lockdown will present another challenge. “Obviously parents will be worried about how the seating arrangements will be made. Capacity per class may have to go down, which will lead to extra staff requirements. So it is a challenging time for many, especially those who do not have cash reserves to tide over the situation,” said the owner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/shutdown-lack-of-admissions-hurting-coaching-classes-financially/articleshow/75665243.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
May 11, 2020||Nagpur||Cop thrashed by 3 curfew violators||Nagpur: A constable Nageshwar Dasarwar, attached to police headquarters, was thrashed by three persons in Gurunanak Nagar under MIDC police station while he was returning home on Saturday night.Dasarwar, a resident of Pandurang Nagar, had spotted three persons standing on road in violation of the lockdown. When Dasarwar questioned them, the trio allegedly beat the cop.In a complaint lodged with MIDC police, Dasarwar has named one of the accused as Gautam Paswan. Identity of the other two accused is yet to be established. MIDC police have registered a case of assault and obstructing a government employee from discharging his duty against the trio.According to police, Dasarwar was returning home on a bike. Dasarwar, who was in uniform, spotted a few people standing on road and asked them the reason for violating the curfew. The accused allegedly started abusing the cop before thrashing him.Senior PI of MIDC police station Hemant Kharabe said, “The accused were wearing mask, but standing on road in violation of the lockdown rules. We have launched a search operation to nab the accused who are absconding.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cop-thrashed-by-3-curfew-violators/articleshow/75665245.cms||Viraj Deshpande
May 11, 2020||Nagpur||Now, GMCH & Mayo can treat up to 1,139 Covid patients at a time||Nagpur: In a major relief amid steep rise in patients, two state-run hospitals — Indira Gandhi Government Medical College and Hospital (IGGMCH) and Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) — have ramped up their capacity to treat Covid-19 patients to 1,139. At present, 201 patients are undergoing treatment at these two hospitals, three have died and 92 discharged out of total 296 cases in the district.With the help of funds sanctioned by guardian minister Nitin Raut and collector Ravindra Thakare, state’s public works department led by chief engineer Ulhas Debadwar and superintending engineer Vidyadhar Sardeshmukh converted a G+2 storey vacant building in GMCH into Dedicated Covid-19 Hospital (DCH) in just 15 days and handed it over to GMCH administration on Sunday. The entire building is a special ICU ward with 120 beds.Earlier, PWD had converted GMCH’s trauma care centre of G+3 floors into DCH with 262 beds (ICU-50 and 212 high dependency unit) within 150 hours. GMCH administration has already brought this building into use.GMCH was having capacity of 91 Covid-19 beds before these two new DCHs. Thus, total capacity in the GMCH as of date is 473 beds.PWD has received Rs5.59 crore for GMCH. Works to convert ward nos 25 and 26 into ICU with 60 beds and ward nos 1, 2, 11-16 into HDU are going on.Sardeshmukh told TOI, “A centralized oxygen bank and suction facility have been developed at GMCH. A new pathway has been constructed along with repairing of internal roads,” he said.IGGMCH was having capacity of 120 beds including 20 in ICU. PWD in association with IGGMCH administration converted entire Surgical Building into DCH with total 566 (ICU- 172 and HDU- 394) beds. Works on 546 beds with 152 in ICU and 394 in HDU were completed in 21 days from April 16 to May 6 at a cost of Rs 3.50 crore sanctioned by Raut and Thakare. Here too, centralized oxygen bank and suction facility have been developed.IGGMCH deputy medical superintendent Sagar Pande said, “We will continue to use earlier 100 beds in ward nos 4-7 and 24. Now, IGGMCH’s total capacity is 666,” he said.IGGMCH probably has the highest capacity in Central India. The plan is to facilitate 34 more beds.Debadwar and Sardeshmukh attributed the result to round-the-clock work by team of PWD comprising executive engineer Rajkumar Jaiswal, deputy engineers Pramod Wankhede, Ramteke, junior engineers Sanjay Upadhyay and Sambhavi Chachire and consultant Milind Soni.Thakare had identified three trust-run hospitals having 1,320 beds.Municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe is converting the NMC’s five hospitals and health centres into DCH with capacity of 450 beds. Administration will requisition private hospitals if all these 3,003 beds get full.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/now-gmch-mayo-can-treat-up-to-1139-covid-patients-at-a-time/articleshow/75665242.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
May 11, 2020||Hubballi||Public outcry after decision to shift Covid-19 patients||Karwar: The sudden spurt in the number of Covid-19 cases in Uttara Kannada district, most of which have been reported in Bhatkal taluk, has prompted the district administration and the government to act post-haste to accommodate and treat the infected patients. To this end, a sum of Rs 1. 5 crore was spent to set up a new Covid-19 ward at the Karwar Institute of Medical Sciences, while a new laboratory is also being established at the hospital. Owing to the limited capacity of the local hospital in Bhatkal, the district administration decided to shift infected patients to the Karwar facility. However, this move has drawn flak from public and opposition parties alike. Former MLA and Congress member Satish Sail questioned the rationale in shifting patients from Bhatkal to a facility that was more than 100km away. Madhav Nayak, a Karwar-based citizen activist, too voiced reservations over the move. In the past week, Bhatkal has witnessed a worrying surge in the number of infections being reported, and with seven fresh cases being reported in the taluk on Sunday, Uttara Kannada currently has 28 active cases. Initially, 11 patients in Bhatkal were admitted to the Patanjali Hospital of the Indian Navy. They were subsequently discharged. However, the hospital is no longer being used, prompting the district administration shift patients to Karwar. “What if the pandemic spreads in Karwar too? Who will be held responsible in such a scenario?” asked Anu Kalas, a social activist in Karwar. However, the BJP defended the move citing the lack of other viable options. “There is no option but to shift Covid-19 patients to the Karwar hospital till an alternative arrangement can be made in Bhatkal,” said Uttara Kannada BJP president Venkatesh Nayak. Uttara Kannada deputy commissioner Harish Kumar K said that the patients were being shifted under extremely safe conditions. “The arrangements are fool-proof, and there is no chance of the infection spreading in Karwar. Senior doctors and officials are monitoring the situation, and people need not worry,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/public-outcry-after-decision-to-shift-covid-19-patients/articleshow/75663815.cms||Deepak Kumar Shenvi
May 11, 2020||India||Government OKs indigenous antibody test to help map corona spread||NEW DELHI: The Centre has approved an indigenous antibody detection test for Covid-19 which will allow authorities to do surveillance testing to see how much of the population has been exposed to coronavirus infection. Once these antibody test kits are manufactured indigenously, it will reduce India’s dependence on countries like China for these kits. The National Institute of Virology (NIV) in Pune has developed and validated the indigenous IgG Elisa test ‘Covid Kavach Elisa’ for antibody detection for Covid-19. While real-time RT-PCR is the frontline test for clinical diagnosis of SARS-CoV-2, robust antibody tests are critical for surveillance. The indigenous test will eliminate the need for low-quality Chinese kits — recently, Indian Council of Medical Research had to return about 500,000 such kits after they malfunctioned, with variable results. According to official sources, the test was validated at two sites in Mumbai and was “found to have high sensitivity and specificity”. “In addition, the test will have the advantage of testing 90 samples together in a single run of 2.5 hours. Moreover, Elisa-based testing is easily possible even at the district level as the ELISA kit has inactivated virus,” a source said. This will make it easier to distribute kits at the panchayat level. The Elisa (enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay) test is used to detect antibodies in the blood for a wide variety of infections, particularly HIV.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/government-oks-indigenous-antibody-test-to-help-map-corona-spread/articleshow/75666088.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Coimbatore||Traders expect business to pick up from today||Coimbatore: As the district gears up for a graded exit from the lockdown, the trading community here is relieved after the state government announced that most commercial establishments can restart operations from Monday. Traders said they are awaiting detailed and clear instructions from the administration before reopening their shops. The district administration officials have hinted that all shops, micro and small industrial units, and commercial establishments — without air-conditioning — can function if they follow Covid-19 precautions as prescribed by the Centre and state. Malls, commercial complexes, jewellery and clothing shops which are air-conditioned cannot resume business. No shops or commercial establishments in containment zones can be opened.  S Balasubramaniam, president of Federation of Trade Associations, Coimbatore, said businessmen were hopeful that they could begin business as usual from Monday.  “As of now, the business is dull. Traders would open shops on Monday, but only if industry and construction operations in the city revive completely, we can expect regular business,” he said. Jewellery shop owners in the city said they were awaiting clear guidelines. “The state government has said small jewellery shops can open for business. But it has also said air-conditioned outlets cannot function and we need clarity on this. We are ready to open shops, but we need clear guidelines,” said B Sabarinath, president of the Coimbatore Jewellers Association. Meanwhile, owners of vehicle repair shops and garage, who have also been allowed to open for business from Monday said, they would open shops but were not sure of the business they would get. K S Mani, a representative of vehicle repair shops in the city, said all shop owners have been instructed on safety measures needed in their workshops such as use of sanitisers, maintaining social distancing between workers and not letting customers crowd at shops. “But we are not sure of the business we would get initially, as people might not have enough money to spend. We expect to start by doing small repair work for the time being,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/traders-expect-business-to-pick-up-from-today/articleshow/75665246.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Mysuru||Trap tiger raiding Chamarajanagar villages, Singh tells foresters||MYSURU: A tiger prowling the villages of Gundlupet taluk in Chamarajanagar district has been keeping the residents awake for the past few weeks. The big cat has been raiding farms, and feasting itself on hapless cattle in Kadaburu, Chirakanahalli, Kundakere and Upakara villages that abut the Bandipur Tiger Reserve (BTR). On Sunday, forest minister Anand Singh, in Bandipur to take stock of the damage, directed the officials of the forest department to trap the tiger. Singh’s directions come in the wake of repeated efforts by the foresters at Bandipur to drive the big cat back to the woods not yielding desired results. Thus far, the four-year-old tiger has reportedly killed six cattle. The big cat reportedly strayed into the Kundanakere forest range recently, and villagers alleged that they were trying to mark their territory. The residents said that the two big cats started raiding on their livestock from May 5, on which day, a goat was found slain. As many as three elephants – Ganesh, Jayaprakash and Krishna – were pressed into the operation to search for the tiger. “The tiger hunting cattle in Chamarajanagar villages has strayed here from another reserve. Before it starts preying on humans, the foresters must trap the tiger and ensure it returns to the woods,” Singh said. Singh, who met villagers who had lost their previous livestock to the tiger, assured them of ensuring fair compensation. “They are receiving a sum of Rs 10,000 for each cattle they are losing. I have sent a proposal to the finance department, seeking increasing the sum to Rs 30,000. I have also spoken to the department of animal husbandry to fix the compensation based on the breed of the cattle, in accordance to which the villagers will be reimbursed,” the minister said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/trap-tiger-raiding-chamarajanagar-villages-singh-tells-foresters/articleshow/75662978.cms||Lakshmikantha BK
May 11, 2020||Coimbatore||City corpn seeks 2nd installment to carry out Smart City projects||Coimbatore: The city corporation is seeking the second instalment of fund to carry out projects under the Smart City mission. The corporation proposes to execute 48 projects at the cost of Rs 984.86 crore. The central government will contribute Rs 500 crore and the state government will give the rest of the money. The civic body spent Rs 294 crore for executing projects in the last four years, an official privy to the projects said. The money was spent on the lake beautification projects, model road project at DB Road and on solar power plants. “The corporation received Rs 396 crore 196 crore from the centre and Rs 200 from the state a couple of years ago. It spent Rs 196 crore from the central government fund and Rs 98 crore from the state government fund to execute projects,” the official said. It completed 22 projects worth Rs 103 crore by March. As many as 24 projects worth Rs 755 crore are in the execution stage. “Two projects biomining project to safely dispose the accumulated waste at the Vellalore dumpyard and model road project at Race Course worth Rs 126 crore are in tender evaluation stage,” he said. After spending most of the fund, the civic body has written to its headquarters to release the second instalment of fund. The corporation had to put several projects on hold due to reasons like lack of cooperation from the public and poor response from the contractors. The projects including lake rejuvenation project at Singanallur and Narasampathy, model road project at TV Samy Road, hockey ground project, smart tree project, air monitoring project and bicycle sharing project.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/city-corpn-seeks-2nd-installment-to-carry-out-smart-city-projects/articleshow/75665248.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Coimbatore||Forest watcher washed away||Coimbatore: A 24-year-old forest watcher was washed away in the Contour canal at Udumalpet in Tirupur on Saturday evening, while trying to retrieve the carcass of an elephant. An official source said the forest department field staff and fire and rescue services personnel had been searching the canal since the incident took place, but there was no trace of the forest watcher. The source identified the forest watcher as C Santhru, a native of Pudukottai district. Recruited in December 2019, he was posted with the Udumalpet forest range in Tirupur forest division. According to him, Udumalpet forest range officials received an information around 6pm on Saturday that a tusker aged about seven years had accidentally fell into the Contour canal near Pollachi and was washed away. A 15-member team, including Santhru, immediately rushed to rescue the elephant. But the elephant had died by the time they reached the spot. The team them sprang into action to retrieve the elephant’s carcass. P K Dileep, district forest officer, Tirupur forest division, said, “Santhru accidentally fell in the canal while trying to retrieve the carcass and got washed way due to the strong water current.” He said special teams were immediately formed to trace the forest watcher. “They searched the canal for a distance of 14km from the accident spot on Saturday night alone, but in vain. We have urged the Public Works Department (PWD) authorities to bring down the water flow in the canal.” The fire and rescue service personnel, meanwhile, resumed the search for the forest watcher on Sunday morning. “The search operations lasted until the evening. We haven’t succeeded in tracing him so far,” the district forest officer said. Meanwhile, the carcass of the tusker was retrieved from the canal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/forest-watcher-washed-away/articleshow/75665249.cms||A Subburaj
May 11, 2020||Nagpur||An engineer who wants to sell samosas||It hurts when an engineer is treated badly, salarywise. I completed my graduation in Electronics and Telecommunications and was employed by a company. After my graduation, I worked in two big companies but the salary they paid was like that of a peon. What is the use of doing engineering if my pay is less than what my father used to earn by selling samosas? I used to work with my father Sukhdev and we used to sell samosas, pani puri at our stall. From the income, my father made me an engineer and educated two of my sisters. Like any hopeful, I joined a company but the pay was less. On March 15, I resigned from a company in Hingna and was about to apply in another but then this lockdown happened. Now I am waiting for things to open and we can start earning again. With our little savings we bought vegetables and ration. Thanks to the BPL card, we got ration. We have some savings and things at this stage are fine but extension of lockdown will bring a cash crunch. After things get normal, I will start searching for a job but will join a company that has respect for engineers in terms of pay package. My last monthly salary was Rs 8,000 for a 10-hour shift and it is half of the earnings of our stall. I’m seriously planning to work with my father and sell samosas and pani puri and expand our business so we can earn enough and live happily. (As told to Amit Sampat)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/an-engineer-who-wants-to-sell-samosas/articleshow/75665253.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Varanasi||Bahraich migrant returned from Guj tests +ve, first Covid-19 case in Sonbhadra||Varanasi: A migrant labourer of Bahraich, who reached Sonbhadra by a Shramik Special Express train on May 8, has opened the account of Covid-19 positive cases in Sonbhadra on Sunday. Sonbhadra with no Coronavirus cases found earlier, was in green zone. Chief medical officer Sonbhadra SK Upadhyaya said, “When a train carrying over 1,200 migrant people reached Sonbhadra on May 8, four of them were found with high body temperature during screening. After screening they were quarantined and their samples were sent to Prayagraj laboratory on the same day.” Reports of three labourers received from Prayagraj lab confirmed one of them, a native of Bahraich, as Covid-19 positive, he said adding that two others were tested negative. The report of the fourth labourer is awaited, he said. The infected labourer was sent to Mirzapur divisional hospital for treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/bahraich-migrant-returned-from-guj-tests-ve-first-covid-19-case-in-sonbhadra/articleshow/75663825.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Working hours of shops likely to be extended||HYDERABAD: A proposal to keep shops and business establishments open beyond their regular working hours post the lockdown is under active consideration. The proposal, being mulled by the labour department, may benefit both shopkeepers and consumers. “We have made this proposal as the lockdown may end on May 29 across Telangana, including the city. The Madhya Pradesh government has already started implementing a similar proposal for shops and business establishments in that state. On similar lines, we have proposed to implement the extended work hour proposal in the twin cities,” joint commissioner of labour (JCL), Hyderabad and Secunderabad, E Gangadhar told TOI. According to the labour department’s official records, there were 1.20 lakh shops and business establishments, including small, medium and major units across Hyderabad and Secunderabad. The labour department used to issue licences as per the stipulated time. “Over 90% of shops and business establishments have licences to operate their businesses even on Sundays, national holidays and even nighttimes, particularly during festival seasons. It may help these shops recoup the losses once the government extends working hours,” he said. Labour officials, however, suggested certain measures like maintaining social distancing norms, sanitisation of premises and wearing masks, both by shopkeepers and consumers. Regarding social distancing norm, every shop and business establishment has to mark blocks at sales/cash counter and goods delivery counter. In fact, shopkeepers have to reduce their staff to ensure better physical distancing norm, the labour official said. Sanitisation is another major component which shopkeepers have to follow. They could either arrange sanitisation tunnels or place sanitisers at the entrance for consumers, he said. The shopkeepers have to ensure wearing of masks by both employees and consumers. Wearing of hand gloves too has been suggested, JCL, Gangadhar said. The labour department would issue a notification once the government approves the proposal, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/working-hours-of-shops-likely-to-be-extended/articleshow/75665258.cms||Sunil Mungara
May 11, 2020||Goa||Quepem Sunday bazaar gets more social as distancing takes back seat||Quepem: Nearly 46 days since the pandemic-necessitated lockdown in the state, the weekly Sunday bazaar was held for the first time in Quepem town. However, with vendors occupying both sides of the road and heavy crowds moving about without any physical distancing, Quepem citizens came down heavily on the local administration, especially the Quepem Municipal Council (QMC), for having no control over the bazaar proceedings despite the lockdown being in force. Philomeno Pereira, a local, questioned how the council allowed the vendors to occupy footpaths from the town junction till the Quepem cemetery, and the dry as well as fresh-fish vendors along the entire stretch in front of Don Bosco high school. “We are in a pandemic. While the Quepem administration has been doing a good job in maintaining social distancing and issuing challans to those not wearing face masks, it is shocking that they have allowed the bazaar to operate on such a large scale,” Selvy Miranda, a resident pointed out. Almost a half-kilometre stretch from the town till the school was occupied by vendors and it seemed like normal times with crowds mixing freely and QMC officials collecting sopo fees from vendors. When asked whether the council had given a green signal for the bazaar, market inspector Andrew Fernandes said that they had removed many vendors from footpaths but they forcibly re-entered the same place when QMC staff were busy regulating vendors seated near the school. Another resident Sandeep Faldessai told TOI that the vendors on footpaths are from Belagavi and they have been held up in the state after the lockdown. Faldessai wondered how migrant vendors are bringing fruits and other stock from across the border into the state. In contrast, Sanguem’s popular weekly Wednesday baazar is not being held till date during the lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/quepem-sunday-bazaar-gets-more-social-as-distancing-takes-back-seat/articleshow/75665663.cms||Johnny M
May 11, 2020||Mysuru||Compulsory quarantine for 14 days for inter-state travellers||MYSURU: District minister S T Somashekar stepped up efforts to contain the spread of the novel coronavirus by directing the Mysuru district administration to compulsorily quarantine inter-state travellers for 14 days, who are arriving in Mysuru, on Sunday. Though the district administration had mandated it, and quarantined over 1,000 travellers, the government asked it not to do it. Now with the minister’s directive, those who are coming to Mysuru from other states and abroad, will be compulsorily quarantined for two weeks. Somashekar said that he had directed the district administration to adopt strict measures to prevent the spread of the novel coronavirus. “As a precautionary measure, people coming from other states and abroad, to the district, should be compulsorily quarantined for 14 days,” he said. Deputy commissioner Abhiram G Sankar said the directive will be followed by the district administration. He has also asked the district administration to set up a different team to take care of senior citizens. “Special attention should be given to children and the elderly. A separate team should be formed to monitor the elderly. Social distancing and cleanliness should be given utmost importance,” he said. Somashekar also directed the authorities to conduct surprise inspections of factories which have started production in the district, and check whether they are following all the norms and directions prescribed by the government in fighting Covid-19. “Mysuru, which was in the red zone with 90 positive cases, now has just four positive cases. In the next one week, there will be no positive cases in the district,” he said, appreciating the work done by the district administration, police and health and ASHA workers, in controlling the virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/compulsory-quarantine-for-14-days-for-inter-state-travellers/articleshow/75663831.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Coimbatore||Tamil Nadu: Youth attacked for chatting with minor girl dies||COIMBATORE: A 21-year-old youth who was assaulted by three men while he was chatting with a 14-year-old girl at her house at Suleswaranpatti near Pollachi died without responding to treatment at the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital (CMCH) early Sunday morning. The accused were the girl’s 16-year-old brother, her father, and her uncle. Police said the trio attacked R Gowtham of Alagappa Colony at Chinnampalayam near Pollachi on Friday night. Gowtham, a labourer, had befriended the Class IX student, and had met her at her house when she was alone on Friday. Her mother, who found the duo together, locked them inside the house and informed her husband. The three accused reached the house and attacked the youth using wooden logs and a cricket bat, causing head injuries. The youth was admitted in an unconscious condition to the CMCH on Friday night. Based on the youth’s mother complaint, Pollachi East police registered a case against the trio under IPC Sections 323 (punishment for voluntarily causing hurt), 324 (voluntarily causing hurt by dangerous weapons or means) and 307 (attempt to murder) and the arrested them. Police altered the case to IPC section 302 (murder) after the youth’s death. Gowtham, a labourer, had befriended the Class IX student, and had met her at her house when she was alone on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/youth-attacked-by-three-men-dies-at-cmch/articleshow/75665251.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Coimbatore||Man poisons lover to death, tries to kill self||Coimbatore: A 28-year-old man poisoned his 33-year-old lover to death and attempted to commit suicide at her house at Perumalpudur village near Vellakoil in Tirupur district on Saturday night. He is battling for life at the Tirupur government hospital.A police officer said T Vivek, of Muthur in Vellakoil, was having an affair with Sangeetha, wife of Yuvaraj from Perumaludur, for the past one year. She has a 10-year-old daughter and a five-year-old son. According to him, Vivek, who was drunk, barged into her house around 10.30pm on Saturday, pushed her husband out and locked the door.“When Yuvaraj and relatives broke the back door and entered the house, they found him forcibly administering her celphos (aluminum phosphide) tablets. Vivek too took some of them,” the officer said.Sangeetha died on the spot. Vivek was, meanwhile, taken to the government hospital in Tirupur. The officer said his condition was critical.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/man-poisons-lover-to-death-tries-to-kill-self/articleshow/75665254.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Coimbatore||TN SSLC exam date 2020 to be announced after talks with CM: Edu min||COIMBATORE: At a time when several states like New Delhi and others have sought the cancellation of Class X exams in the wake of the pandemic, school education minister K A Sengottaiyan on Sunday said the state will not cancel Class X exams because marks obtained in the boards are crucial for higher studies.  Several states are considering awarding pass marks to Class X students. In Tamil Nadu too, teachers’ associations across the state have been asking that the Class X board exams be cancelled and students be promoted depending on half-yearly exam marks and revision test marks. Sengottaiyan said the state has decided to conduct Class X exams. “The exams would be organised with proper personal distancing and all students would be provided with proper safety measures. We would discuss with the CM and decide on the exam dates,” he said. The minister was speaking to reporters after inaugurating online training classes for chartered accountancy (CA) courses at Gobichettipalayam in Erode. A high-level committee under the chief minister would analyse and decide on the procedures to be followed when schools reopen.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/class-x-exam-to-be-declared-after-talks-with-cm-edu-min/articleshow/75687649.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Coimbatore||5,700 guest workers say goodbye to dist in 3 days||Coimbatore: Two trains, one from the city and another from Tirupur, have left for Bihar on Sunday, carrying guest workers.While this was the fifth train from the city, in the case of Tirupur this was the first one. Each train carried 1,100-odd guest workers.Meanwhile, a special bus brought 25 Tamils back home from Maharashtra on Sunday. While 23 of them were from the district, the remaining two were from neighbouring Nilgiris. They were thermal screened immediately after their arrival and asked to remain in home quarantine for the next 14 days.Officials said at least 5,700 guest workers have left for their hometowns from the district since Friday, when the first special train was operated. The district has operated three trains to Bihar and two to Uttar Pradesh so far. Following lockdown, the workers, who were employed with micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) and construction sector, among others, were stuck at different parts of the district for the past several weeks.A district administration official said the next train would be decided in consultation with the native states of the guest workers. “We have to check with the authorities there if they have readied quarantine facilities to accommodate the guest workers. Trains would be arranged only after that.”He said more than 60,000 guest workers in the district have registered to go back home. “However, the actual number of people going back would be much lesser. There are multiple entries which need to be eliminated.”According to the official, some guest workers, who had registered for going back, have changed their minds as the industrial units have resumed operations. “Now, we hope to send 22,000 guest workers to their native states.”The train that left Tirupur brought relief to the guest workers, who have been protesting for the past three days, demanding the authorities to arrange transportation. They were brought to the railway station in special buses that were arranged by the district administration. The guest workers were also screened at the station and provided with food, before they boarded the train.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/5700-guest-workers-say-goodbye-to-dist-in-3-days/articleshow/75665262.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Chennai||Small shops, car showrooms to open in Chennai||CHENNAI: Making sail for near-total exit from lockdown, the Tamil Nadu government has released another list of 34 stand-alone trades, ranging from tea shops to vehicle showrooms, that can reopen on Monday – after remaining shut for 47 days. Officially, of course, Tamil Nadu is under lockdown till May 17. However, come Monday, except educational institutions, places of worship, theatres, malls and mass transports, all sectors will be up and running. The 669 new cases, including 509 in Chennai city alone, reported on Sunday notwithstanding, Tamil Nadu is well and truly on exit mode. Two-wheeler and four-wheeler showrooms, service centres for electronic goods, motors and computers, hardware stores, bakeries, parcel-only eateries, couriers, lorry booking offices, photocopying centres and those dealing with construction materials are among the trades that opened up on Sunday. City police have rolled up their sleeves to continue enforcement of pandemic protocols. "No pillion riders on two-wheeler and not more than three in a four-wheeler. This is the norm, besides compulsory wearing of masks," said an officer, admitting that Monday will see much more vehicles on road. Government’s announcement on Sunday has certain fig leaf-like conditions inserted perhaps not to give an impression that all is back to old normal. For instance, while permitting ‘small’ jewellery shops ‘without air-condition’ to reopen all across the state except, of course, in containment zones, the release says ‘small’ textile shops can open only in rural areas. What is ‘small’ has not been defined. It also expressly bars salons, spa and beauty parlours from reopening. There are other conditions like shops should not run airconditioner and they should strictly follow social distancing with customers. Other standard operating procedures such as labour safety and fumigation of premises too have been stressed. The announcement spawned another round of bulk messages and customer calls from standalone ‘small’ outlets. "Our shop has been fumigated and sterilised, and it is safe to visit now. New stocks too have arrived," said a showroom manager of Soch in Adyar on Sunday. T Venkatesh, who owns home products shop in Mylapore, said that unlike what they went through after calamities like Chennai floods and Cyclone Vardah, reopening of businesses is not a long-drawn process now. "It is not a calamity where our assets are reduced to rubble, and we have to rebuild them from the scratch," he said. "Restarting is the first good thing to happen in 50 days, though our marketing team will be extremely stressed out," said A Venkateswaran, who heads a packaging unit near Tiruttani. "Our woes are proportionate to the number of employees we engage, as paying them full salary, feeding and sheltering them during the lockdown was a challenge," he said. Upbeat about reopening the business, Venkatesh said customers will, however, take a while to return. "We have to wait out for customers to step out of pandemic blues. It may take a couple of months before some semblance of normality returns," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/small-shops-car-showrooms-to-open/articleshow/75665256.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Nagpur||Residents oppose Mundhe’s plan for Covid hospital in KT Nagar||Nagpur: Several residents of Rachna Shrusti and Rachna Vishwa apartments at KT Nagar on Sunday hit the streets amid lockdown to protest Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) chief Tukaram Mundhe’s plan to open a dedicated Covid-19 hospital and isolation centre adjoining their premises. Construction of the hospital has also started at the site despite the protest.It’s learnt, NMC has started converting a dispensary into an outdoor patient department (OPD). Another adjoining building earmarked for mall will be modified and readied as a dedicated Covid-19 hospital. The two buildings would be connected with a ramp. Maya Mukherjee, resident of Rachna Shrusti, said, “The two apartment buildings have number of senior citizens, pregnant women and children. If a Covid-19 hospital is brought up in our vicinity then it would play havoc with the health of local residents.” “If we talk about co-morbidities and such concepts, then how can the civic body jeopardize lives of so many vulnerable citizens,” she asked. The protest got a major boost after getting support from Congress MLA Vikas Thakre who warned of launching an agitation if the plan is not aborted. Thakre, along with local congress corporator Harish Gwalbanshi, raised slogans against Mundhe who allegedly ignored apprehensions of local residents. Thakre termed it as an arbitrary decision by Mundhe.“There was an office of the slum rehabilitation authority in the building where the NMC plans to open the Covid-19 hospital. It is dangerous for health and well-being of so many people. At least 5,000 people are planning to barge into the NMC office and also chamber of Mundhe if the decision is not reversed,” Thakre said||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/residents-oppose-mundhes-plan-for-covid-hospital-in-kt-nagar/articleshow/75665259.cms||Soumitra Bose
May 11, 2020||Goa||Few newly-weds head home with Russian wives||Most passengers aboard the special train to Udhampur on Sunday were excited to be heading home, but for two newly-weds it was a moment of anxiety. Nikusya Leena, from Russia, had married her boyfriend just a month ago and this will be the first time that she will be visiting Kashmir. Joining them were at least two other foreign nationals who have married youth from Srinagar and surrounding areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/few-newly-weds-head-home-with-russian-wives/articleshow/75665669.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Coimbatore||Silver jubilee celebration of rose garden cancelled||UDHAGAMANDALAM: The horticulture department was forced to cancel the silver jubilee celebration of the Government Rose Garden (GRG) in Ooty due to the coronavirus threat. The summer festival committee had in March decided to conduct a three-day rose show with a grand celebration to be concluded on Sunday. To mark the occasion and to encourage the workers, the department distributed sweets to 200 garden workers. “We had planned a grand function with 25 structures made of different varieties of roses to celebrate the occasion. We cannot blame anyone for the present situation,” said joint director of horticulture department Shiva Subramaniam Samraj. “We cannot postpone it to the September season as blooms will not be much. We are planning to conduct the celebration in the next summer season.” Raja, a senior gardener, said the workers were looking forward to the grand function. “We are disappointed,” he said. Developed and maintained by the horticulture department, GRG was established in 1995 to commemorate the centenary flower show, an annual feature at the Government Botanical Garden (GBG). With 31,500 rose plants of 4,201 varieties, it boasts of one of the biggest and finest rose gardens in the country. it is spread across 10 acres on the sloping land called Elk Hill. The World Federation of Roses Societies (WFRS) had bestowed its prestigious ‘Award of Garden Excellence’ to the garden in 2006.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/silver-jubilee-celebration-of-rose-garden-cancelled/articleshow/75665264.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Coimbatore||No exodus of guest workers from Nilgiris, most resume work in tea estates||UDHAGAMANDALAM: The guest workers in the Nilgiris haven’t shown any inclination to leave the district, while their counterparts in other parts of the state have been protesting the delay in packing them home. There are 7,552 guest workers in the Nilgiris. They are from states such as Bihar, Uttar Pradesh and Odisha. Initially, 700 of them had uploaded their details on the government website, expressing their interest to return home. Nilgiris collector J Innocent Divya said, “More than 50% of them are working in tea estates, which resumed operations two weeks ago. As construction activities have also started in the district, some others are roped into highways works and Public Department Works (PWD) projects.” She said they hadn’t arranged any special camps for the guest workers, who have been staying at their earlier accommodation facilities, in the district. “There is also no report of stranded guest. Before the state announced special kits for them, the revenue department had ensured them food and other essential items for at least two weeks.” The collector said they had distributed the government kits to 2,928 guest workers, who are working in the plantation sector. “The kits are meant for every worker. If two of a family are working, both of them will get a kit each. We have received another 2,722 kits and they would be distributed to the guest workers soon.” Divya said 100 of the 700 applicants, who have registered to visit their hometowns, have been verified. “They are not planning to leave the district once and for all. It is that time of the year when they usually visit their families. So, they have registered on the portal.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/guest-workers-stay-back-in-nilgiris-resume-work/articleshow/75665263.cms||Shantha Thiagarajan
May 11, 2020||Goa||Govt launches online survey for tourism stakeholders||Panaji: Goa Tourism, along with consultancy firm KPMG Advisory Services, has launched a state-wide survey among stakeholders to collect data regarding the extent of losses, current needs, and proactive measures to be taken in the light of the pandemic. The survey will also factor in expectations the sector has of the government. The pandemic has hit the hospitality sector harder than most. Goa Tourism, in a statement, said that stakeholders can access the survey at the link http://goa-tourism.com/covid19survey. Goa Tourism has so far received responses from over 400 stakeholders such as hotels, activity operators, tour and travel services, event organisers, taxi drivers, tourist guides, photographers, and others, the statement said. Those who haven’t given their inputs yet have been requested to participate in the survey, which will be online till May 10. Goa Tourism said that the opinions of stakeholders would be helpful in developing a suitable strategy to revive tourism in the state and collectively come out stronger from this crisis. Sources said that there is no doubt the Covid-19 pandemic will represent a major turning point for the future of tourism in Goa.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/govt-launches-online-survey-for-tourism-stakeholders/articleshow/75665670.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Nashik||Cantt Board makes stay arrangements for frontline workers||Nashik: The Cantonment Board, Deolali (CBD) has arranged for the accommodation of about 75 doctors, nurses and other staff in the frontline against the Covid-19 battle in four sanatoriums, one residential society and a primary school. CBD’s chief executive officer Ajay Kumar told TOI, “We are treating the Covid-19 patients in the Cantonment hospital instead of sending them to the civil hospital in the city. We have hired the sanatoriums for the healthcare staff as they are not supposed to go home to avoid the chances of their family getting infected.” Seven new Covid-19 cases were reported from Deolali area days after the first positive case was reported from there. Medical superintendent of the Cantonment hospital Jayashree Natesh said, “According to the instructions of the district administration, we are treating the Covid-19 patients in our hospital, thereby reducing the burden on the civil hospital.” Over 50 healthcare staff are involved in the treatment and care of the Covid-19 patients in the Cantonment hospital. They are being provided with personal protective equipment (PPE) kits as and when required. Many security staff and policemen are posted at the entry points of the containment zones. While the doctors have been put up at four row houses, the nurses are staying in three bungalows in a sanatorium. One of the sanatoriums has made its hall available to accommodate the other workers. All the security guards have put up at a primary school. “The sanatoriums have been equipped with proper sanitation facilities. We send two jars of water in all the sanatoriums every day. We also send food for them from a private hotel,” the CBD officals told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/cantt-board-makes-stay-arrangements-for-frontline-workers/articleshow/75665266.cms||pragya jain
May 11, 2020||Goa||Hospitality industry slams govt for apathy||Panaji: Goa’s hospitality sector, the industry worst-affected by the Covid-19 pandemic and ensuing lockdown restrictions, has expressed despair and frustation with the government’s apparent apathy to their situation. While the industry had initially estimated a loss of around Rs1,000 crore and job losses in the range of 60,000 to70,000, stakeholders now fear the impact could be much worse than they had first believed. “We had not anticipated that the Covid-19 impact would be prolonged this way. I would be hopeful even if we are able to restart business in October or November this year, but it seems unlikely,” said a hotel owner. The indifferent attitude and lack of response from the government, he said, has hurt them the most. The hospitality industry expected the government to at least announce waivers of licence fee and electricity charges. “As of today, there has been no response from the government and it does not look like we will get any relief,” he said. Atish Fernandes of First class Holidays, said the travel industry is hugely disappointed by the government’s lack of action so far. The impact of the Covid-19 pandemic on the hospitality industry has been devastating, he said. “The industry needs help to tide over the huge losses that will continue until situation normalises,” said another hotelier. He said they have tried to cut down operating costs by laying off staff, but entities that that have come up in the past two to three years will find it challenging to stay afloat without business for six or more months. “I know that a few hoteliers are already on the verge of bankruptcy. We wish there was some help in terms of waiver in payment of license fees. But the government has kept mum,” he said. Beach shack operators have hoped for some concession but there is no solace for them either.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/hospitality-industry-slams-govt-for-apathy/articleshow/75665668.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Tirupati: World’s richest temple struggles for cash to pay salaries to staff||TIRUPATI: Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD), the world’s richest temple trust that runs the Sri Venkateswara temple at Tirumala, which has lost Rs 400 crore in revenue during the lockdown, now does not have enough cash to pay salaries and meet daily expenses. Officials said the trust has already spent nearly Rs 300 crore towards salaries, pensions and other fixed expenses during the lockdown so far and was deliberating ways to resolve the crisis without having to touch the eight tons of gold reserve and Rs 14,000 crore fixed deposits. The temple has been closed in view of the lockdown for the past 50 days and it’s not clear when the temple will be reopened for public worship. ‘‘TTD is obligated to pay salaries and pensions and has a set of other fixed expenses which it has to incur irrespective of its revenues hitting rock bottom. TTD has a fixed annual expenditure of nearly Rs 2,500 crore under different heads,” said TTD chairman YV Subba Reddy. Reddy said while the average monthly income at Tirumala stood around Rs 200-220 crore, there has been no revenue since the lockdown as the temple has been closed to devotees. TTD approved annual budget of over Rs 3,000 croreOfficials said the temple attracts 80,000 to 100,000 devotees daily, while the rush increases during festival seasons. Though devotees are not allowed, all daily and weekly rituals and festivals are being observed without any deviations as per the prescribed agamas. The TTD had decided on an annual budget of Rs 3,309.89 crore for the financial year 2020-21. But from March 20 it has suffered an estimated loss in hundi collections alone of Rs 150-175 crore. Other revenues in the form of sale of Jdarshan tickets and arjitha sevas, prasadams, accommodation and donations have also Jdried up. With salary and other allowances for 2020-21 pegged at Rs 1,385.09 crore, TTD has to shell out approximately Rs 120 crore towards it every month even during the lockdown. In addition, the TTD has to extend financial support in the form of grants of nearly 400 crore to SVIMS, BIRRD and other healthcare institutions run by it. Read this story in Bengali||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/worlds-richest-temple-struggles-for-cash-to-pay-salaries-to-staff/articleshow/75665672.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
May 11, 2020||Lucknow||UP government to give a boost to traditional crafts||LUCKNOW: The state government is in the process of hammering out a plan to get the Mahatama Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MNREGS) coordinated with the Mati Kala board entrusted with the objective of lending a boost to traditional crafts made out of mud like ‘kullhad’. Sources in the rural development department, which conducts works under MNREGS, said that mud dug out during construction of ponds in the monsoon season will be given to the Mati Kala board for being distributed among potters to generate employment opportunities for migrant labourers. Cabinet minister and state government spokesperson Sidharth Nath Singh said that the idea is not to let anything go waste. “The plan is to get various departments coordinate with each other. The rural development department would get ponds dug up under MNREGS, while the mud may be used by the potter community under Mati Kala board,” Singh said. The Mati kala board was formed in July 2018 after the state government banned the use of plastics. The board already has heads of khadi village industry, finance, revenue, mining, social welfare, labour, backward welfare department in its panel. Now, the rural development department would be indirectly linked with the Mati Kala board. The board was also conceptualised to market traditional crafts through various channels. The move is seen as the state government’s attempt to lend a fillip to the board entrusted with the job of lending a push to traditional mud-crafts. The state government has already identified MNREGS as one of the biggest employment generator for the migrants who have reached UP in large number. The development comes even as the committee headed by agriculture production commissioner (APC) Alok Sinha identifies nine key areas where migrants can be given nearly 13 lakh jobs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/govt-to-give-a-boost-to-traditional-crafts/articleshow/75665673.cms||Pankaj Shah
May 11, 2020||Nashik||Varsity starts helpline service for students||Nashik: The Jalgaon-based Kavayitri Bahinabai Chaudhari North Maharashtra University has started a dedicated helpline service for the students and their parents after the state committee for examinations released its decision regarding examinations. The state committee formed by governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari, who is the chancellor of all the state universities, said that the examinations will be conducted only for the students who are in their last semester and for the rest of the students, the results will be prepared on the basis of previous examinations. A B Chaudhari, the coordinator of the helpline service, told TOI, “There are nearly 1.5 lakh students studying in the university. Now, that there is an unusual way of declaring results this year, the students may have several queries. So, the university has come up with the helpline service which will address all the queries of the students and their parents.” The helpline number of the university is 0257-2258411 and the email id is covid19helpdesk@nmu.ac.in. The helpline, which is coordinated by a student query resolution cell, will be operational from May 11. The students will be able to contact them between 11am and 5pm. “The state government has approved the suggestions given by the state committee. Our vice-chancellor, P P Patil, immediately made the arrangements,” the university authorities said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/varsity-starts-helpline-service-for-students/articleshow/75665273.cms||pragya jain
May 11, 2020||Goa||16 sailors from Angriya to arrive by road today||Panaji: Sixteen crew from Goa have signed off from domestic cruise ship Angriya at Mumbai port on Sunday evening and left Mumbai for Goa. They are travelling by road and are expected to arrive Monday morning. They will undergo 14-day quarantine arranged by the company before they are sent home. The signing off of the 83 Goan seafarers on board the Karnika, which was due on Saturday, has been delayed. The crew from Karnataka and Maharashtra on board the Angriya still await permission to disembark.The management initially stated that it would not be signing of its crew as it would respond to the government ‘s call to assist in the evacuation of Indians stuck overseas. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/16-sailors-from-angriya-to-arrive-by-road-today/articleshow/75665674.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Mangaluru||177 repatriates to arrive at Mangaluru International Airport on Tuesday||Mangaluru: Three mandatory tests await 177 repatriates from the Middle East who will arrive at the Mangaluru International Airport (MIA) on Tuesday.According to the health department and Dakshina Kannada administration, the passengers will undergo thermal test, pulse oximetry reading and swab test soon after their arrival. They will be categorised based on their health condition and sent to institutional quarantine, said Sindhu B Rupesh, deputy commissioner, Dakshina Kannada. “Those with some health issues on arrival (Category A) will be ferried through ambulances to quarantine facilities and rest in buses,” she said.Arriving passengers will be given the option to choose their quarantine home (lodge, hostel and service apartment) based on their budget and preference.According to the data available with TOI, Dakshina Kannada district administration has kept ready close to 1,000 rooms. The tariff for quarantine facilities is between Rs 1,200 and Rs 4,500 (including food) per day.As per the Karnataka government, as on May 6, about 10,823 stranded expatriates are expected to return home.The CISF, airport authorities, health and police departments will make arrangements for the arriving repatriates at MIA. Sindhu said that the district administration has no personal information about the arriving passengers and there is high probability that they may belong to other districts or the neighbouring Kerala. “So far, the district administration has received the missive that 177 passengers will be landing on May 12. If we are given advance details about the expats from other districts/state, the district administration will alert them to make necessary arrangements,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/177-repatriates-to-arrive-at-mangaluru-international-airport-on-tuesday/articleshow/75663014.cms||Kevin Mendonsa
May 11, 2020||Madurai||Plea in HC to give PPE to non-medical frontline staff||Madurai: A public interest litigation (PIL) was filed before Madras high court seeking to provide personal protective equipment (PPE) kits to non-medical frontline workers in the state. R Sathiamoorthy, executive trustee of the NGO ‘People’s Watch’, said though the state government had taken effective steps for the containment of Covid-19, non-medical frontline workers such as police, fire and rescue services personnel, cleanliness workers, ambulance staff, revenue officials, volunteers and mediapersons were left vulnerable. All non-medical frontline workers, particularly police personnel and volunteers managing crowds and traffic, were not wearing PPE kits but only masks.  He said news reports revealed that several such workers had tested positive for Covid-19 and the Koyambedu experience clearly established the need for properly protecting all frontline workers by providing them PPE kits. Non-medical frontline workers involved in the disease prevention works should also be subjected to routine medical checkup. He further stated that careful directions and strict implementation were lacking regarding the need for PPE kits for frontline workers. Though he had submitted representation to the authorities concerned, no steps were taken so far, the petitioner said while seeking a direction from the Madurai bench of the court to the state government to take immediate steps in this regard.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/plea-in-hc-to-give-ppe-to-non-medical-frontline-staff/articleshow/75665265.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Lucknow||PCL PF scam: CBI examines two IAS officers||LUCKNOW: The sleuths of the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) examined two IAS officers in connection with irregularities in the investment of provident fund money of Uttar Pradesh Power Corporation Limited (UPPCL) employees in the private firm, DHFL. The anti-corruption bureau of the agency had lodged an FIR in connection with the case on March 5. Earlier, the UP government had asked for a CBI probe into the PF scam on November 3, 2019 and simultaneously also instructed the Economic Offences Wing (EOW) of the UP police for investigation. On Saturday, the CBI examined the two IAS officers at its Lucknow office. One of them is a senior IAS of 1988 batch who had served as the chairman of UPPCL. The officer is of 2011 batch andd served as the managing director of the UPPCL. As per records, the signatures of the two officers had led to investment to the tune of Rs 4,323 crore, in DHFL and other private entities. Sources in the CBI said that the questioning was done separately for four hours. Other senior IAS officers who have been posted in the UPPCL in the same period will also be examined by the CBI. The agency will also question the 17 others arrested by the EOW in connection with the fraud. In the same case, the EOW of UP Police had already indicted former UPPCL MD AP Mishra, along with secretary of trust -- PK Gupta and director finance Sudhanshu Dwivedi for fraudulently dealing with private firm. The EOW also arrested 17 others in the same case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/pcl-pf-scam-cbi-examines-2-ias-officers/articleshow/75665676.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Hubballi||7 more test positive in Bhatkal||Karwar: The number of Covid-19 patients in Uttara Kannada district has gone up to 39 with seven more persons from Bhatkal testing positive for the virus on Sunday. These seven persons include five men and two women. Among them, the youngest is 15 years and the eldest is 60 years. Rest of the patients are 50, 21, 16, 42, and 31 years old, a health bulletin said. All the new seven cases are contacts of the eight persons who were found positive on Saturday. Of the new cases, one is an auto-rickshaw driver who had reportedly transported one of the patients. Now the administration is collecting the details of the driver’s journeys and the persons who had travelled in his auto-rickshaw. It is said that some of these persons who were confirmed positive on Sunday had travelled to Udupi and moved around in Bhatkal town to buy medicine. The pressure on the administration is increasing with new positive cases being detected in Bhatkal town every day. After the first 11 cases, there were no new cases for 20 days. However, since Friday, there is sudden spike in the number of new cases in Bhatkal town.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/7-more-test-positive-in-bhatkal/articleshow/75663862.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Bengaluru||Admission costs up 25-30% in private hospitals||BENGALURU: Since most private hospitals are considering every patient as a suspected Covid-19 case and with doctors and nurses taking precautionary measures such as using personal protective equipment (PPE), the cost of hospitalisation has increased by a staggering 25-30%. The cost of one PPE alone is between Rs 1,800 and Rs 2,000 and hospitals say cost escalations are inevitable. “If a patient is treated in ICU or an isolation ward, the cost would go up by about 30%,” said Dr Naresh Shetty, president, MS Ramaiah Hospital who is also the president, Association of Healthcare Providers of India (AHPI), Karnataka chapter. “However, for OPD patients, the cost remains the same as there is no increase in doctor’s consultation fee. What is adding to the bill is the cost of PPE, masks, gloves, face shield covers, etc. Sometimes things like masks and shields have to be used by receptionists too as a preventive measure.” Shetty said the measures will be necessary until “every patient is tested for Covid-19 and safety is ensured”. A 69-year-old man, who was suspected for Covid-19, had to be in isolation for three days in a private hospital in Bengaluru in March until he tested negative. “The isolation ward charge per day was Rs 10,500 which is not fully covered by insurance. In the total bill there was a mention of 5 PPEs used, each priced at Rs 2,000. The PPEs were also not covered by the insurance policy,” said the patient’s son. The family had to pay Rs 1.4 lakh for six days of hospitalization. The cost would have been minimum 30% less in pre-Covid times, the family says. Dr R Ravindra, president, Private Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association, all surgeries in private hospitals henceforth will cost minimum Rs 15,000 more as the entire surgical team has to wear PPE. “Good quality PPE costs upwards of Rs 1,800. Besides, the expenditure of hospitals has also increased since every health worker now has to be insured,” said Ravindra. A 38-year old Covid-19 patient who was admitted for 14 days in a private nursing home had to cough up Rs 2.9 lakh in March. “I was stunned when I saw the bill. I was the only patient in the isolation ward on an empty floor. It was PPE and isolation charges that added to the cost,” the recovered patient told TOI. Some nursing homes and clinics have increased their consultation fee. A woman from Kumaraswamy Layout, who recently consulted an orthopaedician, said she was asked to pay Rs 600 instead of the regular Rs 400 consultation charge. “The doctor wore a face shield, gloves and a mask,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/admission-costs-up-25-30-in-private-hospitals/articleshow/75664691.cms||Sunitha Rao R
May 11, 2020||Goa||Church asks for funds to help migrants||Panaji: The Church has appealed to the faithful to contribute funds to help the migrant workers who have been rendered unemployed and displaced throughout the country. Archbishop of Goa and Daman Filipe Neri Ferrao has appealed for donationsto be routed to Caritas-Goa through parish priests or the Caritas-Goa office. “There is great urgency to reach out to the strained and stranded population that has been dispossessed and feel isolated. Our generosity and support will help meet the needs of the affected and reduce the sufferings of our brothers and sisters,” CBCI president and Archbishop of Bombay, Cardinal Oswald Gracias stated. Caritas India, the social arm for humanitarian aid, has already allocated 3.44 crore to the cause, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/church-asks-for-funds-to-help-migrants/articleshow/75665675.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Madurai||Bail rejected in chain snatching case||Madurai: Madras high court has dismissed the bail plea of a man who was arrested in connection with a chain snatching incident at Ramanathapuram district in 2014. The petitioner, P Stephen, along with three others, who were arrested by Emaneswaram police in connection with chain snatching, was released on bail. Police officials who had completed the investigation have filed the final report before the judicial magistrate court at Paramakudi in 2018. The petitioner did not appear before the trial court for hearing due to which, the court was not able to proceed with the trial. In order to secure his appearance, a non-bailable warrant was issued and the petitioner was secured on March 21, 2020. Since the petitioner was absconding, a delay was caused for the completion of the trial due to which the trial court had dismissed his petition. Hence, the petitioner moved the high court seeking bail with an undertaking that he would cooperate with the early disposal of the trial. The additional public prosecutor submitted that the petitioner is a habitual offender and three cases of similar nature is still pending against him. If he is released on bail he will again abscond and deter the progress of trial. Therefore, he opposed granting bail to the petition. Taking cognizance of the submissions, Justice G Jayachandran dismissed the bail petition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/bail-rejected-in-chain-snatching-case/articleshow/75665272.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Goa||Panic sets in for retrenched Gulf Goans||PANAJI: As retrenchments become the order of the day and the Goa International Airport remains closed, Goans in the Gulf are getting increasingly anxious about their return home. One couple, both of whom lost their jobs in the travel industry, has been struggling since March, and are waiting for the airport to open. “I am five months pregnant, with no income,” said the wife. “We cannot keep paying rent and bills in addition to pregnancy scans and medicines. If I don’t travel soon, the risks associated with travelling will increase. Even if I remain here and the economy starts, nobody will give me a job being pregnant.” She also fears any delay could have repercussions on the baby. “Delivery here is very expensive without insurance. All this delay and stress is not helping me, and it’s putting me at risk.” With no flights landing at Dabolim, the couple is not considering travelling to other states. “When we have our own airport, what’s the problem in landing directly? We are also paying a huge rent penalty as our contract finishes in September. With paid quarantine in Goa and all these expenses, we don’t know how we will manage.” She also asked the government to clarify if pregnant women will be given medical scans to check on the baby, balanced nutrition, medication and hygienic facilities at facility quarantine. Another UAE-based woman, mother of a one-year old who is prone to seizures, is also desperate to come back to Goa for treatment. “We were supposed to return in January, but my baby was admitted to hospital just two days before leaving,” Sinthiya Naik told TOI. “When I booked a flight again in March, we couldn’t travel due to Covid-19. I need to travel for her further treatment. But there are no flights to Goa. We don’t want to travel to airports in other states because of the 14-day quarantine.”She said that government of Goa should exempt small children and their mothers, pregnant women, senior citizens and those with medical emergencies from institutional quarantine and allow them 14-day home quarantine. “I request the Goa government not to quarantine my baby and me. Other states are allowing children up to ten to be sent to home quarantine. .” In another instance, Siddesh Kamat, chief engineer in the merchant navy, has spent over 50 days in a hotel in Abu Dhabi waiting for positive news of his repatriation to India. “Hospitals here are almost full with Covid cases. Hotels are risky because so many people transit through them every day. We have locked ourselves up in our rooms to keep safe.” In the UAE, Sayad Imran from Goa is coordinating efforts to repatriate Goans. “We are drawing up a list of those who lost their jobs and want to return. We have reached almost 300,” he told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/panic-sets-in-for-retrenched-gulf-goans/articleshow/75665678.cms||Lisa Monteiro
May 11, 2020||Goa||Goans stranded in Maldives want direct flight home||Panaji: Goans who have lost jobs in the Maldives have appealed for a direct repatriation flight from Maldives to Goa. They find the naval ship to Kochi port inconvenient considering they would have to undergo 14- day paid quarantine stints in both states. “Maldives has been in a state of complete lockdown for over a month. With no tourists arriving, most of us are stranded in resorts/ local islands with half pay or no pay, diminishing supplies of basic necessities and limited medical facilities,” the letter to the chief minister stated. They ask to return to Goa at the earliest “while we are still uninfected and healthy”. “The best case scenario will be that if we can get a direct flight from Male’ to Goa so that we can skip transiting airports,” the letter adds, stating that there are around 60-100 Goans across the Maldives. The Goans have also appealed to the NRI Commission for assistance, but are yet to get a response. “ If we take the naval ship to Kochi we are required to do a mandatory 14 days institutional quarantine at our own expense and then arrange for our own transportation to Goa, where we will again be put in paid quarantine,” stated one Goan who has been put on leave with no pay. Scheduled to travel to Goa in April ly, he is longs to meet his newborn child and wife.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goans-stranded-in-maldives-want-direct-flight-home/articleshow/75665677.cms||Lisa Monteiro
May 11, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Human error caused Vizag gas leak: Report||HYDERABAD: Forensic experts, who scoured the LG Polymers mishap site in Visakhapatnam for clues, said the styrene leakage occurred due to human error and negligence in maintenance during lockdown. A team of AP Forensic Science Laboratory (APFSL) officers led by Dr RK Sarin and T Suresh visited the gas tragedy site and collected evidence over the past two days. Human negligence in adding auto polymerization inhibitor in the styrene storage tank and failing to maintain the temperature below 20 degree centigrade during the lockdown period led to the mishap that claimed 12 lives, says the preliminary report by the APFSL. FSL experts told TOI that styrene should be mixed with tertiary butyl catechol (TBC) to prevent self-polymerization. During the lockdown period the TBC was not added and whatever was existing got inactive. The self-polymerization started and led to a chemical reaction and subsequently generated enormous heat of 150 degrees centigrade. “TBC must be mixed to inhibit polymerization of styrene. Even during transport, TBC is mixed and transported. Temperature should be maintained below 20 degree centigrade. During the lockdown, the technical team would have remixed TBC, but it may haven’t happened. The cooling process was also not maintained. This led to the generation of enormous heat. Vapours started coming out through the breather,” a senior forensic official of APFSL told TOI. “There should be an operator sitting in the control room to verify it. The day we visited the site, the temperature was hovering around 120 degrees to 150 degrees centigrade in the storage tanks,” he said, adding that certain case studies of styrene mishap in countries such as the United States showed the temperatures were above 150 degree centigrade. “The boiling point of styrene is 146 degree centigrade. During the lockdown period, they would not have maintained the storage tank properly,” he added. Director General of Police Gautam Sawang said they too are exploring negligence of staff in keeping the coolant and adding inhibitors in their probe. “It is a tough call to arrive at a conclusion at this point. Even if it is an accident there’s a human element of negligence,” he told TOI. Read this story in Bengali||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/human-error-led-to-lg-styrene-leak-fsl/articleshow/75665680.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
May 11, 2020||Patna||Bihar government arranges 169 special trains to bring back people from other states||PATNA: Bihar government on Sunday said, works in altogether 3.47 lakh rural projects have started in recent days with an aim to provide employment opportunities to the migrant workers returning the state from other states. “A total of 3,47,157 projects of different departments are currently going on in rural areas and altogether 159.45 lakh man-days have so far been created in these projects,” said state’s information and public relations department (IPRD) secretary Anupam Kumar, adding the state government is taking all possible steps to create maximum job opportunities for the returned migrant workers. Anupam said, the state government has so far arranged a total of 169 trains to bring back 2.22 lakh people to the state, while coordinating with other states. He said, chief minister Nitish Kumar has asked the chief secretary to ensure operation of at least three special trains from Mumbai per day. “At present, there is a proposal to run two special trains from Mumbai per day,” the IPRD secretary said. He also said, the arrangement of trains is being made to bring back those students of the state who are still stranded in Kota of Rajasthan. Meanwhile, a special train from Kota will bring back students to state's Samastipur district on Tuesday. "The special train for Samastipur will begin its journey from Kota at 9pm on Monday and reach Samastipur on Tuesday," said Bihar vidhan sabha speaker Vijay Kumar Choudhary, who hails from Samastipur district on Sunday. Choudhary has thanked the state government for arranging a special train for bringing back students of the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bihar-government-arranges-169-special-trains-to-bring-back-people-from-other-states/articleshow/75666074.cms||Madan Kumar
May 11, 2020||Lucknow||Cops trace Tablighi trajectory from Delhi to 5 UP districts||LUCKNOW: Uttar Pradesh Police has traced the trajectory of foreign missionaries with Tablighi Jamaat from their touchdown in India to their entry into Uttar Pradesh after visiting the Nizamuddin markaz in Delhi. At least 170 foreign Jamaatis, who arrived on tourist visa, have been sent to temporary jails in UP. Their movements have been mapped by Lucknow Police commissionerate along with district police of Sitapur, Sultanpur, Moradabad and Bahraich. This includes 23 foreign nationals arrested in Lucknow, 17 in Baharaich, 11 in Sultanpur, seven in Moradabad and three in Sitapur. Other districts where foreign Jamaatis were arrested include Saharanpur (54), Bijnor (8), Jaunpur (15), Prayagraj (16) and Bulandshahr (16). Police brass of these five districts is also in the process of mapping their movements since their arrival in Delhi. Joint commissioner of police, law and order, Naveen Arora told TOI that during investigation, it was found that of 23 foreign missionaries arrested in Lucknow, 10 were Bangladeshis who touched down in India between March 3 and 4, while seven others reached on March 14. Four others from Kazakhstan and one each from Kyrgyzstan and Tajikistan arrived on March 13 and 14. SP Sitapur LR Kumar, said three Bangladeshis visited the Nizamuddin markaz on March 5, before reaching Sitapur the next day. Likewise, seven Indonesians reached Delhi on January 27 and then proceeded to Moradabad on March 11. In Bahraich, seven Thai missionaries visited India on a tourist visa on March 3 and stayed at the Nizamuddin markaz between March 4 and 8, while another contingent of 10 Indonesians visited India on February 5 and stayed at the markaz from February 15-21. Police have also traced their local contacts. Eleven Bangladeshis arrested in Sultanpur had visited India in the first week of March before moving to the district. SP Sultanpur, SH Meena, said investigations will be completed soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cops-trace-tablighi-trajectory-from-delhi-to-5-up-dists/articleshow/75665684.cms||Pathikrit Chakraborty
May 11, 2020||Goa||1,055 Kashmiris have an iftar to remember||Tivim: The iftar at Tivim railway station was nothing special, just a few slices of watermelon, some grapes and a food packet handed over by the government, but for the passengers on the Konkan Railway special train to Udhampur, it was a significant moment. They were going home. Stuck in Goa after an exceptionally poor season, the 1,055 passengers were the first Kashmiris to head home. The train departed from Tivim railway station just before 8pm. Due to a derailment at Diwankhavati near Khed, the train will travel via Londa and Miraj before heading north. “This iftar is special because we are going home after seven to eight months,” a passenger Tahir Bhat said. “In fact, yesterday we found out that we would be going home by train just after we broke our fast. The timing for us to break our fast came on the train just before it left. For us this made it all the more special. We are all here together, going home.” Most of the passengers found out about the train home only a day earlier and had barely any time to pack. Once Konkan Railways informed the state government about the availability of the rake, the authorities began to work out the modalities while keeping most details about the operation under wraps. “I thought this time Eid-ul-Fitr would be in Goa only, but finally the Goa government arranged this train, so Inshallah, I will celebrate in Kashmir. We are going home and even if we are kept in quarantine, no problem,” another passenger Javed Ahmed said. This is the second special train from Goa and first train to Kashmir. A second train is expected to depart from Madgaum Railway Station on Monday for Kashmir with 1,000-odd passengers. “They kept telling us that a train will come, but it was only yesterday that they confirmed that a train would leave on Sunday with us. Our family back home is very happy that we are coming back,” Tanvir Ahmed, who runs a store in Calangute, said. “As soon as we got the signal from the state nodal officer that the train would be going today, we contacted the association, we got to know the number of people who are here and the locations where these people are staying,” said North Goa collector R Menaka. On Sunday at 6am, special Kadamba buses were organised to pick up the passengers from certain pickup points and drop them at the Peddem indoor stadium. Later in the afternoon, the buses dropped the passengers at the railway station. The journey is expected to take 36 hours and the train should reach Udhampur on Tuesday. From there, said Menaka, the Kashmir administration will screen the passengers and transport them to quarantine centres or to their home districts as per need. Most passengers were all praise for the local administration and the locals. Many praised the hard work and patience of Goa police, which provided security and assistance in the hot sun. “It is lovely to see out families after so long time. I am thankful to both the governments, especially the Goa government. The Goa police personnel have been standing here on duty before we arrived,” Bilal Ahmed said. Goa IGP Jaspal Singh also praised the “resilience and fortitude” of Goa police. “These migrants would definitely narrate the tales of their empathy with them to their people. So Goa police has become ambassadors of goodwill for Goa,” Singh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/1055-kashmiris-have-an-iftar-to-remember/articleshow/75665683.cms||Newton Sequeira
May 11, 2020||Nashik||21 more containment zones sealed, 30 new Covid-19 cases||Nashik: The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has seen a rise in Covid-19 cases with 30 new patients. In addition, 21 new containment zones in the city have been sealed in the last nine days between May 2 and May 10. So far, the city has registered death of two Covid-19 patients. The tally of Covid-19 positive patients in the city has reached up to 40 while the number of containment zones in the city has swelled up to 27. According to civic officials, most people who tested positive for Covid-19 in the last few days are from the high-risk contacts. “We are taking all the precautionary measures to curb the spread of Covid-19 as per the guidelines set by the state and central governments. We are sealing the containment areas after a patient from the area is tested Covid-19 positive and are also tracing the high-risk contacts of the patient immediately,” said a senior NMC official. By May 1, the city had only 10 Covid-19 patients and the municipal corporation had sealed six containment zones — Govind Nagar, Anandvalli on Gangapur Road, Rajlaxmi lawns area in Nashik Road, Bajrangwadi, Sanjeev Nagar and Mhasrul. However, there has been a sudden rise in number of Covid-19 cases in the city. Later, the NMC sealed four more containment zones, including three from Cidco division — Savta Nagar, Uttam Nagar and Pathardi Phata — and one in Satpur colony. The city had sealed 10 containment zones by May 2. Thereafter, two more people from General Vaidya Nagar and Bajrangwadi tested positive for Covid-19, following which the areas were sealed by the civic body on May 3 and 5 respectively. On May 6, the city had recorded two more Covid-19 positive patients from Shantinikent Chowk on Gangapur Road and Maneksha Nagar in the Dwarka area. Both the containment areas were sealed by the NMC. During the same time, another patient from Samta Nagar along Takli Road in Nashik East division tested positive for Covid-19, causing the area to be sealed off. However, there has been a sudden spurt in Covid-19 cases from May 8 onwards as 13 people teste positive for the infection. Of these 13 people, eight were from the existing containment areas and other five from new areas which were sealed by the NMC. NMC officials said these 13 people who tested positive were high-risk contacts of the six patients who were confirmed Covid-19 positive on May 2. Meanwhile, another six people tested positive for the virus on Saturday with the NMC sealing six more containment zones in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/21-more-containment-zones-sealed-30-new-covid-19-cases/articleshow/75665291.cms||Tushar Pawar
May 11, 2020||Goa||249 check into facility quarantine||Panaji: The virology laboratory of Goa Medical College (GMC) and hospital, Bambolim, on Sunday tested 324 samples for Covid-19 and all tested negative for the virus. On Sunday, 249 contacts were lodged in facility quarantine. Three suspected cases (patients showing symptoms) were admitted to the isolation ward on Sunday and their test results are awaited. A total of six suspects are now admitted to the isolation ward of GMC, and one is under observation at the North Goa district hospital, Mapusa.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/249-check-into-facility-quarantine/articleshow/75665679.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Bengaluru||Special train J&K students home||Bengaluru: Safeena Hassan, a second year civil engineering student at Manipal Institute of Technology began her journey from Manipal at 9pm on Saturday in a hired cab. She reached Byappanahalli police station at 4.30am on Sunday, where she waited four hours for a bus that took her to Chikkabanavara railway station. Safeena was among 985 passengers who left for Udhampur, Jammu and Kashmir. Most on board were students from the state, studying in various colleges in Karnataka. Safeena admits the journey has been taxing, but believes it will be worth it when she is reunited with her parents in Kashmir on Tuesday. A 1km stretch of Old Madras Road in front of Byappanahalli police station was cordoned off while students were medically checked and their tickets verified. Although social distancing norms were bypassed, the queues were neat unlike the chaos that has come to be associated with travel of migrant labourers. Each traveller patiently waited his or her turn. However, students did not have to pay for their train fare. The J&K government picked up the tab. On the train, South Western Railway distributed food packets containing rotis, dates, buttermilk, cookies and bottles of water. Police had also arranged food in case anybody wanted to eat before the fast began. For many, the wait began as early as 4am. Umar bin Farooq, a student of University Visvesvaraya College of Engineering said they arrived at 4am so as not to lose the opportunity. “I am moving from one lockdown to another. But at least I can be with my family,” Farooq said. While some colleges allowed their buses to transport students, some others managed to get transport from the district deputy commissioners (students from Mangaluru paid Rs 1,400). Not all were lucky though and knowing they might not get another chance, nobody wanted to be left out. Safeena, for example, paid Rs 10,000 for her cab ride. Aabid Rasool, a student of PES College of Engineering, Mandya, said, “The college helped six of us hire a cab from Mandya for Rs 5,000 and we reached Bengaluru by 8am. We were worried whether we would reach on time.” Students say the lockdown was getting harder for them. Like Sagarika, a final year MBBS student at KIMS. “I stayed in a PG. They had stopped providing food and asked us to cook our own meals. We had to go to the market, get essentials and fend for ourselves. With exams lined up, I found it difficult and wanted to head home,” Sagarika said. However, some students’ names did not reflect on the final list of travellers. “Some names were duplicated, while some were not on the list at all. Only registered students came to Bengaluru. Three of my friends are still stuck in college,” said Safeena. The train left the station at 12.30pm, carrying less than the expected 1200 passengers. “There were students from other districts who could not have reached Bengaluru by Sunday as there was no direct communication or confirmation about the train until the last minute. No arrangement was made for their travel. Many could not get inter-district passes. That’s why the number of passengers were less,” said Aasif Abdullah, coordinator for stranded people of J&K.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/special-train-jk-students-home/articleshow/75664707.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Goa||IMA condemns suspension of GMC doctor without probe||Panaji: Indian Medical Association (IMA), Goa, has condemned the government’s suspension of a senior resident of Goa Medical College (GMC) and hospital, Bambolim, for alleged negligence. “We strongly condemn the media trial of the GMC doctor. We stand by our doctor colleagues who are working in a very stressful condition. Three departments of medicine, anaesthesia and radiology are in the frontline in the fight against Covid 19,” said Dr S Samuel, President IMA-Goa in the statement on Sunday. The IMA has requested an independent, unbiased and speedy inquiry into the matter so that truth may be laid bare.“We are eagerly waiting for a transparent inquiry and truth to come out,” read the IMA statement. The senior resident attached to the radiology department was absent from duty for half an-hour when former MLA Jitendra Deshprabhu was referred for CT scan there when he was brought to the GMC in a serious condition last month. His CT scan was delayed since the senior resident posted on duty at that time was not in her seat, and no junior doctor was present either, a GMC official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ima-condemns-suspension-of-gmc-doctor-without-probe/articleshow/75665682.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Nashik||Lack of raw materials, new orders affect industries across district||Nashik: Even though over 6,000 industrial units have started operations across the district after getting permission from the Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation (MIDC), many of them are now facing new problems. According to sources, industries are unable to get raw materials that was supplied from Mumbai and Pune as both cities are completely locked down. Adding to this, order from many industries have either been cancelled or put on hold. Payments for goods supplied earlier are also pending. "Around 60% of the industrial units have started operations but they are facing lot of problems like non-availability of raw materials," Manish Rawal, senior member of Nashik Industries & Manufacturers’ Association (NIMA), said. "Others are unable to send their consignments as clients have denied accepting the orders due to various reasons. This has forced most of the industries to either stop or slow down their production. The scenario will remain the same unless lockdown is lifted and industries in Pune and Mumbai begin operations," he added. City-based industrialist MG Kulkarni said, "My company manufactures capacitors and I have a unit in Sinnar. Order worth Rs 30 lakh from an Ahmedabad-based industry and another order worth Rs 16 lakh from a Poland-based company have been put on hold for next few weeks." He added, "There is no new demand or order. Hence, I have reduced the production and calling very few workers." Arun Chavanke, chairman of a spring manufacturing unit in Nashik, said, "Our company manufactures springs for various large and small industries. But I am not getting raw materials required as we get it from Mumbai and Pune. Hence, I could not start production even after getting permission from MIDC." Sanjay Nair, another industrialist, said, "Earlier, transporting of workers was the issue, but this issue was settled after MIDC allowed them to travel by their personal vehicles. Now, getting raw material is the major issue for us. I started production based on the availability of raw material, but now the production has stopped."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/lack-of-raw-materials-new-orders-affect-industries-across-district/articleshow/75665301.cms||Tushar Pawar
May 11, 2020||Goa||If proven guilty, GMC doctors will face stringent action: Rane||Panaji: Health minister Vishwajit Rane on Sunday said that if the inquiry ordered by him into the absence of junior and senior resident doctors of radiology department of Goa Medical College (GMC) and hospital proves their guilt, he will initiate a strict action against them. A show-cause notice was also issued to professor and head of radiology department Dr Jeevan Vernekar seeking his explanation for the alleged lapse, in seven days.  “Nothing will stop me from having him placed under suspension if found guilty,” Rane told TOI. A senior resident doctor was suspended on Friday, pending inquiry, after it came to light that she was absent from duty for half an hour while former MLA Jitendra Deshprabhu was brought for CT scan in her department on April 21. Deshprabhu died a few hours later and the cause of his death was given as pneumonia. He was brought in a critical condition to the GMC and was referred for a CT scan by medicine department, but it was delayed. The suspended senior resident said she had gone for lunch. During her lunch break, no junior resident doctor was present at that time, it was revealed in the preliminary inquiry.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/if-proven-guilty-gmc-doctors-will-face-stringent-action-rane/articleshow/75665686.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Hyderabad||RTA on crowd control, cuts daily application slots from 400 to 60||Hyderabad: In an attempt to keep the Road Transport Authority (RTA) offices free of crowds and maintain social distancing, slots to book applications for various services have been reduced from 400 to 60 per day for all the services across Telangana. Also, motorists seeking driving licences or renewal of licences need not do the rounds of RTA office, eSeva or MeeSeva centres any more as the department has made arrangements to carry out all the works pertaining to it online. “We have reduced the slots for booking applications to 60 so that people don’t end up coming to the offices in huge numbers to avail the services. We have also made arrangements for the public to submit applications for most services online. Home guards have been deployed to ensure that all those who visit the RTA offices are wearing masks and are maintaining 6-feet distance when they are standing in a queue,” said joint transport commissioner, C Ramesh. Officials said that those who have got temporary registrations of BS-IV vehicles before the lockdown can now complete the registration as per guidelines issued by the Supreme Court. “We will book slots for applicants of BS-IV vehicles who got their temporary registrations done before the lockdown, issue a date for permanent registration and facilitate the process. This will benefit all those who were not able to complete the registration process of their BS-IV vehicles, due to the lockdown. A detailed order will be issued in this regard soon,” said Papa Rao, deputy transport commissioner. Rao said that along with applicants, all officials have also been directed to wear masks, ensure social distancing and sanitisation in RTA offices.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/rta-on-crowd-control-cuts-daily-application-slots-from-400-to-60/articleshow/75665305.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Goa||Swab testing centre begins ops at new S Goa hosp||Margao: Ahead of the launch of the OPDs at the South Goa district hospital, a swab sample collection facility and testing centre have been set up at the new premises, operations of which were kicked off late Sunday evening. Speaking to TOI, deputy director, health services, Ira Almeida, who was personally monitoring the arrangements being done to operationalise the OPDs at the new hospital said that the setting up the testing center will mean both the swab collection and testing will be done at the same premises.  “Earlier, the swab samples would be taken at the Hospicio and sent to the Chicalim hospital for testing. Now both collection and testing of samples will be done at the new district hospital,” she said. Poor internet connectivity at the new hospital, however, caused some problems with the smooth functioning of some internet-based digital systems. “The digital token system for the OPDs couldn’t be tested today as there were some issues concerning the internet connectivity. If the problem persists, we may have to start with the manual token system,” Almeida said. Stating that the digital token system has an inbuilt capping on the number of patients to be seen at each OPD, Almeida said that the system has been designed to facilitate careful and elaborate examination of each patient while also ensuring the safety of the examining doctor. “The capping has been fixed so that there’s no chance of making any mistake with regards to Covid-19 infection control. This will enable the doctor to examine the patient in a very elaborate and careful manner. Each department will have its own capping for its OPD,” Almeida said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/swab-testing-centre-begins-ops-at-new-s-goa-hosp/articleshow/75665689.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra records 1,943 Covid-19 cases and 53 deaths in a day||MUMBAI: Maharashtra on Sunday added 1,943 cases to its daily tally—its highest ever in a single day—pushing the overall count of novel coronavirus cases to 22,171. This was the fifth consecutive day when the state recorded over 1,000 cases. It also saw 53 deaths, its highest jump in mortality numbers in a single day. The state’s overall death toll now stands at 832. Mumbai’s Covid-19 toll too crossed the 500-mark with 19 new deaths. The city has lost 508 lives to the novel virus in the last 2 months. On Sunday, the city also saw its highest single-day spike in cases with 875 detections. Mumbai now has 13,739 cumulative cases of Covid-19, all added within a span of 61 days and accounting for 62% of the state’s burden. BMC officials said nearly 200 of the fresh cases were from May 7 and May 8. State officials too said that not all 1,943 positive cases recorded on Sunday were reported in the last 24 hours; 665 of them were detected over the last few days. Meanwhile, Wardha that was in the green zone so far with no positive cases, recorded its first death on May 8. Of the 53 deaths recorded by the state on Sunday, 19 were from Mumbai, 14 from Malegaon city, five each from Pune and Jalgaon, three from Dhule and one each from Pimpri Chinchwad, Ahmednagar, Aurangabad, Nandurbar, Solapur and Vasai-Virar. The 14 deaths in Malegaon city were from April 27 to May 10. The death of a Madhya Pradesh resident was also added to Mumbai’s tally. A 35-year-old woman from Hiwara Tanda village in Arvi Tahsil died at Vinoba Bhave Rural hospital, Sawangi, making her the first positive case of the district. District officials, who have begun an extensive contact tracing operation, said that the woman did not have any travel history. Following the positive case, administration has sealed seven nearby villages. Public health minister Rajesh Tope tweeted that the state has adopted the Centre’s revised patient discharge policy after following up the issue with the Indian Council of Medical Research. The health minister, however, received flak on his twitter handle over the sharp rise in new cases. With the death of a 56-year old woman from Dombivli, the toll for Kalyan-Dombivli reached five. The region also recorded 16 fresh cases on Sunday. And 14 were reported from Mira-Bhayander, taking positive cases to 106. In Vasai-Virar, total cases have reached 208 with six added on Sunday. In Mumbai, total number of Covid positive cases in BEST undertaking shot up to 75, with five more staffers found positive. The civic body said an artificial intelligence backed chest x-ray software was being used in HBT Trauma care, Kasturba Hospital, Podar Hospital and NSCI Dome in Worli. After 3,000 X-ray scans done on a pilot basis, BMC is planning to use the technique in other hospitals too. Over 4,199 patients have gone home so far in the state and currently 2.44 lakh patients have been home quarantined.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maharashtra-records-1943-covid-19-cases-and-53-deaths-in-a-day/articleshow/75665691.cms||Sumitra Debroy
May 11, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Buses can ferry only 25 with social distancing||CHENNAI: Starting services at a reduced scale with social distancing in the initial days to increasing frequency after a few weeks seem to be the norm that transport authorities are looking at to restart buses, metro rail trains, suburban trains and MRTS services in the city after shutdown. MTC and metro rail are ready with social distancing norms but railways is yet to decide on the modalities to resume services as Southern Railway is waiting for a nod from the Union ministry. Metro rail train will carry only 160 commuters while MTC has started to number the seats to allow social distancing. Suburban trains may not allow too many standing commuters. However, officials and staff worry whether they will be able to handle if there is overcrowding at bus stops and railway stations during delays. The state government has started groundwork to resume bus services – within the city and between cities. Government-run transport corporations across Tamil Nadu have held small-scale meeting with their employees on Friday and Saturday to discuss preparedness. Dharmendra Pratap Yadav, the state transport secretary, on Thursday sent a circular to all the corporations explaining the standard operating procedures (SOPs) to be followed for operating government buses after lockdown was lifted. The circular recommended operation of limited number of bus services initially and change frequencies depending on the demand. Conductors were instructed to ensure that the seat occupancy did not exceed 50% at any point of time, distance between two standing passengers was at least 6 feet. This indicated that only 25 people (sit-20 and stand-5) can travel in an MTC bus in Chennai. A Arunagirinathan, a conductor, said it will be difficult to handle crowds at bus stops, particularly if they had waited for long. They will not listen to us and get inside, he said. Similar is the sentiment of railway officials. As far as autos were concerned, in some districts outside Chennai, they were already in operation informally as it was the only transportation mode available with no buses and trains. But they are allowed to carry only one passenger at a time and cases are booked in case they violated this. But in Chennai, even share autos, which transport 7-10 passengers at a time, have started operations with lockdown relaxations coming into effect one by one. Since they are not recognised as a separate category of vehicle, there is no clarity on how to formulate social distancing norms for them, said a state transport department official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/buses-can-ferry-only-25-with-social-distancing/articleshow/75665309.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Kolhapur||Pune couple going to meet their son killed||Kolhapur: A couple from Pune was killed after the car they were travelling in hit a divider and overturned near Bhosalewadi at Umbraj on the Pune-Bangalore national highway on early Saturday. A case has been registered at Umbraj police station. According to police, the victims have been identified as Amit Appaso Gawade (38) and Anuja Gawade (35). While Amit worked in a private company, Anuja was a medical professional and ran a clinic in Hadapsar, Pune. The couple was on their way to Nittur village in Chandgad taluka in Kolhapur district to meet their five-year old son, who was staying with Anuja’s parents. A L Gorad, assistant inspector in-charge of Umbraj police station, said, “The accident happened in the in the jurisdiction of Bhosalewadi village 4am on Saturday. Preliminary investigation suggests that the driver lost control of the car, which rammed into a divider, skidded a few metres on the highway and then overturned.” Police have registered a case against Anuja, who was driving the car, under sections 279 (rash driving) and 304 (A) (causing death due to negligence) of the IPC. “We immediately rushed to the spot after receiving information from passersby. Both were injured and bleeding profusely. They were immediately shifted to the government hospital in Karad, where authorities declared them brought dead,” said Gorad. “We noted down the registration number of the car and identified the deceased. We reached out to their relatives by calling the last dialled numbers on their mobile phones. The information we received from Amit’s brother suggested that the couple had taken a two-day travel permission from Pune and were on their way to Nittur village to pick up their five-year-old son. Anuja took his son to her parents a month and a half ago as she feared that he might get infected with Covid-19,” said the assistant inspector.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/pune-couple-going-to-meet-their-son-killed/articleshow/75664709.cms||Vivek Waghmode
May 11, 2020||Mangaluru||177 repatriates to arrive at Mangaluru International Airport on Tuesday||Mangaluru: Three mandatory tests await 177 repatriates from the Middle East who will arrive at the Mangaluru International Airport (MIA) on Tuesday. According to the health department and Dakshina Kannada administration, the passengers will undergo thermal test, pulse oximetry reading and swab test soon after their arrival. They will be categorised based on their health condition and sent to institutional quarantine, said Sindhu B Rupesh, deputy commissioner, Dakshina Kannada. “Those with some health issues on arrival (Category A) will be ferried through ambulances to quarantine facilities and rest in buses,” she said. Arriving passengers will be given the option to choose their quarantine home (lodge, hostel and service apartment) based on their budget and preference. According to the data available with TOI, Dakshina Kannada district administration has kept ready close to 1,000 rooms. The tariff for quarantine facilities is between Rs 1,200 and Rs 4,500 (including food) per day. As per the Karnataka government, as on May 6, about 10,823 stranded expatriates are expected to return home. The CISF, airport authorities, health and police departments will make arrangements for the arriving repatriates at MIA. Sindhu said that the district administration has no personal information about the arriving passengers and there is high probability that they may belong to other districts or the neighbouring Kerala. “So far, the district administration has received the missive that 177 passengers will be landing on May 12. If we are given advance details about the expats from other districts/state, the district administration will alert them to make necessary arrangements,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/177-repatriates-to-arrive-at-mangaluru-international-airport-on-tuesday/articleshow/75663043.cms||Kevin Mendonsa
May 11, 2020||Goa||‘Cannot hazard a guess about when industry will get back’||Panaji:Tourism minister Manohar Ajgaonkar said that the tourism department will be able to assess the extent of loss to hospitality industry only after inputs from all stakeholders are received. “The process to calculate losses is underway. Presently, our priority is to fight the Covid-19 pandemic and how to keep people safe and the state safe,” Ajgaonkar told TOI on Sunday. The tourism department along with Goa Tourism Development Corporation (GTDC) has initiated a survey through a consultancy firm, inviting comments and suggestions from stakeholders about the crisis from the Covid-19 pandemic.To a question when he thinks the tourism industry will be on its feet, the minister said that he will not hazard a guess, but the danger of the pandemic hasn’t reduced a bit. “We will not know the total damage and losses immediately, but we are taking all stakeholders into confidence,” said Ajgaonkar. Industry stakeholders were expecting to re-open in October-November but that possibility will be subject to India’s successes in controlling the pandemic. With Goa’s neighbouring states seeing high incidence of Covid-19 cases, the likelihood of the state throwing its borders open to domestic tourists in the next two -three months doesn’t appear feasible.During the last decade Goa turned into a monsoon destination when there is an exceptional increase in tourist footfalls on weekends and extended weekends. Tourism stakeholders are however not in favour of opening the borders for tourists and others too soon. “All our neighbours have Covid cases. There is no sign that the pandemic is under control. It will be suicidal to think about tourism when the danger of Covid-19 is omnipresent. I know it hurts but it can’t be helped,” said a hotelier. John Lobo, secretary, shack owners welfare society (SOWS), said that it needs to be seen if people will have the money to holiday after the fear of pandemic is over. “Even if we open businesses in November -December, I doubt there will be many tourists. Many people have lost their jobs. ,” said Lobo.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cannot-hazard-a-guess-about-when-industry-will-get-back/articleshow/75665687.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Meerut||Couple in 90s celebrate 75th marriage anniversary with a little help from cops||Muzaffarnagar: They got married when the country was still two years short of independence. It was the summer of 1945. Tirath Singh was one year shy of 20, while Shanti Devi had just hit 16. At 94 now, Tirath still smiles faintly recalling the day. So does his better half, who is 90 now.Sitting together on a sofa, wearing birthday cone hats and garlands, they were a picture of grace on Saturday evening. And so were the 10 police personnel standing in the background, who had dropped in with the cake and all the essentials to make the elderly couple’s 75th marriage anniversary a special one.“I would never forget this anniversary. These policemen made it priceless. My blessings are with them,” Tirath said.The family wanted to make the day memorable.“But the lockdown had dashed our hopes,” said Dharmendra Singh, the couple’s 55-year-old son who lives with the family in Muzaffarnagar’s Badhai Kalan village.SSP Abhishek Yadav got the information about the couple’s anniversary from some source. And, on Saturday evening, police knocked at the door, taking the family by surprise. Wearing masks and carrying cake, hats and garlands, the men and women in khaki celebrated the elderly couple’s platinum marriage anniversary. They also sang songs for them and took their blessings for a long life.The team of 10 police personnel was led by station house officer Anil Kaparwan.Superintendent of police (city) Satpal Antil said, “We are feeling delighted that we could provide them some movements of joy. 10 police personnel went there to help them celebrate the anniversary.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/couple-in-90s-celebrate-75th-marriage-anniversary-with-a-little-help-from-cops/articleshow/75665295.cms||Mohd Dilshad
May 11, 2020||Meerut||Leopardess, two cubs spotted in cane field in Bijnor||Bijnor: Three days after a leopard attacked five people in Chandpur area in Bijnor, villagers of Mussoorie village spotted a leopardess with two cubs lurking amid the sugarcane field on Sunday morning.Soon after, a forest department team rushed to the spot at Mussoorie village, under Kotwali Dehat police station, and launched an operation to trace the big cats.The foresters team set up cages to trap them.Mussoorie village is 45 from Chandpur. Since the first week of January, there had been no cases of leopard attacks on humans till three days ago, when five villagers were attacked in Chandpur area.The villagers there had cordoned off the sugarcane fields, where it was hiding. A joint team of forest and police officials rushed to the scene and tried to trap the big cat. But the leopard managed to slip away.It was first attack during the lockdown. When contacted, Bijnor divisional forest officer M Semmaran confirmed the Chandpur incident and said, "Some people were injured in the leopard attack, three days ago. Now, a leopadess and its cubs have been sighted. We have set up cameras and cages at the places where the big cats were sighted."Villagers said it was common to sight leopards during cane harvesting season as there is no place for the big cats to hide once the crop is harvested.Since last year, six people have been killed in leopard attacks in a span of three months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/leopardess-two-cubs-spotted-in-cane-field-in-bijnor/articleshow/75665303.cms||Harveer Dabas
May 11, 2020||Meerut||Meerut reports one more death, 15 new cases take tally to 246; LLRM hosp’s guard tests +ve||Meerut: One more death takes the death toll in Meerut to 14 on Sunday, even as the district reported 15 new cases taking the overall tally to 246. Meerut has reported over 100 cases in a week. The positive cases in Meerut include a hospital security guard at the Lala Lajpat Rai Memorial (LLRM) Medical College.Meerut district surveillance officer Dr Vishwas Chaudhary said, “A 56-year-old man from Banwari Vatika in Transport Nagar died of Covid-19 at the LLRM Medical College on Sunday, taking the death toll to 14.”“Meanwhile, 15 others have tested positive for coronavirus today. These include five contacts of the Ravindra Puri resident, eight overall cases from Shahpeer Gate from three different contacts and one from Shyam Nagar. Of these, one patient each from Shahpeer Gate and Shyam Nagar are health staff workers of a private hospital. Apart from these, the guard of Covid-19 hospital at LLRM Medical College tested positive. He is a resident of Shatabdi Nagar Sector 1,” said Dr Chaudhary.It should be noted that five new positive cases from Ravindra Puri added to the biggest cluster of Meerut so far. So far, the first positive case from Ravindra Puri – who died last week – and 22 of his contacts have tested positive. These 22 cases include 21 of his family members from Ravindra Puri as well as his physician from a private hospital in Mission Compound who lives in Saket. Health workers from a private hospital who had conducted delivery of a pregnant woman here have also tested positive.Meanwhile, another person has tested positive in Bijnor. The patient was earlier quarantined in Chandpur. With this, the fresh tally in Bijnor has reached 43, including three found in Kanpur. One person has tested positive in Shamli from Badiyan colony. With this, the fresh tally in Shamli has reached 31, including two patients admitted in Agra and three each in Auraiya and Mainpuri.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/meerut-reports-one-more-death-15-new-cases-take-tally-to-246-llrm-hosps-guard-tests-ve/articleshow/75665308.cms||Ishita Bhatia
May 11, 2020||Goa||Man challenges Goa Liberation online, booked||Panaji: Goa police have booked one person on sedition charges for allegedly running an online petition to “free Goa from Indian invasion” in 1961. The petition has been signed by over 4,000 people. “A person, identified as Atanacio Lobo, has been booked for running an online petition under Section 124 (A) (sedition),” crime branch superintendent of police Pankaj Kumar Singh told TOI after being contacted. A senior officer at the crime branch said that Lobo is not presently staying in the country and only a few of the many who signed the petition, are in Goa. “We will call all who have signed the petition for investigation,” the officer said. The case was registered following a complaint by Revolutionary Indians, a group from Dharbandora. The petition appeals to the current members of the United Nations General Assembly to review the subject matter of this petition – Goa’s Liberation - with a fresh perspective.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/man-challenges-goa-liberation-online-booked/articleshow/75665690.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana records 33 new cases of coronavirus, tally reaches 1,196||Hyderabad: Two minor boys from Vanasthalipuram in Hyderabad were among 33 new coronavirus cases in the state on Sunday. Authorities said Hyderabad continues to give sleepless nights with 26 cases reported from the city areas, while the remaining seven turned out to be migrants. Telangana’s coronavirus caseload stands at 1,196 with no new discharges. So far, 30 deaths have been reported in the state. One of the two minor boys, aged 4, is the grandson of a maid, who worked in the house of a Covid-19 patient’s family, which had six cases. The maid also tested positive. The other boy is the grandson of a local fruit merchant in Vanasthalipuram. With 30 Covid-19 cases being reported among members of three households in Vanasthalipuram, health officials began a door-to-door survey on Sunday. A total of 52 teams were deployed for 2,481 households and 8,808 people were surveyed. Two persons were referred to Fever Hospital after they reported symptoms of fever. One person had mild flu-like infection but no fever. There 942 people who were aged above 60 and 1,313 people aged below 15. Among those surveyed, some women were found to be pregnant. About 568 people were found to be suffering from hypertension and 531 people were diabetic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/telangana-records-33-new-cases-of-coronavirus-tally-reaches-1196/articleshow/75665322.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
May 11, 2020||Nagpur||Chanda admin inducts Medi-Rover Robot to help treat corona patients||Chandrapur: District administration on Saturday inducted Medi-Rover Robot into service at Chandrapur GMCH to help doctors treat Covid-19 patients. The aim is to ensure minimum contact between medics and the patients. District collector Dr Kunal Khemnar formally handed over the robot, which has been developed in Chandrapur, to the health department. Khemnar claimed that there are plans to make some modification in the robot so that it collect swab sample for Covid-19 tests. Officials informed that Medi-Robot has been prepared at CIIT lab of Government Engineering College here by the project manager of Tata Technologies, Manish Kumar, mechanical engineer Jeevan Kale and Danish Pathan under guidance of Rahul Patil, director, Bamboo Research and Training Centre. The 30 kg robot is wireless and battery operated. It can be guided from a distance of 10 metre. It can be used for taking medicines, meals and other material up to the patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/chanda-admin-inducts-medi-rover-robot-to-help-treat-corona-patients/articleshow/75650917.cms||Mazhar Ali
May 11, 2020||Kolhapur||Those in home quarantine should have separate rooms||Kolhapur: Those who have been recommended home quarantine, should have an independent room or separate accommodation in the house. As per the new directives, the district administration has made this compulsory for those people. The decision regarding the same has to be taken by the village or ward-level committee, said Kolhapur district collector Daulat Desai on SundayHe said that as per the state government’s April 30 directives, the students, workers and pilgrims have been allowed to return to their native places. Accordingly, on Sunday, a working plan to mitigate the incoming individuals was devised in a meeting with the officials.For the meeting, Aman Mittal, the zilla parishad’s chief executive officer, Minakshi Gajbhiye, dean of Chhatrapati Shahu State Government Hospital and Medical College, Yogesh Sale, the district health officer and district civil surgeon BC Kempi Patil were present.According to Chaudhary, all the village-level and ward-level committees have been informed to follow the said instructions.He said that if the committee finds that a person does not have ample facilities at home, under which there is a chance of spread of the infection, that person can be asked to move into an institutional quarantine facility. He said that no traveller will be allowed to directly go to their native place. They have to undergo a preliminary health check-up at designated hospitalsThose not complying with the guidelines can face the action as per the relevant laws, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/those-in-home-quarantine-should-have-separate-rooms/articleshow/75664717.cms||Piyush Bhusari
May 11, 2020||Bengaluru||50k teachers conduct survey to track seniors, SARI patients||Bengaluru: Nearly 50,000 teachers from government primary and high schools and a few aided schools have been conducting a Covid-19 survey from May 7, aimed primarily at recording the number of seniors in the state so as to formulate a decentralised strategy. So far, each team under respective block level officers (BLOs) has surveyed about 300 families each from various voters’ lists, according to the state teachers’ association. As per the 2011 census, Karnataka had more than 1.3 crore families — which would have increased by 2020 — and about 50,000 teachers have covered over 50% of these as per the association’s estimates. “The government sought our cooperation at a time of a national disaster and we’ve obliged to help. The survey began from May 7 and we’ll conclude it by May 13. We’ve been given voters’ lists with details of homes. So far, each team has completed about 300 houses,” said Chandrashekhar NS, general secretary, Karnataka State Primary School Teachers Association. He said one of the primary data sought is about senior citizens in these families, while enumerators also looked for those with temperature, cold and a history of diabetes, severe acute respiratory infection (SARI), influenza like illness (ILI) and other respiratory issues, blood pressure and heart condition. “The government has given us a specific survey form and asked us to upload the data collected on a mobile application which will be used by the health department,” he said. One teacher, who has been surveying houses in Bengaluru, told TOI: “Many respondents appear to be lying about their age. In several houses we surveyed, people who look old told us that they were only 46 years or 52. Since there are no instructions for us to verify their claims, we’re simply recording their statements.” Another teacher said many respondents enquired about whether the government planned to give them economic relief or ration kits since they’ve had no income for over 45 days now. Basavaraj Gurikar, vice-president, All India Teachers’ Association to which the Karnataka association is affiliated, said: “There was an opportunity for the government to utilise unemployed youth to conduct this survey and provide the latter with some economic benefit. We had even suggested this, but it has not been done.” Several teachers pointed out the problems in conducting the survey, including inadequate training and transportation facilities and the general concern over contracting infection. Chandrashekhar said: “Wherever transportation was an issue, we’ve requested the government to provide the same, and in places like Bengaluru, 90% of the teachers have been assigned areas where they reside. There have been some specific cases of hardship, which we’ll take up.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/50k-teachers-conduct-survey-to-track-seniors-sari-patients/articleshow/75664719.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Nashik||12,261 people use 2,628 travel passes to leave Nashik in 4 days||Nashik: So far, 12,261 workers, stranded citizens, tourists and others have left Nashik district using 2,628 travel passes issued by the district administration. However, 81 people, 52 of them from UP, are still waiting for some travel arrangement for them. Since May 6, when the online permissions were made available, 6,768 people have started their journeys to go outside Maharashtra by arranging for vehicles themselves. Deputy collector Nilesh Shringi, who is incharge of assigning the passes, said 12,261 people have moved out of the district using the 2,628 passes. “No arrangement was made by state or central governments. Local NGOs from their towns and cities, contributed for the expenses,” the officer said. Almost 75% went towards Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Gujarat. “The passes have also been issued for the people heading to Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Kerala and other places as well,” he said. Similarly, 4,706 persons moved within Maharashtra using 1,146 online passes. The administration has processed another 458 passes through offline mode for movement of 787 people; 940 passes were issued to 1,240 people for intra-district travel. As far as the 81 people still in the camps are concerned, another officer said that they would also be leaving the camp soon. “Things are being ironed out and soon they will be able to travel back home,” the officer added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/12261-people-use-2628-travel-passes-to-leave-nashik-in-4-days/articleshow/75665312.cms||Abhilash Botekar
May 11, 2020||Vadodara||Congress leader booked for HM fake post||VADODARA: The detection of crime branch (DCB) booked a Congress leader Jitendra Solanki alias Pappu for posting a fake message regarding health of home minister Amit Shah on his Facebook on Saturday night. Over the last two days, there was buzz on the social media with regard to Shah’s health condition with rumours rife that he is unwell. Following this, the minister had even issued a statement on Twitter on Saturday stating his health was perfectly fine. Solanki shared a post claiming that Shah was suffering from cancer. “Solanki shared a fake post and spread rumours following which we booked him,” said the police. Cops have already issued several warnings asking people not to spread rumours through social media amid the Coronavirus crisis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/cong-leader-booked-for-hm-fake-post/articleshow/75663766.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Bengaluru||Pandemic leaves actor Jayamala’s daughter stranded in Britain||London: Whilst the first seven repatriation flights bringing back stranded Indian nationals from Britain are now underway, thousands of Indian students remain stranded in the UK, who have not been allocated a seat. Soundarya Jayamala, 29, daughter of former Karnataka minister for women and child development, Jayamala, is among hundreds of students from the state who remain stranded and desperate to get back. Jayamala is studying a four-year Bachelor’s degree in zoology at Swansea University and was due to take her finals in the summer, but those exams and her graduation ceremony have been cancelled owing to Covid-19. Instead she has to submit essays online and since her lectures finished in April, she just wants to get back, not least because a professor has died of Covid and two others have tested positive for the virus at her university. “The cases are getting worse here and I feel like it is going to get harder for us to get back. I live alone and I want to be with my family,” said Jayamala. “I feel very unsafe. There is no social distancing. I am worried about leaving my apartment. It is so scary to even buy groceries. I am worried about catching Covid. The procedure to contact a hospital here is so long,” she said. “It is not what I am used to. Back home we can see a doctor immediately. I have not been out of my flat at all. It is safer for me to be in India.” Her visa and tenancy contract will expire soon and she is running out of money. She had even tried to fly to India on March 21 on the last flight allowed to depart the UK for India, but she and three other students were not allowed to board once they reached Dubai. They were stranded at Dubai airport for more than 17 hours before being sent back to the UK. “There were people in the airport coughing and ambulances coming back and forth carrying people who could not breathe. We did not have anywhere to sit as so many flights were cancelled. People were sleeping on the floor. It was traumatic. I wasn’t tested for Covid in any of the airports. They didn’t even check my temperature.” When she got back to Swansea, despite having returned her keys to her landlady, she managed to get her apartment back. “I just need to get back to India, I don’t mind the quarantine,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/pandemic-leaves-actor-jayamalas-daughter-stranded-in-britain/articleshow/75664996.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Nagpur||An engineer who wants to sell samosas||It hurts when an engineer is treated badly, salarywise. I completed my graduation in Electronics and Telecommunications and was employed by a company. After my graduation, I worked in two big companies but the salary they paid was like that of a peon. What is the use of doing engineering if my pay is less than what my father used to earn by selling samosas? I used to work with my father Sukhdev and we used to sell samosas, pani puri at our stall. From the income, my father made me an engineer and educated two of my sisters. Like any hopeful, I joined a company but the pay was less. On March 15, I resigned from a company in Hingna and was about to apply in another but then this lockdown happened. Now I am waiting for things to open and we can start earning again. With our little savings we bought vegetables and ration. Thanks to the BPL card, we got ration. We have some savings and things at this stage are fine but extension of lockdown will bring a cash crunch. After things get normal, I will start searching for a job but will join a company that has respect for engineers in terms of pay package. My last monthly salary was Rs 8,000 for a 10-hour shift and it is half of the earnings of our stall. I’m seriously planning to work with my father and sell samosas and pani puri and expand our business so we can earn enough and live happily. (Uttam Varma, 23, an engineer, spoke to Amit Sampat)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/an-engineer-who-wants-to-sell-samosas/articleshow/75665319.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Delhi||Delhi minority panel chief sent notice by LG, HC told||New Delhi: Lieutenant governor Anil Baijal has issued a show cause notice to Delhi Minorities Commission (DMC) chairman Zafarul-Islam Khan, the AAP government informed Delhi high court on Monday. Khan has an FIR against him for his alleged “seditious and hateful” statements, after which the LG wrote to chief minister Arvind Kejriwal for initiating action against him. The government informed a bench of Justices Rajiv Sahai Endlaw and Sangita Dhingra Sehgal, about the development. Advocate Anupam Srivastava, representing the government, said the LG wrote to the CM on April 30 to initiate action against Khan as per the provisions of Section 4 of the DMC Act, which provides for removal of a person from the post of chairperson or member. The bench then directed the authorities to decide the matter in a reasonable time and disposed of a petition seeking removal of Khan, whose tenure ends in July. The PIL filed by a retired bank official said that on April 28, Khan published a post with seditious and hateful comments on his official social media page. On May 2, based on a complaint, Delhi Police’s Special Cell lodged an FIR against Khan under IPC sections 124A and 153A for alleged offences of sedition and promoting feelings of hatred on grounds of religion, race, place of birth, residence and language. In the letter, Baijal stated that the content of the post prima facie appeared to have the potential of disturbing communal harmony in the city, particularly when one of the functions of DMC is to make recommendations for ensuring, maintaining and promoting communal harmony. The petition alleged that it was evident from his Facebook post that it was “provocative, deliberate, seditious and intended to cause disharmony in the society”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-minority-panel-chief-sent-notice-by-lg-hc-told/articleshow/75684573.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Business||IT firms added 28% less staff in last fiscal||Bengaluru: The top five Indian IT services companies added 65,339 people to their employee headcount in the last fiscal, down 28% from the headcount increase in the year earlier, when it was 90,964, data compiled by TOI show. The numbers fell because many of the business segments and geographies were weakening even before the coronavirus pandemic hit. Growing automation is also reducing the need for people in a variety of areas. TCS, one of the largest employers in the country, hired the most at 23,179, followed by Infosys at 14,087. The numbers are expected to fall further this year due to the impact of Covid-19. Though fresher hiring was strong in the latest campus hiring season, IT firms are delaying onboarding, and drastically slowing down lateral hiring. Analysts said that hiring in the sector has been slowing down for some years as companies focus on high-demand digital technology spaces that need fewer people, but with specialised skills. “It is much more profitable to automate routine processes and use self-service channels, while leveraging people resources for higher value/higher margin tasks, especially around digital,” said Hansa Iyengar, principal analyst at technology research firm Omdia. The trend, she said, of up-/re-skilling people to focus on higher value tasks will accelerate with recruitment focusing on filling skill-gaps in the workforce. “This will still mean thousands of jobs, but the areas in which these openings crop up will be remarkably different from a decade ago,” she said. But with the pandemic forcing customers to pull back spends, this fiscal is expected to be worse, perhaps even worse than during the financial crisis of 2009. In the fiscal immediately after the crisis (2009-10), TCS, Infosys, Wipro and HCL together hired 46,216 people. Phil Fersht, CEO of HFS Research, said Covid-19 will have a serious impact on all consulting and discretionary IT services spend. “We fear this could be a decrease of 25-35% this year. In addition, outsourcing revenues will decline as a result of lower business volumes in certain industries, and even some business failures, liquidations and consolidation. This could be as high as a 10% decrease over the next 9-12 months,” he said. For now, all the firms have said they will honour the offers made to freshers. TCS will honour the 30,000 offers it made in the campuses. Infosys will honour the 36,000 offers made. But most are freezing hiring. “The biggest cost in our business is people so there are three ways of cost optimisation. Either we onboard less or do not give hikes or reduce the number of people. Depending on the situation, we will decide what to do,” Wipro’s president and chief human resources officer Saurabh Govil said last month. Fersht says IT services firms will start lowering headcount and “this will continue for at least 18 months as we endure a very tough recession.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/it-firms-added-28-less-staff-in-last-fiscal/articleshow/75664741.cms||Shilpa Phadnis
May 11, 2020||Meerut||64.2% of Covid-19 deaths in Meerut took place in last 10 days||Meerut: Of the total 14 deaths due to Covid-19, a maximum nine took place in the last 10 days, suggesting a surge in the mortality rate in Meerut. Defying the trend, several youngsters under 30, too, have died here. This comes at a time when videos and audios of patients sharing the ordeal at Lala Lajpat Rai Memorial (LLRM) Medical College are getting viral.According to the statistics available, out of the total 14 deaths in Meerut five causalities were reported between April 1 and April 25. But, nine deaths were reported in the first 10 days of May alone.The youngest person to have died in Meerut so far is a 25-year-old man from Sabun Godam, who succumbed at a hospital in Delhi just a fortnight after his father died of Covid-19. His mother and younger brother, too, tested positive and continue to battle the disease.Meanwhile, a 30-year-old man, too, is among the young patients to have died on May 5.“The health department is keeping a close eye on the hospital staff and facilities being provided at LLRM Medical College. After the videos and audios that surfaced, an inquiry has been set up by the district magistrate. If any negligence is found, action will be taken against the concerned people,” said Dr Raj Kumar, Meerut’s chief medical officer.With constant complaints coming in from patients, even instructions of setting up CCTV camera in the Covid-19 ward of LLRM Medical College have been given by Meerut DM Anil Dhingra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/64-2-of-covid-19-deaths-in-meerut-took-place-in-last-10-days/articleshow/75665314.cms||Ishita Bhatia
May 11, 2020||Meerut||Wife refuses to cook egg curry, inebriated man beats son, 3, to death||Meerut: A three-year-old child was allegedly beaten to death by his father, a drunkard who was enraged after his wife refused to cook egg curry for him on Saturday night in Bulandshahr district.According to police, the incident happened when the accused, Subhash Banjara, returned drunk to his home in Nagla village and told his wife to prepare the curry.When she refused, Banjara initially thrashed his wife.“Later he attacked his son, who sustained serious injuries,” a police officer said. The child was rushed to a local hospital in Khurja area where he succumbed to his injuries on Sunday morning.“Banjara fled from his home soon after the incident. Efforts are on to arrest him,” a senior police officer said.An FIR under section 304 (culpable homicide not amounting to murder) was registered at Khurja Kotwali.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/wife-refuses-to-cook-egg-curry-inebriated-man-beats-son-3-to-death/articleshow/75665320.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Madurai||Eight of family among 20 +ve in region||Madurai: As many as 10 new Covid-19 cases were reported in Tirunelveli on Sunday taking the total tally in the district to 90. In south Tamil Nadu, the total Covid-19 cases have climbed to 560, including the 20 fresh cases recorded on Sunday. According to Tirunelveli collector Shilpa Prabhakar Satish, out of the ten cases, eight were from a single family who had been primary contacts of the recently deceased Covid-19 positive patient in the district. “We are tracing all the contacts of Covid-19 positive patients. More than 350-400 are being tested every day of which 10 tested positive on Sunday. The remaining two cases were those who had a recent travel history to Chennai,” she said. The ten cases included a two-year-old girl, a 13-year-old girl, four men and four women. Madurai district, after reporting no cases on Saturday, reported four cases on Sunday, including three pregnant women. The four patients include a 20-year-old pregnant woman from Samayanallur, 23-year-old pregnant woman from Kathakinaru, 24-year-old pregnant woman from Goripalayam and a 29-year-old man from Vilangudi. The 24-year-old woman had symptoms of fever, cough and cold for two days, while others were all asymptomatic. The man was a contact of a Covid-19 positive patient. Among the three pregnant women, two had travelled to containment areas. However, the source of infection of the Goripalayam woman remains unclear so far. Of late, more pregnant women are testing Covid-19 positive. The total number of Covid-19 positive pregnant women in the district is 16 out of the total 117 cases in the district. At least five of them have given birth so far. In Theni, three Covid-19 positive cases were reported on Sunday, all of whom had recent travel history to other districts. The three people were from Kadamalaikundu, Uthamapalayam and Veerapandi areas. As many as 23 of their primary contacts have been identified and are being tested. Virudhunagar district collector R Kannan said that both the people who were tested positive for Covid-19 had traveled from Chennai to Virudhunagar district.“A 59-year-old man, who was working in Koyambedu, came to his native place at Vembakottai in Virudhunagar district in a lorry on Saturday. When people came to know that the man had returned from Koyambedu, they did not permit him to enter the village and they alerted the officials. The officials took him to a quarantine facility where his sample was collected,” said Kannan. He said that on May 8, a 38-year-old woman came to her native place at Sivakasi in an ambulance along with the mortal remains of her husband who died of cardiac arrest in Chennai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/8-of-family-among-20-ve-in-region/articleshow/75665316.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Nashik||8 Covid-19 deaths reported in Malegaon||Nashik: Malegaon recorded as many as eight Covid-19 deaths on Sunday with the total going up to 26 in the textile town. In addition, 20 new Covid-19 positive cases were registered in Malegaon. Their throat swab samples confirmed the infection, district administration officials said. The eight people who succumbed to the infection are among the 20 who tested positive for the infection, the officials confirmed. “Three women and five men who were admitted to Covid-19 hospitals in Malegaon in serious condition died in the last five days. Their throat swab samples were taken and sent for testing,” Pankaj Ashiya, assistant collector and chief co-ordinator for emergency operation centre in Malegaon said. With this, the number of Covid-19 deaths in Nashik district has gone up to 28 as two deaths have been reported in Nashik city earlier. “Nashik city now has 39 Covid-19 positive cases while Nashik Rural has 73 cases and Malegaon has 534 cases in all,”the district administration officials said. All the 20 new cases, including eight deaths in Malegaon, have been from the city itself while 11 cases have been reported from Nashik Rural, including six from Yeola town, three from Dindori taluka, one each from Satana and Manmad in Nandgaon taluka. Meanwhile, 17 Covid-19 patients were discharged from Nashik and Malegaon on Sunday, senior medical officials said. Ten patients were discharged in Malegaon and seven were discharged in Nashik. Those discharged had mild symptoms of Covid-19 and as per the revised guidelines from the state government, such patients can be discharged within 10 days of admission.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/8-covid-19-deaths-reported-in-malegaon/articleshow/75665326.cms||Abhilash Botekar
May 11, 2020||Ahmedabad||Farmers freed of curbs on selling their yield||Gandhinagar: With farmers of the state reeling from the lockdown, the state government has amended the Agricultural Produce Marketing Committee (APMC) Act through an ordinance that frees farmers of all restrictions on selling their yield. While farmers were earlier forced to sell their produce at the nearest APMC, under the new guidelines, they will be able to sell their produce anywhere in the state. APMCs will now have no regulatory powers outside their yards, implying that they will not be empowered to collect 0.5% cess on agricultural produce that is sold outside the APMCs. Manish Bhardwaj, secretary, cooperation, animal husbandry, cow breeding & fisheries, agriculture, farmers welfare & co-operation department, confirmed the approval of the ordinance. “The ordinance provides ample scope to farmers to seek better remunerative prices for their agri-produce, as the APMC framework undergoes heavy deregulation,” he said. He said farmers do not need to sell their fruits and vegetables inside market yards now, as they have been declared de-notified commodities. “This ordinance offers radical scopes to private markets for fruits and vegetables leading to higher price value to farmers. It will be a game changer regulation for Gujarat farmers.” Bhardwaj added. At present there are 224 APMCs in Gujarat. They collect 0.5% cess on notified agricultural produce. Last year, transaction of Rs 35,000 crore took place in APMCs. Annual cess collected was Rs 350 crore, 40% came from sale outside the market yards. Before the ordinance, APMCs regulated any sale even outside the market yard premises.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/farmers-freed-of-curbs-on-selling-their-yield/articleshow/75664887.cms||Kapil Dave
May 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Universities discuss academic calendar||HYDERABAD: It is not just Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University, Hyderabad (JNTUH), many other state universities are now in the process of framing its future plans for exams and academic calendar. While the Telangana State Council of Higher Education (TSCHE) is hopeful that the academic session will commence from August as planned, it has sought views from all the state universities on the same. Even the Osmania University is set to convene a meeting on May 18 to discuss its future course of action on exams, evaluation and promotion of students apart from academic calendar for 2020-21. “Classes in most universities and its constituent and affiliated colleges will continue till May 31. It is only after the extended lockdown concludes that we will be in any position to plan the academic calendar. However, we are hopeful that the academic year will begin by August,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/univs-discuss-academic-calendar/articleshow/75665348.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Goa||Porvorim post office gets new premises||Panaji: The Porvorim post office will start functioning from its new premises from May 11. The post office will now be housed in the building opposite the earlier location, inside the postal residential colony. “Only minor electrical works are pending,” senior superintendent of posts, A Korgappa said. “All facilities available at the existing premises — savings bank account, India Post payments bank, postal life insurance and booking of registered speed post articles — will be extended here too.” Sources said that work on the new premises had come to a halt owing to the national lockdown. Work commenced following the government’s decision to restart works after obtaining permits from the local civic bodies. The current premises too is being renovated to house the railway mail service. “It will be the sorting office where all the railway mail will come,” a department of posts official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/porvorim-post-office-gets-new-premises/articleshow/75665692.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow siblings in US pursue forgotten hobbies||LUCKNOW: They live an hour’s drive away from each other in the United States but cannot meet. Lucknow siblings Tathagat Bhatia, in Virginia, and Anushree Bhatia, in the capital region of Washington DC, are confined indoors following the government’s stay-at-home orders in view of Covid-19 pandemic. An all-India second-rank holder both in ICSE and ISC examination, Tathagat is pursuing bachelor’s in history of science, and Russian from University of Pennsylvania. He is spending time now by tutoring his juniors in Russian language while his sister Anushree, a research assistant in a non-profit, is spending her time cooking Indian cuisine. While his university closed in mid-March, his virtual classes are on for semester exams ending May 12. He is using free time to sketch, a hobby he had kept aside due to lack of time. He also keeps a weekly journal to record his experiences. Anushree is enjoying cooking dishes like ‘shahi paneer’ and ‘palak paneer’. “I even made brownies for my building staff,” said Anushree, a graduate in psychology from Mount Holyoke College. “Initially, there was a scare about the situation in the US but I was confident my children will cope well. It is difficult to stay confined but is also a learning process,” said their mother Sangita Bhatia, a city-based homeopath.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lucknow-siblings-in-us-pursue-forgotten-hobbies/articleshow/75665700.cms||Isha Jain
May 11, 2020||Madurai||‘Want clarity on services not allowed to operate’||Madurai: The state government’s move to allow 34 goods and services individual shops to operate from May 11 is a step in the right direction, the Tamil Nadu Chamber of Commerce and Industry has said. It has also said that the government should be more specific on what is not allowed to reduce the confusion. According to a statement, chamber president N Jegatheesan and senior president S Rethinavelu have said that the move will revive the economy. But the list has created confusion in the trade and industry circles, as manufacturing and trading articles are not mentioned in the list. The Chamber has suggested that the government should give an elaborate negative list and permit all other trades and industries, not mentioned in the list, to operate. This will avoid confusion. Everyone wants to open his business/industry in order to restore normalcy.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/want-clarity-on-services-not-allowed-to-operate/articleshow/75665323.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Kolhapur||Sangli registers another coronavirus case||Kolhapur: The Sangli district registered another Covid-19 case on Sunday. With this, the total number of Covid-19 cases rose to 38 while 10 cases are active, 27 patients have recovered and one died. A 30-year-old woman tested positive for Covid-19 and her husband tested negative. They have a travel history to Ahmedabad. The couple had come to Salshingi village in Khanapur taluka. Their health check-up was done at Vita Rural hospital following which they were referred to Miraj Government Medical College and Hospital. According to Sangli District Collector Abhijeet Chaudhary, a health squad has been deployed at the village for contact tracing. Chaudhary said that those coming from other countries will be put in institutional quarantine facility on their own expense.They have been asked to contact the deputy divisional officer and the police department. Meanwhile, as many as 16 state transport buses have been sent to Tamil Nadu with 480 migrants from Sangli on Saturday. They were working in various industrial sectors in Sangli and Kupwad, said Chaudhary. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/sangli-registers-another-coronavirus-case/articleshow/75664743.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Business||Techies’ medi helpline gets 1 million calls in a month||BENGALURU: A million calls across seven states in 26 languages by 4,000 doctors — resulting in over 70,000 consultations. Those are the numbers, all within a month, in what is turning out to be the largest telemedicine effort in the country to battle the Covid-19 pandemic. By using cloud telephony platforms like Exotel, Ozonetel and Kaleyra, backed by local language skills of Reverie and software from FreshWorks, a group of volunteers from the startup ecosystem have been able to create StepOne. This telemedicine venture is now working with the state governments of Karnataka, Punjab, Maharashtra, Orissa, Chhattisgarh, Nagaland and Madhya Pradesh. The not-for-profit initiative, backed ACT Grants and over two dozen startups, helps patients connect with doctors across the country who volunteer to diagnose patients on the platform. StepOne has also been roped in by the government’s coronavirus-tracing application Aarogya Setu as one of the telemedicine partners, along with initiatives backed by India’s largest conglomerates like Tatas and Mahindras. Among these, StepOne has been able to scale up the fastest, with its team of volunteers from startups and internet companies like PhonePe, Flipkart, Qikwell, PregBuddy, and Times Internet (part of the group which publishes TOI). But the going has not been easy. When the initial line in Karnataka was started in late March during the first lockdown, they got calls from citizens asking about how to get a gas cylinder and where to get a mask from. “If the state does not have a mechanism (to address the calls), then people will find a place where there are those listening,” said Raghavendra Prasad T S, one of the volunteers, who had started doctor appointment startup Qikwell and sold it to Practo in 2015. To overcome this problem, StepOne has set up two levels of screenings. First, an IVR-based filter to understand if it is a healthcare-related call and, second, consultation with a caller in a few states to understand the seriousness of the symptoms. This filtering mechanism, where right now about 7% of calls ultimately go for a consultation, has helped make the helpline more relevant for doctors who are volunteering their services for free on the platform. References from peers has been the best mechanism to get more doctors onto the platform, according to Prasad. What has helped the platform scale up quickly is the ability to leverage the network of doctors across the country, as location is not a barrier. For instance, it was able to start a helpline in Madhya Pradesh where the state government wanted it to launch immediately without any doctors from the state. Another barrier is language. An additional state where StepOne is expected to launch is Meghalaya, where the local administration said that it needed doctors who can speak the regional languages of Khasi and Garo. StepOne was able to rustle up eight doctors who spoke both the languages, said Rahul Gupta, who is working as a full-time volunteer since the platform started in late March. “We are glad to collaborate with Project StepOne, which is buttressing the front-line defence by powering statewide phone helplines for patients. We are positively surprised by how quickly this initiative has scaled up through effective collaboration between the government and entrepreneurs,” said Vaibhav Agrawal, ACT Grants spokesperson and partner at Lightspeed Venture Partners. While about 6,000 doctors have registered with StepOne, 4,000 are verified and on-boarded. Some are spending 12 hours on calls on the platform, doing over 50 consultations. But challenges remain as well. One is that StepOne needs more full-time volunteers, with backgrounds across technology, government relations and fund-raising. “This initiative is not a short-term effort, it will continue for at least a year,” said Gupta.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/techies-medi-helpline-gets-1m-calls-in-a-mth/articleshow/75664784.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Madurai||Plea to send home guest workers of Kudankulam||Madurai:The state government should intervene in the problems of the workers at Kudankulam nuclear power plant and take steps to send back the guest workers to their states and settle their pending dues, Tirunelveli district unit of the CPM has said. According to a statement, CPM district secretary K G Baskaran has said that more than 7,000 contract labourers employed by companies such as L&T are working at the Kudankulam nuclear power plant, which is under the direct supervision of the central government. Among these workers, 6,000 are migrant workers from the northern states and they earn only a meager amount as wages. The plant has been not operating during the lockdown as per Section 144 of CrPC, but the central government had said that the workers should be given their salary without delay. But, the administration of the nuclear plant had failed to give their entire salary for March and April. Only a small portion was given. He has said that the workers are badly affected as around 4,800 people have been made to stay in asbestos rooms on the premises of the plant and that they have a capacity to house only 2,400 people. These workers from the states of Bihar, Jharkhand, Madhya Pradesh and Odisha are demanding that they be sent back to their native states. They usually go home during April and May and 3,344 workers have applied online to go back to their states. The contractors who have failed to take the welfare of the workers are trying to control the workers with the help of police. Registering criminal cases against 32 workers is not acceptable and the police act is condemnable, he has said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/plea-to-send-home-guest-workers-of-kudankulam/articleshow/75665344.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Madurai||Fishing fest held flouting curfew rules||Madurai: Around 100 people from Keelapatti village near Melur took part in the annual fishing festival held at the village tank on Sunday, violating social distancing norms. The participants brought various kinds of nets and tried their hands at fishing. While many had a good catch, a few were not lucky enough and returned. Villagers said that they have been conducting the festival for a long time now. They would make sure no one takes up fishing until the festival is conducted. While most of them took fish they caught home to be cooked and eaten with family members, some sold their catch to others. There was a good demand following an order from the district collector T G Vinay ordering a ban on function of fish and meat stalls on Sundays to prevent crowd gathering and spread of Covid-19. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/fishing-fest-held-flouting-curfew-rules/articleshow/75665347.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Nashik||4 back from London, quarantined in hotel||Nashik: Four people, who arrived in the city from London on Sunday morning, have been quarantined in a hotel, the district administration sources said. They landed in Mumbai and were escorted from there till Nashik in private vehicles. After reaching the quarantine facility, their primary tests were conducted and, so far, none of them have shown Covid-19 symptoms. “As per the government policy, the flyers who have come home from various countries in special flights have to stay in institutional quarantined for four days and they have the option of staying in hotels, bearing all expenses. So they have been placed in private hotels,” Resident deputy district collector Bhagwat Doifode said. The health advisory of the state mentions that people landing in the country have to be first screened for health issues, and, if they are found to be in good condition, only then will they be allowed to head to quarantine facility. “People who returned from London were allowed to choose the facility — either hotel or the quarantine facilities put up by the concerned civic bodies. These people chose to stay in the hotel and, hence, they have been escorted to the hotels in Nashik city where they will stay for 14 days,” Doifode said. Doifode said that regular health check-up of these people will be carried out by the teams. They will then update the same to the state government. If a person does not report any illness till fortnight, he/she will be allowed to go home. In addition, two more people are expected to return from Singapore, of which, one will arrive in Nashik city. The person will be placed in the same quarantine facility at the hotel, Doifode added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/4-back-from-london-quarantined-in-hotel/articleshow/75665346.cms||Abhilash Botekar
May 11, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||TechnoparkToday launches initiative to support techies||Thiruvananthapuram: TechnoparkToday, a media platform for IT professionals, has launched an initiative ‘Support and Survive IT’ to help techies who lost their jobs due to the Covid-19 crisis. The initiative was proposed after reports of techies losing jobs during crisis were published in media. A techie, who was working with an IT firm at Infopark in Kochi, had committed suicide after she lost job. TechnoparkToday, in association with other organizations and companies in IT parks, will help techies find new jobs. “We read about people who lost their jobs due to the economic crisis. There may be techies suffering tension and depression due to the crisis. The initiative aims to help them overcome the crisis. In the first stage, we have planned to provide counselling and within a day of announcement, we received around five calls from techies,” said Renjith Ramachandran from TechnoparkToday. People who lost their jobs or are in depression due to similar issues will be provided counselling. They may contact: 91-7902771381. They have also planned to associate with other organizations and IT companies to help people who lost jobs to find new opportunities. These people may send the latest resume to email: itparkjobsmail@gmail.com and also fill the form of Tech Job Helpline: https://forms.gle/o3BEPo2ZdeViHXZP9. The details collected will be shared with Technopark, Infopark, Cyberpark and around 300 IT companies, to help people find new jobs. “Companies which do not need permanent employees may also offer part-time or freelancing opportunities based on the skills of the candidates. The details of the candidate’s skills will be updated in the resource pool and shared with companies,” added Renjith. It is proposed to conduct virtual job festivals for candidates during the lockdown period. Individuals and organizations who are interested to be part of the initiative may send email to technoparktoday@gmail.com. ‘Support and Survive IT’ initiative is supported by TechnoparkToday ITParkJobs, BHUB, BloomBloom Online, Kriiyaa, Hello Infopark, Upskill Corporate Training, Skill2Pro, MillionReach, IITRD, Deeshna and Keli. In addition to job opportunities, it is planned to provide skill development training and free workshops for interested techies. Techies or organizations interested to conduct training for these people may contact TechnoparkToday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/technoparktoday-launches-initiative-to-support-techies/articleshow/75665359.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Puducherry||High on debts,Tamil Nadu needs Tasmac to remain sober||A meme — even if people of the state decide to stop drinking, it seems Tamil Nadu government will not let them to do so — widely circulated last week highlighted the desperation of the state to plug its financial loopholes. The speed at which the government, despite condemnation from the opposition, moved the Supreme Court on Saturday to get reprieve from the Madras high court’s order on Friday to close state-owned Tasmac outlets, only highlighted that fact. And you don’t need a Rajinikanth to drive home the point. Nevertheless,the actor and politician-in-waiting did make a point. "The state government should look at better ways to fill up its treasury," tweeted Rajinikanth on Sunday morning, even while chiding the ruling AIADMK to "forget about returning to power" if it plans to reopen Tasmac outlets. A couple of weeks ago, a senior official from the state finance department told TOI that salaries have to be paid, even while seeking to discount the notion that Tamil Nadu government is surviving on ‘liquor money’. "Consumption of alcohol appears to be high since everything goes through Tasmac, which controls both the wholesale procurement and retail sale. It also indicates the efficiency in collection of this revenue, a model that has been since replicated by the states of Kerala and Andhra Pradesh. But the revenue from liquor is just around 25% of the state’s total own revenue," the official said, while adding that revenue through Tasmac is around `30,000 crore per annum, while state’s own revenue amounts to around `1.3 lakh crore. Surprisingly, the trigger happy AIADMK camp, which hits back at anyone attacking the government, preferred a stoic silence through the day and let Rajinikanth go almost scot-free. Even officials are tight lipped about the precarious state of government finances. But the writing is on the wall and one gets to see the glimpses. First came the withholding of the dearness allowance and then the order to increase the retirement age of state government employees by one year. That too may not suffice. There are unofficial talks about the state government having ordered a freeze in recruitment and discussing ways and means to implement a salary cut, which some say could be up to 30%, for different categories of government employees. "Salary cut was discussed and debated. It has been decided not to implement it," said one official. "Paying salaries to government employees will not be a problem since it comes through ‘appropriation account’. Further, there is a 70% chance that this government will not opt for a salary cut of employees," said another official. A statement from the Tamil Nadu government on Saturday, announcing an expert committee to be headed by former RBI governor C Rangarajan, seems to highlight the precarious condition of the state’s finances to a certain extent. In reply to the general discussion on the budget on February 20, 2020 deputy chief minister (O Panneerselvam) had announced that an expert committee would be constituted to recommend measures to improve the tax-GSDP ratio of Tamil Nadu, it read. In the present context where the Covid-19 pandemic has posed much more serious economic and fiscal challenges, the expert committee may be requested to examine the challenges of Tamil Nadu and the way forward to improve the fiscal position including the tax-GSDP ratio as part of the larger brief of suggesting policy measures to improve the economic situation, the statement said. "What the chief secretary’s order doesn’t say, but was duly acknowledged by the deputy chief minister O Panneerselvam in the state assembly, is that the suggestion to the government to constitute such an expert committee came from me. I have been telling this to the state government since 2017," said DMK MLA P T R Palanivel Thiagarajan, who worked as a financial consultant in the US before getting active in state politics a few years ago. "The tax-GSDP ratio used to be around 10% between 2004 and 2014. Since then it has steadily declined to around 7% now. A one-third drop and it should have alarmed the government long ago. The state’s finances were in a precarious situation much before this crisis," said Thiagarajan. The constitution of the expert committee too does not enthuse him. "The committee does not inspire confidence as it should. It does not have any world-class economists as the one constituted by the Rajasthan government. Also the three-month timeframe given to the committee is too long. By then, we will already be bankrupt or will be in a deep liquidity crunch," says Thiagarajan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/puducherry/high-on-debtstn-needs-tasmac-to-remain-sober/articleshow/75672679.cms||D Govardan
May 11, 2020||Salem||High on debts,Tamil Nadu needs Tasmac to remain sober||A meme — even if people of the state decide to stop drinking, it seems Tamil Nadu government will not let them to do so — widely circulated last week highlighted the desperation of the state to plug its financial loopholes. The speed at which the government, despite condemnation from the opposition, moved the Supreme Court on Saturday to get reprieve from the Madras high court’s order on Friday to close state-owned Tasmac outlets, only highlighted that fact. And you don’t need a Rajinikanth to drive home the point. Nevertheless,the actor and politician-in-waiting did make a point. "The state government should look at better ways to fill up its treasury," tweeted Rajinikanth on Sunday morning, even while chiding the ruling AIADMK to "forget about returning to power" if it plans to reopen Tasmac outlets. A couple of weeks ago, a senior official from the state finance department told TOI that salaries have to be paid, even while seeking to discount the notion that Tamil Nadu government is surviving on ‘liquor money’. "Consumption of alcohol appears to be high since everything goes through Tasmac, which controls both the wholesale procurement and retail sale. It also indicates the efficiency in collection of this revenue, a model that has been since replicated by the states of Kerala and Andhra Pradesh. But the revenue from liquor is just around 25% of the state’s total own revenue," the official said, while adding that revenue through Tasmac is around `30,000 crore per annum, while state’s own revenue amounts to around `1.3 lakh crore. Surprisingly, the trigger happy AIADMK camp, which hits back at anyone attacking the government, preferred a stoic silence through the day and let Rajinikanth go almost scot-free. Even officials are tight lipped about the precarious state of government finances. But the writing is on the wall and one gets to see the glimpses. First came the withholding of the dearness allowance and then the order to increase the retirement age of state government employees by one year. That too may not suffice. There are unofficial talks about the state government having ordered a freeze in recruitment and discussing ways and means to implement a salary cut, which some say could be up to 30%, for different categories of government employees. "Salary cut was discussed and debated. It has been decided not to implement it," said one official. "Paying salaries to government employees will not be a problem since it comes through ‘appropriation account’. Further, there is a 70% chance that this government will not opt for a salary cut of employees," said another official. A statement from the Tamil Nadu government on Saturday, announcing an expert committee to be headed by former RBI governor C Rangarajan, seems to highlight the precarious condition of the state’s finances to a certain extent. In reply to the general discussion on the budget on February 20, 2020 deputy chief minister (O Panneerselvam) had announced that an expert committee would be constituted to recommend measures to improve the tax-GSDP ratio of Tamil Nadu, it read. In the present context where the Covid-19 pandemic has posed much more serious economic and fiscal challenges, the expert committee may be requested to examine the challenges of Tamil Nadu and the way forward to improve the fiscal position including the tax-GSDP ratio as part of the larger brief of suggesting policy measures to improve the economic situation, the statement said. "What the chief secretary’s order doesn’t say, but was duly acknowledged by the deputy chief minister O Panneerselvam in the state assembly, is that the suggestion to the government to constitute such an expert committee came from me. I have been telling this to the state government since 2017," said DMK MLA P T R Palanivel Thiagarajan, who worked as a financial consultant in the US before getting active in state politics a few years ago. "The tax-GSDP ratio used to be around 10% between 2004 and 2014. Since then it has steadily declined to around 7% now. A one-third drop and it should have alarmed the government long ago. The state’s finances were in a precarious situation much before this crisis," said Thiagarajan. The constitution of the expert committee too does not enthuse him. "The committee does not inspire confidence as it should. It does not have any world-class economists as the one constituted by the Rajasthan government. Also the three-month timeframe given to the committee is too long. By then, we will already be bankrupt or will be in a deep liquidity crunch," says Thiagarajan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/high-on-debtstn-needs-tasmac-to-remain-sober/articleshow/75672681.cms||D Govardan
May 11, 2020||Chennai||High on debts,Tamil Nadu needs Tasmac to remain sober||A meme — even if people of the state decide to stop drinking, it seems Tamil Nadu government will not let them to do so — widely circulated last week highlighted the desperation of the state to plug its financial loopholes. The speed at which the government, despite condemnation from the opposition, moved the Supreme Court on Saturday to get reprieve from the Madras high court’s order on Friday to close state-owned Tasmac outlets, only highlighted that fact. And you don’t need a Rajinikanth to drive home the point. Nevertheless,the actor and politician-in-waiting did make a point. "The state government should look at better ways to fill up its treasury," tweeted Rajinikanth on Sunday morning, even while chiding the ruling AIADMK to "forget about returning to power" if it plans to reopen Tasmac outlets. A couple of weeks ago, a senior official from the state finance department told TOI that salaries have to be paid, even while seeking to discount the notion that Tamil Nadu government is surviving on ‘liquor money’. "Consumption of alcohol appears to be high since everything goes through Tasmac, which controls both the wholesale procurement and retail sale. It also indicates the efficiency in collection of this revenue, a model that has been since replicated by the states of Kerala and Andhra Pradesh. But the revenue from liquor is just around 25% of the state’s total own revenue," the official said, while adding that revenue through Tasmac is around `30,000 crore per annum, while state’s own revenue amounts to around `1.3 lakh crore. Surprisingly, the trigger happy AIADMK camp, which hits back at anyone attacking the government, preferred a stoic silence through the day and let Rajinikanth go almost scot-free. Even officials are tight lipped about the precarious state of government finances. But the writing is on the wall and one gets to see the glimpses. First came the withholding of the dearness allowance and then the order to increase the retirement age of state government employees by one year. That too may not suffice. There are unofficial talks about the state government having ordered a freeze in recruitment and discussing ways and means to implement a salary cut, which some say could be up to 30%, for different categories of government employees. "Salary cut was discussed and debated. It has been decided not to implement it," said one official. "Paying salaries to government employees will not be a problem since it comes through ‘appropriation account’. Further, there is a 70% chance that this government will not opt for a salary cut of employees," said another official. A statement from the Tamil Nadu government on Saturday, announcing an expert committee to be headed by former RBI governor C Rangarajan, seems to highlight the precarious condition of the state’s finances to a certain extent. In reply to the general discussion on the budget on February 20, 2020 deputy chief minister (O Panneerselvam) had announced that an expert committee would be constituted to recommend measures to improve the tax-GSDP ratio of Tamil Nadu, it read. In the present context where the Covid-19 pandemic has posed much more serious economic and fiscal challenges, the expert committee may be requested to examine the challenges of Tamil Nadu and the way forward to improve the fiscal position including the tax-GSDP ratio as part of the larger brief of suggesting policy measures to improve the economic situation, the statement said. "What the chief secretary’s order doesn’t say, but was duly acknowledged by the deputy chief minister O Panneerselvam in the state assembly, is that the suggestion to the government to constitute such an expert committee came from me. I have been telling this to the state government since 2017," said DMK MLA P T R Palanivel Thiagarajan, who worked as a financial consultant in the US before getting active in state politics a few years ago. "The tax-GSDP ratio used to be around 10% between 2004 and 2014. Since then it has steadily declined to around 7% now. A one-third drop and it should have alarmed the government long ago. The state’s finances were in a precarious situation much before this crisis," said Thiagarajan. The constitution of the expert committee too does not enthuse him. "The committee does not inspire confidence as it should. It does not have any world-class economists as the one constituted by the Rajasthan government. Also the three-month timeframe given to the committee is too long. By then, we will already be bankrupt or will be in a deep liquidity crunch," says Thiagarajan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/high-on-debtstn-needs-tasmac-to-remain-sober/articleshow/75665353.cms||D Govardan
May 11, 2020||Lucknow||UP CM Yogi Adityanath pitches for 90 lakh MSME jobs, easy loans to new units||LUCKNOW: Pitching for job creation to boost economy, chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday said if 90 lakh micro, small and medium scale enterprises (MSMEs) in UP created one job each, the sector would provide 90 lakh employment opportunities. Lending traction to employment generation during a high level meeting at his official residence, the CM directed officials to organise mega loan fairs from May 12 to May 20 in every district of the state. Under the arrangement, any entrepreneur can apply for loan online for which the state government would hold talks with state-level bankers committee (SLBC), an inter-institutional forum which ensures co-ordination between the government and banks on matters pertaining to banking development. “Despite economic slowdown, MSME sector has contributed in increasing the per capita income,” Yogi said, adding that the government’s one district, one product scheme encouraged indigenous and specialized products and crafts in every district. The CM asked officials to promoted MSMEs by easing formalities while issuing no-objection certificates. “A company willing to set up an industrial unit in UP can be given no-objection certificate in last 100 days of the 1,000-day period of setting up of an industrial unit. This will allow industrial units to get loans from bankers on relatively easier terms,” he added.Yogi said all requisite certificates could be issued through single window system. “UP should be developed as a hub of MSMEs. Coronavirus pandemic has given the state government an opportunity to do so. For this, officials should get in touch with entrepreneurs and encourage them to set up an MSME in the state,” Yogi said, asking officials to frame guidelines for it. Meanwhile, additional chief secretary (home) Awanish Awasthi said about 7,000 people reached the state by 57 trains on Sunday. “Nearly 200 more trains are expected to reach UP from various states in next couple of days. Till date, nearly 2.3 lakh have reached the state by 215 trains. Migrants are being screened and asked to remain in home quarantine,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cm-pitches-for-90l-msme-jobs-easy-loans-to-new-units/articleshow/75665707.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Grocery, veggies supply likely from May 15||GANDHINAGAR: Even as people of Ahmedabad, Gandhinagar and a few other cities have been facing hardship because of the non-availability of vegetables and grocery, the state government is considering a proposal of resuming these services from May 15. However, these essential services will be allowed to open under stringent guidelines. Grocery shop owners and workers, along with vegetable vendors were identified as super spreaders of Covid-19, and these services were shut in Ahmedabad and Gandhinagar by the civic bodies. Key government sources said that the pros and cons of resuming vegetable supply and grocery stores were discussed at length by the government. “These two essential services cannot be suspended for a long period. The government is readying an action plan to minimize the negative impact of allowing grocery and vegetable shops to resume,” said an official, adding that vegetable and fruit stocks of farmers were also piling up. The government is expected to issue guidelines to ensure that there is no rush at vegetable and grocery stores. Meanwhile, Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) — which has been carrying out thermal screening of vegetable vendors and grocers — has over the past five days quarantined 69 vendors and grocers who showed Covid-19 symptoms. In the second round of screenings, the AMC has so far checked 9,500 vendors and 8,700 grocers. Among those screened, 69 were found to have fever or cough. These persons have been asked to quarantine themselves for seven days. So far, as many as 334 vegetable vendors, shopkeepers, staff of pharmacies and ATM security guards among others have tested Covid-19 positive in the city. Meanwhile, the AMC has started issuing health cards to vegetable vendors and grocers in the city. The cards will be valid for seven days, after which the holders will have to get screened again. A senior official pointed out that with the AMC banning the sale of vegetables and groceries till May 14, the entire exercise will have to be repeated once the lockdown is lifted or the notification banning the sale expires. An AMC official said that 18,200 vendors were operating in the lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/grocery-veggies-supply-likely-from-may-15/articleshow/75664883.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Nashik||Hundreds of migrants board buses, trucks till MP border||Nashik: Refusing to wait any longer — be it for permissions or health check-ups — hundreds of migrant workers have decided to make their way to their hometowns in Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Bihar, Odisha and West Bengal by whatever means available. They have started boarding trucks, jeeps and other vehicles to cover as much distance as possible. Most of them, however, are not aware if the state borders are even open. Their aim is to first get to the state border, and then figure out a way ahead. “I don’t know what is there in our fate. But we are now out of the lockdown and life has started moving after a lull of over 35 days. We will now rest only after reaching home,” said Shankar Makasare, a migrant from Madhya Pradesh who boarded a truck from Igatpuri. Many workers from Navi Mumai, Thane and Kalyan are travelling by autorickshaws. “This my autorickshaw. There are 17 such vehicles in our group. We are going to Allahabad in UP. If we are stopped at the border, we will leave the vehicles there, and move ahead by other means. Staying in Mumbai is not an option,” said Farooq Shaikh. On Saturday night, the state government too had ordered its buses to ferry workers — free of cost — till the state borders. “We have deployed 87 buses so far from Nashik district. Another 56 buses were deployed from Dhule and 14 from Jalgaon, all going towards MP border,” an MSRTC official said. One bus each was sent for Nanded and Murtizapur, while two buses were sent to Nagpur carrying workers from Gujarat. Kolhapur: 1,500 from MP get travel consent In Kolhapur, the consent for the travel of around 1,500 stranded migrants from MP has been received. The arrangements for a special train will be made soon. A similar consent for the travel of around 1,170 migrants from Rajasthan is awaited. District guardian minister Satej Patil said no fares will be charged from the passengers. “We are in talks with the rail authorities and expect the plan to be finalised in a couple of days. We are going to pay for all their tickets from our own pockets. They do not have to worry, they just have to be disciplined. No one will be left out,” said Patil. The state transport buses, which are expected to start ferrying 6,467 workers and others from Monday, too are awaiting consent from the respective district administrations. The Kolhapur administration is planning to send buses to the border points. UP migrants made to pay Rs 595 for train ticket Meanwhile, amid different claims made by the Centre and the state government, about bearing the travel expenses of migrant workers travelling to their hometowns, those who boarded the Shramik special train for Uttar Pradesh on Sunday had to pay Rs 595 for getting a seat. As many as 1,154 workers boarded the special train from Jalna to Unnao. A large group of politicians, including Jalna BJP MP Raosaheb Danve and local Congress MLA Kailas Gorantyal, were present during the train's departure. Jalna collector Ravindra Binwade said, “The railway authorities had offered us journey tickets for all workers in bulk after paying the necessary amount. We tried to contact authorities in UP government seeking the release of money towards the train fares, but no favourable response was received. When we discussed the issue with the workers, they expressed their willingness to pay themselves.” Binwade said a group of stranded workers recently left for MP onboard a Shramik train from Aurangabad, but they did not have to pay as the MP government took care of their tickets. Upinder Singh, divisional railway manager for South Central Railway (SCR), said the Indian Railways was charging money towards journey of passengers boarding Shramik special trains from respective district administrations. “The respective district administration can recover money from the state governments or raise it from charity or CSR funds. We cannot offer free travel as these trains are already running half of the loading capacity due to social distancing. During the return journey, the trains do not have any passenger," he said. Labour leader Ram Baheti said it was ironical that neither the government, nor the political parties were paying for the travel of stranded workers. “These workers do not have money to make ends meet. Instead of offering them timely help, they are asked to pay Rs 595, which is a big amount for them,” he said. BJP MP Bhagwat Karad said migrants reaching states ruled by his party would get the money reimbursed. “Certain communication gap must have occurred between Jalna administration and Uttar Pradesh government. We have contact details of all stranded workers who boarded the train for Unnao and they will get complete refund,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/hundreds-of-migrants-board-buses-trucks-till-mp-border/articleshow/75665358.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Goa||Private buses to operate 70% of fleet from today||Panaji: Private bus operators who resumed services on Tuesday with only 100 buses, will now run 70% of their fleet from Monday. While this may come as a welcome relief for commuters, the move is rife with challenges for bus owners who also have to grapple with the hike in fuel prices. Owing to the passenger limit of one person per seat in order to implement social distancing, many bus operators decided to stay off the roads, even after the government gave them the green signal to operate . There were therefore only two buses operating on each regular route across the state, but as the week progressed, some bus operators decided to resume their services. What started with only 100 buses on Tuesday, progressed to 400 buses by the weekend, president of the all Goa bus owners’ association, Shiva Kambli said. Drivers operating from the Panaji bus stand said their business peaks in the morning and evening when office goers use the service. “Most people still prefer taking their personal vehicles due to the Covid -19 threat. They are not aware that we take all infection-control measures as well. We don’t permit people to board without a mask and the buses are sprayed with disinfectant after 7pm every day,” they said. Most private bus owners are yet to equip themselves with hand-held thermal scanners and provide sanitiser. “We are struggling to make ends meet under the lockdown. Yet, we have been running the buses at 50% capacity to maintain social distance. To top that, fuel prices have skyrocketed. The business is running under a loss. We cannot take on the additional financial burden of scanners,” a bus owner said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/private-buses-to-operate-70-of-fleet-from-today/articleshow/75665705.cms||Nida Sayed
May 11, 2020||Madurai||Meat stalls remain shut for fourth Sunday in Madurai, illegal ones sealed||MADURAI: Meat and fish stalls remained closed for the fourth consecutive Sunday in Madurai since the start of the lockdown. These shops had witnessed huge crowds on Sundays making it potential spots for the spread of coronavirus, which prompted the district administration to close down the meat and fish stalls. Since then people had to forgo their favourite ‘non vegetarian Sundays’. The first Sunday, when the collector announced the lockdown on April 12, many traders sold meat clandestinely as there was good demand and the price of meat went up to as much as Rs 1000 per kg. A few traders even sold meat at the doorsteps. “Meat is a must on Sunday’s menu for us, so I got my regular butcher’s number and placed an order and had the meat delivered at home,” said Murali K of Karupayoorani. He said that his two children refuse to have food if there is no meat dishes on Sundays, and that it has become so much a regular part of their diet. Many others like him brought meat, which did not have the certified blue seal of the corporation as its slaughter house in Nellpettai was closed down. The next week, butchers took orders on Saturday and delivered meat to their customers till 2pm, whereas meat stalls usually close by 11am. Many shops have online distribution system. “I bought fish on a delivery site, only to find out that it was frozen, and there was no mention about it at the time of purchase,” said Kalaiarasi of K K Nagar, adding that it was the reason why people wanted to buy meat and fish directly from the stall, she said. S Muthukrishnan of Madurai City Mutton Retail Merchants Association said that around 400 mutton stalls in Madurai city were facing loss to the tune of Rs one crore on each Sunday, due to the closure of shops. As many as 2000 goats are slaughtered in the city on a normal Sunday, he said. His Krishnan Mutton stall is online now. On Sunday, the corporation officials led by health inspector Ramanathan sealed meat and fish stalls in Vellalar Cross Street in ward number 10, Antony Koil Street in ward 13 and Manjalmedu colony in ward number 14, for selling meat illegally and seized 50kg of meat from them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/meat-stalls-remain-shut-for-fourth-sunday-in-city-illegal-ones-sealed/articleshow/75665350.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Erode||High on debts,Tamil Nadu needs Tasmac to remain sober||A meme — even if people of the state decide to stop drinking, it seems Tamil Nadu government will not let them to do so — widely circulated last week highlighted the desperation of the state to plug its financial loopholes. The speed at which the government, despite condemnation from the opposition, moved the Supreme Court on Saturday to get reprieve from the Madras high court’s order on Friday to close state-owned Tasmac outlets, only highlighted that fact. And you don’t need a Rajinikanth to drive home the point. Nevertheless,the actor and politician-in-waiting did make a point. "The state government should look at better ways to fill up its treasury," tweeted Rajinikanth on Sunday morning, even while chiding the ruling AIADMK to "forget about returning to power" if it plans to reopen Tasmac outlets. A couple of weeks ago, a senior official from the state finance department told TOI that salaries have to be paid, even while seeking to discount the notion that Tamil Nadu government is surviving on ‘liquor money’. "Consumption of alcohol appears to be high since everything goes through Tasmac, which controls both the wholesale procurement and retail sale. It also indicates the efficiency in collection of this revenue, a model that has been since replicated by the states of Kerala and Andhra Pradesh. But the revenue from liquor is just around 25% of the state’s total own revenue," the official said, while adding that revenue through Tasmac is around `30,000 crore per annum, while state’s own revenue amounts to around `1.3 lakh crore. Surprisingly, the trigger happy AIADMK camp, which hits back at anyone attacking the government, preferred a stoic silence through the day and let Rajinikanth go almost scot-free. Even officials are tight lipped about the precarious state of government finances. But the writing is on the wall and one gets to see the glimpses. First came the withholding of the dearness allowance and then the order to increase the retirement age of state government employees by one year. That too may not suffice. There are unofficial talks about the state government having ordered a freeze in recruitment and discussing ways and means to implement a salary cut, which some say could be up to 30%, for different categories of government employees. "Salary cut was discussed and debated. It has been decided not to implement it," said one official. "Paying salaries to government employees will not be a problem since it comes through ‘appropriation account’. Further, there is a 70% chance that this government will not opt for a salary cut of employees," said another official. A statement from the Tamil Nadu government on Saturday, announcing an expert committee to be headed by former RBI governor C Rangarajan, seems to highlight the precarious condition of the state’s finances to a certain extent. In reply to the general discussion on the budget on February 20, 2020 deputy chief minister (O Panneerselvam) had announced that an expert committee would be constituted to recommend measures to improve the tax-GSDP ratio of Tamil Nadu, it read. In the present context where the Covid-19 pandemic has posed much more serious economic and fiscal challenges, the expert committee may be requested to examine the challenges of Tamil Nadu and the way forward to improve the fiscal position including the tax-GSDP ratio as part of the larger brief of suggesting policy measures to improve the economic situation, the statement said. "What the chief secretary’s order doesn’t say, but was duly acknowledged by the deputy chief minister O Panneerselvam in the state assembly, is that the suggestion to the government to constitute such an expert committee came from me. I have been telling this to the state government since 2017," said DMK MLA P T R Palanivel Thiagarajan, who worked as a financial consultant in the US before getting active in state politics a few years ago. "The tax-GSDP ratio used to be around 10% between 2004 and 2014. Since then it has steadily declined to around 7% now. A one-third drop and it should have alarmed the government long ago. The state’s finances were in a precarious situation much before this crisis," said Thiagarajan. The constitution of the expert committee too does not enthuse him. "The committee does not inspire confidence as it should. It does not have any world-class economists as the one constituted by the Rajasthan government. Also the three-month timeframe given to the committee is too long. By then, we will already be bankrupt or will be in a deep liquidity crunch," says Thiagarajan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/high-on-debtstn-needs-tasmac-to-remain-sober/articleshow/75672680.cms||D Govardan
May 11, 2020||Kolhapur||48 fresh Covid-19 cases take total to 264 in Solapur||Kolhapur: Solapur district recorded 48 fresh Covid-19 cases on Sunday, the highest number reported in a day. Of the 48 Covid-19 patients, 45 are from the city, while three are from Mohol taluka.Out of the 48 patients, nine are police personnel, three are state health workers, 25 were contacts of the person who tested positive earlier, six are Severe Acute Respiratory Illness (SARI) patients and four are contact people in the hospital, among others, as per a report from the Solapur health department. The total number of cases has gone up to 264—152 men and 112 women—including 14 death. The active number of cases is 209. As many as 41 patients have recovered.On Friday, the administration received a total of 132 throat swab sample results, of which 48 tested positive. Considering the continuous surge in the number of Covid-19 patients, the district administration has taken aggressive steps by appointing four special teams to ensure strict enforcement of lockdown norms. District collector Milind Shambharkar set up four teams, headed by specially appointed government officers, who will be held responsible for the control of the infection. The team for each containment zone comprises officials of health, civil supply, revenue, and municipal corporation. Teams working in the containment zones would be responsible for conducting surveys to identify patients, raise awareness among the citizens, distribute masks, enusre smooth supply of essential commodities and tracing contacts of patients. Conservancy staff has been given the responsibility to maintain cleanliness in the containment zone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/48-fresh-covid-19-cases-take-total-to-264-in-solapur/articleshow/75664777.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Kolhapur||Long queue at checkpost near Kini toll plaza||Kolhapur: With some lockdown norms relaxed, police surveillance has been increased in checkpost set up in Pune-Bangalore National Highway near Kini toll plaza leading to vehicular traffic on NH4.Police are checking all the documents of the people travelling in the vehicle and noting down all their details. Those without a valid pass are not allowed to enter. This resulted in a long queue on the highway and people have to wait for hours to pass the checkpost.“Though the relaxations in travelling were declared in the first week of May, we are witnessing the increase in the flow of vehicles from the last two days. Along with the vehicles carrying essential commodities, the vehicles carrying non-essential commodities and other materials from Pune, Mumbai and other parts of the state have also increased. Some were going to Karnataka and Kolhapur,” said a police officer attached with Peth Vadgaon police station. “Along with these, the people stuck in other parts of the state are making arrangements to enter Kolhapur. We have been ordered to stop every vehicle, check and note the passengers’, confirm that they have a valid travel pass and then allow them to move forward. This takes time but we cannot allow anyone to pass without noting their details,” he said.Ankush Gaikwad, a bank employee working in Islampur who daily commutes from Kolhapur, said, “We have to spend more than an hour in the queue at the police checkpost while returning from Islampur to Kolhapur. The police should form a separate lane for those who travel daily.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/long-queue-at-checkpost-near-kini-toll-plaza/articleshow/75664791.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Business||Distributors: Chips, biscuits stocks low||Bengaluru: Distributors of FMCG products say there could be a shortage of biscuits, noodles and chips in the next 10 days if companies are not able to ramp up production and if transportation remains constrained by the paucity of labour. The All India Consumer Products Distributor Federation (AICPDF) said most companies are unable to service the order generated by the distributors and if the situation continues, then panic buying would begin again, like when the lockdown was first imposed in March. “Companies usually have stock for 15-20 days in their facilities, while distributors for a month. Today, companies have stock for just 2-5 days and distributors have for a maximum of 4-5 days. If we ask for 100 boxes of a product, the company will send us 10-20,” said Dhairyashil Patil, national president of AICPDF. The reason, Patil says, is because in the initial days of the lockdown, FMCG companies were stuck with stock which was difficult to transport to the stores because trucks were stuck at state borders and drivers left the vehicles stranded. “Now, those stocks have come to distributors and gone to the market, so the pipeline has become dry. Most companies are working with 33% labour and they are operating at not more than 50% capacity,” Patil added. The situation is especially worrying for noodles, for which there is no stock even for a day. While premium cookies is available, regular biscuits are not. One reason for the shortage also is that consumers are stocking up more than during normal times. ITC said it has seen a surge in demand for essential food items including Aashirvaad atta, spices, salt, Sunfeast biscuits and Yipee noodles. “Such food products have been flying off the shelves. Our teams are working tirelessly to ensure that our diverse range of products reach the markets, despite supply chain challenges,” said Hemant Malik, divisional CEO of foods. There are still lot of issues around inter-state passes, which is increasing the time the products take to reach distributors. “Demand for all sorts of food has more than doubled in the last few months because that is the only expense bucket for a family right now. On the other hand, companies have not been able to cope with this as no one is operating at full capacity,” said Krishnarao Buddha, senior category head of marketing at Parle Products.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/distributors-chips-biscuits-stocks-low/articleshow/75664807.cms||Avik Das
May 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Customs on guard for special flights||Hyderabad: Customs officials are keeping a watch on possible smuggling activity even during special flight operations. Two special flights from USA and Abu Dhabi will arrive at Rajiv Gandhi International Airport (RGIA) on Monday. The special flight from San Francisco to Hyderabad will come via Mumbai. “The Air Indian special flight from USA is scheduled to arrive at Hyderabad at 10.15 am on Monday. The flight’s Hyderabad-Vijayawada leg of journey has been cancelled,” said a Customs official.  The special flight to bring back passengers from Abu Dhabhi will leave at 11.30 am on Monday from RGI Airport as a ferry flight (without passengers), and return with passengers at 8.30 pm. On Saturday, one of the 163 passengers who arrived from Kuwait was shifted to hospital for medical checkup and quarantine after the medical screening. Rest of the passengers have been placed under quarantine at three hotels in Gachibowli, Begumpet and Kacheguda. Seven customs officials wearing PPE were deployed at the airport for screening of passengers and baggage. Officials said that no significant customs violations were noticed on Saturday. “We will be thorough with checking of passengers and baggage on Monday with two flights coming from USA and Abu Dhabi. Though it is difficult for gangs to operate under these circumstances, we will keep a watch for gold smuggling activity,” said a customs official. Revenue officials collected passports of all passengers and gave acknowledgements to them. The same will be returned after completion of quarantine period, said a Cyberabad police official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/customs-on-guard-for-special-flights/articleshow/75665363.cms||Mahesh Buddi
May 11, 2020||Goa||South Goa police crack down on mask violators||MARGAO/PONDA: South Goa police have cracked down on people found moving in public places without the mandatory face masks, with altogether 3,636 cases booked until Saturday. Ponda police station booked the maximum number with 613 cases, followed by Verna police station with 520 cases and Fatorda with 434. South Goa has a total 17 police stations across five divisions — Margao, Quepem, Vasco, Ponda and Konkan Railway. Ponda police station also recorded the highest number of arrests for violating lockdown rules with 125 people taken into custody under Section 188 of Code of Criminal Procedure. Altogether 751 people have been arrested across the state for violating the prohibitory orders South Goa police have so far booked 352 cases and netted an amount of nearly Rs 58 lakh by way of fines. The highest amount of fines — Rs 7.6 lakh — was collected by Fatorda police station, followed by Verna police station with Rs 7.3 lakh. Margao sub-division, topped the list with 146 cases and 228 arrests. Altogether 90 cases were booked under the Quepem sub-division . At the Vasco sub-division, altogether 72 cases were booked and 215 people arrested. Seventy-four vehicles were seized and fines aggregating Rs 16.7 lakhs collected. Forty-four cases were booked under the Ponda sub division. Hundred and thirty-one people were arrested, 17 vehicles seized and Rs 9.5 lakh collected through fines, data released by South Goa police headquarters stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/south-goa-police-crack-down-on-mask-violators/articleshow/75665708.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Ahmedabad||With vending ban, farmers leaving vegetables in fields||Ahmedabad: At the entrance of Bhaner village near Kathlal, lie heaps coccinea, bottle gourd and ladyfinger. While the people of Ahmedabad desperately wait for the sale of vegetables to resume, farmers too are desperate as they are not getting good prices for their vegetables. The ban on the sale of vegetables in Ahmedabad city and its periphery has halted auctioning at the Jetalpur APMC market yard and has forced farmers from around to go to places like Nadiad, Kathlal and Kapadwanj and others. The increase in supply of vegetables has led to a drastic fall in prices. “On Thursday, for 20kg of bottle gourd we got Rs 50, while the price in Ahmedabad is usually around Rs 250. Moreover, the district police has even banned the exit of vehicles from the district even if they are carrying essential items. On Thursday, a vehicle carrying produce for sale in Vadali near Ambaji was sent back from the Kheda district limit,” says Kirit Patel. Patel says that in Bhaner there is about a ton of vegetables waiting to be fed to cattle. Vijay Vishnu, a resident of Kathlal, says even picking vegetables and selling them are leading to losses as farmers cannot recoup the cost of labour “Earlier, when we went to Ahmedabad there was demand and we got good prices. Now, selling in local markets where there is barely any demand is hurting us financially,” he said. Bhragyesh Patel, a farmer in Bhaner, said, “We were the biggest suppliers of vegetables to Ahmedabad and with this ban we are forced to leave vegetables in the fields. Cattle owners have been asked to come and get it, so at least the village cattle eat it instead of it getting spoiled. Farmers are getting Rs 50 to Rs 100 for 20kg of vegetables which does not meet even labour and transportation costs.” Deepak Patel, the secretary of APMC Ahmedabad, said, “The sale of vegetables is zero from Jetalpur and this has forced farmers to go to nearby talukas to sell. With the lockdown, people had got into the habit of buying in bulk for four to five days and some have stopped eating vegetables and are surviving on pulses. Even when trading was going on at Jetalpur, there was a 40% drop in demand for vegetables.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/with-vending-ban-farmers-leaving-vegetables-in-fields/articleshow/75664880.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
May 11, 2020||Kolhapur||CouncillorJadhav arrested||Kolhapur: Two weeks after he was booked for threatening a chief officer attached with the Islampur municipal council, NCP councillor Khanderao Jadhav was arrested by the Islampur police from his hideout at Amba in the Shahuwadi taluka of Kolhapur district on Sunday. Jadhav was produced before the local court and the court sent him to four-day police custody up to May 14. Narayan Deshmukh, police inspector in-charge of Islampur police station, said, “We got information from our sources that Jadhav was hiding in Amba. With the help of Kolhapur police, we nabbed him.” Police have invoked several sections of the IPC, including section 353, 509,504 and 506 against him. Chief officer Pradnya Pawar had lodged a complaint against Jadhav on April 28. She had earlier initiated action against the driver of a garbage truck who was found carrying boxes of alcohol in the vehicle. Jadhav objected to the action and threatened Pawar of dire consequences. Last week, the government employees’ association from Sangli district had threatened to stop work if the district administration failed to take action against the suspects.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/councillorjadhav-arrested/articleshow/75664800.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Nashik||Additional force of 350 railway police for Malegaon||Nashik: As many as 350 railway police personnel have been assigned to rural police for enforcing strict implementation of the lockdown in Malegaon where over 500 people have tested positive for Covid-19. A total of six companies, comprising 90 jawans, of State Reserve Police Force (SRPF) along with around 1,000 police personnel have already been deployed in the textile town for ensuring that people remain indoors. The 350 personnel from railway police also include 10 officers. Superintendent of police Arti Singh on Friday briefed the railway police personnel and sensitised them regarding things required to ensure strict lockdown in Malegaon. Singh also asked them to take all necessary precautions to ensure that they did not get infected by coronavirus. An advisory issued by Singh to the newly-joined personnel was important given that 104SRPF and police personnel have tested positive for Covid-19. A 51-year-old police constable attached to the Nashik Rural Police headquarters, who was sent on duty to Malegaon, died of Covid-19 on Saturday. "With rising cases of Covid-19 in the textile town and the infection spreading among the police personnel on duty, we are taking all the precautionary measures to prevent getting infected," a police officer said. Nutritious food, health check-up, personal protection equipment kits, laundry facility, good accommodation are being provided to the police personnel and jawans who are deployed in various parts of Malegaon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/additional-force-of-350-railway-police-for-malegaon/articleshow/75665365.cms||Santosh Sonawane
May 11, 2020||Ahmedabad||Monitor hazardous chemical units: Govt||Gandhinagar: After the Times of India reported that a Vishakapatnam-like disaster could easily happen in Gujarat, as there has been no monitoring of hazardous chemical units during the lockdown period, the Director of Industrial Safety and Health (DISH) has issued a GR, asking district authorities to check the status of all chemical units within their jurisdiction.Thousands of tonnes of hazardous chemicals have been lying without any monitoring in chemical units of the state, which have been shut for close to two months because of the lockdown. DISH, in the GR, directed district DISH staff to ensure that all the industries are checked and storage facilities of chemicals in these units are satisfactory. DISH directed all unit owners to prepare plans to resume with the help of trained manpower, post lockdown to prevent any unforeseen event.Checking of all factory settings like chemical carrying pipeline, storage space etc., to prevent any leakage etc has been directed. In the GR, DISH also asked unit owners and district staff to check effectiveness of all critical safety and emergency systems in all the factories. The DISH also directed all factory owners to acquire and maintain sufficient stock of neutralizer media and antidotes to neutralize impact of any chemical reaction due to high temperature during lockdown period.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/monitor-hazardous-chemical-units-govt/articleshow/75664827.cms||Kapil Dave
May 11, 2020||Nashik||7 patients discharged in Nashik, 10 in Malegaon||Nashik: Seven Covid-19 patients were discharged from the Nashik civil hospital and another 10 were discharged from the Covid care facility in Malegaon on Sunday. The patients will be under home-isolation. Anant Pawar, the resident medical officer of Nashik civil hospital said the decision to discharge these patients was taken after they received the state government’s revised Covid-19 guidelines on Saturday. The new guidelines say that mild, very mild or pre-symptomatic cases admitted to a Covid care facility will undergo regular temperature and pulse oximetry monitoring. The patients can be discharged after 10 days of onset of the symptoms and if there has been no fever for three days. There will be no need for testing prior to discharge. At the time of discharge, the patients will be advised home isolation for a further seven days. “Earlier, Covid 19 patients had to be admitted for 20 days. Now, as per the revised guidelines, patients with mild or very mild symptoms can be discharged in 10 days,” said district civil surgeon Suresh Jagdale. Meanwhile, an ENT specialist at the civil hospital — who had tested positive for Covid-19 and had sought the home-isolation option — was discharged late on Friday night, though the state’s revised guidelines came in only by Saturday. A few days ago, the ENT specialist was admitted to the hospital after his tests confirmed the infection. However, citing a lack of facilities at the hospital, he had sought discharge. Jagdale said the ENT specialist was discharged on the directions of Archana Patil, the director of health, Maharashtra. He added that Patil okayed the discharge the of the ENT specialist as he is a senior doctor himself and had made a request seeking discharge as per to the discharge guidelines issued by the Centre a few days ago.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/7-patients-discharged-in-nashik-10-in-malegaon/articleshow/75665367.cms||Santosh Sonawane
May 11, 2020||Kolhapur||Leader of notorious gang DJ surrenders in Solapur dist||Kolhapur: Kolhapur police on Saturday took charge of Dilip Jadhav, the leader of notorious gang DJ from Mangalwedha police station of Solapur district after he surrendered. He was thereafter arrested by the Kolhapur police for violating parole rules. Jadhav was released on parole on the condition that he will not enter Kolhapur district. However, a few days ago, Jadhav had visited his house in Pachgaon and created ruckus, following which the police were notified about the same. Upon enquiring, they found out that Jadhav had visited his house in Kolhapur’s Pachgaon, thus violating parole norms and later fled to Mangalwedha town in Solapur. “He is serving life term in Pune’s Yerwada jail in connection with a 2013 murder that took place in the Pachgaon area of Kolhapur. He was granted parole in April after he said that his mother and wife were ill. He had stated that he would be staying at his grandparents house in Mangalwedha in Solapur district and will not roam in the jurisdiction of Kolhapur. The jail administration had granted him parole on the condition that he will not step foot in Kolhapur district,” said a police officer attached with Karveer police station. “On May 5, some unidentified people attacked Jadhav’s house in Pachgaon and vandalised three motorcycles parked outside his house. Following this, we initiated an investigation and found that Jadhav was hiding in his house until then and ran away after his house was attacked. He later surrendered before Mangalwedha police on May 9,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/leader-of-notorious-gang-dj-surrenders-in-solapur-dist/articleshow/75664818.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Vadodara||People going to native places on foot will be stopped: Gujarat DGP||AHMEDABAD: Urging people to support the administration in implementing lockdown, DGP Shivanand Jha said on Sunday that the steps being taken by police and administration might cause inconvenience, but they are for the good of the people.Referring to the issue of stranded migrant workers, the DGP said each worker desirous of reaching their home state will be sent by proper government process. He criticized people setting out on their own for their home states without following procedure. “Such people who try to reach their home states on foot will be stopped and taken to shelter homes. And from there, with proper coordination with the administration, they will be sent to their home states or districts,” Jha said. Jha said it has come to notice that many people move across districts without authorization. Such people put theirs and the lives of others at stake. “If travelling from one district to another is unavoidable then get a pass from the collector and then go. And after reaching their destination, people should quarantine themselves for a prescribed time limit,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/people-going-to-native-places-on-foot-will-be-stopped-dgp/articleshow/75666687.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: 50-year-old Covid-19 patient jumps to death in Civil Hospital||AHMEDABAD: A 50-year-old Covid-19 patient, Zebunnissa Qureshi of Rakhial, committed suicide by jumping from the third floor of Civil Hospital, Asarwa, on Sunday morning. Sources said Qureshi had been depressed from the time she was admitted to the 1,200-bed facility at Civil Hospital on May 5. Police sources said they have registered a case of accidental death and handed over the investigation to the Civil Trauma Police Chowky for further investigation.  According to the accidental death case papers registered by police, Shahibaug police got a call from in-charge inspector M B Barad about the suicide. According to case papers, after testing Covid-19 positive on May 4, Qureshi was admitted to the A-0 ward on May 5. As mentioned in the case papers, on Sunday before 10am, she went to the third floor of the hospital and jumped out of the gallery near the washroom for people with disabilities. “She died because of the injuries caused due to the fall,” said a police official. Sources from the Shahibaug police station said that her body was sent for postmortem after the inquest panchnama. Her son Mujahid Qureshi was called to the postmortem room and the body was then sent for burial according to the norms for Covid-19 casualties. Deputy commissioner of police Neeraj Badgujar said that though no reason for the suicide has come to light, it is learnt that the patient was in severe depression.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/50-year-old-covid-patient-jumps-to-death-in-civil/articleshow/75665390.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Business||Firms rapidly automating processes: Zinnov-UiPath||Bengaluru: Large enterprises in India are rapidly adopting hyper-intelligent automation (HIA), says a new study by consulting firm Zinnov and automation firm UiPath. The study estimates that these enterprises spent $55-60 million on HIA in 2019 alone, and this will reach $350-400 million by 2024, at a 55% CAGR. The Covid-19 pandemic, the study predicts, will accelerate HIA because it will take away the dependence on people for routine processes and better ensure business continuity. The study looked at the top 148 publicly listed companies, those with revenue of over $1 billion each. HIA is a term Zinnov uses for a process that goes much beyond basic robotic process automation (RPA). RPA refers to software that can be easily programmed to do basic tasks across applications – like robots in manufacturing plants, these software robots take away the drudgery of repetitive tasks in business processes, like keying in customer or invoice details. HIA brings in AI/ML and other data tools on top of RPA at multiple levels. Praveen Bhadada, managing partner at Zinnov, describes it as a scientific approach to get benefits from RPA. Too often in the past, RPA has been implemented by organisations without fully understanding where and how it would work best, and consequently the results were sub-optimal, and often gave the impression of wasted money. Today, there are tools that automatically discover an entire process from system data, identify points of friction and inefficiency, and uncover the underlying causes. This helps organisations understand where exactly a robotic process could increase efficiencies, and by how much. Celonis, Software AG and UiPath are among the leaders in offering this solution. Early RPA systems lacked the intelligence to handle complex and unstructured data. Now, AI/ML capabilities are enabling intelligent document processing, and RPA vendors are increasingly leveraging this to automate extremely complex use cases – such as analysis of complex financial statements and understanding engineering drawings. Abbyy, WorkFusion, Kofax and Automation Anywhere are leaders here. HIA is a combination of intelligent process identification, intelligent streamlining of data, and finally creating and running the right bots to automate a process. The Zinnov-UiPath study says the increased HIA spending through 2024 is expected to be channelised towards enterprise-wide scaled automation. It says enterprises would explore more complex use cases– domain-specific ones and in automation of IT, and engineering and R&D. It says more than 65% of the large enterprises have already made initial investments in HIA. “Given the current situation (pandemic), organisations across sectors are assessing the power of RPA – right from managing outcomes with a highly dispersed workforce, to relooking at customer engagement with a new lens,” Manish Bharti, president of India and Saarc in UiPath, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/firms-rapidly-automating-processes-zinnov-uipath/articleshow/75664866.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ban on vegetable sales challenged||Ahmedabad: A PIL has challenged the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation’s (AMC) May 6 notification prohibiting sale of items other than milk and medicines in city areas on the ground that the sudden announcement of the decision led to overcrowding at grocery stores and vegetable shops, and it resulted in breach of social distancing norms putting public health at risk. Petitioner advocate Harshit Shah has sought to fix liability on officials for the sudden decision, which led to a ‘negative impact’ because the timing of issuance of notification was such that it caused panic buying among people. The PIL states that the authorities should have given enough time to people to purchase essential commodities. The petitioner has contended that the AMC notification came at 5pm on May 6. It said that only milk and medicines would be sold from the next day for next seven days. Meanwhile, another notification allowing shops to remain open from 7am to 7pm was in force. This practically gave a window of two hours to people to purchase grocery and vegetables. This led people to come out from their homes in large numbers and it resulted in overcrowding on streets and serpentine queues at shops. Ultimately, the social distancing norm was not followed. “The risk for the spread of coronavirus in those two hours was multiplied, thereby frustrating the very purpose of the AMC’s notification,“ the PIL says.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/ban-on-vegetable-sales-challenged/articleshow/75664878.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Hubballi||Two brothers beheaded by relative in Kalaburagi village||Kalaburagi : In a particularly violent crime, a family feud resulted in the murder of two brothers, both of whom were decapitated in Ankalagi village, Jevaragi taluk in Kalaburagi district on Saturday evening. Police said that the relatives had had a longstanding dispute over illegal extraction of sand, the climax of which was played out on Saturday. Yallalinga Taragonda, 41, and 35-year-old Gangappa Taragonda were allegedly killed by Bhutale Karagond, a relative. The brothers and Bhutale allegedly got into frequent fights over extraction of sand at Ankalagi, which rests on the banks of River Bheema. Despite being repeatedly counselled by elders in the village to bury the hatchet, the feud only continued. On Saturday evening, the altercation took a violent turn and Bhutale proceeded to behead Yallalinga, and Gangappa, who rushed to his brother’s aid, met with the same fate. Kalaburagi police on Sunday arrested Bhutale, and four others – Bhagavntray Karagond, Mallappa Karagond, Gangappa Karagond and Mallappa Sharanappa – in connection with the double murder.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/two-brothers-beheaded-by-relative-in-kalaburagi-village/articleshow/75663187.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Kolhapur||Police set up 9 flying squads, 18 checkpoints||Kolhapur: With number of people roaming on the streets without valid reason going up during relaxation in lockdown, city traffic police have formed a total of nine flying squads along with 18 check points to catch those violating the norms. According to police, as per relaxation in rules, only one person is allowed to ride a motorcycle for any kind of essential work and only three people are allowed to travel in a car, including the driver. But these rules are not being followed and strict action will be taken against the errant motorists. Vasant Babar, police inspector in-charge of city traffic branch, said, “District collector has issued orders that people should not travel double seat on motorcycles unless there is any valid reason and only three people should be in a car including the driver. Despite this we have noticed that the people continue to flout these rules that have been put in place to prevent the spread of Covid-19.” He added, "Due to this we have decided to launch a drive to nab errant motorists. We have set up 18 check points at various chowks and roads in the city and have set up 9 flying squads that will roam around the city to check on people flouting these rules." Babar said that during the first two phases of the lockdown they had seized more than 6,000 two-wheelers. "We have returned most of these vehicles to their owners. Now, the drive will be against those riding double seats without any valid reason," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/police-set-up-9-flying-squads-18-checkpoints/articleshow/75664845.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Surat||People going to native places on foot will be stopped: Gujarat DGP||AHMEDABAD: Urging people to support the administration in implementing lockdown, DGP Shivanand Jha said on Sunday that the steps being taken by police and administration might cause inconvenience, but they are for the good of the people.Referring to the issue of stranded migrant workers, the DGP said each worker desirous of reaching their home state will be sent by proper government process. He criticized people setting out on their own for their home states without following procedure. “Such people who try to reach their home states on foot will be stopped and taken to shelter homes. And from there, with proper coordination with the administration, they will be sent to their home states or districts,” Jha said. Jha said it has come to notice that many people move across districts without authorization. Such people put theirs and the lives of others at stake. “If travelling from one district to another is unavoidable then get a pass from the collector and then go. And after reaching their destination, people should quarantine themselves for a prescribed time limit,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/people-going-to-native-places-on-foot-will-be-stopped-dgp/articleshow/75666689.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Rajkot||People going to native places on foot will be stopped: Gujarat DGP||AHMEDABAD: Urging people to support the administration in implementing lockdown, DGP Shivanand Jha said on Sunday that the steps being taken by police and administration might cause inconvenience, but they are for the good of the people.Referring to the issue of stranded migrant workers, the DGP said each worker desirous of reaching their home state will be sent by proper government process. He criticized people setting out on their own for their home states without following procedure. “Such people who try to reach their home states on foot will be stopped and taken to shelter homes. And from there, with proper coordination with the administration, they will be sent to their home states or districts,” Jha said. Jha said it has come to notice that many people move across districts without authorization. Such people put theirs and the lives of others at stake. “If travelling from one district to another is unavoidable then get a pass from the collector and then go. And after reaching their destination, people should quarantine themselves for a prescribed time limit,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/people-going-to-native-places-on-foot-will-be-stopped-dgp/articleshow/75666688.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Ahmedabad||People going to native places on foot will be stopped: Gujarat DGP||AHMEDABAD: Urging people to support the administration in implementing lockdown, DGP Shivanand Jha said on Sunday that the steps being taken by police and administration might cause inconvenience, but they are for the good of the people. Referring to the issue of stranded migrant workers, the DGP said each worker desirous of reaching their home state will be sent by proper government process. He criticized people setting out on their own for their home states without following procedure. “Such people who try to reach their home states on foot will be stopped and taken to shelter homes. And from there, with proper coordination with the administration, they will be sent to their home states or districts,” Jha said. Jha said it has come to notice that many people move across districts without authorization. Such people put theirs and the lives of others at stake. “If travelling from one district to another is unavoidable then get a pass from the collector and then go. And after reaching their destination, people should quarantine themselves for a prescribed time limit,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/people-going-to-native-places-on-foot-will-be-stopped-dgp/articleshow/75664854.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Kolhapur||Opportunity in crisis: TV serial producers eyeing Kolhapur for shooting location||Kolhapur: Many television serial producers and daily soap channel heads are looking to shift their shooting location from Mumbai to Kolhapur. They have been contacting the city-based managers to provide them with locations, studios, technicians, caterers, designers and local artists.Upon the request of the local artists and producers, district guardian minister Satej Patil recently visited Chitranagari where the facilities are being developed to carry out shootings for serials. Patil said that the current crisis is providing opportunities for the district to host shootings of serials.Deepak Rajadhyaksha, a Mumbai-based business head of a television channel, said that many production firms are enquiring about shooting serials in Kolhapur. “ We are waiting for the guidelines from the governments regarding the precautions to be taken to resume the shootings. If the number of Covid-19 cases keeps increasing in Mumbai and the same is controlled in Kolhapur, we can definitely think about the proposal.”The TV serial producers want to resume the production as early as possible. They said that cost is a major factor in their decision to shift the shooting locations to Kolhapur from Mumbai. In various parts of the district, preparation for shooting two serials have already began, once the lockdown has been lifted, the shootings will start. One of the producers said, “Currently, the advertising revenues are down and it may not shoot up for some months. In such a situation, we have to ensure cost-cutting. In Kolhapur, the rents are low, food is cheaper, abundant locations .”Some producers have started looking for the locations. After their appeal, over 116 owners have mailed the photographs of their houses, properties as per the need of the production houses. Similarly, the producers have been demanding the opening of the old buildings in the city for shooting films. Patil has assured them that the decision regarding the proposal will be taken immediately after the lockdown is lifted. He has asked the authorities to keep the sets and studios of Chitranagari ready so that the serial production can start soon. One of the producers said if all these things are ready the artists will be a matter of concern and those who are ready to shift to Kolhapur will be immediately taken on board.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/opportunity-in-crisis-tv-serial-producers-eyeing-kolhapur-for-shooting-location/articleshow/75664858.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Agra||32 staff workers of Mathura’s pvt hosp quarantined after doc couple tests positive||AGRA: At least 32 staff members of a private hospital in Mathura were quarantined on Sunday after a doctor couple running the facility tested positive for coronavirus on Saturday. Mathura administration also initiated the process of sealing the hospital. Till now, 46 cases of coronavirus, including three deaths, have been reported in the district. In neighbouring district of Aligarh, two persons tested positive for coronavirus on Sunday, taking the total tally of such cases to 57, including three deaths. The patients were admitted at JNMC hospital on Saturday and their reports confirmed their Covid positive status on Sunday. According to Aligarh’s chief development officer Anunay Jha, two patients, including a 20-year-old woman, are admitted at JNMC’s Covid ward. He said that the woman hails from hotspot area, Turkman gate, while the man, 63, from Sasnigate area. “Their contacts are being traced now,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/32-staff-workers-of-mathuras-pvt-hosp-quarantined-after-doc-couple-tests-ve/articleshow/75663999.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Sunday storm may have damaged 25% of Maliahabad mangoes in a single day||LUCKNOW: Sunday’s thunderstorm could have led to at least 25% loss of the fruit in Malihabad's mango belt. The erratic weather, longish and harsh winter, and intermittent rains, had already reduced the crop. “There was 30% less fruit this time already. The thunderstorm on Sunday dealt an even severe blow. There was so much fruit that dropped on the ground in my orchard. Even the trees got damaged,” said mango entrepreneur SC Shukla. The weather has wreaked havoc on the state's mango yield. Malihabad's Dussehri is damaged as lots of fruit have become 'daagi' (stained or rotten) due to the recent hailstorm. Sunday's thunderstorm was harshest in the recent past which may have damaged at least 25% of the crop, say growers. “It was a huge loss today. There is a prediction that this weather would continue and we are geared up for the worst. Whatever mango we lost today can only be consumed in homes to make dry mango ‘khatai’ or 'chutney',” said Insram ali, president, All India Mango Growers Association. The varieties that mature late or after Dussehri like high-on-export-demand Chausa, Langda, Safeda and Lakhnauva are also affected. The impact of weather may vary in all mango belts in the state but it is not that any of it would be unaffected. At least 4 lakh hectare is under mango cultivation in north and central UP. Uttar Pradesh is also the second largest mango producing state after Andhra Pradesh. Mango is a very weather-sensitive crop during its flowering stage. Weather conditions dictate panicle (cluster of flowers) emergence, which is the very first stage of the crop. Extended winter this time have made panicles (baur) emerge very late, as late as mid-February while usually, it should emerge in January. This also reduced the number of 'baurs'. Considering that usually fruit sets in by March-April, but this year it wasn't so, the mango cycle of the state was already delayed. And with weather remaining abnormal right from the start of the mango season till now, when the fruit has attained a size and shape and is in the ripening stage, it may not be fully grown and good in quality. Repeated rains would affect the crop more by raising the possibilities for a disease outbreak. Mango growers in Maal and Malihabad are apprehensive that the fruit may lack in taste as well because of rains.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/sunday-storm-may-have-damaged-25-of-maliahabad-mangoes-in-a-single-day/articleshow/75665714.cms||Neha Shukla
May 11, 2020||Ahmedabad||Son booked on way to meet +ve father in hospital||Ahmedabad: Narol police on Saturday intercepted and booked a person for breaking lockdown norms and home quarantine when he was on his way to visit his father admitted in Civil Hospital with Covid-19 on Friday. Police were informed by the chairman of Jival Park Society where the patient’s family resides, and police booked the person, as he and his family were supposed to be home-quarantined given his father had tested Covid-19 positive.Ghanshyam Patel, the chairman of the society had stuck a notice at the society gates prohibiting people from entering or exiting the society. “On Saturday, Patel came to know that the patient’s son had gone out of the society. He went to their house and on inquiry came to know that he had gone to meet his father in the hospital,” said a Narol police source.Patel, who lives a retired life, immediately informed Narol police about the incident. “We immediately reached the society, and traced the patient’s son. We have booked him for breaking quarantine norms and also under the Epidemic Diseases Act and Disaster Management Act,” said a police official. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/son-booked-on-way-to-meet-ve-father-in-hospital/articleshow/75664870.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Ahmedabad||AMC urged to revoke ‘unjust’ order banning veggie sale||AHMEDABAD: A social organization has taken exception to the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation’s (AMC) decision banning sale of grocery and vegetable in city areas and demanded its revocation with immediate effect. The authorities on May 6 put a ban on sale of all essential commodities except milk and medicine from the next day with a view to curbing the Covid-19 spread. The decision was taken by officials on consideration that the virus transmission was also taking place because of vegetable vending activity. Minority’s Coordination Committee, Gujarat has criticized the authorities’ decision of restraining vegetable sale on May 6. In a representation sent to the municipal commissioner on Sunday, the committee’s convener Mujahid Nafees said, “To protect self from the coronavirus transmission, it is necessary that one has strong immunity. And this immunity comes from regular and required consumption of vegetables and fruits. Prohibiting sale of vegetables at a time of Covid-19 pandemic is highly unjust and unhealthy.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/amc-urged-to-revoke-unjust-order-banning-veggie-sale/articleshow/75664872.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Nashik||5 cases of assault registered in a day||Nashik: As many as five cases of assault (voluntarily causing hurt) took place in the city on Friday and cases were registered with different police stations on Saturday. Ambad police booked six people from Maulana Baba Chawl in Morwadi area of the city after two groups clashed against each other over the issue of parking a motorbike. Three people each from both groups have been booked by police in the cross-complaint. In another complaint registered with the Nashik Road police, two men were were assaulted by two suspects at around 11.30 pm on Friday. Cases were also filed against two people in Nashik Road police station and three people at Mhasrool police station for similar reasons. DCP Vijay Kharat of Zone II said that the sudden spurt was apparently due to the life coming back to normalcy after certain relaxation in the lockdown. “Shops have opened up, there is good movement of people in the lanes and by-lanes of the city. This apparently led to the rise in cases of scuffles and arguments.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/5-cases-of-assault-registered-in-a-day/articleshow/75665374.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Kolhapur||Quarantine & isolation capacity being increased||Kolhapur: After its decision on compulsory quarantine/isolation of people coming from cities and districts that have been marked as red zones, the Kolhapur Municipal Corporation has stepped up efforts to develop more quarantine and isolation centres. Currently, the KMC has the capacity to accommodate around 1,000 people in its quarantine facilities. More quarantine and isolation wards are being developed in the hostels of Shivaji University. Similarly, beds are being set up in the marriage halls and school buildings. Civic chief Mallinath Kalshetti said, “We are going to increase the number of beds. On Sunday, I discussed the matter with the hoteliers’ association. Three hotel owners have agreed to accommodate the persons arriving from the hotspots such as Mumbai and Pune. People will have to bear the costs. They will be taken to the three covid care centres where their swabs will be taken and sent for testing. If they are positive, they will be put in isolation. If they test negative, they will be told to quarantine at home. Even those who are asymptomatic will be allowed to stay at homes.” The persons arriving in the city will be screened at the entry points. More thermal guns to check the body temperature have been made available. Currently, only those having passes for emergency travel are allowed in. The civic chief said volunteers are being taken on board to ensure that the persons advised home quarantine do not leave their homes. “We are also developing an app with the help of software firms. This app will help us learn about those jumping quarantine. The volunteers will keep track of the movements of those coming from outside. Currently, we have 250 volunteers who will coordinate with our four officers,” he said adding the app will be ready by Monday. The district administration has, meanwhile, decided to get a written undertaking or affidavit from persons coming from outside. The undertaking would state that the person is willing to strictly follow home quarantine rules for 14 days and if they do not, they will be put into institutional quarantine. The decision to put people working as drivers in the red zones in institutional quarantine facilities has also been taken by collector Daulat Desai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/quarantine-isolation-capacity-being-increased/articleshow/75664876.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Nagpur||250 sparrows found dead in Chandrapur garden after rain||Chandrapur: Over 250 sparrows were found dead in a garden in Chandrapur district in the early hours of Sunday following heavy rain and thunder, said officials. The garden in Neri village in Chimur tehsil belongs to zilla parishad member Manoj Mamidwar, an official said. “These birds have been coming to my garden for years now and I have placed water pots all over for them. On Sunday morning, after the rain, I came to see if any trees had fallen and I saw over 250 sparrows lying dead. Some 14 birds were rescued,” Mamidwar said. PTI||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/250-sparrows-found-dead-in-chandrapur-garden-after-rain/articleshow/75665396.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Nashik||Man shot at in Deolali Camp, 4 arrested||Nashik: Four men have been arrested by Deolali Camp police for shooting at a 23-year-old man late on Saturday. According to police, the victim, Yashodhan Pawar alias Bittu, is son of former Deolali Cantonment Board (DCB) corporator Vilas and has been admitted to a private hospital where his condition is said to be stable. “Around 10.30pm on Saturday, Pawar was roaming around near his residence in Hadola. The four suspects came there and got into an altercation with him. The altercation escalated in no time following which one of the four suspects took out a country-made gun and shot at Pawar,” an officer from Delolali Camp police station said. “After shooting at Pawar the suspects — Sunny Bajirao Kadam (27), Bhupal Kanojia (26), Prakah Salve (30) and Ganesh Salve (38) — fled from the area. Pawar, who was hit on the thigh, was taken to a private hospital where he is undergoing treatment. Later, a case was filed with us,” he added. On Sunday, the suspects were produced before a local court that remanded the in police custody till May 14. Deputy commissioner of police Vijay Kharat said, “The suspects and victim live in the same area. One of the suspects, Kadam, is a history sheeter and was also externed from the city in November last year.” He added, “Soon after the incident, Deolali Camp police plunged into action and launched a hunt to trace the suspects. The suspects were traced in around five hours.” Meanwhile, Pawar also has a few cases registered against him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/man-shot-at-in-deolali-camp-4-arrested/articleshow/75665383.cms||Santosh Sonawane
May 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Gandhi hosp to collect plasma from 15 donors||Hyderabad: The state-run Gandhi hospital will soon begin to collect plasma samples from 15 donors who have recovered from Covid-19, as per Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) guidelines, on Monday. As many as five patients have been deemed eligible to receive plasma from recovered patients. “All 15 donors are foreign returnees who recovered following treatment at the Gandhi hospital,” said hospital superintendent, Dr Raja Rao. About 400ml of plasma component will be collected from each donor. They will be checked for various conditions such as diabetes, HIV among others. All donors will have to be above 18-years-old. The donation process will take about two hours and the collected samples will have to be stored under controlled condition. Plasma can be stored for two to six months. The donors and recipients will have to match for the therapy to proceed. Once the patients are identified, the list will be sent to ICMR for a final approval.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/gandhi-hosp-to-collect-plasma-from-15-donors/articleshow/75665382.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Mumbai||2,000 kaali peelis, autos hit road to UP, Bihar||Mumbai/Indore: Stripped of their livelihood and desperate to return home, at least 2,000 kaali peeli taxis and autorickshaws have left Mumbai for other states, Mumbai Taximen’s Union leader A L Quadros claimed on Sunday. “The cabbies have been without earnings for more than a month and they left in their vehicles along with those leaving in trucks from Mumbai during the weekend,” he said, adding the kaali peeli taxi does not have a permit to ply beyond the Mumbai Metropolitan region, but the cabbies were travelling illegally, trying to cross the Maharashtra border to reach their hometowns. Announcing this to the media on Sunday, Quadros demanded the state transport department give “permits for other states” for the kaali peelis so that all drivers can leave for their hometowns. He said the drivers were headed to Himachal Pradesh, UP, Jharkhand and some to other districts within the state. The city has 20,000 kaali peelis on the road and over two lakh autos. With drivers making an exodus, there could be a shortage of public transport once the lockdown is lifted. Meanwhile, hundreds of autos with Maharashtra registration numbers, headed for UP and Bihar, packed the Indore stretch of the Agra-Mumbai highway on Sunday. TOI spoke to some of them who had stopped for a break on Indore’s outskirts. “There was nothing to eat. For every small necessity, we had to pay. We were forced to beg, so we decided it was better to go home,” said Vinod Giri, a resident of Bhadohi in Uttar Pradesh. Giri, his wife and two kids packed their belongings and set off from Saki Naka in their autorickshaw four days ago. It will take another two days to reach home, he said. Asked when he plans to return, he said, “Never. If Yogiji gives us jobs, why would we return to Mumbai? We will stay with our own people.” That was the cue for others to speak up. Rajesh Singh said, “We did not get any support from the Maharashtra government. In fact, we were beaten up by police while trying to escape from Mumbai.” Singh has left Mumbai with his two sons and a nephew. The autorickshaw drivers allege even the announcements about providing food and water to the needy in Maharashtra were propaganda. “Those belonging to the ruling party get the benefits. The common man is stranded,” claimed Singh. Anand Pal, an auto driver from Bhadohi, is not worried that it will take another three days to reach home and that he and his family will spend 14 days in quarantine. “I don’t mind that after what we have been through. After 14 days, I will call my village chief and tell him we have been tested and cleared. Now, let us stay home,” he said. Pal plans to revive his farmland. “Earning from the land is better than begging in Mumbai,” he said. The autowallahs’ grouse is echoed by Shashank Rao, leader of Autorickshaw Chalak Malak Sanghatana Sanyukt Kruti Samiti in Mumbai. “The Maharashtra government has done nothing to ease the plight of autorickshaw drivers in Mumbai. We distributed 15kg grocery packets to around 55,000 auto drivers who have lost their livelihood, but the numbers are huge. The government should give Rs 10,000 per month to each auto driver, but no action has been taken on our demand,” he told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/2000-kaali-peelis-autos-hit-road-to-up-bihar/articleshow/75665719.cms||Somit Sen
May 11, 2020||Ahmedabad||Vulnerable but bored, senior citizens stepping out||Ahmedabad: Senior citizens, children, and pregnant women are particularly vulnerable to Covid-19. Due to this, the city police have been keeping a close watch on senior citizens. A recent notification by city police commissioner Ashish Bhatia states that children, pregnant women, and elderly persons must refrain from venturing out. Ghatlodia police on Sunday booked a 70-year-old man from Swami Akhandanand Society near KK Nagar in the area when he was found walking in front of his society. The man told the cops that he was bored sitting at home. He was booked by Ghatlodia police for disobeying the lockdown notification. In another case, a 60-year-old man from Ghatlodia was booked when he too stepped out to beat boredom. On Friday, a 75-year-old man was walking outside Uganda Park Society in Memnagar and cops booked him for breaking lockdown rules. A police official said that it has become very difficult to persuade senior citizens to stay at home. “Youngsters can spend time on their cellphones or watch television, but these elderly persons, who feel cut off from family, went out to break their boredom,” said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/vulnerable-but-bored-senior-citizens-stepping-out/articleshow/75664893.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Agra||AMU students took 8 hours to board special train, irked railway shoots letter to UP govt||AGRA: An over eight hours delay in boarding of the special train by students of Aligarh Muslim University (AMU) has irked the railways as divisional railway manager (DRM) Amitabh Kumar has written a letter to the Uttar Pradesh government, expressing displeasure over university’s “lackadaisical attitude” and indiscipline of students. The letter was written on Saturday, a day after 1,282 AMU students were taken to Bihar’s Purnia junction from Aligarh junction. In the letter, the DRM said, “Three hours were fixed for the students to board the train. But it took them eight hours 30 minutes. The AMU did not follow the protocol of sending the students as per pre-decided coach-wise plan. The university also did not share the students’ list till last minute and continuously changed the names of students who were supposed to travel. This troubled the railway authorities.” “There was no permanent authority from AMU at the railway station to control the students who were continuously changing their travel plan,” read the letter written to additional chief secretary (home) Awanish Awasthi. According to railway, the train was supposed to leave Aligarh junction at 6pm. But it left at 11:30pm. The train arrived at Aligarh junction station at 3pm. Responding to railway’s allegations, registrar of AMU, Abdul Hamid, said, “I have not received any letter so far, hence cannot comment on it.” AMU paid Rs 7,24,303 in advance to railway for May 8 journey. CPRO of north central railway Ajeet Singh said, “DRM wrote letter after the train operation was delayed due to students’ late arrival. Our trains have a schedule to follow. We expect such a situation is not repeated in future.” (With input from Anuja Jaiswal)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/amu-students-took-8-hours-to-board-special-train-irked-railway-shoots-letter-to-up-govt/articleshow/75664017.cms||Arvind Chauhan
May 11, 2020||Jammu||On the train home, Goa’s Kashmiris stare at a bleak future||TIVIM: For 18 years, Javed Ahmed has run his jewellery and handicraft store in Candolim, content that he has managed to make a living for his family away from the violence in the Kashmir valley. On Sunday evening, as the Konkan Railway special train pulled out of Tivim railway station, Ahmed knew things had changed. From being an entrepreneur who spent eight to ten months every year in Goa, Ahmed is staring at uncertainty, and says that he has to find a new way to support his family. “At home, there is nothing,” said Ahmed, who lives close to Dal lake in Srinagar. “For the past 32 years, there have been no avenues to earn back home. Even if we get work for one year, we have to sit at home for five to ten years.” Ahmed was among the 1,055 persons from North Goa who boarded a special train organised by Konkan Railway and the Goa government to ferry stranded people from Jammu and Kashmir. The express train will stop at Udhampur, from where they will continue the journey by bus and cabs. Desperation to return to the Valley was high, as most Kashmiris were running out of cash. Many of them are employed along the coastal belt, and operate shops selling everything from jewellery and clothes to carpets and trinkets. This season has been exceptionally bad, with tourism witnessing a slump due to the collapse of charter flight operator Thomas Cook UK and the novel coronavirus. “Our family asked us for cashew nuts, mangoes, etc, but since we did not have too much money, we could not buy anything. This season was very bad for us,” said Javed Mir, who used to work in a handicraft store in Baga. Srinagar survives on tourism, agriculture and small businesses. Residents say that there are no government jobs, and with the entire region under a lockdown for more than 10 months, options before them are bleak. They say they will have to trust in God. “There will be a lot of hardships,” said Danish Dar. With no other way to put food on the table, many of these businessmen will have to turn to farming to provide for their families. “Our business here and there is the same, and is driven by tourism. Our business is all finished, what can we do? Now we will have to work in the fields, grow whatever can be grown, and eat roti and dal. We have no other option, and some people don’t even have the option of cultivation,” said Tanvir Ahmed, a resident of Srinagar. Ahmed, along with his cousins, has been operating a store in Calangute for 12 years. He is happy to be going home after nearly eight months in Goa, but at the same time, he is going empty handed. “When someone is going home after a long time, it feels nice, but if you look at it from a business angle, it is sad, because our season was poor,” said Tanvir Ahmed. “It was a total loss. We are going back empty-handed, we are really suffering. Since March 22, we have not done any business.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jammu/on-the-train-home-goas-kashmiris-stare-at-a-bleak-future/articleshow/75666469.cms||Newton Sequeira
May 11, 2020||Jaipur||Thousands of Rajasthan migrants stuck at Ratanpur border||JAIPUR: Migrants continue to gather at the Ratanpur checkpoint on Gujarat border even after it was sealed on May 8. They are being denied entry despite holding valid permits to enter Rajasthan. The border has been sealed temporarily due to the sudden spike in Covid-19 cases. Sheesh Parmar of Udaipur, a manager at a ceramic factory, has taken refuge at a guest house barely 10km away from the Ratanpur border. He had taken a valid permit to enter Rajasthan from Ahmedabad and has been stranded along with a thousand others due to the sudden sealing of the border. “I agree that the situation is unusual and the movement of migrants is causing trouble for all states. But in my case, I am holding a valid permit which was given to me after a round of screening. I have also given the undertaking that I will be under self-quarantine for 14 days at my place or at a government facility if required,” said Parmar. Several others are not lucky to find even a place to stay. Reports say that they have gone back. This is the entry point for migrants from eight states. Those from states such as Karnataka, Telangana and Maharashtra have no choice but to stay put in the open. An official said the border is sealed and they have limited powers to grant permission on a case-by-case basis. “Only those having an emergency situation are being permitted by higher authorities,” said Rajesh Nayak, SDO, Bicchiwada, Dungarpur. So far, 81,000 migrants have entered the state legally, fulfilling all formalities, via Ratanpur border between April 26 and May 8. State figures show that 10 lakh migrants have registered to enter Rajasthan. The Ratanpur border is the only place via road for migrants in Gujarat and Maharashtra who constitute about 60% of the total inbound registrations. Sources said the actual number is higher as several migrants have entered Rajasthan via villages, farmlands and forests.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/thousands-of-raj-migrants-stuck-at-ratanpur-border/articleshow/75665721.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Kolhapur||170 errant citizens fined over Rs 66,000 by civic body||Kolhapur: The Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC) has intensified its action against shopkeepers and citizens for not following the rules like wearing face masks, gloves and not maintaining social distancing norm. As many as 170 people were fined between Saturday and Sunday for flouting these rules and a fine of Rs 66,200 was collected from them by the civic body. So far, this is the highest collection of fines by the KMC since the lockdown was imposed in March. Teams have been set up by the civic body to keep a check on errant citizens and the teams are also assisted by policemen. According to a civic official, the action was intensified from Saturday after district collector Daulat Desai wrote to the heads of the local authorities to ensure lockdown rules are strictly followed. It has been observed that after the third phase of lockdown began a week ago, social distancing was not being observed and citizens were found taking undue advantage of the relaxations provided to them especially with respect to travel conditions. Mallinath Kalshetti, civic chief said, "We have no other option but to penalise the violators. We have our ground staff ordering people to maintain social distance. The traders have been asked to ensure social distancing is followed properly. However still many do not seem to be adhering the rules. The citizens should understand that we can overcome the coronavirus crisis only if we follow social distancing." Kalshetti said that efforts will be taken to ensure that the people do not step out of their house. “Currently many public places are overcrowded. Police have been asked to ensure that the shops are closed before 7pm every day so that people return to their homes. We are imposing fine on those not following social distancing norm. Police complaint will be lodged against groups with more than five people roaming outside after 7pm,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/170-errant-citizens-fined-over-rs-66000-by-civic-body/articleshow/75664890.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Srinagar||On the train home, Goa’s Kashmiris stare at a bleak future||TIVIM: For 18 years, Javed Ahmed has run his jewellery and handicraft store in Candolim, content that he has managed to make a living for his family away from the violence in the Kashmir valley. On Sunday evening, as the Konkan Railway special train pulled out of Tivim railway station, Ahmed knew things had changed. From being an entrepreneur who spent eight to ten months every year in Goa, Ahmed is staring at uncertainty, and says that he has to find a new way to support his family. “At home, there is nothing,” said Ahmed, who lives close to Dal lake in Srinagar. “For the past 32 years, there have been no avenues to earn back home. Even if we get work for one year, we have to sit at home for five to ten years.” Ahmed was among the 1,055 persons from North Goa who boarded a special train organised by Konkan Railway and the Goa government to ferry stranded people from Jammu and Kashmir. The express train will stop at Udhampur, from where they will continue the journey by bus and cabs. Desperation to return to the Valley was high, as most Kashmiris were running out of cash. Many of them are employed along the coastal belt, and operate shops selling everything from jewellery and clothes to carpets and trinkets. This season has been exceptionally bad, with tourism witnessing a slump due to the collapse of charter flight operator Thomas Cook UK and the novel coronavirus. “Our family asked us for cashew nuts, mangoes, etc, but since we did not have too much money, we could not buy anything. This season was very bad for us,” said Javed Mir, who used to work in a handicraft store in Baga. Srinagar survives on tourism, agriculture and small businesses. Residents say that there are no government jobs, and with the entire region under a lockdown for more than 10 months, options before them are bleak. They say they will have to trust in God. “There will be a lot of hardships,” said Danish Dar. With no other way to put food on the table, many of these businessmen will have to turn to farming to provide for their families. “Our business here and there is the same, and is driven by tourism. Our business is all finished, what can we do? Now we will have to work in the fields, grow whatever can be grown, and eat roti and dal. We have no other option, and some people don’t even have the option of cultivation,” said Tanvir Ahmed, a resident of Srinagar. Ahmed, along with his cousins, has been operating a store in Calangute for 12 years. He is happy to be going home after nearly eight months in Goa, but at the same time, he is going empty handed. “When someone is going home after a long time, it feels nice, but if you look at it from a business angle, it is sad, because our season was poor,” said Tanvir Ahmed. “It was a total loss. We are going back empty-handed, we are really suffering. Since March 22, we have not done any business.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/srinagar/on-the-train-home-goas-kashmiris-stare-at-a-bleak-future/articleshow/75666470.cms||Newton Sequeira
May 11, 2020||Goa||On the train home, Goa’s Kashmiris stare at a bleak future||TIVIM: For 18 years, Javed Ahmed has run his jewellery and handicraft store in Candolim, content that he has managed to make a living for his family away from the violence in the Kashmir valley. On Sunday evening, as the Konkan Railway special train pulled out of Tivim railway station, Ahmed knew things had changed. From being an entrepreneur who spent eight to ten months every year in Goa, Ahmed is staring at uncertainty, and says that he has to find a new way to support his family. “At home, there is nothing,” said Ahmed, who lives close to Dal lake in Srinagar. “For the past 32 years, there have been no avenues to earn back home. Even if we get work for one year, we have to sit at home for five to ten years.” Ahmed was among the 1,055 persons from North Goa who boarded a special train organised by Konkan Railway and the Goa government to ferry stranded people from Jammu and Kashmir. The express train will stop at Udhampur, from where they will continue the journey by bus and cabs. Desperation to return to the Valley was high, as most Kashmiris were running out of cash. Many of them are employed along the coastal belt, and operate shops selling everything from jewellery and clothes to carpets and trinkets. This season has been exceptionally bad, with tourism witnessing a slump due to the collapse of charter flight operator Thomas Cook UK and the novel coronavirus. “Our family asked us for cashew nuts, mangoes, etc, but since we did not have too much money, we could not buy anything. This season was very bad for us,” said Javed Mir, who used to work in a handicraft store in Baga. Srinagar survives on tourism, agriculture and small businesses. Residents say that there are no government jobs, and with the entire region under a lockdown for more than 10 months, options before them are bleak. They say they will have to trust in God. “There will be a lot of hardships,” said Danish Dar. With no other way to put food on the table, many of these businessmen will have to turn to farming to provide for their families. “Our business here and there is the same, and is driven by tourism. Our business is all finished, what can we do? Now we will have to work in the fields, grow whatever can be grown, and eat roti and dal. We have no other option, and some people don’t even have the option of cultivation,” said Tanvir Ahmed, a resident of Srinagar. Ahmed, along with his cousins, has been operating a store in Calangute for 12 years. He is happy to be going home after nearly eight months in Goa, but at the same time, he is going empty handed. “When someone is going home after a long time, it feels nice, but if you look at it from a business angle, it is sad, because our season was poor,” said Tanvir Ahmed. “It was a total loss. We are going back empty-handed, we are really suffering. Since March 22, we have not done any business.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/on-the-train-home-goas-kashmiris-stare-at-a-bleak-future/articleshow/75665720.cms||Newton Sequeira
May 11, 2020||Ahmedabad||PIL seeks to restrain cops from beating citizens||Ahmedabad: A public interest litigation in the Gujarat high court has questioned the high-handedness used by police in implementing the lockdown imposed by the government due to the Covid-19 pandemic.Petitioner advocate Harshit Shah has filed the PIL seeking court’s directions to police to stop committing atrocity with citizens found on streets during lockdown. The PIL raised a question as to whether a policeman can beat a citizen at all; whether an unarmed policeman can keep a lathi; and whether such police atrocity is violation of human and constitutional rights.The PIL states that policemen deserve a salute for being Corona Warriors due to the government policy. But the petitioner asserts that an unarmed policeman cannot keep a baton or lathi, because it falls in the definition of a weapon according to the notification issued by competent authorities. The notification prohibits a citizen from bearing an arm or weapon. If any citizen wields a lathi, he is liable to be booked under Section 135 of the Gujarat Police Act. The PIL further claims that a policeman is also liable to be prosecuted for the violation of law, for beating a citizen is against any law.Petitioner’s lawyer Neil Lakhani stated that the PIL has been filed through present e-filing system, and it is likely to be heard through video conferencing in coming days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/pil-seeks-to-restrain-cops-from-beating-citizens/articleshow/75664902.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Nagpur||In a first, gaur sighted in Pandharkawda||Nagpur: The first ever sighting of an Indian gaur (Indian bison) in Pandharkawda forest division has given people an alternative topic for discussion, albeit momentarily, which otherwise veered around the virus outbreak and its aftermath only. The Indian gaur was sighted in a village adjoining Tipeshwar wildlife sanctuary on Saturday. There was no record of gaur presence in the division earlier or rather in entire Yavatmal district. The gaur, a young male, was sighted in a farm of Rashidkhan Hamidkhan Poswal at Dongargaon around 12.15pm. The farm is opposite Rahul Hotel on the banks of Khuni river. “I’m into farming for last 20 years. There is no presence of bisons in entire Yavatmal district. I was making a call on mobile when I saw a big mammal, just 50 feet away, devouring jowar crop,” recalled Poswal. “Attracted by lush green farms in the area because of a nearby dam, the herbivore was there till 2.30pm. We informed forest officials and also took videos of the bovine. It did not harm anyone,” said Poswal. Poswal showed the video to his father Hamidkhan Gafoor (66) and relatives in the district who all said they had never seen such animal in the area. The farm of Poswal is 15km from Tipeshwar sanctuary, but the protected area doesn’t have any record of gaur presence. Though, there has been recorded dispersal of tigers to Kawal tiger reserve in Telangana and Central Chanda forest division from Tipeshwar. Pandharkawda deputy conservator of forests (DyCF) KM Abharna said, “The presence of gaur has taken us by surprise. There is no record of gaurs even in working plan of the division. We suspect it must have come either from Tadoba landscape or neighbouring Telangana. We have alerted villagers to stay away from the animal.” Abharna’s predecessor G Guruprasad, who is now posted as deputy director (buffer) in Tadoba-Andhari Tiger Reserve said, “I worked in Pandharkawda for over two years from 2014, but did not find any record of gaurs.” Honorary wildlife warden for Yavatmal district Ramzan Virani says, “It is interesting to study from where the gaur came. I suspect the wild bovid must have reached here from Tadoba crossing Wardha river followed by Painganga and Khuni. It must have travelled more than 100km, that’s the distance as crow flies, to reach Pandharkawda. Males wander widely in search of receptive females and the animal needs to be monitored.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/in-a-first-gaur-sighted-in-pandharkawda/articleshow/75665417.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
May 11, 2020||Kozhikode||Kasaragod’s last patient leaves hospital||KANNUR: The last patient undergoing treatment for Covid-19 at the government medical college in Kasaragod has been discharged. With this, all 178 patients who tested positive for the disease have left the hospital, thus marking 100% recovery rate.The last patient, a 47-year-old native of Chengala, was discharged after the two consecutive tests were negative and the final result came on Sunday, said officials. On February 3, the first patient, a 19-year-old medical student who returned from Wuhan in China, tested positive and then after a gap of around 42 days the second case was reported. Subsequently, a flood of positive cases earned the district the notoriety of being a ‘Corona manufacturing factory’. On March 23, the district witnessed 19 cases in a single day. On March 27, it peaked with 34 new cases a day. Of the 178 positive cases here, 108 people came from abroad and the remaining 70 contracted it from them. At one stage, it caused a panic of community transmission, but effective intervention by the district administration, and later the police, helped contain the disease. Besides setting up new treatment facilities, including the Covid hospital set up at the medical college under construction, the authorities also ensured that home quarantine was strict. Triple lockdown was introduced in containment zones and hotspots, simultaneously ensuring the supply of food and other essential commodities. This is the result of a joint effort by every department, said Dr A T Manoj, district surveillance officer, Kasaragod. “However, we have to be more vigilant with the homecoming of people from other states and abroad,” he said. “It is a happy moment that all those who tested positive in the first stage have recovered, but this is no time to relax,” said Kasaragod district collector D Sajith Babu. However, the district is prepared for any emergency situation in the backdrop of the influx of Keralites, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/kgods-last-patient-leaves-hosp/articleshow/75664021.cms||P Sudhakaran
May 11, 2020||Goa||Kadamba ferries 24 to Udaipur, the longest journey in its history||PANAJI: When 24 migrant workers, tourists and students from Udaipur who were stranded in Goa hopped on to a Kadamba Transport Corporation (KTC) bus on Friday night, little did they know that they were part of history. When the bus reached the city of lakes on Sunday afternoon, it was the longest-ever journey undertaken by a Kadamba in its 40-year history. “The trip covers approximately 1,500km in a 23-hour journey,” said KTC’s general manager, Sanjay Ghate, on Friday. However, lockdown obstacles meant the journey took closer to 40 hours, the bus reaching only at 3pm on Sunday. “The Udaipur journey is the longest journey undertaken by KTC so far. It required 1,000 litres of fuel, but the bus can only carry 400 litres at a time. Hence, it stopped on the way to refuel.” Kadamba staff turned to faith to help with the unprecedented task. “They performed a puja of the bus prior to the journey,” Ghate said.  “They were provided with boiled eggs, bread and jam to snack on during the journey in case they fail to find a proper pitstop for food.” This proved to be a brilliant precaution, since the drivers —Balakrishna Bhosale, 46, and Julio Fernandes, 52 — had to go without proper food and rest for the entire journey. “Due to the lockdown, roadside eateries were shut,” said Bhosale. “We survived on the food we carried, all of which has been exhausted. All we have left is some water to survive on, on our journey back home.” The journey was far from pleasant, and was replete with long waits and diversions. The bus encountered blocked highways, diversions and long waiting periods at check posts. The longest was at the Banda check post in Maharashtra, where the bus was made to wait for four hours. “There were many other check posts on the way that made us wait anywhere between 30 minutes to an hour,” said Fernandes. “Some villages had completely blocked access to their jurisdiction, due to which we were forced to improvise and take another route.” Thus, the bus, which left Goa at 10pm on Friday night, arrived in Udaipur 40 hours later, at 3pm on Sunday. And even after reaching the city, there was no respite for Bhosale and Fernandes. With roads being closed and hotels kept shut, the duo had no choice but to spend the night (Saturday) inside the bus. Some of the 24 passengers are businesspersons who had come to Goa prior to the lockdown, sources said. They then stayed back in Goa, hoping to return home after the ban on interstate travel is lifted. “The passengers were tired as well,” said Bhosale. “But at least they’ve reached home. Our objective was to ensure that they get home safely,” Joshi said. The cost of the journey for each passenger was around Rs 5,500. Prior to the Udaipur trip, KTC’s longest journey was to Ratlam, Madhya Pradesh, to drop students of Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya, Valpoi, and to pick up Goan students for the return trip.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/kadamba-ferries-24-to-udaipur-the-longest-journey-in-its-history/articleshow/75665724.cms||Nida Sayed
May 11, 2020||Ahmedabad||Vejalpur: 38 active cases in 4 days||Ahmedabad: The western part of the city now has 666 active Covid-19 cases with 401 cases from Stadium, Naranpura, Ghatlodia, Paldi and Vasna areas, while 108 and 157 cases each were reported from the North and South West Zones from areas such as Bodakdev, Satellite, Thaltej, Jodhpur, Sarkhej and Makarba among others. The city reported 272 fresh cases and 18 deaths. Of the 18 deaths in the city due to Covid-19, two were at SVP, 13 at Civil Hospital and thee in private hospitals. In the last three days, the western part of the city reported 66 new cases. On May 8, the western area of the city had reported 600 cases which increased to 653 cases on Saturday, and to 666 active cases on Sunday. The cluster-quarantined area of Gulbai Tekra reported 21 cases from different societies in last four days. As many as 38 cases were reported from Vejalpur area in last four days. On Sunday the only case in Satellite area was reported from Parshram Apartment Nr Jay Shefali Row House. Cases were reported from Dadhichi Apartment, Ashram Road. Rajhans Apartment in Mithakhali area reported its first case while fresh cases were reported from Pragatinagar Flats in Naranpura and even from Subhas Bridge area. One new case came from Chanakyapuri area in Ghatlodia. On Sunday about 266 patients were discharged of which 200 were from Samras Hostel Covid care centre. Also five cases were reported from GCRI campus and one new case was reported from Civil Hospital campus. The city has so far reported 5,708 cases and 376 deaths from Covid-19 till date. A total of 1,405 patient have been discharged after treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/vejalpur-38-active-cases-in-4-days/articleshow/75665427.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Lucknow||Home-baked cakes, special cards: Innovative Mother’s Day celebrations during lockdown||LUCKNOW: From baking a special cake, playing secret games with her, binge watching her favourite movies to making special cards with minimum resource, doing household chores and giving her a treat of her favourite meal, children ensured celebration of Mother’s Day, despite the lockdown. Aashiana resident Vaasavi Shashan and her sister, Sayonna, took over kitchen duty from their mother and prepared her a special lunch and cake. “As a kid, I would make handmade cards for her every year, but was unable to do it for few years due to my hectic schedule. I'm glad the lockdown made us relive sweet, old memories,” she said. To cheer up her mother, Simran Taneja, a make-up artist, created a special video for her. “Many things might have changed during the lockdown, but not mother’s love. We have few photos of us together so I decided to click more today. Never mind we couldn’t go out, we celebrated at home,” said Taneja. Making the most of the lockdown, entrepreneur and fashion blogger Nishi Athwani played an innovative game with her mother, where she had to pick up a chit with questions on her mother, answer them and see whether it matches with her mother’s answer. “I thought let’s find out how much I know my mother. What’s her favourite sweet dish and colour or what she does when she’s sad? I got two answers wrong, for which she was supposed to punish me, but she actually hugged me,” said Nishi, who also shared the video on her Instagram page. For those living away from family, video calls and sharing pictures on social media was the only way out. Lucknow resident Ratan Saini, 31, who’s stranded in Mumbai due to the lockdown, took her mother on a video call and wished her. “Now, I know how she feels living away from kids. Video calls were the only option to wish her,” said Saini. Stuck in a Delhi hotspot, another Lucknow resident, Tarun Kochar, video-called his family and saluted her mother for her dedication. Pawani, daughter of Additional SP (Uttar Pradesh Police) Rashmi Sinha, wrote a letter, while many shared pictures on social media handles with a Mother’s Day caption.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/home-baked-cakes-special-cards-innovative-mothers-day-celebrations-during-lockdown/articleshow/75665743.cms||Aditi Singh
May 11, 2020||Udaipur||Kadamba ferries 24 to Udaipur, the longest journey in its history||PANAJI: When 24 migrant workers, tourists and students from Udaipur who were stranded in Goa hopped on to a Kadamba Transport Corporation (KTC) bus on Friday night, little did they know that they were part of history. When the bus reached the city of lakes on Sunday afternoon, it was the longest-ever journey undertaken by a Kadamba in its 40-year history. “The trip covers approximately 1,500km in a 23-hour journey,” said KTC’s general manager, Sanjay Ghate, on Friday. However, lockdown obstacles meant the journey took closer to 40 hours, the bus reaching only at 3pm on Sunday. “The Udaipur journey is the longest journey undertaken by KTC so far. It required 1,000 litres of fuel, but the bus can only carry 400 litres at a time. Hence, it stopped on the way to refuel.” Kadamba staff turned to faith to help with the unprecedented task. “They performed a puja of the bus prior to the journey,” Ghate said.  “They were provided with boiled eggs, bread and jam to snack on during the journey in case they fail to find a proper pitstop for food.” This proved to be a brilliant precaution, since the drivers —Balakrishna Bhosale, 46, and Julio Fernandes, 52 — had to go without proper food and rest for the entire journey. “Due to the lockdown, roadside eateries were shut,” said Bhosale. “We survived on the food we carried, all of which has been exhausted. All we have left is some water to survive on, on our journey back home.” The journey was far from pleasant, and was replete with long waits and diversions. The bus encountered blocked highways, diversions and long waiting periods at check posts. The longest was at the Banda check post in Maharashtra, where the bus was made to wait for four hours. “There were many other check posts on the way that made us wait anywhere between 30 minutes to an hour,” said Fernandes. “Some villages had completely blocked access to their jurisdiction, due to which we were forced to improvise and take another route.” Thus, the bus, which left Goa at 10pm on Friday night, arrived in Udaipur 40 hours later, at 3pm on Sunday. And even after reaching the city, there was no respite for Bhosale and Fernandes. With roads being closed and hotels kept shut, the duo had no choice but to spend the night (Saturday) inside the bus. Some of the 24 passengers are businesspersons who had come to Goa prior to the lockdown, sources said. They then stayed back in Goa, hoping to return home after the ban on interstate travel is lifted. “The passengers were tired as well,” said Bhosale. “But at least they’ve reached home. Our objective was to ensure that they get home safely,” Joshi said. The cost of the journey for each passenger was around Rs 5,500. Prior to the Udaipur trip, KTC’s longest journey was to Ratlam, Madhya Pradesh, to drop students of Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya, Valpoi, and to pick up Goan students for the return trip.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/kadamba-ferries-24-to-udaipur-the-longest-journey-in-its-history/articleshow/75666494.cms||Nida Sayed
May 11, 2020||Lucknow||Out of 287, UP got highest quota of 127 trains for migrants||Lucknow: Out of 287 Shramik Special trains which have reached their respective destinations till Sunday, maximum 127 have terminated at various railway stations in Uttar Pradesh. Railways, till Sunday, has run 366 Shramik Special trains out of which 287 had reached destinations till evening while 79 were in transit. These trains are bringing migrants from Gujarat, Maharashtra, Punjab, Kerala, Karnataka, Uttarakhand and Telangana. Maximum trains have reached Gorakhpur and Lucknow from where UPSRTC buses took migrants further to their home districts. The other stations of UP where Shramik Specials have terminated include Barabanki, Faizabad, Sultanpur, Jaunpur, Varanasi, Rae Bareli, Amethi, Unnao, Azamgarh, Ballia, and Kanpur. Bihar followed UP with 87 trains.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/out-of-287-up-got-highest-quota-of-127-trains-for-migrants/articleshow/75665750.cms||Neha Shukla
May 11, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Sanitization tunnels not good for skin, say Ahmedabad dermatologists||AHMEDABAD: To battle the Covid-19 pandemic, several institutions, hospitals and shopping complexes installed sanitizing or disinfectant tunnels in Gujarat. The primary mechanism of such installations was a solution of water with 5% sodium hypochlorite. But these tunnels have also caused skin issues in several individuals, says city-based skin specialist Dr Hemant Saraiya. “We have seen several patients where they reported skin rashes after passing through such tunnels. The disinfectant solution, also known as bleaching agent, could be good for roads and premises, but when it comes in contact with skin, eyes and open mouth, it can cause problem for some,” he said. Dr Anshul Warman, dermatologist with a city-based private hospital, said that heat adds to the problem. “When someone is sweaty, the skin’s pH level is different. When the chemical agent interacts with the sweat, it can cause irritation,” she said, adding that moisturising the skin is important . She added that they have also seen cases of dermatitis where a person uses sanitizers frequently but doesn’t moisturise properly. “Petroleum jelly, coconut oil or non-fragrant moisturisers should be used for the purpose,” said Dr Warman. Not everyone has the same reaction to the bleaching agent, said Dr Rutu Joshi, consultant dermatologist. “If there are other alternatives of disinfecting self, they should be explored first,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/sanitization-tunnels-not-good-for-skin-say-city-dermatologists/articleshow/75665424.cms||Parth Shastri
May 11, 2020||Kochi||Cops to aid guest workers beat blues||KOCHI: Following the suicide of a 22-year-old guest worker from Murshidabad at Kodanad, who was battling job loss during the lockdown, police in Ernakulam are planning to tabulate a list of labourers who are facing psychological issues, to provide them with early help.Asif Iqbal Hossein was found dead on Saturday and his friends had told police that he was quite tensed always as he was out of work due to the lockdown. According to reports, Asif had called his parents on Friday night and said he was feeling helpless after getting stuck in Kerala without job and money. “Now, the situation is getting better at least in Kerala. Construction projects have resumed and more jobs would be created in the coming weeks. Also, more trains are starting to run to north Indian states, so we expect the issue to resolve on its own. At the same time, we would use our personnel to collect information on people who have psychological problems like depression and anxiety,” said a senior police officer with Ernakulam rural police. Ernakulam rural SP K Karthick said he talked with Murshidabad SP about the suicide. “We made arrangements for the body to be sent back on Saturday night. After the lockdown, many states have set up counselling teams to help those who are facing difficulties. We have people speaking various languages in our counselling centre too. We have also made arrangements to tie up with similar counsellors in other states as well, to help guest workers who face such a difficulty here,” he said. Police said they are trying a different approach to prevent incidents like suicides. “We have been running a counselling helpline centre for guest labourers with people speaking various languages manning the control room. We have been helping those who contacted the helpline. Home guards and policemen who visit the camps have been spreading awareness campaigns among workers. Now, we have decided to reach out to people who face psychological problems. It is a difficult task but we are trying our best to help each and every person under stress,” said a senior officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/cops-to-aid-guest-workers-beat-blues/articleshow/75664031.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Goa||‘Airport to open soon for Goans from abroad’||PANAJI: Chief minister Pramod Sawant said on Sunday that Goa International Airport, Dabolim, would soon be open for Goans to return from abroad. “The Goa airport was not selected in the first phase (of the eased lockdown), but will be in the second,” he said. The state government had written to the Union government to open the airport so that Goans working abroad can return. On Monday, PM Narendra Modi will hold a video conference meet with chief ministers. Sawant said that Modi is likely to discuss post-Covid-19 management, control of Covid, the economic situation, and other issues pertaining to it. “This video conference meet is important as the future of the lockdown will be discussed,” he said. Meanwhile, Sawant said that if any Covid-19 case shows up in Goa, doctors are prepared to fight it. He also said that around 8,000 people who had their own vehicle to travel in have left the state already, in addition to the trains and buses. He also said that over 2,000 people have entered the state since Goa was categorised as a green zone. The CM said that some people are entering the state illegally by using ‘inside’ routes. “I appeal to people not to cross the border illegally, without doing a Covid-19 test. The state government will take strict action against those who enter the state illegally.” On the economy of the state, Sawant said that there has been reduction of GST and VAT collection. “We have told the Union government about the exact financial situation of the state, and have also asked for financial help from the Centre.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/dabolim-airport-to-open-soon-for-goans-from-abroad/articleshow/75665753.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Ahmedabad||Urgent need to lift lockdowns; else financial system may collapse: IIM-Ahmedabad professor||AHMEDABAD: Citing intensified liquidity crunch after the Covid-19 crisis and a slowing economic growth, professor Sebastian Morris of Indian Institute of Management, Ahmedabad (IIM-A), underlined the urgent need to lift lockdown in India. Addressing an online public lecture on Deepening Crisis of the Indian Economy, Morris said that the lockdown only helps one gear up the medical system in India and nothing beyond. “Demand slowdown isn’t the only problem; we will never be able to restore it fully. The situation is much more severe. If the right measures are not taken now, the financial system would collapse. The crisis is how does one prevent a collapse of the logistics system and the production system and bring back demand. There is an urgent need to lift all lockdowns. In India, they have served no purpose because they are territorial in nature,” said Morris. “We’re locking down areas which doesn’t help. Instead, lockdowns can be functional with certain activities allowed in a certain area and some of them prohibited,” he said. According to Morris, the Covid-19 crisis is to stay for long. “Better healthcare systems need to be put in place through an integrated approach of private and public sector. At the same time, improving healthcare and sanitation infrastructure going forward will also be crucial in the fight against Covid-19,” he said. Morris said that physical distancing is the way forward which will need to be enforced by combined efforts of government, police and the NGOs. He also recommended the need for migrant labourers to be brought back. “We need a phased programme to bring the migrants back to urban clusters. Initially the industries must create facilities so that physical distancing can be maintained. At the same time NGOs can work with companies and industrial clusters to ensure physical distancing of the workforce and then migrants could be brought back to work so that the production can be revived,” said Morris.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/urgent-need-to-lift-lockdowns-else-financial-system-may-collapse-iim-a-prof/articleshow/75665430.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Ahmedabad||Those registered will be sent back home: Ahmedabad collector||AHMEDABAD: Even as thousands of migrant workers have been getting themselves registered everyday to return back to their respective states, Ahmedabad collector K K Nirala has asked the workers to have patience and maintain restraint, as everybody who has registered will be sent back home. The collector said that the registration of workers is just one part of the exercise to ensure that workers are sent back. The process of getting workers to board trains back to their respective states includes seeking approval of the receiving state, allotting trains and ensuring that all the passengers are medically screened before they board the trains. Until Saturday, 36 trains had left from Ahmedabad district carrying 43,517 passengers back to a number of states in north and east India. Officials from the collectorate said that 15 more trains, carrying about 18,000 passengers were expected to leave on Sunday alone. “With this, over 60,000 migrant workers from Ahmedabad district have left for their respective states in over 50 trains.” Nirala appealed to people not to leave their homes and gather at government offices to get themselves registered for travelling back to their respective states. He added that apart from two helplines – 18002339008 and 079-26440626, a specified form has been made available on the digital platform as well. “Workers have to exercise restraint and be patient. Every migrant worker who has registered for travel back home will be taken back,” the collector assured.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/those-registered-will-be-sent-back-home-collector/articleshow/75665460.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Goa||With a little help from Sanjay school, kids with special needs keep going||PANAJI: As the lockdown continues, the Sanjay centre for special education, with three institutes in the state and hundreds of students, has begun extending help through its team of physiotherapy experts to students at home through the electronic medium. Parents ensure that their children who need special care are doing the physiotherapy exercises at home, with assistance from the therapists at the centre. Parents are then being asked to send videos of the sessions to the physiotherapists at the school to ensure continuity in therapy, said chairperson of Sanjay centre, Guruprasad Pawaskar. “During the lockdown in the state, physiotherapists of Sanjay centre for special education are constantly in touch with the parents of children with special needs who were taking physiotherapy treatment. As per the protocol, these parents have been explained about the condition their child is having and they have been taught what exercises and how those have to be done at home,” said Pawaskar. He said that the physiotherapists are making sure that the parents are continuing the home program during the lockdown. The home program is an important part of the therapy which helps to ensure that the children do not have tightening of the muscles due to the break in sessions. “Parents who have access to internet, have also sent videos of activities they are doing with their children,” said Pawaskar. “The home program is one of the important part of treatment as it helps to keep the child physically active, maintains their physical improvement and prevents deterioration of the condition,” said Pawaskar. Sanjay school has centres in Porvorim, Curchorem and Vasco. Some special children like those with cerebral palsy need physiotherapy on a regular basis, which is provided at the institute. Due to the Covid-19 lockdown, parents of children with special needs have to take added precautions due to lower immunity and so have no access to one-on-one physiotherapy sessions because of the restricted movement in place currently. The aim of paediatric occupational therapy and physiotherapy is to minimise the impact of impairments on the child and to enhance the overall quality of life for the child as well as the family.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/with-a-little-help-from-sanjay-school-kids-with-special-needs-keep-going/articleshow/75665760.cms||Gauree Malkarnekar
May 11, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: Dad dies in line of duty, son offers to join Covid fight||LUCKNOW: Drawing inspiration from his father, Dr Sunil Agarwal, a corona warrior who got infected in line of duty and died on Saturday after battling Covid-19 for weeks, Anurag, an MBBS final year student at King George’s Medical University (KGMU) on Sunday expressed willingness to join the fight against the pandemic. Dr Agarwal, a KGMU alumnus, was cremated in electric crematorium at Vakundh Dham in the capital. Anurag (23) said, “My father always said a good doctor cares for his patient’s life more than his own, hence I am also ready to serve in Covid-19 ward.” “My father is a martyr and should be given state honour. I understand that state representatives could not come to funeral because of safety protocol but somebody should be present in Orai on Monday when we take his ashes home,” he said. Dr Agarwal (58), a government doctor posted in Orai, was part of Covid-19 task force deployed in Jaulan Medical College, when he caught infection on April 16. He was admitted to KGMU on April 24 in a critical condition and was given convalescent plasma as therapy following which his condition improved and his two consecutive tests came negative, but he died due to kidney failure. His wife was also diagnosed with Covid-19 on April 24, but has recovered. Anurag could not perform the last rites due to safety protocols and watched cremation from a distance, while his mother and sister stood outside the crematorium. Dr Agarwal had fixed his daughter’s marriage and had scheduled it on December 22, 2020. Representatives of Indian Medical Association (IMA), National Medicos Association (NMA) and Residents Doctors’ Association of KGMU attended the funeral, apart from few friends, including Lucknow municipal health officer Dr S K Rawat, additional chief medical officer, Lucknow, Dr K K Saxena and pathologist Dr P K Gupta.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/dad-dies-in-line-of-duty-son-offers-to-join-covid-fight/articleshow/75665761.cms||Vivek Singh Chauhan
May 11, 2020||Mumbai||With ban on crowds, e-funerals are the new normal||If the Hindu shradh is a long, social goodbye packed with rites and rituals, hundreds gather at church pews to honour and eulogise their loved one at a Roman Catholic funeral mass. The rituals of saying final goodbyes run deep in every faith. But the Covid-19 pandemic has robbed families of such tradition, no matter the cause of death. Now, the new normal is a few prayers in a cemetery or crematorium attended by the barest few. Unable to see or touch a loved one in their final hours or even grieve together, families are finding some measure of solace in a tech workaround. “My wife lost her grandmother in NCR and it was so strange attending a funeral via Zoom!” said actor Sanjay Suri when he took to Twitter to share his unusual tryst with the sacred ritual. The new normal is priests increasingly relying on video calls and live-streaming apps — which are helping them handhold families through post-death rites and allowing families and friends to watch and show compassion from the far end of a phone or laptop screen. A day after this family in Tilaknagar cremated their matriarch during the lockdown, two of her sons hooked up a laptop before they could lay out the puja paraphernalia in front of a priest instructing them to mimic a gesture or repeat a mantra while administering the entire shradh on the laptop screen. The third son watched the proceedings over 1,700 km away in Patna. “Unlike ceremonies like ‘griha pravesh’ or ‘naamkaran’, ‘shradh’ cannot wait nor do people know the complex rituals. That’s why the urgency to adapt to technology. It takes an hour longer than usual because they need to be guided through the entire process, but I like the fact that it allows multiple families to collectively log in and be there,” explains Pandit Aniruddh, a Thane-based Arya Samaj priest who has conducted four such e-shradhs for families in Mumbai and Pune since the lockdown. With a funeral gathering reduced to 20 persons for Hindus and no more than five mourners among Catholics, Father Reuben Tellis, parish priest of Our Lady of Mt Carmel Church in Bandra, recounted what it was like to hold a phone in one hand and the prayer book in the other as he stood by the graveside and officiated a virtual burial service for families to watch over a video conferencing app. A few days ago Fr Tellis honoured a call from the family of an elderly man as he lay dying in his Versova home requesting anointing rites. His son used FaceTime to patch in Fr Tellis who put on his vestment and did a virtual anointing. “You do the best you can under the circumstances,” says Fr Tellis. The Vatican last month waived the requirement for in-person worship and sacraments, including a special dispensation that prayers delivered over a video call would have the same spiritual effect as the physical anointing with holy oil. Webcasting has been used in funeral services in the past by priests for family and friends unable to board a flight or clock off work. “But the accessibility and solicitude it is providing during the pandemic has made it a necessity,” adds Fr Tellis. The fusion of faith and technology has also lessened the financial pinch for Hindu freelance priests. “My income has been cut by half, but I’m glad I can still perform my duties and receive ‘dakshina’ through online transfer ,” says Rahul Karnatak, a priest from Mumbai, stuck in Delhi since the lockdown. “For clergy, this is the new normal as much as it is for families with mortuary cards carrying the online link to a livestream instead of the name of the church these days,” says Fr Warner D’Souza of St Jude Church, Malad East. The absence of loved ones or that missing touch in condolence is a profoundly jarring one, too. “Words of remembrance at a funeral and hugs from those who care are essential to the grieving process,” says Fr Warner, helping his community find new ways to honour the dead by announcing their names and reading a special prayer while preaching to empty pews during his weekly service beamed over Facebook. But even as priests acknowledge the hardship of the situation, they are unapologetic about tradition taking a backseat to precaution. “It’s not like we have lost our religiosity. It’s about adopting practical ways to uphold tradition while keeping people safe,” says Fr Warner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/families-log-in-to-e-funerals-as-priests-live-stream-last-rites/articleshow/75665765.cms||Mohua Das
May 11, 2020||Chennai||Second train with guest workers leaves for Manipur||Chennai: Around 1,200 people from Manipur left by a special train from MGR Central railway station to Jiribam, Manipur, via Guwahati at 8pm on Sunday. This is the second train from Chennai to leave carrying stranded people. The passengers were picked up by MTC’s special buses from different points across the city such as Anna Nagar, Velachery and Choolaimedu to the station. The train was supposed to operate only in the evening. However, there was chaos evident earlier in the day due confusion regarding the train service and the pick up. As the registered passengers got to know of the pick-up facility available at different points, several assembled at a bus stop on Nelson Manickam Road. As the local police patrol weren't informed about the pick-up schedule, they took an initiative to clear the people from the location. Thomas Chapao, co-ordinator, Manipur Association in Chennai, said, “All of them have registered with both the Manipur and Tamil Nadu governments. The train was arranged based on the request of Manipur. Some were confused about the pick-up point. Nevertheless, all of them were later taken to the station. A few are still on the waiting list and could not board, however, they will hopefully be able to travel in the next train.” He also stated that none of the passengers who were to board Sunday’s train were left behind. He added that the government might arrange two more trains in the coming week so that all the registered people will be able to reach their home state. The train that left on Sunday will reach on May 12. Another special train left from Tirupur to Muzaffarpur, Bihar, left on Sunday. Southern Railway stated they are ready with rakes to operate special trains to move stranded people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/second-train-with-guest-workers-leaves-for-manipur/articleshow/75665439.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Chennai||Cases will go up, but don’t worry: Spl officer||Chennai: On a day when Chennai saw the highest spike in Covid-19 positive cases (509), special nodal officer for city, J Radhakrishnan said the number of cases in the city will be on the higher side for the coming week, but that the public need not worry. The high number of cases in the city should be contextualised with the population and the rate of testing done, which is the highest in the country, Radhakrishnan said. “My humble request is that we need not be afraid because of numbers. For the past 10 days, we have been doing targeted testing. We have traced contacts and are testing at the rate of 3,500 people s day,” Radhakrishnan said. Deputy directors at ICMR-National Institute of Epidemiology, Chennai, Dr Prahdeep Kaur and Dr Manickam, too had echoed a similar opinion in their interview to TOI on May 8. “Rising numbers reflect good testing and contact tracing strategies. It tells us we are on the right path. At one point, when we are at the peak, the numbers will decline even as we continue to aggressively test people,” the epidemiologists had said. On Sunday, 669 cases were recorded in Tamil Nadu of which 509 was in Chennai. As on Sunday evening, the total number of cases in the city rose to 3,839 — 53% of the total cases in the state — 7,204. Stating that coronavirus is an invisible enemy for which the public should prepare themselves as foot soldiers, the official appealed to people to support the authorities by following physical distancing and wear masks compulsorily. There will come a stage in the future where not wearing face masks and not maintaining physical distancing might lead to fines, he said, and appealed to the public to not step out of the house without a face mask. “Face mask should become a staple part of the outdoor attire,” he said. Stressing that the elderly and the diabetic are vulnerable, the official sought co-operation from the public. Radhakrishnan also pointed out that majority of the wards in Chennai have less than ten Covid-19 positive cases and that the maximum cases are restricted to two wards in Royapuram zone and Thiru-vi-ka Nagar zone, which have more than 200 cases each.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/cases-will-go-up-but-dont-worry-spl-officer/articleshow/75665435.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Lucknow||Lalbagh vendor’s five more contacts test corona +ve||Lucknow: Five more contacts of the Lalbagh vegetable vendor tested positive for novel coronavirus infection on Sunday, taking the number of his acquaintances diagnosed with Covid-19 so far to 15. All the cases are from Nazarbagh hotspot area, being neighbours of the vegetable wholesaler, who tested positive on May 3 after being in regular contact with the Lalbagh vendor who was found infected on April 25. “Swab samples of 150 more persons in Nazarbagh suspected to have come in contact with the new cases have been sent for test,” said Dr Narendra Agarwal, chief medical officer. Meanwhile, a private hospital in Rajendra Nagar area was closed for three days after a Faizabad resident, a woman, who visited the hospital earlier tested positive on Sunday. The woman was eight months pregnant and had come for routine check up. She has been admitted to KGMU. About 14 staff members of the hospital, including a doctor, have been asked to isolate themselves at home and their samples were sent for test. The patients in hospital have been shifted to government hospitals. Meanwhile 16 patients were discharged from various hospitals on Sunday. The city has recorded 257 cases so far, of which 196 have recovered, while one died during treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lalbagh-vendors-five-more-contacts-test-corona-ve/articleshow/75665771.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Nagpur||Two booked in Ner for assaulting health workers||Yavatmal: Two persons were booked by Ner police on Sunday on charges of disrupting government duty and assaulting health workers. Police sources said two residents of Pathanpura area of Ner city assaulted three health workers who were on duty, without any reason. The contract nurses were on survey duty in the containment area of Ner and its vicinity on Saturday. The accused, Moheen Patel and Shakeel Qureshi not only refused to provide the information sought by the nurses, but also snatched the survey reports from them and tore them in front of the crowd which gathered at the spot, flouting Covid distancing norms. The duo also snatched the identity cards from their necks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/two-booked-in-ner-for-assaulting-health-workers/articleshow/75665473.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Chennai||Guest workers walk home, take interior roads to avoid cops||CHENNAI: With no response for registrations in the state government portal (www.nonresidenttamil.org) last week, guest workers from Chennai are now walking back home. To avoid check posts, the migrants take interior roads of villages to cross district and state borders. Sirajudeen, a 24-year-old worker from Chennai who is travelling to Gorakhpur, Uttar Pradesh, by foot along with 32 others on Saturday, said they were taking interior roads to skip Padianallur toll gate. They were working in sawmills and paint industries here for a year and registered with the portal as soon as it was launched. However, they haven't received any update. “Trucks can transport us to Vizag’s outskirts if we pay them Rs 1,000. We aren't sure if we can pay for the remaining 100km journey,” said L Tirupathy, a construction worker, who left Kasimedu on Sunday as the government camp they resided in ran out of food. While this was the ordeal of registered workers, hundreds residing in Velachery struggle to get their registrations approved. “The police provided contact numbers. However, they are never answered,” said V Charukesh, a volunteer from Chennai aiding migrants with the online registration process. TOI on Sunday contacted emergency numbers (of IAS-cadre nodal officers) released by the government to facilitate movement of workers to Uttar Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh and Odisha. The calls went unanswered. “The government could have sent migrants home efficiently by operating all available buses. But it just created a portal for namesake and is running only limited trains,” said CITU President A Soundararajan. Data suggests 2.5 lakh workers registered to go their natives from Tamil Nadu. A train trip can ferry only 1,130 workers. There are 21,000 unused government buses in TN. Calculations revealed they can ferry 8 lakh workers out of the state a day. “Most industries, that have employed these migrants have also not expressed much support. In fact, some have even threatened to not release pending salary dues,” Soundararajan added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/guest-workers-walk-home-take-interior-roads-to-avoid-cops/articleshow/75665448.cms||Ram Sundaram
May 11, 2020||Ahmedabad||Migrant worker wants flight back to home village in Uttar Pradesh||Ahmedabad: The Ahmedabad district collectorate which has been processing thousands of online applications by persons who want to travel during the lockdown, and also coordinating the return of migrant labourers back to their respective states, has come across a few amusing requests and applications.Even as trains are being arranged to transport thousands of migrant workers back to their respective states, one migrant worker, in his application, has mentioned that he would like to be ferried back to his native village in Uttar Pradesh by plane.In the middle of lockdown 2.0, the district collectorate received an online travel request application from a person who wanted to visit Mount Abu for a day. Although the applicant did not specify the reason for the visit to Mount Abu, it was not too difficult a guesswork for collectorate staff, who turned it down.An official in the collectorate said that they have received a large number of calls from people who are not actually migrant workers, but want to desperately get on the Shramik Special trains. “One person kept pleading, repeating that he worked several hours a day and thus should be considered as a migrant labourer,” the official said.Most of the heads for which permission has been granted by the collectorate during the lockdown include medical emergencies, industrial units, and other essential services.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/migrant-worker-wants-flight-back-to-home-village-in-uttar-pradesh/articleshow/75665457.cms||Meghdoot Sharon
May 11, 2020||Pune||13-month-old girl, youngest Covid-19 casualty, among five dead in PMR||PUNE: Five deaths due to Covid-19, including that of a 13-month-old girl and an 82-year-old Yerawada jail inmate, were reported on Sunday. Health officials said the girl from the Mhada colony in Warje was admitted to B J Medical and Sassoon General Hospital on May 4 and died at 7.30 am on Sunday. She’s the youngest Covid-19 casualty in the city so far. The cause of her death was cited as “pulmonary haemorrhage secondary to ARDS (Acute respiratory distress syndrome) with pneumonitis with megaloblastic anemia with severe acute malnutrition”. Health officials said all the five persons succumbing to the contagion had comorbidity factors. The five casualties have taken the number of people dying of Coronavirus in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) to 156. The officials said 138 of the casualtes were in the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) limits. The Yerawada prisoner, originally a resident of Akkalkot in Solapur, was admitted to Sasooon on May 7 and died on May 9. His report came positive on Sunday. He suffered from respiratory failure and was also had history of tuberculosis. Among the other deceased was a 70-year-old woman from Tadiwala Road. She died at the district hospital in Aundh. A 37-year-old man from Ganjpeth died at Sasooon hospital on May 9, while a Kondhwa resident (53) died at Kashibai Nawale hospital the same day. The reports of both the men on Sunday confirmed that they were Covid-19 positive. Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) officials said the two men were suffering from pneumonia and other respiratory diseases. When contacted, PMC commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad said a decline was seen in the number of the Covid-19 positive cases. “On May 9, the number of cases was 1,414. As many as 102 new cases were recorded on Sunday, while 194 patients were discharged during the day. The total active cases is now 1,318. The net number is going down in the PMC areas,” he told TOI. Mayor Murulidhar Mohol said, “It is a welcome sign. The doctors and health department officials working to check the virus spread deserve accolades.” District administration officials said the total number of positive patients in the PMC was 2,475, while in the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) limits it was 170. The civil surgeon and cantonment boards have 147 cases, while the district heath office of the zilla parishad has recorded 65 cases. Last Sunday, the total number of Coronavirus positive cases had crossed the 2,000 mark in the Pune Metropolitan Region. 48 fresh cases in SolapurSolapur district recorded 48 fresh Covid-19 cases on Sunday, the highest number reported in a day. Of the 48 Covid-19 patients, 45 are from the city, while three are from Mohol taluka. Out of the 48 patients, nine are police personnel, three are state health workers, 25 were contacts of the person who tested positive earlier, six are Severe Acute Respiratory Illness (SARI) patients and four are contact people in the hospital, among others, as per a report from the Solapur health department. The total number of cases has gone up to 264—152 men and 112 women—including 14 death. The active number of cases is 209. As many as 41 patients have recovered. District collector Milind Shambharkar set up four teams, headed by specially appointed government officers, who will be held responsible for the control of the infection. The team for each containment zone comprises officials of health, civil supply, revenue, and municipal corporation.  The Sangli district registered another Covid-19 case on Sunday. With this, the total number of Covid-19 cases rose to 38 while 10 cases are active, 27 patients have recovered and one died. A 30-year-old woman tested positive for Covid-19 and her husband tested negative. They have a travel history to Ahmedabad. The couple had come to Salshingi village in Khanapur taluka. Their health check-up was done at Vita Rural hospital following which they were referred to Miraj Government Medical College and Hospital, Sangli district collector Abhijeet Chaudhary, said a health squad has been deployed at the village for contact tracing.. (With inputs from Kolhapur)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/13-month-old-girl-youngest-covid-19-casualty-among-five-dead-in-pmr/articleshow/75665442.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Lucknow||Make online classes more interactive: Ex-CBSE chairman Ashok Ganguly||LUCKNOW: Online education should not be a monologue and teachers should relate every topic with real life situations to make it interesting for students, according to former chairman of CBSE Ashok Ganguly. “Teachers should adopt the practice of ‘flip classroom’ in which students are given a topic and are asked to go through it. The next day, teachers should answer the queries with interesting explanation,” he said. He said learning should be made interesting to keep students glued to the screen as it was very difficult for them to focus for long durations. Ganguly said online teaching should be interactive and interesting and connected with real life situations and should not be confined to textbooks or assignments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/make-online-classes-more-interactive/articleshow/75665794.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Ahmedabad||69 GCRI staff members +ve||Ahmedabad: A total of 69 staff members including doctors, nurses, paramedical and supporting staff at Gujarat Cancer Research Institute (GCRI) have tested positive, confirmed Civil Hospital authorities. Apart from the 1,200-bed Covid-19 hospital, 500 beds at GCRI are designated for Covid-19 patients and several of the staff members have come in contact with the positive patients, said sources. “A total of 154 staff members including 120 asymptomatic ones had undergone Covid-19 tests,” said a senior GCRI official. “Out of the symptomatic cases, 24 have tested positive. Forty-five from the asymptomatic group have tested positive. They are either in Civil Hospital or at city-based hotels where the frontline workers are put up for treatment and recuperation.” tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/69-gcri-staff-members-ve/articleshow/75665453.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujaratis from Singapore stuck in Mum||Ahmedabad: The first flight which was scheduled to arrive at Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel International (SVPI) airport in Ahmedabad on Sunday afternon from Singapore and bringing back Gujaratis who were stranded there, did not arrive at the city airport. Sources confirmed that the flight was supposed to land at Mumbai and then reach Ahmedabad at 3.30pm. “There were less than 30 passengers on the flight from Mumbai to Ahmedabad and therefore, the flight could not depart. To operate, the flight requires a minimum of 30 passengers and therefore, those who were to come to Gujarat are currently in Mumbai itself,” confirmed an official from the Ahmedabad district collectorate. Passengers from various parts of the state were scheduled to land on Sunday afternoon and buses had been arranged to take them to their respective locations after screening.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gujaratis-from-singapore-stuck-in-mum/articleshow/75665452.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana dials Bihar for 20,000 workers||HYDERABAD: Though reverse migration of workers has begun from other states, the requirement is far higher than the number of persons who have arrived in the state. Rice millers and the agriculture sector alone need at least 20,000 hamalis (labourers), particularly those who specialise in loading and unloading paddy and rice and doing other chores at rice mills and paddy procurement centres. Less than 500 hamalis, who specialise in loading and unloading of paddy and rice, have arrived from Bihar against the requirement of 20,000 persons. The state government has taken up the matter with the Bihar administration as thousands of hamalis who are in touch with rice millers in Telangana have expressed their willingness to come and work in the state. Read our coronavirus live blog for all the latest news and updatesThe crisis being faced by rice millers and agriculture sector presently is shortage of labour, particularly hamalis. A majority of some 30,000 hamalis who had come from various states were now returning home. The Telangana government has requested the Bihar government to give permission for the workforce to be transported to Telangana in special Shramik Special trains after conducting Covid-19 tests and maintaining social distancing norm during travel. Coronavirus outbreak: Complete coverageChief secretary Somesh Kumar has also sent a list of workers (hamalis) who are staying in various districts of Bihar and who have given their consent to come to work if provided transportation facility. A member of the Rice Millers’ Association said the paddy procurement would have been completed by now if hamalis were there. More on Covid-19 Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage Lockdown 3.0: What's allowed and what's not in the three zones It's time to mask up and stay safe: Join TOI's #MaskIndia campaign MHA's guidelines for home isolation Trust the newspaper for your daily verified news  “Over 30,000 hamalis had gone to Bihar for Holi and could not return due to lockdown. Now, they are willing to come but officials are not allowing them to take the special train to Telangana. All efforts are being made to bring them back,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/state-dials-bihar-for-20k-workers/articleshow/75664949.cms||Roushan Ali
May 11, 2020||Chennai||Virtual internships to be the new normal this year||CHENNAI: Virtual internships are the way this year as many IT and IT product companies have asked students to start their internships and work from homes. Universities and colleges expected the Covid-19 lockdown would affect summer internships but online internships have raised hopes of pre-placement offers for the next academic year. Colleges also said companies have not withdrawn any placement offers due to the Covid-19 crisis. “It was difficult to cope with it in the beginning. Now, I learned to work from home,” said Betcy Thomas, a final year BE student interning with an IT major. The companies are giving students a particular domain, free license to study courses and offer training. “After the training, they assign us tasks and evaluate our performance periodically,” she said. “My company also assigns tasks that can be done online,” said Suvan Dhar, another student. Around 40% of students who received internship offers have started virtual internship, said R M Kishore, vice-chairman, RMK Engineering College. As of now, colleges are relieved as companies are not rescinding offers due to the lockdown. “In our college, 1,195 students (80%) received placement offers and a few more companies were scheduled to visit. The companies did not go back on their offers due to the lockdown and many inquire when students can possibly join them,” he said. More than 200 students from Anna University and 800 from Sathyabama Institute of Science and Technology are doing their internships online. Fidelity, Amazon, Samsung are some of the companies they intern for. “These are big product companies and they would convert the internships into offers based on students’ performance. If there is no summer internship, students may not get any pre-placement offers next year,” said said T Kalaiselvan, additional director, Centre for University Industry Collaboration (CUIC), Anna University. However, students who bagged internships in industries could not start work as visiting the worksites is not possible. “Companies such as Saint Gobain are asking the students to check with the university about the possibility of interning in August and September,” he added. A HR manager from a leading e-commerce company said they have onboarded all interns from IITs, NITs and technical institutions. “We have allocated remote work spaces and assigned projects. If they do well, they will get offers,” he said. All major companies which visited campuses have not withdrawn offers, he said, adding that the companies are waiting for the exam schedule to begin onboarding recruits.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/virtual-internships-to-be-the-new-normal-this-year/articleshow/75665455.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Ranchi||Garbage pile-ups raise stink amid corona scare in Adityapur||Jamshedpur: For residents living in Adityapur Municipal Corporation (AMC) areas, the threat of a coronavirus spread has multiplied with the garbage piling up for days together. While the residents complain that garbage lifting has become irregular, AMC blames it on lack of manpower and proper space for garbage disposal. A resident of Bhatia Basti in ward 11, A K Mishra, said, “For the last one month, door-to-door lifting of garbage has taken a hit, leading to stinky bins across all the 35 wards.” He added, “The filth is adding to the already unsafe environment due to coronavirus.” “I have made several complaints to the AMC and every time I have been assured of redressal, but the ground reality is no different,” Mishra said. P K Singh, a resident of Adityapur LIG colony, said, “Our complaints fall on deaf ears as AMC says it is facing a shortage of space for garbage disposal.” When approached, AMC deputy mayor Amitabh Singh said, “In the past one year, two sites (one near the toll bridge in Kandra and the other at Sapra in Adityapur) were identified for disposal of garbage, but due to opposition from the locals, the municipality had to abandon the plan.” “With no other option left before us for disposal, we decided to dig up pits of a sufficient size in the outskirts and dump the waste,” Singh said. Singh also pointed at lack of staff due to the lockdown behind piles of garbage. “Due to the lockdown, nearly 50% staff who come from distant areas of Kharsawan, Sini, Kandra and other places are not being able to report to work. On top of that, we have to carry out sanitisation, fogging and sprinkling work with the available workforce and thus, there’s a possibility that due to the work pressure, the private agency engaged for such works are giving a miss to garbage lifting in some wards,” Amitabh said. With over 35 tonne garbage generated every day in AMC areas, residents said things could worsen if the situation does not improve in the coming days. “Once the hotels and roadside eateries get operational, more garbage will generated every day,” said Prashant Kumar, a resident of Saldih Basti in Adityapur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/garbage-pile-ups-raise-stink-amid-corona-scare-in-adityapur/articleshow/75664346.cms||B Sridhar
May 11, 2020||Vadodara||22-yr-old UP man impersonating army jawan booked||Vadodara: Government Railway Police (GRP) on Sunday booked a 22-year-old man for posing as an army jawan in the city. Mohammed Ansari, who is a resident of Ghazipur in Uttar Pradesh, had posed as an army jawan and approached district administration some days ago for permission to travel outside the city. “We have booked him for impersonating an army jawan after we got a complaint from Indian Army. Ansari has been sent for coronavirus test at SSG Hospital. He will be arrested later,” said M S Bodar, GRP police inspector. Ansari claimed that he was posted in Jammu and Kashmir and had arrived in the city on March 21. Interestingly, he claimed that he had come to meet family of Arif Khan Pathan, who was martyred during heavy firing from across LOC in J & K in July last year.  Dressed in army fatigues, Ansari was spotted near the district collector’s office a couple of days ago where he said that he wanted permission to leave for his hometown in UP as his widow mother was alone there. Ansari had claimed that he had talked to his commanding officer and even dropped name of principal secretary in PMO. He said that he was trying to meet the district magistrate but his application to leave the city wasn’t being entertained. Ansari had even flashed his identity card. “When we asked him how he got army uniform, Ansari said he always wanted to join Indian Army and so he kept army fatigues with him. Once we arrest him, we will question him about the identity card and if he has duped people by posing as an army jawan in the past,” Bodar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/22-yr-old-up-man-impersonating-army-jawan-booked/articleshow/75663799.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Ranchi||Woman kills husband and son, goes into hiding||Ranchi: On Mother’s Day, a woman allegedly killed her five-year-old son and critically wounded her husband, who later died on the way to hospital. The incident happened in New Colony under Jagannathpur police station area of the city. Police said Sushma Gudia, the prime suspect, is absconding. She allegedly killed her son Amit and her injured husband Lukas Gudia died on the way to Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (Rims). According to local sources, Sushma attacked her husband and son with a sharp weapon after a quarrel. One of the locals also said the woman had also tried to commit suicide a few days ago. Hatia DSP Vineet Kumar said, “The circumstances leading to the killings can be ascertained only after the accused is arrested.” A search is on in Bero area to nab the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/woman-kills-husband-and-son-goes-into-hiding/articleshow/75664338.cms||Sanjay Sahay
May 11, 2020||Ranchi||Sariyahat police stn OC suspended for allowing barber in quarantine centre||Dumka: Dumka SP Ambar Lakda on Sunday suspended the officer-in-charge of Saraiyahat police station, Sanjay Janak Murti, for dereliction of duty when a barber was allowed to enter a quarantine centre here to shave the head of an inmate, who later tested positive for Covid-19. The incident happened in between May 2 and 5, when two migrants, who returned from Gurgaon in Harayana, were lodged at the quarantine centre. A local barber was called to the centre to shave the head of one of the migrants, whose father had died. Later, when their test results came on May 5, both tested positive. Lakda said, “The barber’s entry into the quarantine centre was a clear violation of government orders issued in the backdrop of the pandemic and thus, the OC, who was in charge of the centre, has been suspended.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/sariyahat-police-stn-oc-suspended-for-allowing-barber-in-quarantine-centre/articleshow/75664451.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Ranchi||Maoist prone blocks of Bokaro seeing surge of migrants returning on foot, cycles and bikes||Bokaro: An administrative team stopped four persons, who were coming from Mumbai riding two motorbikes, at a checkpoint in Petarwar block on National Highway-24 here on Friday morning. The men were later released and allowed to go to their homes in Nawadih block after a medical screening. They rode about 1,800 kms between Mumbai and Bokaro in five days. On Saturday night, five persons reached Gomia block from Mumbai on bicycles after pedalling for about 15 days. As migrants are returning home across the country, Maoist-prone blocks, especially Gomia and Nawadih in Bokaro, are witnessing many people come back on cycles, bikes or even on foot, after failing to get government help. According to data from the administration, about 6,000 migrant workers and others are expected to arrive in Gomia, while 3,500 persons might return to Nawadih. A magistrate deployed at Petarwar checking point, Hari Prasad, said, “Around 5am, I saw four persons on two motorbikes. They were all below 40 years. When questioned, they said that they were working in a private firm in Mumbai that got closed during the lockdown. They, therefore, wanted to return to Nawadih. They were checked by a medical team and found healthy. They have been sent to home quarantine.” He added, “At the checking point, I regularly see people coming from far off places on foot, bicycles and motorbikes. We provide them with food and sometimes shelter during the night. Most of them are migrant workers who have lost their jobs and have exhausted their money. A few days ago, another group was caught while travelling from Chhattisgarh to West Bengal on cycles.” The five who came to Gomia on cycles from Raigad in Maharastra began their journey on April 25. They were all aged between 24 and 27. A member of the group, Tekochand Kumar Mahto, said “Our money got exhausted and we found it hard to survive there. Finding no avenues of employment during the lockdown, we decided to come back home.” Bokaro DC Mukesh Kumar said that they have set up check points on roads entering the district. The commuters will have to undergo thermal screening while entering the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/maoist-prone-blocks-of-bokaro-seeing-surge-of-migrants-returning-on-foot-cycles-and-bikes/articleshow/75664367.cms||Divy Khare
May 11, 2020||Ranchi||Lockdown blues: Stray dogs attack people after food scarcity||Ranchi: Recently, two people suffered dog bites in Doranda and Hawai Nagar areas of the capital city. There have been reports of stray dog menace from other parts of Ranchi as well. Veterinarians and members of NGOs working for stray animals here attribute the apparent rise in dog bite cases to the ongoing lockdown. They said the closure of road-side eateries and restaurants has cut off a major source of food for the strays, which has, in turn, heightened the “attacking instinct” among the dogs. Talking to TOI, veterinary officer of a Ranchi-based pet clinic, Dr Sameer Sahay, said: “There are two major reasons for the increase in dog bite incidents. “Stray dogs always fight among themselves for food, but they do not attack humans if food is available in sufficient quantity. But when food is scarce, they become agitated and attack people. The second reason could be the soaring temperature, which has made them more anxious.” A person who was recently bitten by a stray said the dogs chased him because he did not have enough food to feed all of them. “I was feeding chapatis to two dogs near my house and all of a sudden, other strays in the area crowded us. I tried to shoo them away as I did not have any food left, but they chased me and one of them bit me,” said Anil Kumar, a resident of Shivpurio colony in Hinoo. Notably, many NGOs and dog lover groups were feeding the stray dogs during the initial phase of the nationwide lockdown. But with their resources drying up and no support from the government forthcoming, many have been forced to stop their activities. Somen Majumdar, who has been running a dog shelter in Angara for more than six years, said, “I rescued more than two dozen stray dogs and also fed hundreds across the city for more than a fortnight. But with our coffers running dry, I had to suspend the operation. I hope that the administration will take some measures to protect stray animals in the city.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/lockdown-blues-stray-dogs-attack-people-after-food-scarcity/articleshow/75664167.cms||Gaurav Pandey
May 11, 2020||Ranchi||Biz body gets labour min’s nod for providing salaries in instalments to workers||Ranchi: A delegation of Federation of Jharkhand Chamber of Commerce and Industries (FJCCI) met state labour minister Satyanand Bhokta on Sunday and urged him to recall the government’s decision to crack the whip on employers who fail to clear the outstanding dues of their workers. Terming the decision as harsh and damaging to the revival prospects of MSMEs once the lockdown is lifted, the senior office-bearers, led by FJCCI president Kunal Ajmani, urged Bhokta to consider allowing entrepreneurs to clear the outstanding wages of their employees in phases in order to maintain liquidity for the operation costs of their respective units. Speaking to TOI after the meeting, Bhokta said the government has accepted FJCCI’s demand for the time being. “The FJCCI said owing to the heavy losses due to the ongoing lockdown, it has become difficult for entrepreneurs to clear the outstanding dues of their employees all at once. Hence, I have ordered that the actions which were to be taken against the non-complying entrepreneurs be relaxed for the time being,” he added. Recently, a public notice, issued by labour secretary Rajiv Arun Ekka, requested all investors to ensure that all their workers are paid their dues during the ongoing lockdown. The notice, which also urged investors to not sack their employees, threatened actions under the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1987 and relevant sections of labour laws if any one is found not complying with the notice. While Ajmani did not respond to calls, former FJCCI president Deepak Kumar Maru said, “The meeting was fruitful. The minister learnt about our problems and agreed to relax the directive for the time being. We proposed that for those employees whose salaries are on the higher side, we will pay in instalments, to which he agreed.” Already reeling by the economic slump in 2019-20 financial year, the MSME sector in Jharkhand has been left bleeding with the financial damages caused by the ongoing lockdown. As per estimates, 15% of Ranchi’s 1,200 MSME units have begun operations now. “The situation is such that around 20% of the state’s functional units cannot open immediately after the lockdown due to lack of resources. Now, if we are forced to clear the dues all at once, we will be left with no capital for resuming our units. Then, the only option left would be to sack employees in a bid to cut production costs,” a Ranchi-based entrepreneur, who attended the meeting, said. FJCCI also urged Bhokta to chalk out a plan which would allow Jharkhand to provide permanent employment to the lakhs of migrants returning to the state. When asked whether the government has drawn up a plan to provide skill-based livelihoods to the returning migrants, the minister said, “We have asked all our government departments to prepare feasibility reports about providing employment. Based on their reports, a final blueprint will be prepared. For now, our topmost priority is to arrange for the return of the workers from other states and transport them to their homes. Once the crisis is over, we will take a call on it.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/biz-body-gets-labour-mins-nod-for-providing-salaries-in-instalments-to-workers/articleshow/75664135.cms||Dhritiman Ray
May 11, 2020||Ranchi||J’khand govt to arrange buses, trains to other states for those stranded||Ranchi: The Jharkhand government will ferry students and stranded migrants to their home states in special buses and trains, top officials in the Hemant Soren government said on Sunday. Meanwhile, two trains arrived at Hatia station from Tamil Nadu’s Kathpadi junction and Bengaluru. The 06102 special train from Kathpadi arrived at 7.30am with 1,195 passengers, many of them patients from Vellore. The second train, 06555 from Bengaluru, reached at 10.40am with 1,150 passengers. In a statement, the Ranchi district administration said 91 buses were used to ferry the passengers to 23 districts. “Ambulances and wheelchairs were also arranged for the patients,” it said. While passengers from Tamil Nadu said they were not charged a penny, those from Bengaluru said they were charged between Rs 850 and Rs 1,000. On Monday morning, the state will dispatch a bus carrying 41 stranded Mizoram residents from the ATI Building complex in Morhabadi. Most of the passengers to be ferried are students. The students were screened for Covid-19 symptoms on Sunday by health officials. “Buses will be the first to ferry stranded people outside Jharkhand. Besides buses, we will also run special trains to ferry stranded people to their home states. None of them will be charged a penny for their travel. The Jharkhand government will bear all the expenses,” a senior official told TOI on condition of anonymity. However, the official said the travel plans of the trains will be kept under wraps to avoid possible law and order situations. Since May 1, special trains and buses are being ferried to bring Jharkhand’s stranded students, migrant workers and patients home. So far, more than 22 trains carrying close to 24,000 people have reached various stations of Jharkhand from Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Kerala, Telangana, Gujarat and Punjab. Buses are being sent to Bihar, UP, MP, Odisha, Chattisgarh and West Bengal. So far, close to 14,000 people have returned, sources in the state transport department said. Another official said, “The trains which are coming to Jharkhand will not be used to ferry stranded people from the state as the MHA protocols do not permit it.” MHA protocols dictate that once terminated at their locations, the trains will return empty to their parent divisions after complete sanitisation of the coaches.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/jkhand-govt-to-arrange-buses-trains-to-other-states-for-those-stranded/articleshow/75664379.cms||Dhritiman Ray
May 11, 2020||Ranchi||Lohardaga MP writes to CMs of Rajasthan, Telangana||Gumla: BJP’s Lohardaga MP and former Union minister Sudarshan Bhagat recently wrote a letter to Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot urging him to send back the body of one Somra Oraon, a migrant who hailed from Gumla district and died in Alwar owing to “lack of treatment”. In another letter, Bhagat requested the Telangana government to arrange for the return of hundreds of migrants stranded in Malkajgiri district. Bhagat’s letter to Gehlot read, “Somra Oraon, a migrant worker of Gumla, died in Alwar district due to lack of treatment. It is the moral responsibility of your government to send his body and order an inquiry into his death besides providing support to his family.” In his letter to Telangana CM K Chandrashekhar Rao, Bhagat said several workers from his constituency were being ill-treated by the Malkajgiri district administration. “Migrant workers in Midchal, an industrial hub in Malkajgiri, are rendered jobless due to the lockdown. They informed me over the phone that they are facing several problems and want to return home. I request you to initiate an inquiry into the ill-treatment meted out to them and arrange for their journey back home.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/lohardaga-mp-writes-to-cms-of-rajasthan-telangana/articleshow/75664511.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Ranchi||3 dead, 5 injured in Ramgarh road accident||Ramgarh: Three persons died and five others were injured after a trailer collided with another heavy vehicle in a bid to save a biker and fell in a 20 feet trench on the Ranchi-Ramgarh stretch of NH-33 on Sunday. The trailer was ferrying seven migrants from Jamshedpur to Uttar Pradesh. The injured were rushed to the sadar hospital from where, two of them were referred to Rims in Ranchi. Ramgarh SP Prabhat Kumar said, “A trailer was on its way to Muzffarnagar in Uttar Pradesh from Jamshedpur which fell into a trench after three vehicles, including a motorcycle, collided with each other. The biker and the two others died on the spot and five others, mostly migrant workers, were left injured.” tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/3-dead-5-injured-in-ramgarh-road-accident/articleshow/75664417.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Hyderabad||No fish prasadam distribution in Hyderabad this year||HYDERABAD: There will be no annual fish prasadam distribution this year due to Covid-19. As per schedule, Bathini family gives the prasadam on June 8 and 9 at Exhibition Grounds in Nampally. Every year over three to five lakh Asthma patients across the country used to visit Hyderabad on these two days and accept the prasadam prepared by the family. The founder of fish prasadam Bathini Harinath Goud on Sunday officially announced its suspension due to Covid-19. Moreover, it is very difficult to government machinery to control lakhs of the asthma patients to maintain social distancing due to serpentine queues used to wait to have fish prasadam. Administering of fish prasadam is continuing for more than 175 years in Hyderabad and for the first time we have stopped for administering it, he added. For this annual event, the Hyderabad district administration, other major departments include revenue, police, fisheries, TSRTC and Fire, used to make elaborate arrangements 10 days ahead to the annual event to ensure the fish medicine distribution. Harinath Goud also appealed not to come the city on June 8 and 9 and not to believe any fake messages about medicine being given by the family to control coronavirus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/no-fish-prasadam-distribution-in-hyderabad-this-year/articleshow/75666116.cms||Sunil Mungara
May 11, 2020||India||Experts back ‘bold’ labour reforms||NEW DELHI: The deep labour reforms unveiled by several states led by UP have received strong endorsement from top policymakers, indicating that the Centre may give its nod to the changes aimed at attracting investments, creating jobs and helping build the second supply chain the world is aiming to build and de-risk itself from China against the backdrop of the pandemic. Several states, which include UP, MP, Gujarat, Maharashtra, Odisha, and Goa, have undertaken steps to ease labour laws. Employers have been given the flexibility to increase workshifts upto 72 hours a week with overtime for workers, allow third party exemption and weed out several other inflexibilities investors have long complained about. “It is a good move. For the time we are giving the needed flexibility to employers. State governments, working in close cooperation with workers’ representative organisations, will ensure workers’ interests are protected while giving flexibility,” Rajiv Kumar, vice chairman of government think tank Niti Aayog, told TOI. “A new beginning has been made and more states will hopefully follow,” he said. Another top policymaker said the reforms will help the country get rid of archaic laws and make it an even more attractive investment destination. “These are the boldest and bravest reforms and will free the country from antiquated and outdated laws,” Niti Aayog CEO Amitabh Kant said. He said the proposed reforms were aimed at attracting global investments, protecting and creating jobs across states which have undertaken these reforms. Former Aayog vice chairman Arvind Panagariya said the reforms will go down as one of the biggest moves in the country’s reforms story. “The reforms must still be blessed by the Centre. Assuming this is done, there is no denying that the reforms by UP and Gujarat would go down as the biggest bang reforms in the history of post Independence reforms,” said Panagariya, a professor at Columbia University. “Even so, the key objective of these reforms — emergence of many more medium and large firms — cannot be realised without additionally reforming labor laws that would kick back after the end of three years in the case of UP and 1,200 days in the case of Gujarat. Large investments respond to the expected environment over a much longer horizon than the current suspension period,” he added. The initiatives have been opposed by trade unions and seven opposition parties have shot off a letter to the President in protest. But India Inc has lauded the measures. “One of the most important factors to restarting economic activity is the need for labour law reforms,”said Vikram Kirloskar, president of industry lobby group CII.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/experts-back-bold-labour-reforms/articleshow/75666107.cms||Surojit Gupta
May 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Farmers must grow what Telangana govt tells: Experts||HYDERABAD: Experts from agriculture, agri-business and related fields have firmly suggested to chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao that farmers should cultivate only those crops suggested by the government and those not following government directions must not be given Rs 10,000 per acre per annum Rythu Bandhu sop and their agriculture produce should not be procured by paying minimum support price. Experts said the government should also make sure that only seeds of the crops suggested by the government are available in the market. Put an end to the practice of seed traders offering seeds on their own to farmers. There should be a total regulation on this matter. Farmers who follow the government’s policy on crop pattern should be paid the Rythu Bandhu benefits and MSP to their produce, they said. Responding to suggestions from experts at a high-level review meeting on a comprehensive agriculture policy for Telangana to make agriculture a profitable sector, the chief minister said he will directly meet the field level agriculture officers on the comprehensive agriculture policy to be implemented in the state. However, the CM did not announce any decision on stopping Rythu Bandhu and not procuring at MSP the agriculture produce of farmers not following government directive. But the CM said he was of the firm opinion that farmers should get good price for their agriculture produce, and decided that all the farmers should not go in for a single crop and incur losses. Instead, they should go in for the cultivation of variety of crops. The CM discussed with this at length with agriculture experts, scientists and officials. A study was conducted on what crops, to what extent should be cultivated in the state, and what strategy to be followed to sell the crops. As an extension to this, the CM wanted to discuss the matter directly with the district and mandal agriculture officers. This meeting will take place soon. Later, the CM will speak to agriculture extension officers in mandals, representatives of Rythu Bandhu Samithis through a video-conference. The CM said the government had taken several measures for development of agriculture sector in the state, and through construction of irrigation projects, the problem of water for irrigation would be solved forever. In Telangana, in the days to come, paddy will be cultivated in 90 lakh acres every year. About 2.7 crore tonnes paddy will be cultivated. The rice millers should enhance the capacity of their mills to mill this huge quantity of paddy into rice, the CM said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/farmers-must-grow-what-govt-tells-experts/articleshow/75666121.cms||Roushan Ali
May 11, 2020||Vijayawada||Officials help migrants walking along rly tracks find train home||Vijayawada: Over 300 migrant workers walking along railway tracks were sent home by Nellore district police on Sunday when they were heading for their native villages. Most of them had made for Gudur railway station from Tamil Nadu in the hopes of boarding a Shramik Special train run by the Centre to transport stranded migrant workers. Officials said even after 16 migrant workers were run over by a cargo train in Aurangabad earlier this month, most preferred to travel alongside the tracks, adding that many migrants might be unaware of the Aurangabad incident. The workers detained on Sunday are from Odisha, Bihar and Jharkhand and had walked over 300 km from various places in Tamil Nadu. They had been told a Shramik Special train would be available at Gudur and were walking along the railway tracks when onlookers informed the police. By the time Government Railway Police (GRP) sub-inspector (SI) Kotaiah reached the spot with his team, the migrants had left the tracks and moved on to a bypass road upon learning no special train was available at Gudur. Local police in Nellore came to their rescue and arranged buses for the migrants to a railway station. Officials at Vijayawada railway division also made arrangements for them to board a special train. Officials said the migrants spotted by police are some of the more fortunate ones as transport was arranged for them, at a time when thousands of migrant workers have been making their journey home on foot. Many, railway officials said, are choosing to walk along the tracks to avoid being stopped by police. For some routes, the distance that has to be covered is less if the train route is taken compared to other routes, rail officials added. Though the Union government has been running Shramik Special trains, many migrant workers are unaware about the facility and where to board the trains. Many who are midway home have chosen to continue their journey on foot, braving the summer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/officials-help-migrants-walking-along-rly-tracks-find-train-home/articleshow/75664317.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Grow crops as per eating habits: Analysts||Hyderabad: Agriculture scientists and experts have come to some of the suggestions with regard to what crop to what extent should be cultivated in the state based on the eating habits of people and crops that have a demand in the market. As per their suggestion, yearly, for two crops should be cultivated with paddy in 80 to 90 lakh acres, cotton in 50 lakh acres, tur dal in 10 lakh acres, corn in 7 lakh acres, growing of various seeds in 7 lakh acres. Meanwhile, experts said Telangana Sona rice brand developed by Telangana Agriculture scientists is good for diabetes patients. The agriculture experts have identified this as sugar-free rice. and recommended its cultivation . The university had already made the required seed for this variety. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/grow-crops-as-per-eating-habits-analysts/articleshow/75666122.cms||Roushan Ali
May 11, 2020||Vijayawada||Health teams to man inter-state check posts||Amaravati: Chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy has directed the state administration to ready a comprehensive health protocol to handle the rush of people into the state post-lockdown. He said that public safety and containment of spread of coronavirus should continue to be high on the state’s agenda. He directed the officials to take steps to track all those entering into the state by setting up health teams at all the 11 inter-state check-posts. The chief minister held detailed discussions with the officials about the measures needed to be taken to prevent the spread of the Covid-19 once the inter-state public transport commences operations at the camp office on Sunday. The CM asked the officials to provide transport and quarantining arrangements for the foreign returnees alighting at Hyderabad, Mumbai and Chennai airports. Although the officials have made arrangements for screening of foreign returnees at Visakhapatnam, Vijayawada and Tirupati airports, the chief minister has asked them to take similar measures to receive people coming to Chennai and Hyderabad airports. He said that free transport should be provided from airports to the quarantine centres. He asked the officials to follow the quarantine protocols prescribed by the Centre. “While allowing home-quarantine for those tested negative is an option, no charges will be collected for those wanted to stay at the government quarantine facilities,” said the officials. MT Krishnababu, Covid-19 task force chairman, said that no state government was providing the facilities for the migrant workers, students and foreign returnees coming to back to the state as provided by AP. He explained that they have taken measures to extend full support to the migrant workers leaving to their home state as per the CM’s instructions. Health commissioner Katamaneni Bhaskar explained that they would track all those coming into the state from border point to their destination through an app. He said that their details would be immediately shared with the ANM, health workers, volunteers at their destination point to track their movements during the home quarantine. He said that tracking teams would be deployed at all the 11 inter-state check-posts. The CM asked the officials to keep the home returnees and local health officials informed about the nearest Covid-19 hospital and contact information in case of emergency. The chief minister directed the officials to see that all the shops-both essential and non-essential are allowed to open from 10am-7pm in green and orange zones.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/health-teams-to-man-inter-state-check-posts/articleshow/75664329.cms||Samdani MN
May 11, 2020||Hyderabad||KCR to advise farmers on crops||Hyderabad: Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao will interact with farmers through a video conference and advise them on variety of crops they should take up for cultivation. The idea is to convince farmers to take up cultivation of only those crops that would be suggested by government and those which will fetch them a good price. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/kcr-to-advise-farmers-on-crops/articleshow/75666124.cms||Roushan Ali
May 11, 2020||Vijayawada||AP: Each district gets two joint collectors in IAS reshuffle||AMARAVATI: In line with the move to revamp the administration in the districts, the state government has appointed two IAS officers as joint collectors in each district while the state cadre officers have been retained as the third joint collector. The state government on Sunday shuffled many IAS officers to appoint them as new joint collectors in the districts. The government had already re-designated joint collector posts as joint collector (Rythu Bharosa, Revenue-RB&R), joint collector (village and ward secretariats and development and joint collector (Asara (pensions), welfare). IAS officers have been tasked with handling of RB and R and development issues while the senior-most state cadre revenue officers who are most likely to get elevated to the IAS rank in future have been given the charge of Asara and welfare. Chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy had recently directed chief secretary Nilam Sawhney to revamp the district administrations by setting more focus on Rythu Bharosa and village and ward secretariat systems. The creation of new joint collector posts to look after the core subjects of the state government’s agenda is likely to reduce the burden on the district collectors. Interestingly, the State Election Commission (SEC) secretary Rama Sundara Reddy was posted as JC (development) in Kurnool district while the government directed Ananthapuram JC Dilli Rao to report in GAD without any posting. His wife Prasanthi who is working as Ananthapuram municipal commissioner was made JC (development) in Guntur. Similarly, a 2013 batch IAS Sivasankar Lotheti was shifted from Visakhapatnam and given JC (development) charge in Krishna district while his junior Madhavilatha of 2014 batch would hold the crucial (RB&R) charge.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/each-district-gets-two-joint-collectors-in-ias-reshuffle/articleshow/75664342.cms||Samdani MN
May 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Rayalaseema farmers warn of drought||HYDERABAD: Rayalaseema farmers on Sunday warned of a severe drought this year, raising concerns over the implementation of Krishna River Water Management Board’s decision to deplete water from 814 ft level of Srisailam reservoir to 807 ft. Rayalaseema Saguneeti Sadhana Samithi (RSSS) said Krishna and Tungabhadra rivers received good inflows in the 2019-2020 water year. “There have been good inflows which give us an opportunity to create reserves for use during lean years. This was explained in the concept of carry-over storage by Krishna Water Dispute Tribunal-1,” Bojja Dasaradharami Reddy, president, RSSS said. Sources said that carry-over storage system was not followed during water-surplus years. Due to non-implementation of KWDT-1’s suggestions to construct reservoirs for allocated water and carry-over reservoirs to store floodwater, Rayalaseema projects could not utilise its allotted quantity of water from Tungabhadra dam, thus, the unused Tungabhadra water was made to flow into Srisailam reservoir and is being accounted as floodwater in Krishna river. As the Srisailam reservoir’s minimum drawdown level (MDDL) is not being maintained, Rayalaseema is deprived of surplus water. “KWDT-2 has made provisions to maintain the carry-over storage in Srisailam reservoir and Nagarjuna Sagar Project during water surplus years,” said Reddy. Subsequently, the state revised 834 ft MDDL. However, water is being drawn up to 790 ft level of Srisailam reservoir, said sources.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/rseema-farmers-warn-of-drought/articleshow/75666126.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
May 11, 2020||Visakhapatnam||AP: Each district gets two joint collectors in IAS reshuffle||AMARAVATI: In line with the move to revamp the administration in the districts, the state government has appointed two IAS officers as joint collectors in each district while the state cadre officers have been retained as the third joint collector. The state government on Sunday shuffled many IAS officers to appoint them as new joint collectors in the districts. The government had already re-designated joint collector posts as joint collector (Rythu Bharosa, Revenue-RB&R), joint collector (village and ward secretariats and development and joint collector (Asara (pensions), welfare). IAS officers have been tasked with handling of RB and R and development issues while the senior-most state cadre revenue officers who are most likely to get elevated to the IAS rank in future have been given the charge of Asara and welfare. Chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy had recently directed chief secretary Nilam Sawhney to revamp the district administrations by setting more focus on Rythu Bharosa and village and ward secretariat systems. The creation of new joint collector posts to look after the core subjects of the state government’s agenda is likely to reduce the burden on the district collectors. Interestingly, the State Election Commission (SEC) secretary Rama Sundara Reddy was posted as JC (development) in Kurnool district while the government directed Ananthapuram JC Dilli Rao to report in GAD without any posting. His wife Prasanthi who is working as Ananthapuram municipal commissioner was made JC (development) in Guntur. Similarly, a 2013 batch IAS Sivasankar Lotheti was shifted from Visakhapatnam and given JC (development) charge in Krishna district while his junior Madhavilatha of 2014 batch would hold the crucial (RB&R) charge.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/each-district-gets-two-joint-collectors-in-ias-reshuffle/articleshow/75670696.cms||Samdani MN
May 11, 2020||Amaravati||AP: Each district gets two joint collectors in IAS reshuffle||AMARAVATI: In line with the move to revamp the administration in the districts, the state government has appointed two IAS officers as joint collectors in each district while the state cadre officers have been retained as the third joint collector. The state government on Sunday shuffled many IAS officers to appoint them as new joint collectors in the districts. The government had already re-designated joint collector posts as joint collector (Rythu Bharosa, Revenue-RB&R), joint collector (village and ward secretariats and development and joint collector (Asara (pensions), welfare). IAS officers have been tasked with handling of RB and R and development issues while the senior-most state cadre revenue officers who are most likely to get elevated to the IAS rank in future have been given the charge of Asara and welfare. Chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy had recently directed chief secretary Nilam Sawhney to revamp the district administrations by setting more focus on Rythu Bharosa and village and ward secretariat systems. The creation of new joint collector posts to look after the core subjects of the state government’s agenda is likely to reduce the burden on the district collectors. Interestingly, the State Election Commission (SEC) secretary Rama Sundara Reddy was posted as JC (development) in Kurnool district while the government directed Ananthapuram JC Dilli Rao to report in GAD without any posting. His wife Prasanthi who is working as Ananthapuram municipal commissioner was made JC (development) in Guntur. Similarly, a 2013 batch IAS Sivasankar Lotheti was shifted from Visakhapatnam and given JC (development) charge in Krishna district while his junior Madhavilatha of 2014 batch would hold the crucial (RB&R) charge.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/each-district-gets-two-joint-collectors-in-ias-reshuffle/articleshow/75670698.cms||Samdani MN
May 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Punjab cops deploy NITW-made drones||Warangal: An artificial intelligence-enabled drone developed by alumni and students of National Institute of Technology, Warangal (NITW) is helping the Punjab police to enforce lockdown and maintain social distancing. Developed by Skylark Labs, a company founded by NITW alumni, the drone uses deep supervised learning algorithm that identifies people on roads by bounding a box around them. The high-definition cameras set-up on the drones detect the position of people present at various locations and divides them into grids. “The system detects humans even from a long range (up to 1000ft.), which is helpful to detect large numbers of people in a single frame. This decreases monitoring of drones constantly by zoning in for humans being detected,” read a press release issued by NITW. The system accurately detects humans based on their closeness to others. For instance, a person is placed in a green box if he is not surrounded by any other human nearby. Whereas, a group of two on motorbike are placed in red boxes indicating that they are close to each other, placing them in an unacceptable category (distance<6ft). “Once a human has been detected violating the curfew, SMS alerts are sent right away to mobile phones of the police officers nearest to the spot regarding the location of the suspect and its corresponding real-time video. The location gets captured by the drone itself,” read the release. .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/punjab-cops-deploy-nitw-made-drones/articleshow/75666129.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Hyderabad||TRS MLA’s brother booked||Hanamkonda: A TRS MLA’s brother and six others were booked on Sunday after they were allegedly caught gambling. The Task Force police along with the KU police raided the residence of the Jayashankar -Bhupalpally MLA’s brother and seized 2.78 lakh from the possession of the accused. KU police said that the accused were caught playing cards at Vidyaranyapuri (KU) police station limits.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/trs-mlas-brother-booked/articleshow/75666132.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Former minister passes away||Hyderabad: Veteran Congress leader and former minister Juvvadi Ratnakar Rao passed away at a hospital in Karimnagar district on Sunday. Ratnakar Rao, who was 92, was ailing from age-related health issues. Telangana CM K Chandrasekhar Rao and Congress leaders expressed condolences. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/former-minister-passes-away/articleshow/75666131.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Vijayawada||AP truck owners’ body complains of harassment by Telangana police||Vijayawada: The Andhra Pradesh Truck Owners’ Association (APLOA) has alleged that officials in Telangana are harassing their drivers on their way back to Andhra Pradesh after having emptied their loads. In a statement on Sunday, the association alleged that police and officials of the transport department are ‘illegally’ seizing vehicles and forcing drivers to transport rice, corn and other produce within Telangana. APLOA president YV Eswar Rao said that truck owners and drivers from Andhra Pradesh are facing this problem in areas where AP shares its borders with Telangana, especially in the district of Khammam. Eswar Rao said that many trucks from Andhra Pradesh go to Telangana regularly to transport goods. On their way back, these empty trucks are being stopped by the police and transport department officials who are forcing them to move goods within Telangana and threatening them with cases if they don’t comply, Rao alleged. The APLOA president appealed to officials of the Khammam district to release all the vehicles seized by them. He alleged that the officials are indulging in misuse of power and seizing the vehicles illegally. “This cannot be allowed in a democratic setup. We have requested higher officials to intervene and resolve the problems being faced by truck drivers and truck owners in Andhra Pradesh,” Eswar Rao said. He further said that this sort of behaviour has the potential to affect trade relations between Andhra Pradesh and Telangana and truck owners would be averse to sending their trucks to Telangana if the harassment continues unabated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ap-truck-owners-body-complains-of-harassment-by-telangana-police/articleshow/75664350.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Fire at cloth shop, no casualties||Warangal: A fire broke out at a textile shop inside a mall in Hanamkonda on Sunday. Fire station officer Nagaraju said that the fire broke out due to a short circuit. No casualties were reported due to the lockdown. Locals alerted the fire brigade station officers after noticing smoke billowing from the mall. The disaster management team from Hyderabad also reached the spot for assistance. The reason behind the fire accident and the property loss have not yet been ascertained. Hanamkonda ACP Jitender Reddy said that the police are investigating the cause of the mishap. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/fire-at-cloth-shop-no-casualties/articleshow/75666134.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Vijayawada||Classrooms will no longer be the same after lockdown holidays, say experts||Guntur: Experts are worried about the likely increase in violence and abuse against children due to the financial stress of the parents as a result of the two-month-long lockdown. It is considered that children may escape Covid-19 due to their active immune response. While 6 percent of the positive cases are from 0-15 years age bracket, it is around 2 percent for below the age of 5 years. Child rights activists and pediatricians are raising concerns about psychological issues and physical abuse due to people losing their jobs in the coming days. “The teachers will have big task of coping with psychological stress issues of children after the reopening of schools. The classrooms will not be the same after the lockdown,” said Dr P Yashodhara, pediatrician and deputy superintendent of Government General Hospital (GGH), Guntur. She said the economic impact of the Covid-19 crisis will increase parenting stress, abuse and violence against children. “Quarantine, isolation of parents, social distancing and discrimination will have serious adverse psychological effects on children. We need to handle them smoothly,” said Yashodhara. She said that specific response to their mental distress should be considered when designing psychological intervention strategies in response to Covid-19. Social activist NV Sarathchandra said the school education department should conduct urgent reorientation classes for teachers to handle children after the lockdown holidays. Municipal Teachers Federation (MTF) state president S Ramakrishna said teachers in government schools where children from economically backward classes would join should be more careful in relieving stress.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/classrooms-will-no-longer-be-the-same-after-lockdown-holidays-say-experts/articleshow/75664374.cms||Samdani MN
May 11, 2020||Vijayawada||Online classes gather momentum in AP||VIJAYAWADA: With precious school/college time being lost owing to the protracted lockdown, the Andhra Pradesh government has decided to not only continue with online classes for students but also scale them up. There are over 24,000 students and 933 teachers currently taking part in online classes. Lectures are uploaded on YouTube and the links are shared with the students. And notes are shared through WhatsApp and e-mail. For class X students, the government plans to create a WhatsApp group for them in each school that will include their teachers. Important practice questions will be posted daily on the TV/radio lessons in these WhatsApp groups and students will have to send photos of their answer sheets, which will be evaluated and feedback will be given. Meanwhile students can continue using government-developed Abhyasa to access videos pooled from Dhiksha and objective type question papers. A similar pattern will be followed for junior classes in June and July. As for college students, so far, 5,979 classes have been organised. Efforts are on to complete pending syllabus and engage students productively. Considering their mental wellness, counseling sessions are being provided by some universities with the support of their psychology department. Phone numbers of counsellors are posted on the university website. As of now, Sri Padmavati Mahila Vishvavidalayam, Adikavi Nannaya and Yogi Vemana University are offering counseling sessions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/online-classes-gather-momentum-in-state/articleshow/75664385.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Odisha: Two newlywed couples slash wedding budget, donate money to chief minister’s relief fund||BHUBANESWAR: Covid-19 has robbed marriages of their sheen, even forcing many couples to put off their wedding plans. For two couples, however, the low-key wedding has given them the chance to contribute to the needy during the lockdown crisis in Odisha. Jyoti Ranjan Swain and Rojalin of Jagatsinghpur district and Ashish Ranjan Swain and Vaishali of Cuttack district reduced their marriage expenses and donated the money to the chief minister’s relief fund (CMRF). While Jyoti Ranjan and Rojalin donated Rs 10,000 to the CMRF on Friday, Ashish Ranjan and Vaishali contributed Rs 40,000 on the same day. “We were confused about whether to cancel our wedding or not. Everyone wants their weddings to be grand and lavish, but we decided to keep ours simple. We followed the traditions and married in the presence of only our parents on May 5. We did not invite relatives or villagers, nor did we throw a party or community feast,” said Jyoti Ranjan, a local trader in Ersama, Jagatsinghpur. The couple invited Ersama police station’s inspector incharge Prasant Kumar Majhi and local block development officer Kailash Chandra Behera to their village on May 8 and handed them a cheque of Rs 10,000 in favour of the CMRF. “It may be a small amount, but we did our bit. The money would have been spent on our marriage, but we are happy to donate the government,” said Rojalin. Ashish Ranjan, who works in the aviation research centre at Charbatia in Cuttack district and who married Vaishali on May 8, also did not invite relatives or friends to his simple wedding. “The marriage was solemnised in the presence of fewer than 20 people amid strict social distancing. We managed to save some money and donated it to the government to help the poor,” said the groom. Dressed in their wedding finery, the couple handed over the cheque for Rs 40,000 to Cuttack collector Bhabani Shankar Chayani in his office on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/odisha-two-newlywed-couples-slash-wedding-budget-donate-money-to-chief-ministers-relief-fund/articleshow/75666125.cms||Debabrata Mohapatra
May 11, 2020||Vijayawada||Explosion in shop in Chittoor district: Two dead||TIRUPATI: Two welders were killed on spot while three others sustained injuries after an air brake compressor of a heavy vehicle exploded at a welding shop at Thambiganipalli, Chittoor district on Sunday. The deceased were identified as Azad (19) and Afsar (17). The welding shop belongs to one Gouse Basha (40). “The duo were welding a tool box of an earthmover when the blast occurred. The welding instrument accidentally burnt the surface of the air brake compressor, leading to a sudden explosion, taking the duo completely off-guard. Both Azad and Afsar were killed on the spot and their bodies were severely mutilated”, said Kuppam urban CI Iduru Basha. Within seconds of the blast, the body parts of Azad and Afsar lay scattered on the road, while the shop owner Gouse Basha, another worker Manju (36) and the vehicle owner Rafiq Ahmad (50) sustained burn injuries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/explosion-in-shop-2-dead/articleshow/75664514.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
May 11, 2020||Vijayawada||Stranded fishermen from Karnataka, TN return||Visakhapatnam: The state government has brought home 921 fishermen from Andhra Pradesh who were stranded in Karnataka and Tamil Nadu since the lockdown was imposed. While 236 fishermen from Malipi and Mangaluru harbours in Karnataka reached the state on Sunday morning, 685 fishermen from Tamil Nadu came by train later in the evening. “Recently, the government had prepared a list 5,034 fishermen who got stranded in Maharashtra, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu and Kerala. The rest of the fishermen would start coming in phases from next week,” said Arijili Dasu, a fisherman-activist in the state. The fishermen brought back are from the districts of Visakhapatnam, Vizianagram and Srikakulam. They have been sent to quarantine centres for 14 days upon their return. “The government has already announced a compensation of Rs 5,000 for each of the migrant fishermen from the state who got stranded at their workplaces because of the lockdown. The total number of beneficiaries would be around 10,000,” added Dasu. Earlier, the government had evacuated 4,054 fishermen from Veraval Port in Gujarat and brought them back by buses. In addition, another 48 fishermen from neighbouring Odisha have also been brought home by the state government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/stranded-fishermen-from-karnataka-tn-return/articleshow/75664524.cms||Arpit Basu
May 11, 2020||Mumbai||No govt rations for 96% of migrants in Maharashtra: Survey||MUMBAI: Rajasthani migrant Ganpat Bansiwal gets to eat only once in two days. He used to work at a chappal factory in Thakkar Bappa colony in Chembur, earning Rs 200 a day. In the lockdown, his family is struggling for food. “When social workers give food, I keep it for my children. My wife and I are eating once in two days,” he says. Without a local ration card, he is cut off from the subsidised grain schemes of the government. Cases like these are not an anomaly in the state, according to a report by the volunteer group Stranded Workers Action Network (SWAN). It is scathing about the state response to the question of providing for stranded migrants. It says 96% of the migrants in the state who reached out to the network in the lockdown had no access to government rations. As many as 69% would have run out of rations in a day. “Access to government rations in Maharashtra has been consistently poor,” says the report ‘32 Days and Counting: Covid 19 Lockdown, Migrants and the Inadequacy of Welfare Measures’. The report is based on the calls to SWAN from migrant workers across the country during the lockdown period till April 26. The report analysed responses from 4,823 workers stranded in the state. The report says that 75% of migrants who called SWAN had less than Rs 100 left and 81% had not received any wages from their employer during the lockdown. As many as 51% of the SOS calls it received from within the state had to do with those who had no money or ration left or had skipped one meal. The report says 38% of respondents would like to go home after the lockdown ends while 41% are unsure. “Ensuring state response in providing relief has been the toughest in Maharashtra, especially Mumbai, which has one of the largest populations of migrants,” says the SWAN report. Reaching out to the local city administration has been futile, with no response from the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation on the helpline numbers, says the report. The report is critical of the state for not announcing cash relief for migrants who were on daily wages. Picture Migrants in an ST bus and a policeman pose for the camera on Sunday Over 50 migrants in tempo intercepted Over 50 migrants headed to Uttar Pradesh in a tempo were intercepted at Vasai on Saturday night. The Manickpur police said that the migrants were bundled in the tempo. They were stopped at a nakabandi. The migrants have been dropped back to their homes across Vasai region, but a case has been filed against the tempo driver. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/no-govt-rations-for-96-of-migrants-survey/articleshow/75666144.cms||Priyanka Kakodkar
May 11, 2020||Thane||Covid+ NCP leader and cabinet minister Jitendra Awhad recovers, goes home; 41 new cases in Thane||THANE: NCP leader and cabinet minister Jitendra Awhad announced his recovery and discharge from a private hospital in Mumbai on Sunday. He tweeted his gratitude to the hospital staff, and also thanked his family, colleagues and CM Uddhav Thackeray for their support. "I will take a brief period for myself and following this, will return to serve residents from my constituency," he said in a series of tweets. महिन्याभरानंतर मी आपल्या सर्वांमध्ये आणि सर्वांसाठी पुन्हा असेल. धन्यवाद 🙏💐अपने कदमों के काबिलियत पर विश्वास कर… https://t.co/fgwEBCZaiu— Dr.Jitendra Awhad (@Awhadspeaks) 1589087924000 There were 41 new cases and two deaths reported from Thane on Sunday, taking the total number to 712 and the Thane toll to 26. माझ्यावर यशस्वी उपचार करणारे फोर्टिस हॉस्पिटल मुलुंड येथील सर्व डॉक्टर्स ,नर्सेस ,वॉर्डबॉय आणि इतर सर्व हॉस्पिटल… https://t.co/UjpJAJbvcI— Dr.Jitendra Awhad (@Awhadspeaks) 1589087924000An analysis done by the Thane civic body showed that those in the 31-40 age group were most vulnerable to the virus. Nearly 23% of positive cases were in this bracket, but no recorded deaths were from this bracket. The 51-60 age group saw the maximum fatalities-47%, due to co-morbidities. Only 8% of the total cases were above 61 years. Rs 50 lakh for Thane civic chief’s home revamp Thane Municipal Corporation’s decision to revamp the municipal commissioner’s bungalow at a cost of Rs 50 lakh has drawn flak from activists. The bungalow in Patilpada has seen numerous renovations over the years. While the civic body claimed these were urgent repairs, activists questioned ssthe need for such expenditure at a time like this.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/covid-awhad-recovers-goes-home-41-new-cases-in-thane/articleshow/75666160.cms||Manoj Badgeri
May 11, 2020||Mumbai||Portion of Kandivli chawl collapses, 14 rescued, 2 hurt||MUMBAI: Fourteen people were trapped under debris after a portion of a ground-plus-two chawl structure collapsed early on Sunday morning. Firemen and locals managed to rescue the residents of Dipjyoti chawl, located in Laljipada, Kandivli (west). Two of the residents sustained serious injuries. No deaths were reported, said fire officials. The Kandivli police said that no FIR had been filed as no deaths were reported in the incident. The incident took place around 5am, trapping the sleeping residents in their homes. Locals rescued two people from the upper floor, and called the fire brigade. Firemen cut the window grilles and rescued 12 people trapped on different floors with a ladder. Locals helped the fire officials locate the trapped residents inside the collapsed structure.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/portion-of-kandivli-chawl-collapses-14-rescued-2-hurt/articleshow/75666161.cms||Vijay V Singh
May 11, 2020||Business||Finance minister to meet banks today to track their progress||MUMBAI: Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman will hold a review meeting with banks via video conferencing on Monday to track their progress in delivery of credit and chart the way forward for restarting economic activity. With less than three weeks for the moratorium to end, banks are seeking an extension or the launch of a one-time restructuring scheme, whereby borrowers can be given relief on repayments without the loans being classified as default. The finance ministry has already asked banks to provide a daily update on businesses and value of credit that banks have provided as part of Covid-19 relief. On Saturday, the FM had tweeted, “PSBs have contacted more than 95% of borrowers eligible for emergency credit lines & working capital enhancements between March 20 and May 6. The amount sanctioned jumped to Rs 54,544 crore, more than double the amount two days ago. Number of cases covered more than tripled.” Earlier, she had announced that 3.2 crore borrowers had availed of the three-month moratorium and that public sector banks had sanctioned loans of Rs 77,383 crore between March 1 and May 4.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/finance-minister-to-meet-banks-today-to-track-their-progress/articleshow/75666168.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Mumbai||Rescue rules changed for fire brigade in Mumbai||MUMBAI: Two rescue calls to recover a seriously ill person and a dead body-both suspected Covid-positive patients- forced the Mumbai fire brigade to change its SOP to avoid its men getting infected from the virus. In both cases, firemen took the risk of entering the rooms without proper gear. They complained to senior officers for not providing them personal protection equipment (PPE) and fear of getting infected during such calls. Asked about lack of PPE, chief fire officer P S Rahangdale said, "We are in process to procure them and are changing our SOP to ensure that firemen attend such calls wearing PPE."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/rescue-rules-changed-for-fire-brigade-in-mumbai/articleshow/75666172.cms||Vijay V Singh
May 11, 2020||Delhi||Tipplers say e-tokens not working in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Senior Delhi government officials on Sunday said that the e-token system for liquor sale had been streamlined after initial technical snags, even as consumers complained that the system did not assure preferred brands. “I and several others had booked a slot online, but the store was closed. Government volunteers were selling liquor at a premium,” Rahul Dev (name changed), said after visiting a Govindpuri store on Sunday. But officials said they didn’t get any complaints. Private liquor shops unlikely to open yetIt could be an isolated incident where the police might have got the shop closed to prevent crowding. Most stores are now open and working properly,” the officials added. When liquor shops had opened in the city on Monday after a six-week lockdown, there was huge rush of people violating social distancing norms. While Delhi Police closed down several shops, the excise department came up with a slew of measures, including issuance of e-tokens, for people to book a slot online and buy liquor without standing in queues. Meanwhile, the Delhi government is unlikely to allow privately-owned liquor shops to open during the current phase of the lockdown, despite state-run outlets having failed to cater to the rising demand. “After the initial rush at the stores, things have settled down. We hope to see shorter queues even if we don’t open privately-owned stores for now,” an official said. The government is also likely to wait for the high court to hear petitions against selling liquor during the lockdown before taking a call on the proposed home delivery, according to sources. The excise department had initially identified 30-odd standalone liquor shops owned by private players to be opened in order to supplement 160 government-run stores currently allowed to operate in the capital. Sources, however, said even those outlets were found to be not fulfilling the criteria laid down by the Centre for non-essential shops in red zones. All 11 districts of Delhi have been categorised as red zones due to a large num Watch People say liquor e-tokens not working in Delhi||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/tipplers-say-e-tokens-not-working-in-delhi/articleshow/75666176.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Mumbai||Legislative council election: On Uddhav Thackeray's request, Congress pulls its second council nominee out||MUMBAI: Bowing to a personal request by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, the Congress withdrew its second candidate for the legislative council election on Sunday. The nine nominees are now set to win the nine vacant seats unopposed. The election of Thackeray and Neelam Gorhe of the Shiv Sena, Rajesh Rathod of the Congress, Shashikant Shinde and Amol Mitkari of the NCP, and Praveen Datke, Ajit Gopchade, Gopichand Padalkar and Ranjeet Mohite Patil of the BJP is now a mere formality. “Congress had decided to put up two candidates, but following Thackeray’s request and the fact that he himself is the candidate, as well as owing to coronavirus, we decided not to put up second candidate. Now, the elections will be unopposed,” Congress state unit president Balasaheb Thorat said. Public works minister Ashok Chavan said at a meeting attended by cabinet members of the NCP and the Shiv Sena that in view of the coronavirus situation it would be difficult to mobilise legislators for the election and the Congress would withdraw its second candidate. “We took note of all aspects and also the request of the CM. Thackeray’s desire was that the elections should be unopposed. We have decided accordingly,” Chavan said. Initially, the Congress had declared the candidature of Rajesh Rathod. On Saturday, the Congress declared a second candidate, Rahkishore Modi. The Shiv Sena was not happy with it as it left no scope for an unopposed election. On Saturday, Shiv Sena secretary Milind Narvekar called on Thorat and spoke about the need to withdraw the second candidate. Thorat’s contention was that the Maha Vikas Aghadi had sufficient votes to secure six seats According to reports, Narvekar said to Thorat that if the Congress did not withdraw the second candidate, Thackeray would withdraw from the election.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/on-uddhav-thackerays-request-congress-pulls-its-second-council-nominee-out/articleshow/75666184.cms||Prafulla Marpakwar
May 11, 2020||Mumbai||Amidst the lockdown, men on the wagon swap stories online, raise toast to sobriety||MUMBAI: Every day at 7 pm, when a spiritually-inclined retired RBI manager in Panvel sits on his bed and connects to an audio conferencing app on his smartphone, his wife knows better than to disturb him. As a woman who contemplated divorce once, she understands her 68-year-old husband's urge to connect with men who have all been retrieved from gutters at some point. Years ago, the banker had sat week after week with these regretful men in the nooks of hospitals, churches and classrooms in Mumbai, gradually turning from an insufferable alcoholic into a grateful pensioner. In 24 years of sobriety, he has formed enduring friendships with this underground fellowship of men. Amid the lockdown, they find themselves repeating the story they have iterated many times over in empty classrooms, from the comfort of their bedrooms. Alcoholics Anonymous (AA), the non-profit fellowship that helps its members achieve sobriety, has shifted the address of its meetings from church basements to online conferences ever since Covid-19 forced a national lockdown in March. "Since schools and churches are shut now, we meet online daily," says a senior member, adding that while 180 clusters of eight to ten AA members would meet physically twice or thrice a week in various parts of the city, the online circle tends to be wider as AA members from any part of the country are free to enter an ongoing conference. While the online meetings in states such as Maharashtra, Delhi and Punjab tend to be heavily populated as they are conducted in Hindi, the groups in the four states of South India--that conduct their meetings in the respective regional language--are seeing many newcomers. The format and the agenda of the meetings remain same except they wear headsets and a moderator mutes other members while a person speaks. Stories could include those of men like the retired RBI manager, for instance, who would talk about beginning life in Mumbai as a shy boy from Kolhapur whose inhibitions melted every time his brother-in-law, a chief marine engineer, handed him the bottle. Soon, liquor would enslave him and almost drown his marriage till his sister, a doctor, led him to AA. Despite the sameness of format, a Mumbai member says he misses the offline interface. "In the physical meetings, we get to speak to people one-to-one. Online, around 40 to 50 from all over the country may join in at once,'" he says. In Tamil Nadu, 16-17 meetings happen in a day in which newcomers silently listen to members share personal triumphs with a sense of cautious restraint. "We avoid video calls as we want to remain as anonymous as possible. We also don't encourage audio recording unless it is a 'speaker meeting' where one person speaks on a particular subject," says a senior member.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/amidst-the-lockdown-men-on-the-wagon-swap-stories-online-raise-toast-to-sobriety/articleshow/75666193.cms||Sharmila Ganesan Ram
May 11, 2020||India||Congress accedes to CM plea, Maharashtra council storm over||MUMBAI: Bowing to a personal request by CM Uddhav Thackeray, Congress withdrew its second candidate for the legislative council election on Sunday. The nine nominees are now set to win the nine vacant seats unopposed. The election of Thackeray and Neelam Gorhe of Shiv Sena, Rajesh Rathod of Congress, Shashikant Shinde and Amol Mitkari of NCP, and Praveen Datke, Ajit Gopchade, Gopichand Padalkar and Ranjeet Mohite Patil of BJP is now a mere formality. “Congress had decided to put up two candidates, but following Thackeray’s request and the fact that he himself is the candidate, and owing to coronavirus, we decided not to put up second candidate. Now, polls will be unopposed,” Congress state unit chief Balasaheb Thorat said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/congress-accedes-to-cm-plea-maharashtra-council-storm-over/articleshow/75666191.cms||Prafulla Marapakwar
May 11, 2020||Pune||Mumbai Covid-19 death toll at 508, Wardha loses 'green' status as 1 dies||Mumbai: Of the 53 deaths recorded by the state on Sunday, 19 were from Mumbai which took the city's toll past the 500-mark, 14 were from Malegaon city, five each from Pune and Jalgaon, three from Dhule and one each from Pimpri Chinchwad, Ahmednagar, Aurangabad, Nandurbar, Solapur and the Vasai-Virar region. The 14 deaths in Malegaon city were from April 27 to May 10. The death of a Madhya Pradesh resident was also added to Mumbai's tally. Wardha which was in the green zone so far with no positive cases, recorded its first Covid-19 death on May 8. A 35-year-old woman from Hiwara Tanda village in Arvi Tahsil died at Vinoba Bhave Rural hospital, Sawangi, making her the first positive case of the district. District officials, who have begun an extensive contact tracing operation, said that the woman did not have any travel history. Following the positive case, administration has sealed seven nearby villages. कोरोना रुग्णांना डिस्चार्ज देण्याबाबत केंद्र शासनाने सुधारीत धोरण जाहिर केलं आहे. नव्या नियमानुसार एखाद्या रुग्णाला… https://t.co/MPGm3eRjwn— Rajesh Tope (@rajeshtope11) 1589130752000Public health minister Rajesh Tope tweeted that the state has adopted the Centre's revised patient discharge policy after following up the issue with the Indian Council of Medical Research. The health minister, however, received flak on his twitter handle over the sharp rise in new cases. With the death of a 56-year old woman from Dombivli, the toll within the Kalyan-Dombivli municipal corporation limits reached five. The region also recorded 16 fresh cases on Sunday. And 14 were reported from Mira-Bhayander, taking positive cases to 106. In Vasai-Virar, total cases have reached 208 with six added on Sunday. In Mumbai, total number of Covid-19 positive cases in BEST undertaking shot up to 75, with five more staffers found positive. The civic body said an artificial intelligence backed chest x-ray software was being used in HBT Trauma care, Kasturba Hospital, Podar Hospital and NSCI Dome in Worli. After 3,000 X-ray scans done on a pilot basis, the BMC is planning to use the technique in other hospitals too. Over 4,199 patients have gone home so far in the state and currently about 2.44 lakh patients have been home quarantined.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/mumbai-covid-19-death-toll-at-508-wardha-loses-green-status-as-1-dies/articleshow/75666224.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai's Covid-19 death toll at 508, Wardha loses 'green' status as 1 dies||Mumbai: Of the 53 deaths recorded by the state on Sunday, 19 were from Mumbai which took the city's toll past the 500-mark, 14 were from Malegaon city, five each from Pune and Jalgaon, three from Dhule and one each from Pimpri Chinchwad, Ahmednagar, Aurangabad, Nandurbar, Solapur and the Vasai-Virar region. The 14 deaths in Malegaon city were from April 27 to May 10. The death of a Madhya Pradesh resident was also added to Mumbai's tally. Wardha which was in the green zone so far with no positive cases, recorded its first Covid-19 death on May 8. A 35-year-old woman from Hiwara Tanda village in Arvi Tahsil died at Vinoba Bhave Rural hospital, Sawangi, making her the first positive case of the district. District officials, who have begun an extensive contact tracing operation, said that the woman did not have any travel history. Following the positive case, administration has sealed seven nearby villages. कोरोना रुग्णांना डिस्चार्ज देण्याबाबत केंद्र शासनाने सुधारीत धोरण जाहिर केलं आहे. नव्या नियमानुसार एखाद्या रुग्णाला… https://t.co/MPGm3eRjwn— Rajesh Tope (@rajeshtope11) 1589130752000Public health minister Rajesh Tope tweeted that the state has adopted the Centre's revised patient discharge policy after following up the issue with the Indian Council of Medical Research. The health minister, however, received flak on his twitter handle over the sharp rise in new cases. With the death of a 56-year old woman from Dombivli, the toll within the Kalyan-Dombivli municipal corporation limits reached five. The region also recorded 16 fresh cases on Sunday. And 14 were reported from Mira-Bhayander, taking positive cases to 106. In Vasai-Virar, total cases have reached 208 with six added on Sunday. In Mumbai, total number of Covid-19 positive cases in BEST undertaking shot up to 75, with five more staffers found positive. The civic body said an artificial intelligence backed chest x-ray software was being used in HBT Trauma care, Kasturba Hospital, Podar Hospital and NSCI Dome in Worli. After 3,000 X-ray scans done on a pilot basis, the BMC is planning to use the technique in other hospitals too. Over 4,199 patients have gone home so far in the state and currently about 2.44 lakh patients have been home quarantined.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-covid-19-death-toll-at-508-wardha-loses-green-status-as-1-dies/articleshow/75666202.cms||Sumitra Debroy
May 11, 2020||Ranchi||Sister killed by bolt, Palamu bros to get home from B’luru||Ranchi: As the 1,100-odd migrants arriving on a Shramik special train from Bengaluru celebrated their homecoming at Hatia station in Ranchi before just noon on Sunday, Vinod and Niranjan Yadav did not know whether they should join them. Their names were not on the list of passengers, but two others gave up their berths so that the brothers could return home to their mourning family. The duo, from Sikni village in Dumri panchayat of Palamu district, was accommodated on the train on Friday night at the last minute after the authorities in the southern city found out that their younger sister was killed in a lightning strike at their village on Tuesday. “Samajh mein nahi aa raha hai khushi manae ki behen khone ka gam (We don’t know whether to celebrate our return or mourn the death of our sister),” Vinod, who, at 25, is the eldest of the five surviving brothers, told TOI as the duo boarded one of the five buses leaving for Palamu outside the station after the medical screening process. Niranjan (18) added, “She spoke to us every day since the lockdown was imposed and we got stuck. At times, when our data packs allowed, we connected over video calls. She often asked us to come back as soon as we could, but we couldn’t even make it on time for her last rites. Her absence will haunt us for the rest of our lives.” Kumta Kumari (16) and her mother were on the terrace of their three-room semi-pucca home for some household work, when a sudden storm lashed the area. Kumari, waiting for the announcement of Jharkhand Academic Council (JAC) matric results — delayed due to the lockdown — was among the three children killed by a bolt in their village. Almost 2,000km away, at a migrants’ camp in Bengaluru’s Sampigehalli area, the helpless brothers spent the next 36 hours consoling their family — a brother stranded in Odisha and two others with their parents at home — over phone. They considered walking home, but were dissuaded by others at the camp. Niranjan said, “We sought help from officials in Bengaluru, but Karnataka had cancelled all special trains. A journalist (working with Times Group’s Bangalore Mirror) coordinated with senior police officers and managed to put us on the first train that left the city on Friday after the government changed its decision.” Talking to TOI over phone, Bangalore Northeast (rural) DCP Bheema Shanker Guled, who coordinated with Anuchet M N, his counterpart at the city’s Whitefield area, said, “Anuchet agreed even though he had to accommodate people from his own area. I sent a vehicle to find the brothers and brought them to Whitefield in time for the train. I hope they have reached home.” Around 6.30pm on Sunday, the batch of migrants with Vinod and Niranjan had reached Chianki airstrip in Palamu district, from where they will be sent home 70km away after screening. “We have reached our home district. However, we are not aware if we will be sent home tonight. Nobody here is saying anything and we have not been told if we will be allowed to go home or put at a government quarantine centre,” Vinod said over phone. Palamu DC Shantanu Agrahari did not respond to TOI’s calls and messages for comments. Vinod, however, said even their battle will be far from over even after they return. The brothers had helped 25 other migrant workers from their village shift from Punjab to Bangalore to work at a company manufacturing construction material for better wages. “Their family members found out that we are coming back and they started protesting outside our home demanding their men also return with us. They calmed down after they were told that special arrangements were made for us because of the tragedy. If the others don’t return soon, we will have to face the wrath of family members.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/sister-killed-by-bolt-palamu-bros-to-get-home-from-bluru/articleshow/75664774.cms||ASRP Mukesh
May 11, 2020||Kolkata||Bengal sends 300 labourers from Bihar back in buses||Jalpaiguri: The Bengal government has ferried over 300 migrant labourers back home to Bihar from Alipurduar district over the past two days. The migrants started their homebound journey on Saturday in 11 special buses arranged by the state, Alipurduar DM Surendra Kumar Meena said. A week ago, over a thousand people from Rajasthan were sent back in buses that had brought Bengal students from Kota. On Thursday, a group of about 75 labourers, who worked in various brick kilns across north Bengal, were sent back to Assam. Many of them had been stopped and sent to quarantine when attempting to go back home. Earlier, some migrant labourers had started an agitation in quarantine centres, claiming they had been confined there for over a fortnight. Some said they had been stuck for over a month. Many said they had been in search of work and heading for Assam when the lockdown started and stopped their journey. Officials said that labourers who had come from the adjoining districts of Bihar and Assam had been put in quarantine. After they made appeals to be allowed to go home, officials contacted their home districts and made necessary arrangements with the approval of the Bengal government. Meanwhile, a pregnant migrant worker went into labour while on her way home to Assam from Bengal by lorry. She was taken to Birpara Hospital in Alipurduar with the help of some policewomen, and gave birth to a son on Sunday. Both the mother and the baby are doing well, police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bengal-sends-300-labourers-from-bihar-back-in-buses/articleshow/75665886.cms||Pinak Priya Bhattacharya
May 11, 2020||Kolkata||Police, rlys rescue migrants walking home along tracks||Kolkata/Kharagpur/Suri: The railways and Bengal police on Sunday stopped train movement in the Kharagpur-Balasore division for half-an-hour to rescue 19 migrant labourers who were walking home to Bengal from Odisha along the tracks. These migrants, headed to their north Bengal homes, were taken off the tracks between Jaleswar and Halipada stations and taken to Kharagpur station, where they were provided food and shelter. The Bengal government is medically screening all 19 and making arrangements to take them home in government buses. Another group of 26 people was similarly traced near Kharagpur station while trying to enter the state from Odisha. They were handed over to the local administration. West Midnapore SP Dinesh Kumar said: “We have spoken to the Odisha police on this. Arrangements are being made to send them home.” South Eastern Railway CPRO Sanjoy Ghosh said: “Whenever such incidents are reported, train movements are stopped till track clearances are provided by field officers. In this case, railways and the local administration intervened and ensured their well-being.” Authorities are on alert since 16 migrants labourers were run over by a goods train in Maharashtra on Friday while taking a break from walking home to MP. With a view to preventing further such accidents, the Birbhum police on Sunday wrote to the railways seeking prior intimation on train movement through the district. On Friday, as many as 20 migrant labourers escaped a tragedy when an alert inspection van driver stopped the train on spotting them walking on tracks near Nalhati. Birbhum SP Shyam Singh said: “Mobile patrolling has been intensified across rail tracks.” According to DGP (Railways) Adhir Sharma: “In the last couple of days, we have found people, mainly from Bihar and Jharkhand, streaming into the state. So checking has been increased in Rampur, Asansol, Kharagpur and Siliguri divisions.” “We have sympathy for these tired workers, who are trying to walk all the way home. We are working in close coordination with railways and local administration, and providing all assistance to these workers,” he added. On Saturday evening, for instance, 42 workers were rescued from Balurghat under Siliguri subdivision. “Coming from Jharkhand, they were headed to South Dinajpur. They were traced near the national highway, detained by railway staff and handed over to the district administration. They need to go through the medical protocol before they can enter the state,” a senior railway official said. Similar incidents were also reported from Asansol and Rampurhat. On Saturday, home secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay had said that “many tired labourers are coming on foot. They are coming to our border and we, after fulfilling the medical protocol, are sending them to their districts”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/police-rlys-rescue-migrants-walking-home-along-tracks/articleshow/75665867.cms||Saibal Gupta
May 11, 2020||Ranchi||Migrant tests positive for Covid-19 in H’bag||Ranchi/Hazaribag: Seven days after Hazaribag became Covid-free, a migrant worker who had returned from Mumbai tested positive for the virus on Sunday. State health secretary Nitin Madan Kulkarni said, “A total of 1,265 samples were tested on Sunday at five centres across the state. One migrant worker’s sample from Hazaribag tested positive taking the total number of cases in the state to 157. Jharkhand has now 77 active cases and 78 patients have recovered. Two deaths have been reported till date.” The migrant, worker who tested positive in Hazaribag, is a resident of Barkatha block and had returned from Mumbai on May 7 in a private vehicle along with five others from Giridih district. Soon after his arrival, he was screened and sent to a quarantine centre in Barhi and his samples were sent for tests. Talking to TOI, Hazaribag DC Bhuvnesh Prasad Singh said, “A 38-year-old Barkatha resident, who had returned from Mumbai on Thursday, tested positive on Sunday. As he has travelled with five others hailing from Giridih district, we have communicated with our Giridih counterparts for further contact-tracing.” The district authorities has shifted the 38-year-old to Hazaribag Medical College and Hospital for treatment. Health department started sanitization at his village and collected swab sample of his family members. Meanwhile, the 42-year-old pathology laboratory owner from Ranchi’s Netaji Nagar, who had tested positive on April 25, was discharged from Rims on Saturday and has expressed his willingness to serve at Covie-19 patients in Ranchi. Talking to TOI, he said, “I had received a call from the district administration to work as a lab technician at the Covid hospital in Dhurwa. Since, I was under treatment, I couldn’t joint but as I have recovered from the infection, I will be joining other health workers to fight the pandemic at a hospital in Ranchi.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/migrant-tests-positive-for-covid-19-in-hbag/articleshow/75664811.cms||Gaurav Pandey
May 11, 2020||Kolkata||Rickshaw puller recalls kindness of strangers on his way home||Burdwan: Kishore Shaw, who pedalled his rickshaw from Varanasi to Howrah’s Bally 675km away, recalled his odyssey on the way home. “My journey was smooth in UP, Bihar and Jharkhand but faced tight security on the Bengal-Jharkhand border,” he said. “I was questioned by Bengal police and had to spend a few days there before crossing the border.” A few youths from East Burdwan gave him food and helped him financially after reading about him in TOI. “I had a pleasant surprise when I reached East Burdwan on Saturday evening. The youths were waiting for me. They gave me some food items and money. I had no words to thank them enough.” The youths did not want to be named. One of them said: “We read about him in TOI. We couldn’t believe he pedalled his rickshaw all the way. We salute his courage.” Another said Kishore looked thin and fatigued after travelling 675km on limited resources. Kishore said the roads were empty and no tea/food stall was open on either side of the highway. He added that a man sitting in front of a house made tea for him when he learned that he was coming from Varanasi. Some people also recharged his phone to let him stay connected with his family during the journey. Kishore did not cook during most of the journey, surviving on items given to him. When he reached Bengal, police arranged lunch for him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/rickshaw-puller-recalls-kindness-of-strangers-on-his-way-home/articleshow/75665788.cms||Mohammad Asif
May 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Ramzan in the time of lockdown: Spending Ramzan with my family has been truly gratifying: Nikhat Zareen||When the lockdown was extended, the first thing that came to mind was what I would do during Ramzan. ‘How will I shop for Eid now?’ I asked myself. This is the first Ramzan after so many years that I’m spending the entire month with my family and over the past couple of weeks, I’ve realised how precious that is. Usually around this time of the year, I’m busy training at camp and I would only come home for about three to five days. Now, I have been fasting and spending time with my family during the holy month and it’s been truly gratifying. I’m not used to fasting during Ramzan, because as athletes, we need to eat and follow a certain diet. But this time, I thought since I’m staying at home, roza rakh lete hai, so that upar waala bhi khush rahega and I can pray to him ki jaldi se corona ko khatam kar do taaki hum baahar ja sake, shopping kar sake aur kha sake baahar. Food is the best part about Ramzan. I’m a big foodie and I love to eat biryani, haleem and all the other delicacies. Aur Ramzan ke time pe toh ghar main bahut saara khaana banta hai. Dahi wade, bhajiye… sab bante hain so I’ve been eating a lot. I’ve also discovered the joys of cooking. Recently I learnt how to make biryani by myself and everybody loved it. I also made thukpa, which is a Tibetan noodle soup and my mom appreciated me for it. My mom and my sister also made haleem recently and I watched them make it and learned from them. Hopefully on Eid, I will make haleem as well. I must admit, that there are times I feel frustrated sitting at home all the time. Usually whenever Eid is approaching, we would go out shopping and buy new clothes. But iss baar toh sabhi shops bandh hai toh puraani dress pehen ke celebrate karna hoga. But that doesn’t matter. After so many years, I’m able to spend Eid at home with my family. Wohi kaafi hai. Naye kapde, yeh sab zaroori nahi hai... there should be happiness in the family, that’s more important. Thankfully I have my two adorable nieces — Aayat and Jannat — to keep me company. I have great fun with them. We play, dance, make videos and do a lot of crazy things together. Since I can’t train during Ramzan, I do other things to keep myself entertained. Sometimes, I just sit and apply make-up — it’s one of my favourite pastimes. I miss my gym and my ring. I workout everyday but it’s not the same because there is no proper equipment here at home. What’s worse, I put on weight thanks to all the food I’m having. When I return to camp and start training, it’s going to be one helluva task. I hope we beat this virus soon so that we can all go back to our normal lives. Once the lockdown ends, I will first go and have pani puri. Jis din yeh lockdown khulega, meri taraf se main dus logon ko khaana khila dungi lockdown khulne ke khushi main! - As told to Suhas.Yellapanthula@timesgroup.com||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ramzan-in-the-time-of-lockdown-spending-ramzan-with-my-family-has-been-truly-gratifying-nikhat-zareen/articleshow/75665864.cms||Suhas Yellapantula
May 11, 2020||Jamshedpur||Homeopathy, ayurveda docs want a chance to treat Covid-19||RANCHI: With allopathy is using trial and error method in some cases to treat Covid-19, doctors of alternative medicines feel they should be given a chance to prove the efficacy of their treatment. Though the homeopathy association in the state has decided to distribute two lakh doses of Arsenic-30, believed to be an immunity booster, the state government is yet to decide on allowing this field of medicine and a research on homeopathy for treatment of Covid-19. A homeopathy practitioner on Kanke Road, Dr P K Choudhury, said, “Homeopathy has a variety of medicines for patients. Practitioners of homeopathy analyse a patient’s disorders in detail before giving medicines which proves to be more effective.” He added, “We should be given a chance on an experimental basis to treat Covid-19 cases as homeopathy has a very unique way of treating patients on a case-to-case basis.” Meanwhile, ayurvedic doctors are also eyeing an opportunity to treat patients affected by the virus. The ministry of Ayush has decided to research on coronavirus and the effectiveness of ashwagandha on patients along with the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research and a few doctors of the branch of medicine are confident about positive results on Covid-19 patients. Padmanabhan Pandey, an aryuvedic doctor at Daksha Ayurveda, said he had written a letter to the senior authorities regarding permission to treat Covid-19 patients, but was denied. He said, “Allopathy is also treating patients on a trial and error method, so why cannot we be given a chance? We have giloy, ashwagandha and other medicines which can yield positive results.” He added, “Most of the people think ayurveda is all about herbs, but we also have different types of minerals which can be very good for patients and can assure recovery. We have mixtures of natural medicinal herbs and minerals like Jai Mangal Ras and Tribhuvan Kirti Ras.” Ayurveda doctors also prescribed turmeric milk and application of mustard oil in the nasal and naval cavities to limit the possibility of infection. Dr Hari Kumar of Kerala Ayurveda said, “Treatment of Covid-19 is under experiment, but we can go for citrus fruits and turmeric in milk to boost immunity. Body massages are also great way to boost immunity.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/homeopathy-ayurveda-docs-want-a-chance-to-treat-covid-19/articleshow/75672989.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Kolkata||Extend lockdown, Eid revelry can wait: Imams||KOLKATA: An outfit of imams with thousands of members has urged the Bengal government to extend the lockdown till the end of May saying “Eid celebrations can wait” even as other Muslim religious leaders and members of civil society have urged the community to tone down celebrations by staying at home, not crowding markets and increasing the amount of zakat (an Islamic levy). The Calcutta Khilafat Committee is also scheduled to meet this week to decide if prayers on Red Road, which is attended by over 3 lakh people, will be held. Sources said it was just a formality before an official announcement. Eid, the most important Muslim festival, is to be celebrated in the fourth week of May. But owing to the pandemic, mosques are shut during Ramzan, special evening prayers have been cancelled and there are no iftar congre-gations at local mosques for the poor. People are offering namaz at home. In a letter addressed to chief minister Mamata Banerjee, the Bengal Imams’ Association, a body of several imams and muezzins from mosques across the state, has appealed that the current lockdown should be extended till the end of May to achieve the “desired result” of containing the virus. “Eid celebrations can wait. We have sacrificed a lot till now and don’t want our efforts to go waste by lifting the lockdown prematurely. We will not question the government for reopening other shops or not allowing Eid markets in pockets of the city. The government should not withdraw the lockdown prematurely at any cost,’ said Mohammad Yahya, chairman of the association. “The coronavirus pandemic has forced all of us to change our customs and traditions and Muslims in the state have been quick to adapt by observing Ramzan and offering namaz at home. We must celebrate the festival of Eid, too, in a similar manner respecting the lockdown rules and social-distancing guidelines,” said Qari Fazlur Rahman, who leads the Eid prayers on Red Road every year. “There are two aspects that we have to remember this Eid. First, any negligence will not only put our lives but even of those close to us in danger. It is important to follow social-distancing if we want to stop the transmission of this virus so avoid crowding in the markets. Second, there are people who have lost their livelihoods and are struggling to make ends meet. Let us celebrate by coming to their help,” he added. Several Muslim youths have also taken to social media to urge the community to stay home and not splurge on new clothes and food. “Instead increase the amount of zakat so that we can help more people who have either lost their jobs or can’t open their shops due to the lockdown,” said Salena Ahmed, an advertisement and communications professional.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/extend-lockdown-eid-revelry-can-wait-imams/articleshow/75665899.cms||Zeeshan Javed
May 11, 2020||Ranchi||Homeopathy, ayurveda docs want a chance to treat Covid-19||RANCHI: With allopathy is using trial and error method in some cases to treat Covid-19, doctors of alternative medicines feel they should be given a chance to prove the efficacy of their treatment. Though the homeopathy association in the state has decided to distribute two lakh doses of Arsenic-30, believed to be an immunity booster, the state government is yet to decide on allowing this field of medicine and a research on homeopathy for treatment of Covid-19. A homeopathy practitioner on Kanke Road, Dr P K Choudhury, said, “Homeopathy has a variety of medicines for patients. Practitioners of homeopathy analyse a patient’s disorders in detail before giving medicines which proves to be more effective.” He added, “We should be given a chance on an experimental basis to treat Covid-19 cases as homeopathy has a very unique way of treating patients on a case-to-case basis.” Meanwhile, ayurvedic doctors are also eyeing an opportunity to treat patients affected by the virus. The ministry of Ayush has decided to research on coronavirus and the effectiveness of ashwagandha on patients along with the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research and a few doctors of the branch of medicine are confident about positive results on Covid-19 patients. Padmanabhan Pandey, an aryuvedic doctor at Daksha Ayurveda, said he had written a letter to the senior authorities regarding permission to treat Covid-19 patients, but was denied. He said, “Allopathy is also treating patients on a trial and error method, so why cannot we be given a chance? We have giloy, ashwagandha and other medicines which can yield positive results.” He added, “Most of the people think ayurveda is all about herbs, but we also have different types of minerals which can be very good for patients and can assure recovery. We have mixtures of natural medicinal herbs and minerals like Jai Mangal Ras and Tribhuvan Kirti Ras.” Ayurveda doctors also prescribed turmeric milk and application of mustard oil in the nasal and naval cavities to limit the possibility of infection. Dr Hari Kumar of Kerala Ayurveda said, “Treatment of Covid-19 is under experiment, but we can go for citrus fruits and turmeric in milk to boost immunity. Body massages are also great way to boost immunity.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/homeopathy-ayurveda-docs-want-a-chance-to-treat-covid-19/articleshow/75664711.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Kolkata||4.5k migrants set to return from 3 states over 2 days||Kolkata: Nearly 4,500 migrant workers from Bengal, stranded since the lockdown was announced, are likely to return from three states (Karnataka, Tamil Nadu and Punjab) in the next couple of days. With Indian Railways announcing resumption of operations from May 12, movement of tourists and students, stuck in different parts of the state is also likely to go up. “Since the government announced resumption of operations with 15 pairs of trains and that will connect Howrah and other cities to New Delhi, people stuck in other cities are likely to travel to West Bengal in large numbers,” said a railway official While a train to Bankura departed Bengaluru at 2.10pm on Sunday, two more trains to New Jalpaiguri and Purulia have been approved by West Bengal. The Bengaluru-Bankura train left Malur station with 1,874 migrant workers, tourists and students — 1,347 from Bankura and 527 from Jhargram — who underwent thermal screening before being allowed to begin the 1,914km journey. Sources said Karnataka has sought Bengal’s approval for two more trains. “Around 20,000 workers have registered on the Seva Sindhu portal. We are talking to Bengal about their safe return,” a Karnataka official said. Another train from Tamil Nadu is likely to leave for Bengal on Monday. Punjab has also sought permission to run two special trains to ferry over 2,600 migrant workers to Bengal. Last week, the Bengal government had written to Punjab about stranded migrant workers. Manjoit Brar, nodal officer supervising the return of migrants to Bengal from Punjab, said: “In response, we sent a proposal yesterday. We are awaiting confirmation.” Meanwhile, former Maharashtra CM Devendra Fadnavis said his state had sought permission to run seven trains to Bengal. “We are requesting CM Mamata Banerjee to approve that,” he tweeted. Earlier, the railway ministry had tweeted that approval for trains from Maharashtra was pending. State home secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay replied on the department’s Twitter handle on Saturday night: “All the trains mentioned in their tweet were approved and communicated to the states concerned on May 8 or before. No new decision in this regard has been taken today. Further decisions to follow in this case.” The health department on Sunday conducted screening camps for migrant workers in Purulia. Department secretary Vivek Kumar tweeted: “Medical screening is being carried out in Purulia for migrant workers returning home.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/4-5k-migrants-set-to-return-from-3-states-over-2-days/articleshow/75665841.cms||Rohit Khanna
May 11, 2020||India||Demand up, 3 power plants run at 100%||NEW DELHI: India’s largest generation utility NTPC spun three of its biggest plants, accounting for 17% of its total capacity, at 100% to indicate an uptick in demand after the Centre relaxed Corona curbs to allow select industrial and economic activities after April 20. The company’s power stations at Vindhyachal in MP, Talcher Kaniha in Odisha and Sipat in Chhattisgarh, with aggregate capacity of 10,740 mw, achieved 100% ‘plant load factor’ on May 9 against the current national average of 50-55%. The Vindhyachal plant, the single-largest in the country, had also clocked 100% PLF on April 13. Company executives attributed the feat to “operational efficiency and optimum utilisation of capacity.” But industry sources said NTPC may have opted to spin these modern plants at higher rates, as demand began picking up since older stations might not have been cost-effective in the absence of a wider increase in demand. The PLF of coal-fired plants declined to 52% in March as power demand tanked by a quarter due to curbs on economic activities under the lockdown. In 2019-20, the average PLF had declined to 56% from a little over 60% in 2018-19 as the economy slowed down. NTPC, which bought the public sector power utility Neepco for Rs 11,500 crore in March, is also emerging as a major hydel player.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/demand-up-3-power-plants-run-at-100/articleshow/75666223.cms||---
May 11, 2020||Kolkata||KMC to use mobile vans to collect samples; north, central still a worry||KOLKATA: Though some success has been achieved in preventing the novel coronavirus from spreading further in some of the worst affected containment zones in Belgachhia, Narkeldanga, Mudiali and Chetla areas, large areas in north and central Kolkata continue to worry the Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC) officials. Having failed to prevent spread of coronavirus in some of worst affected containment zones, the KMC has decided to intensify its anti-covid drive in specific areas with help of state government’s community medicine experts. According to the strategy, the KMC will deploy mobile vans for collection of swab samples in large areas of Tiljala, Topsia, Picnic Garden, Palm Avenue, Beniapukur, Taltala, Entally, Tangra and Ballygunge areas. The vans will do rounds in the slums as well as densely populated containment zones of the said areas which have witnessed rapid growth in number of Covid-19 cases in the past one month. This apart, the KMC health team will do random thermal screening in these high-risk areas, said a KMC health department official. According to a senior official in the KMC health department, the civic body has reasons to worry about some containment areas in boroughs VI and VII which have shown no progress in past one month. “On the contrary, the number of Covid-19 patients steadily rose in some worst affected containment areas,” the official pointed out. As an example, containment areas grew faster in large areas of Topsia, Tiljala, Beniapukur, Taltala, Entally and Ballygunge in past three weeks. “From 40 containment areas in boroughs VI and VII three weeks ago, the number steadily rose to 85 in such areas. This is really worrying,” said a KMC health department official. Other than boroughs VI and VII, the civic officials are also keeping a close watch on areas such as Burrabazar, Chitpore, Jorasanko and Amherst Street. Worse, Ward 60 in Borough VI and Ward 66 in Borough VII continue to be the two worst performing zones and the biggest worry for KMC headquarters. Each of these wards has more than 10 containment areas. Apart from Tiljala, Topsia and Entally in central Kolkata and Tangra in south-east Kolkata, these two zones are triggering worries for civic body’s anti-Covid team. “From a nursing hostel at Entally to at least three slums on Canal South Road and Motijheel to the upscale apartment at Tangra, we have had Covid patients from all of them,” said a police officer of eastern suburban division. The police now say that they need to send more people to quarantine and shut down markets and any place of mass gathering. “Since too many people live in close proximity, the need of the hour is to send more people to quarantine. We are arranging for government quarantine centres at the earliest to stop the spread. We are setting up mini zonal offices to complete this work,” said an officer. Those quarantined from here are likely to be shifted to a new quarantine centre coming up at Rajarhat, the unit belonging to the central forensics department. Meanwhile, two new containment zones have come up from Bosepara and Christian Pathway, both located in Behala. The total number of wards affected continue to remain 107 with wards 123 and 125 (Behala) reporting their first cases and wards 41 and 49 shaking off the high-risk tag.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kmc-to-use-mobile-vans-to-collect-samples-north-central-still-a-worry/articleshow/75665511.cms||Saikat Ray
May 11, 2020||Kolkata||Historian, CU emeritus professor passes away after contracting virus||KOLKATA: Historian Hari Vasudevan, a leading expert on Russia and emeritus professor at Calcutta University, passed away in a city hospital in the early hours of Sunday. He had tested positive for Covid-19 and had been put on a ventilator a day before his death. He was 68. Vasudevan is survived by wife, historian Tapati Guha-Thakurta, and daughter Mrinalini. Vasudevan was admitted to the hospital on May 4 after his fever refused to subside. He tested positive for Covid on May 6, went into respiratory distress soon afterwards and was put on ventilator support on Friday. He died at 12.40am on Sunday. Doctors said Vasudevan had other chronic ailments. After completing his PhD at Cambridge University, Vasudevan wrote and taught on Russian and European history and politics and Indo-Russian relations at Calcutta University, Jamia Millia Islamia in New Delhi, King’s College in London, Cornell University in the US and Kiev University in the Ukraine. The authority over his field of study combined with the natural flair of teaching and winsome smile made him a favourite among peers and students. Had he not responded to historian Amalesh Tripathi’s call to join the Calcutta University, the city would have perhaps lost Hari Shankar Vasudevan to other institutions, historian Irfan Habib would tell his friends. Vasudevan never let fame get in the way of his camaraderie with colleagues and students. While Russian studies brought him to the history department of CU and he continued to be an observer on Russia till the very end, Vasudevan’s interests included European history, American history, study and comparisons of Constitutions of the world and the Silk Route. “Vasudevan brought with him a breath of fresh air to the department. Since he was trained abroad, he was able to look at history through the prism of that training,” said fellow historian Arun Bandyopadhyay, whose association with Vasudevan spans over four decades. Vasudevan was observing the Covid and wanted to compare it with the Black Death, recounted Ramkrishna Chatterjee, publications secretary at the Asiatic Society. Though Vasudevan lived and worked in Kolkata much of his life, he had left India while in middle school. After finishing school in Kenya where is father was posted, he went to Cambridge and graduated in history and later completed his Phd in pre-Bolshevik Russia. He and Netaji scholar Purabi Roy had visited Russia to investigate Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose’s disappearance. Jadavpur University vice-chancellor Suranjan Das, who worked with Vasudevan for over four decades, said: “We were working on an Indo-Myanmar project that he initiated for the Netaji Institute of Asian Studies. Alas that will remain incomplete now.” It was Kingshuk Chatterjee, a student turned colleague, who broke the news to Guha-Thakurta and Mrinalini who are in home quarantine. Chatterjee accompanied the hearse to the crematorium at Dhapa. “For me he will remain the biggest observer of global history, making it a genre, much before studying global history became fashionable like it is today,” he later said. Unable to come to terms with the loss, his wife said: “There were no last words, no good byes... It struck me like a bolt... There was so much to be done together, academically and even for the household. We hadn’t travelled much together, we were just planning to do that this summer.” Friends, colleagues and students expressed their grief and solidarity with Guha-Thakurta and Mrinalini on social media. Many friends and colleagues remembered him as an ardent cook, a splendid host, an avid reader with a keen taste in music. And nearly everyone felt the way his wife did: “Hari, we have to keep believing that you have really left us.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/historian-cu-emeritus-professor-passes-away-after-contracting-virus/articleshow/75665547.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
May 11, 2020||India||French hacker now ‘bares flaw’ in MP data store||BHOPAL: Four days after challenging the Aarogya Setu app, French cybersecurity researcher Robert Baptiste — who goes by the pseudonym Elliot Alderson on Twitter —- forced the MP government to “rework” its Covid-19 dashboard. Around 4.45pm on Sunday, Elliot Alderson tweeted: “In India, the state of Madhya Pradesh created a #covid19 dashboard with names of quarantined people, their device ID and name, OS version, app version code, GPS coordinates of their current location and GPS coordinates of their office,”. He gave the link: geoportal.mp.gov.in/covid19 new/. The ethical hacker tweeted the IDs of some of the patients, the districts they belong to, and the details of their devices, but cloaked their names and locations. The government promptly shut down the dashboard and started working on it. “Alderson actually highlighted the vulnerability of the dashboard,” a source in the IT department of the state government said, adding: “He could have revealed details of coronavirus patients but refrained from doing so by blackening out their names and locations.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/french-hacker-now-bares-flaw-in-mp-data-store/articleshow/75666236.cms||Deshdeep Saxena
May 11, 2020||Kolkata||80% of patients in MCH now Covid positive||KOLKATA: On the third day of its new assignment as tertiary-level Covid Hospital, Medical College Hospital Kolkata (MCHK) had 100 patients. Hospital sources said 80% of them are Covid positive patients while the rest are suspected cases, whose swab samples have been sent for testing. Most of the positive cases have been referred from other hospitals. “Some of the referred patients include mothers, who have tested positive after childbirth in other hospitals. We have also created an isolation SNCU (sick newborn care unit) where the babies of positive mothers are being attended to,” said MCHK medical superintendent and vice principal (MSVP) Indranil Biswas. TimesViewThe coordination between both public- and private-sector facilities needs to be seamless. Healthcare workers on the front-line need to be backed up with all the logistical support at our disposal to take care of the growing number of cases.The hospital is also awaiting ICMR nod to start RT-PCR testing while its lab has already started testing swab samples through GeneExpert technology. “Our technical team and the PWD workers are working on upgrading the laboratory on a war footing so we can start RT-PCR testing once we get the green signal from ICMR. Once the lab starts operating, we won’t have to send our samples to other facilities,” said a hospital source. The lab testing through GeneExpert technique is also being used to test samples of patients from the hospital itself. But the capacity is only 20 samples a day. The RT-PCR lab will be able to run 100 samples a day but can be extended to 200 samples as the lab has got two such systems. The hospital started functioning as a Covid hospital on May 7, a day after Mamata Banerjee tweeted of MCHK being designated as the first tertiary-level hospital in the state. Currently it is operating with 500 beds and has separate facility to treat both Covid and SARI (severe acute respiratory illness). “We are prepared to increase the number of beds as and when required. We can expand it to around 1000 beds,” said the MSVP. Though MCHK is a 2,200 bedded hospitals, due to the norms of distance between two beds and other requirement, sources said that at most the hospital can stretch its bed to strength to 1,000 for Covid patients. The hospital had already shifted few general patients, who were admitted to other hospitals. Meanwhile, the state has directed all patients, who were availing OPD and patients who need hospital care, to RG Kar Medical College and Calcutta National Medical College.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/80-of-patients-in-mch-now-covid-ve/articleshow/75665567.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
May 11, 2020||Mumbai||Covid-19 in Mumbai: Doctors’ body criticises test report delays, lack of standard protocol||MUMBAI: A private doctors’ body, the Association of Medical Consultants (AMC), said in a scathing letter to CM Uddhav Thackeray that Covid-19 test reports took as many as seven days and uniform protocols were missing for testing and isolation. Still, 1,172 private doctors responded to the DMER call to offer their services to fight Covid-19. “Over 450 have said they would like to be posted in hospitals in the western suburbs, around 350 said they would prefer south Mumbai hospitals, while another 300 wished to work in central suburbs,” Dr T P Lahane, director of DMER, said. The AMC, which represents around 12,000 specialists and super-specialists, said doctors were willing to serve but processes on the ground need to be streamlined in all of Mumbai Metropolitan Region. It said unavailability of real-time information on hospital beds was not allowing them to guide pregnant women or patients in need of dialysis. Information about these facilities was poorly propagated, said the letter. The letter said lab report delays caused late initiation of treatment as well as discharge. In the city, additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani said the turnaround time of reports was between 24 hours and 48 hours. The AMC said personal protective equipment were not available in adequate numbers at KEM, Sion, Nair and other civic hospitals. It said hospitals with non-Covid patients continue to be “wrongly sealed for 14 days by local health authorities”. “We have hospitals in Vasai-Virar, Palghar that have been sealed and nurses put under quarantine despite not being exposed,” Dr Deepak Baid, president, AMC, said. He said that outside the city, hospitals had been taken over without proper MoUs and doctors posted on ICU duty without any insurance or remuneration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/doctors-body-criticises-test-report-delays-lack-of-standard-protocol/articleshow/75666234.cms||Sumitra Debroy
