May 12, 2020||Delhi||Containment area tally in Delhi drops to 81||NEW DELHI: With one more zone de-contained, and with no addition in the list, the total number of containment zones in Delhi dropped to 81 on Monday "No new addition in the containment zone on Monday. So far, 19 areas have been de-contained and now the active containment zones in the city are 81," an official statement said. House Number A-30, Mansarover Garden has been removed from the list of the containment zones, the government said. According to district administration officials, no new cases were found in the areas and so they decided to de-contain the areas. The last addition in the containment zone was done on April 28, and since then, only de-containment operations have been done in a number of areas. The areas were sealed after Covid positive cases were found in the locality. After an area is declared a containment zone by the district administration, the Delhi government starts 'Operation SHIELD' - Sealing, Home Quarantine, Isolation and Tracking, Essential Supply, Local Sanitisation and Door-To-Door Checking -- to control the spread of the virus. While the 19 areas are no more a containment zone, however, strict compliance of the lockdown has to be followed in the areas. The SHO concerned and the survey teams, as constituted by the District administration, have to keep a strict vigil in the de-contained areas to make sure that there should be minimum movement of people as per directions issued by the government with regard to the lockdown. The SDM will need to keep strict vigil in the area for the next 14 days from the date of de-containment. Social distancing and masks are compulsory in the area even for the vendors, and hawkers. From May 4, Delhi government allowed several relaxations for the city, except the containment zones. The coronavirus cases in the city has been increasing and the tally on Monday reached 7,233 positive cases with 73 deaths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/containment-area-tally-in-delhi-drops-to-81/articleshow/75684049.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Police seize 32 country-made rifles in forest area in Chittoor||TIRUPATI: Police seized 32 country-made rifles hidden inside a forest area abutting Annamgaripalli village in Somala mandal of Chittoor district on Monday. A police party from Somala police station led by sub-inspector C Lakshmikanth were on a routine patrol duty at villages abutting the reserve forest area in Somala mandal on Monday. The police party stumbled upon a dump of country-made rifles hidden inside the forest area near Annamgaripalli. On inspection, police found 32 rifles from the spot. Somala SI Lakshmikanth told reporters that the rifles may belong to poachers living in the fringe villages abutting the reserve forest area. ''We will intensify our searches in the area and will also carry out a door to door survey to ensure poaching related activities come to a complete naught in the area,'' added the SI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/andhra-pradesh-police-seize-32-country-made-rifles-in-forest-area-in-chittoor/articleshow/75684498.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
May 12, 2020||Ludhiana||Punjab Agriculture University VC urges farmers to shun stubble burning||LUDHIANA: Expressing disappointment over last week's incidents of stubble burning, Punjab Agricultural University vice-chancellor Professor B S Dhillon urged farmers to refrain from burning wheat residue. Prof Dhillon urged farmers to introspect on the impact of their actions on the environment, with specific reference to the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/punjab-agriculture-university-vc-urges-farmers-to-shun-stubble-burning/articleshow/75684509.cms||Shariq Majeed
May 12, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh discom employees distribute food to migrant workers||GUNTUR: Moved by the plight of the migrant workers, AP Electricity Employees Union (APEEU) distributed breads, chilled butter milk and drinking water bottles to the migrant workers walking back to native places in different states on Monday. They also provided milk to help children beat the hunger. Employees from CPDCL hit the NH early in the morning at different locations from Pedakakani to Chilakaluripet and distributed food material to the workers. APEEU state deputy secretary and junior accounts officer at CPDCL, AVSS Prasad motivated his colleagues and union members to their bit in relieving the stress of the migrant workers walking back to their native states on the highways. “It was heart-wrenching experience in my life. We wanted to do our bit as human beings. We have no right to be called a civilized society as long as thousands of workers go by walk without food and water,” said Prasad. He said that they would continue the activity for next few days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/andhra-pradesh-discom-employees-distribute-food-to-migrant-workers/articleshow/75684548.cms||MN Samdani
May 12, 2020||Goa||Goan seafarers ask MPT to waive off port charges for vessels dropping off crew||PANAJI: Goan Seamen Association of India (GSAI) approached Mormugao Port Trust on Monday and requested the port authorities to waive off port due and anchorage dues for cruise vessels that arrive at MPT to disembark Goan crew members. GSAI president Frank Viegas along with Capt Venzy Viegas met senior deputy traffic manager at MPT Jerome Clement to discuss the issue. According to Viegas, Clement agreed to discuss the suggestion with the port management. “A letter by email has been sent to MPT requesting them to waive off port and anchorage dues for vessels intending to carry out crew change at MPT port,” said Viegas. Meanwhile, former GSAI president Dixon Vaz questioned the sincerity of the state government to rescue and bring back Goan seafarers by direct flights. “There are 118 new flights scheduled by air to bring stranded Indians but no flights are landing in Goa at all. This is very sad that no Goans can come home directly to Goa. GSAI has also made a fresh appeal to the chief minister requesting the state government to reverse the decision to charge shipping companies for the quarantine facilities accorded to seafarers. “We requested all our MLAs to bring to the notice of the chief minister to revert the decision as soon as possible in the interest of the seafarers and shipping companies, which will be a huge burden on the shipping companies and which can jeopardise job prospects of our Goan seafarers,” said Viegas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goan-seafarers-ask-mpt-to-waive-off-port-charges-for-vessels-dropping-off-crew/articleshow/75684609.cms||Newton Sequeira
May 12, 2020||Lucknow||Our daughter Ammaara kept her first roza this Ramzan: Iqbal Khan||Ramzan is special this time for actor Iqbal Khan. The Waaris actor says that it’s after a very very long time that he is at home during Ramzan. “Nahi toh invariably I would be shooting during Ramzan. It used to be really different and difficult to fast and shoot during Ramzan,” he says. Making the most of this lockdown period, Iqbal says he is happy the way people are fasting for Ramzan. “As to what I know, Ramzan was never about elaborate meals during iftar or iftar parties. This trend is very latest and unnecessary. I am happy that we all are now keeping it very simple during roza iftar. So our iftar meals are really really light. I am enjoying the fast with my family this time,” he shares. Iqbal Khan (BCCL)Iqbal Khan (BCCL) The Ramzan is all the more special for Iqbal and his wife Sneha for another reason. “Our daughter, Ammaara, who is eight years-old, kept her first roza this Ramzan. Though we had decided that if need be, we will give her food but surprisingly, she did really well and was able to fast for the whole day. Till now she has kept two rozas. As parents we are really happy,” he smiles. The actor, meanwhile, is helping his wife in household chores. “Waise bhi I always had lots of respect for homemakers for their contribution but it has risen manifolds during lockdown. I can now relate to them. These days I do the dishes and sweeping the floor. I was initially doing the mopping also but I am a cleanliness freak and I used to take forever to clean the floor. So Sneha used to get very irritated and then she decided to do it herself. The same happened with cleaning the bathroom also,” he laughs out loud.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/our-daughter-ammaara-kept-her-first-roza-this-ramzan-iqbal-khan/articleshow/75682715.cms||Akash Wadhwa
May 12, 2020||India||More curbs to go, but lockdown to stay, PM Modi hints at CMs meet||NEW DELHI: Prime Minister Narendra Modi indicated steps to open the economy would continue to be pursued in line with relaxations announced so far even as efforts to reduce incidence of Covid-19 continue apace and social distancing norms are followed. Modi hinted that a more graded relaxation of the lockdown could be on its way after May 17, during an interaction with chief ministers on Monday. “I am of the firm view that the measures needed in the first phase of lockdown were not needed during the second phase and, similarly, the measures needed in the third phase are not needed in the fourth,” an official release quoted the PM as saying. “We have a twofold challenge — to reduce the transmission rate of the disease and to increase public activity gradually — while adhering to all the guidelines,” he said. The long interaction, where all the CMs spoke, saw some in favour of continuing with the lockdown beyond May 17. Given the focus on containment, the lockdown may not be called off even as more easing of curbs, particularly in ‘green zones’, is on the anvil. While Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee complained about the Centre’s “unilateral” actions, she like other CMs such as Uddhav Thackeray and Nitish Kumar favoured extension of the lockdown. Kumar expressed reservations on resumption of train services. Kerala CM Pinarayi Vijayan said states should be allowed to decide on public transport while Odisha CM Naveen Patnaik suggested there should be broad lockdown principles. Thackeray expressed concern over reports of a second wave of infection in China. Focus now should be to stop Covid from spreading to rural areas: PMSources said the Prime Minister was very conscious about the need to continue all efforts to contain the disease so that gains of the lockdown were not lost and also referred indirectly to the need to concentrate on problematic areas. “We now have a reasonably clear indication as to the geographical spread of the pandemic in India, including worst affected areas. Moreover, over the past few weeks, officials have understood operating procedures in a time such as this, right up to the district level,” Modi said, suggesting that the disease tracking mechanism was gaining experience and becoming more effective. The PM further said now the effort should be to stop the spread of Covid-19 to rural areas. The comment came in the context of rural areas having remained relatively free of infections. He said one must understand that the world had fundamentally changed post Covid-19. “Now, the world will be pre-corona, post-corona just like the case of the world wars,” he added. PM Modi said the new way of life would be on the principle of “jaan se lekar jag tak”, from an individual to the whole of humanity. Watch More graded relaxation of lockdown after May 17, PM Modi hints at CMs meet||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/more-curbs-to-go-but-lockdown-to-stay-pm-hints-at-cms-meet/articleshow/75685093.cms||Akhilesh Singh
May 12, 2020||India||Endless caravan of misery as migrants trudge home||BHOPAL: A caravan of misery is winding its way down India’s highways as the exodus of migrant workers from its Covid-scarred cities and industrial townships head for home on foot, battered bikes, crammed into the backs of trucks, any which way they can. All along the 800km, Pune-to-Bhopal stretch of the Mumbai-Agra NH, thousands upon thousands of migrant workers, children in arms, stumbling along, are stretched out in unending lines. Almost every truck that passes by is a refuge on wheels. Exhausted people sleep on the roadside. Children cry in hunger. Mothers cast anguished glances at vehicles that won’t stop. At MP’s Sendhwa around 4am on Sunday, the beam of a truck’s headlamps landed on a wailing child not more than four years old. He and his family were travelling in the back of the truck ahead – with pots and pans and whatever was left of their life in Pune. In UP’s Lalitpur district, a 26-year-old woman gave birth to a baby girl under a roadside tree in Balabheat village last Saturday. Along with a dozen other migrant workers, she had set out on a 500km trek from Dhar in MP back to her native village of Barkhariya. On Monday, TOI came across at least four workers who had breached a containment zone in Pune and started trudging towards Satna in MP, more than 1,100km away, via NH-30. “Kya karein? Ab humara dimaag kaam karna band ho gaya aur hum aise hi latak gaye hai (What to do? My brain has stopped working and I am stranded),” 34-year-old Mahesh Shankar said. Ajay Chouhan, a native of Agra, sneaked out of Raviwar Peth, another Covid-19 hotspot. “Police told me I won’t get a pass; so I decided to walk,” he said. In the back of another truck spotted earlier near Malegaon, the passengers had built bunks, with separate groups occupying either deck. While sleeping, they held on to ropes lest they fall off the vehicle. Every now and then, headlamps of passing vehicles would illuminate silhouettes sleeping on the roadside. The migrants lay in a tangled heap, their legs appearing to have crumpled in sheer exhaustion; few had even had the energy to spread out a gamchha on the stones and pebbles. A handful chose the relative safety of petrol pumps or toll booths to curl up on the ground. “We have been walking for three days. God knows how much longer. I can’t even sleep as I am scared my little kid will crawl onto the highway. My husband and I take turns sleeping,” said Parvati Bai, headed for Agra. Over 2 lakh migrant labourers cross Maharashtra-MP border in 24 hoursAt places like Malegaon, Dhule and also Sendhwa, residents lined up the highway at daytime to hand food packets and water to passing migrant workers. As of Sunday, more than 2 lakh migrant labourers had crossed the Maharashtra-MP border in 24 hours. Vinod Kumar of MP’s Morena wasn’t one of them. Not wanting to cram his wife and children — aged three years and six months — into the back of a truck or walk 1,300km, he used up most of his life’s savings to buy a second-hand motorcycle for Rs 10,000 in Pune. They set off in the early hours of Friday, along with 15 others, including his brother’s family. After 100km, his second-hand buy gave up. He pushed it till Ahmednagar in the scorching heat, hoping to find a mechanic. His brother stayed back with him while the others went ahead. Their hungry children bawled while the duo searched frantically for a mechanic in the locked-down city. They found one, who asked for Rs 8,000 to fix it. Vinod pleaded that he had only Rs 5,000 of his savings left. The mechanic wouldn’t budge. A local resident patched up the bike, and they resumed their journey on Saturday morning. The motorcycle sputtered and died a few kilometres later. TOI found him hauling his junked bike back towards Pune. Later on Sunday, he called to say that when he reached Pune, his landlord refused to let him in. “I don’t have money left to go back. No home to stay. I don’t know what to do,” he wept on the phone, pleading for help. Officials at the Malegaon toll gate said 5,000 Mumbai autos had crossed on Saturday alone, most of them taking NH3 towards UP. Policemen deployed on the highway allowed them to pass to avoid chaos. An SI on highway patrol said they are being let through as screening lakhs of migrant workers is not possible. “If we start stopping them to examine their health, there will be a huge mess. Let them go home,” he said. (With inputs from Gitesh Shelke and Arindam Ghosh)Watch Covid-19 lockdown: Migrants trudge along highways or hitch rides on trucks as mass exodus continues||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/endless-caravan-of-misery-as-migrants-trudge-home/articleshow/75685313.cms||P Naveen
May 12, 2020||India||Human instinct to return home: PM on migrants||NEW DELHI: PM Narendra Modi on Monday attributed the homeward movement of lakhs of migrants to uncertainty caused by the pandemic. “When gripped by anxiety, people feel a strong urge to return home. This is human instinct,” sources quoted the PM as saying at the video interaction with CMs, some of whom raised the issue of the return of migrants and the implications it could have on the effort to contain the spread of coronavirus. There were reports of the PM saying that while it would have been better if all the migrants had stayed put wherever they were, the exodus could not have been avoided. Several chief ministers spoke about the resultant risk of spread of infection in rural areas and emphasised the need for strict implementation of social distancing norms, use of masks and adherence to hand hygiene.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/human-instinct-to-return-home-pm-on-migrants/articleshow/75685445.cms||---
May 12, 2020||India||Coronavirus: Government begins sero-survey in select districts to closely monitor spread||NEW DELHI: In order to keep a closer watch on the prevalence and spread of Covid-19 in the country, the health ministry has initiated a facility-based surveillance in all districts and a more focused population-based "sero-survey" of high- and low-risk groups in select districts. The surveillance will be in addition to routine testing as per current guidelines, the ministry said. The move assumes significance as it will not only help the government and its agencies monitor Covid-19 trends but also check for community transmission in any part of the country. A sero-survey involves testing of blood serum of a group of individuals and this will be used to monitor trends in prevalence of the novel coronavirus, or SARS-COV-2, infection at the district level. The surveillance will be conducted by the Indian Council of Medical Research and the National Centre for Disease Control in collaboration with key stakeholders and state health departments. More on Covid-19 Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage Lockdown 3.0: What's allowed and what's not in the three zones It's time to mask up and stay safe: Join TOI's #MaskIndia campaign MHA's guidelines for home isolation Trust the newspaper for your daily verified news The facility-oriented surveillance is an expansion of the testing of flu and serious respiratory cases in hospitals being carried out by the government. The enhanced exercise will see 10 health facilities — six public and four private — from each district being tested. The health ministry has so far maintained that there is no evidence yet of community transmission in the country. There are large outbreaks in some clusters but the sharp exponential rise in cases as in community transmission has not happened and the government's containment strategy is aimed at preventing such a situation from developing, it said. For the sero-survey, population groups will consist of low- as well as high-risk populations. The low-risk group will include outpatient attendees (non-ILI patients) and pregnant women, while healthcare workers will be surveyed among the high-risk population. The survey will include a total of 200 samples per week and 800 samples per month. This will include at least 100 samples per week and 400 per month from the selected districts from the high-risk population. For the low-risk population, 50 samples per week and 200 per month are to be collected from outpatient attendees (non-ILI patients). The agencies will use a combination of RT-PCR and Elisa antibody kits for these surveys. Throat and nasal swabs will be collected for RT-PCR tests and samples tested in a one-time pool of 25. However, the results of this sample pooling are only for surveillance purposes and not for diagnosis of individual patients, the ministry said. "In addition to throat/nasal swabs, blood samples should be collected for detecting IgG antibodies for Elisa testing. In subsequent rounds, IgG Elisa-based testing of serum samples will replace RT-PCR based testing for surveillance purposes," said the ministry. The Elisa testing kit has been developed by National Institute of Virology in Pune along with Zydus Cadila. The kit is expected to play a critical role in surveillance of a proportion of the population exposed to the infection, after rapid antibody test kits from China failed the ICMR quality tests. Health ministry joint secretary Lav Agarwal said the Elisa kits have specificity of 97% and sensitivity of 92%. The Covid-19 research consortium formed by the department of biotechnology and Biotechnology Industry Research Assistance Council has recommended 70 proposals for funding vaccines, diagnostics, therapeutics and other technologies, Agarwal said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/government-begins-sero-survey-in-select-districts-to-closely-monitor-spread/articleshow/75685625.cms||Sushmi Dey
May 12, 2020||India||Aarogya Setu safe, not used for surveillance, assures government||NEW DELHI: Seeking to address concerns over privacy and surveillance, the government on Monday said of the nearly 10 crore users of Aarogya Setu app, less than 13,000 had actually tested positive, leading to contact tracing of people they were in touch with and the app was using bluetooth to detect emerging hotspots on a scale that was only possibly through use of technology. The government detailed several measures taken to ensure data security. Top officials on Monday said the app had a clear data destruction policy among other measures to make it a safe and secure tool to keep citizens safe. “Location data is used in order to facilitate containment actions and to protect the community. Data for only 30 days is stored on the app and data of positive patients too is deleted from the server 60 days after the date of cure,” Ajay Sawhney, secretary, ministry of electronics and information technology and chairman of the empowered group dealing with data and technology, said. He dwelt on the self reporting function of the app and said it helped track incidence of symptoms like cough and fevers. A higher number of people reporting “unwell” in an area immediately alerted authorities to step up surveillance. This was how budding hotspots could be identified and contained, he said. “The privacy policy itself has several firsts compared even to the best internet services Indians use in hundreds of millions. These include automated data destruction policy, clear purpose limitation to the Covid-19 effort without exception and maximising data kept on phones, minimising data transferred to cloud,” Amitabh Kant, CEO of Niti Aayog, told TOI. While the app requests users to share location, it has defined how location information is used — only on an anonymous or aggregate basis and for the specific purpose of identifying hotspots and it did not continuously monitor any user’s location, officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/aarogya-setu-safe-not-used-for-surveillance-assures-government/articleshow/75685880.cms||Surojit Gupta
May 12, 2020||Patna||Chirag Paswan questions Bihar over handling of migrants’ issue||PATNA: LJP chief Chirag Paswan on Monday wrote a letter to Bihar CM Nitish Kumar, questioning the way the state government is handling the return of migrant workers. LJP is an ally of BJP and Nitish’s JD(U) in Bihar. Chirag wrote that almost all the helpline numbers issued for the registration of workers stranded outside state do not work. He also questioned the online registration system, stating that lakhs of migrant workers were neither literate nor had smartphones. The Jamui MP also alleged that the quarantine centres for migrant workers returning home do not have basic facilities of food and lavatories. Citing the example of Yogi Adityanath government in Uttar Pradesh bringing their people back by road, Chirag wrote: “Many videos on social media show distressed condition of our migrant workers ... Many of them are agitated against Bihar government … Like UP, Bihar government should also take all possible steps to bring back its people.” He requested Nitish to share the list of Bihar migrant workers with the Centre, so that trains can be arranged accordingly. “Union home minister and railway minister have assured me that all possible arrangements will be done to bring back migrant labourers,” he wrote. Chirag also suggested Nitish to talk to the CMs of those states who do not want to send back migrant workers citing labour crunch. Later, Chirag told a TV news channel: “Though we support the state government in Bihar, but we are not a part of it. We are only in the role of an ally, supporter. Hence, whenever we see any issue, we try to bring it to the notice of the CM.” JD(U), on the other hand, suggested Chirag not to be “desperate”. “Bihar government is taking all steps in adherence to the Centre’s guidelines. His party is a constituent of ruling NDA at the Centre. If he has any reservations on migrant workers, Chirag should raise them before the PM. There is no need to be desperate. People are satisfied with the works being done by the Nitish government,” JD(U) spokesperson Rajiv Ranjan Prasad said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/chirag-questions-state-over-handling-of-migrants-issue/articleshow/75682323.cms||Piyush Tripathi
May 12, 2020||Pune||Pune: Metro work keeps many back & busy||PUNE: Manoj Kumar, a resident of Azamgarh in Uttar Pradesh, is working as a painter at the Pune Metro’s site at College of Agriculture in Pune. His wife and children are at his home town. “Since work is going at full speed, I preferred not to go back home,” he said. Many workers are in their quarters at the Metro sites since the lockdown. The Maharashtra Metro Rail Corporation (MahaMetro) has 2,800 workers at various camps in Pune. They work in day and night shifts at the Metro sites. A MahaMetro official said arrangements were in place for the workers at these e camps. The labour continued to stay at the camps even when work was at halt. Besides daily food the labours have been provided with the masks and sanitizers. The MahaMetro has now made temporary staying facilities for labours at some work sites to avoid daily travel of labours from labour camps to the sites. “We are getting daily food. Adequate facilities of toilets and beds are available for us at the sites. We approach the supervisor in case of any requirements”, said Jhaman Mahato, an electrician helper, who hails from Chapra area from Bihar. Ahmed Samsher Alam, who is a native of West Bengal is a supervisor at the Agriculture college metro site said that he takes care of infrastructural arrangements for the workers and monitors their job schedules.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/metro-workers-stayed-back-as-daily-work-kept-them-busy/articleshow/75684691.cms||Sarang Dastane
May 12, 2020||Patna||Half-filled train arrives from Vizag, sparks speculation||BETTIAH/MOTIHARI: Even as the railways late on Monday modified guidelines, discarding social distancing norms, to allow movement of the stranded with full occupancy of sleeper berths amid disturbing reports of countless migrants undertaking long treks home, seats went abegging on a Shramik special train from Waltair (Visakhapatnam) that reached Bapudham Motihari late Sunday evening. “Six coaches (out of 24) came without any passengers,” Sharat Chandra, senior divisional commercial manager at East Central Railway’s Samastipur division told this newspaper. “1,354 passengers were expected by this train. Nobody could deboard on way, this train came half empty because only 650 passengers boarded it at Visakhapatnam” S S Choudhary, East Champaran ADM said. “State government authorities have the list of passengers. They charter, we just cater trains. Our role is just operational. They even decide seating plans,” Rajesh Kumar, ECR CPRO, said, adding, “State authorities buy the tickets, distribute and get passengers to board.” The CPRO said passengers cannot get off mid-way. “This train may have come with less number of passengers,” he said, pointing to a train going in reverse from Khagaria in Bihar. “Telangana authorities paid for 1,200 passengers, only 226 took the journey,” he added. These trains run on the concurrence of states of origin and destination. Bihar transport secretary dismissed speculations that workers from Andhra and Telangana working on different road construction sites in Bihar boarded the train back from Khagaria on Thursday. “Supervisor level and above workers from these states are in Bihar. They are still working,” he said. Agarwal said Telangana had booked the train returning for Bihari migrants who had come home before Holi. Sita Ram Prasad, DRM Secunderabad, said the state had paid for the 2,400 seats of journey from Lingampally to Khagaria and Khagaria to Lingampally. With paddy procurement still in progress, Andhra rice mills reported labour shoratge to take up milling due to shortage of trained workers. “The demand for passages on Shramik trains from most southern states has declined. This is a good sign,” Agarwal said, adding, only five out of eight such scheduled trains have been run from Andhra and Telangana. “However, the demand for trains for migrants in Karnataka, Gujarat, Maharashtra, Punjab and Haryana has risen. Now four trains will run daily from each of these states to Bihar with increased passenger load,” Agarwal said. His figure of 1,500 per Shramik train had, however, been augmented to full berth capacity by a railways notification later on Monday evening. “The train from Visakhapatnam ( Waltair) had fewer passengers because of the gas leak there. The train was delayed...it could not utilise its sanctioned capacity,” the transport secretary said. However, reports from Visakhapatnam said 1,200 seats were booked from Vizag to Bapudham Motihari railway station without any additional stoppages.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/half-filled-train-arrives-from-vizag-sparks-speculation/articleshow/75682411.cms||Abhay Mohan Jha
May 12, 2020||Patna||People likely to offer Eid prayers at home this year||PATNA: Muslim devotees are likely to offer Eid ‘namaz’ (prayer service) at home due to the Covid-19 pandemic this year. Since only few days are left for Eid celebrations, members of Tanzeem Tehreek Aiemma Masajid, an association of ‘imams’, has urged the Islamic bodies not to open mosques even after the end of the lockdown period. Maulana Alam Quasmi, convener of the association, told this newspaper on Monday, “Considering the rising number of Covid-19 cases, it seems that the situation is unlikely to improve before Eid. I, therefore, advise Muslims to offer Eid prayer at home.” Dariyapur Jama Masjid imam Malauna Alam said, “Maintaining social distance will not be possible for the mosque committees as large number of people gather to offer Eid prayer. Mosques should reopen only if the situation gets better.” The Covid-19 lockdown 3.0 is slated to end on May 17. Islamic bodies will take the decision of opening mosques as per the directive of the Centre and the state government. Imarat-e-Shariah general secretary Maulana Shibli Qasmi pointed out that if the Centre and the state government allowed them to offer congregational prayer, they would take all precautionary measures. “If liquor shops can be allowed to function with relaxations, why can’t temples, mosques, churches and gurdwaras be opened as well?” he asked. All India Milli Council vice-president Maulana Anisur Rahman Qasmi also assured that devotees would follow the standard operating procedure for containment of coronavirus if the government opened mosques for Eid prayer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/people-likely-to-offer-eid-prayers-at-home-this-year/articleshow/75681908.cms||Faryal Rumi
May 12, 2020||Patna||Kiul rail bridge opens for train traffic||PATNA: Railways commissioned the new rail bridge built parallel to the 100 years’ old one at Kiul on Sunday. The new rail bridge was found fit to run both passenger and goods trains after a successful trial run of a locomotive on May 8. The old bridge has been closed for traffic. East Central Railway’s chief public relations officer (CPRO) Rajesh Kumar said train traffic movement on the new bridge was allowed after getting clearance from commissioner of railway safety, eastern region, Kolkata. “The new rail bridge has provision for running trains at the maximum speed of 110km/hour,” he said. The rail bridge is an important intersection point between Kiul and Lakhisarai stations from where at least 150 passenger trains pass daily. The old Kiul rail bridge, which was built by a UK-based company during the pre-independence period, is still known as a vintage rail bridge in the railways’ parlance, sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/kiul-rail-bridge-opens-for-train-traffic/articleshow/75682460.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Patna||Mass immunisation campaign launched||GAYA: The Gaya district administration and health department have launched a mass immunisation programme to protect children against deadly diseases, such as Japanese encephalitis (JE) and acute encephalitis syndrome (AES). Gaya DM Abhishek Singh said based on statistical analysis, it has been found that the chances of outbreak are more when the difference between the maximum and minimum temperatures remains on the lower side. As per temperature records, the maximum temperature in the district in the recent days has been hovering around 35-36 degrees C, which, compared to the district’s average temperature, is 4-5 notches less than the normal. The minimum temperature remains around 23-24 degrees C. Gaya remains one of the hottest places in the state in the summer season, but it is yet to witness heatwave like conditions this year. Gaya civil surgeon Dr B K Singh said immunisation programme has been undertaken to pre-empt AES and JE. “In the past, immunisation had proved to be effective. All efforts are being made to maintain the cold chain to retain the vaccine’s effectiveness. Besides immunisation, awareness campaign too has been launched to educate people,” he said. The civil surgeon added that training is also being given to those engaged in pig rearing as pigs are regarded as the carriers of the disease. Asked whether kits containing mosquito nets, mosquito repellents and other items are being distributed, the civil surgeon said the kit distribution is yet to take off.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/mass-immunisation-campaign-launched/articleshow/75682435.cms||Abdul Qadir
May 12, 2020||Business||Hiring platforms go all out to help the laid off find new jobs||Chennai: Laid off because of Covid-19 pandemic and looking for a job? Community hiring platforms such as Skillenza, HackerEarth are either getting jobs to the laterals who have lost their jobs during Covid or freshers whose offers have been revoked. Suraj Ravandur, who was working at gilda.vc — a company that helps startups raise money — was laid off over a month ago and was looking for opportunities. Through Skillenza, now he is in conversation with Rapido and ShareChat and is hopeful of landing offers. “Besides merely connecting us with the companies, our resumes have also been relooked by industry experts and are in a better place to get a job,” he said. Skillenza has a platform Aide, that has so far seen over 800 job seekers. “ The applicants are a mix of students whose offers have been revoked and laid off employees. Once they apply, we connect them to a buddy, who will mentor them and assess their position. Later, they will be connected to the best suited company,” said Subhendu Panigrahi, founder, Skillenza. He adds that it is easier to place job seekers in the product management, data science and tech jobs. Companies such as Unacademy, Dunzo, Rapido, ShareChat etc are hiring through the platform. Mahesh Suthar, director, talent acquisition, Unacademy said that the company is conducting interviews of laid off candidates who have been recommended by Skillenza. “So far, we can see that the calibre of these candidates is higher and we can shortlist/finalise sooner,” he said. The edtech startup is hiring for product management, data science and engineering roles. AI-based HR platform SCIKEY also has its platform made available free for the next 100 days. Job seekers can register and upload their profile and employers can register on the platform and can find potential candidates with confidentiality. Akshay Sharma co-founder, SCIKEY said, “SCIKEY MindMatch algorithm also helps employers with the mindset & personality data of the candidates. It can help them assess the fitment based on soft skills as well. It is our endeavor to help maximum jobseekers find their next source of income.” HackerEarth on the other hand has received over 1,500 applicants from students graduating in 2020. “ Their profile, activities done on the platform will be shared through their virtual hiring initiative and upto 5 companies in the e-commerce and investment management firms will take the qualified,” said Sachin Gupta, CEO and co-founder, HackerEarth. Besides facilitating job offers, the portals also run practice challenges, coding assessments for the students that companies give as level 1 screening.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/hiring-platforms-go-all-out-to-help-the-laid-off-find-new-jobs/articleshow/75683839.cms||Aparna Desikan
May 12, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Buzz is back as Bhubaneswar station readies for passenger service||Bhubaneswar: The once bustling Bhubaneswar Railway Station had fallen silent owing to the coronavirus-induced lockdown. But the railways’ decision to run train services again from Wednesday has brought some life back to the station and the workers. On Monday, hours after the Centre’s decision, the Bhubaneswar Railway Station was a hive of activity as it readied to start normal passenger train operations after a gap of nearly 8 weeks. Sanitation staff were busy cleaning railway tracks and the platform floors while a few workers were busy setting up barricades in front of the station’s entry to control crowd movement. Some were cleaning water booths and chairs in the platforms even as workers carried out disinfection of trains and the station premises. Bhubaneswar station director Chitta Ranjan Nayak said barricades have been erected at the entry gate to segregate incoming and outgoing passengers. “We have also drawn circles to maintain social distancing among passengers. They will be allowed to enter into the station premises one by one after verifying the confirmed tickets,” Nayak said. He said the staff have cleaned the station premises and tracks. “We have kept the trains ready. We have also disinfected our trains and station premises. The disinfection process will continue. No ticket counter will be opened, so people should not visit the railway station expecting to buy tickets,” he added. Official sources said train will start from platform 1. Passengers should arrive from Master Canteen side at least 90 minutes prior to the train’s departure. Only confirmed ticket holders will be allowed into the platform. All passengers will have to clear medical screening before being allowed to board the train. Only asymptomatic passengers will be permitted to travel, said a railway source. Commerce and transport minister Padmanav Behera said running of train services is a welcome move. “Many people are waiting for train services to start to return home,” Behera said. He also said the railways should take precautions to check possible spreading of Covid-19 infection. “People should follow social distancing norms to stay safe,” he added. The Indian Railways has decided to resume passenger train operations from Tuesday onwards. It will run 15 pairs of special trains in select routes connecting New Delhi. The first passenger train from Bhubaneswar to New Delhi will leave on Wednesday. East coast railway (ECoR) sources said the train will start its journey from Bhubaneswar at 10 am and reach New Delhi at 10.45 am the next day. It will be run on a daily basis. This train will be fully air-conditioned with 17 coaches of 3A, 2A and AC 1st class. The train from New Delhi will leave at 5.05pm on Thursday and reach Bhubaneswar at 5.25pm the next day. The train from Bhubaneswar will have stoppages in Balasore, Hijli (Kharagpur), Tata, Bokaro Steel City, Gaya, Deen Dayal Upadhyaya Junction and Kanpur Central on its route to New Delhi. “Tickets will be given only through IRCTC website. Only confirmed tickets will be given. Cancellation of tickets will be permitted online up to 24 hours of scheduled departure of the train. Only 50 per cent cancellation charge will be applicable,” said an ECoR statement. Railways sources said bedroll and linen will not be provided. Passengers will have to bring their own bedsheet for convenience. It also urged passengers to carry their own face mask, sanitizer and soaps for hygiene. On arrival at New Delhi or Bhubaneswar, passengers will have to adhere to the local state government’s health protocols as applicable. EoM||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/buzz-is-back-as-bhubaneswar-station-readies-for-passenger-service/articleshow/75682745.cms||Hemanta Pradhan
May 12, 2020||Patna||Bhagalpur weavers make face masks for survival||BHAGALPUR: The handloom workers associated with silk manufacturing industry are making face masks to generate some income amid the lockdown. Around 50,000 face masks made of silk, cotton and linen have already been prepared by the local handloom workers associated with Resham Bunkar Khadi Evam Gramodyog Sangh (RBKEGS) at Nathnagar, the hub of weavers producing Bhagalpur’s famous tussar silk. The face masks are being supplied to khadi board through the district industries centre at Bhagalpur at the rate of Rs15 per piece. The face masks are reusable. Apart from masks, they are also preparing cotton-linen towel (gamcha) for the khadi board as well as the local market. The weavers said local silk industry is badly affected owing to the nationwide lockdown. Around 10,000 weavers and their families, who were working in nearly 200 handloom and powerloom units in Nathnagar locality, are struggling for survival. Alim Ansari, secretary of RBKEGS, said tussar silk and similar products worth Rs100 crore are dumped. “The silk products are not only sold in India but across the world,” he said. He added: “The members of weaving community are struggling for survival due to closure of local markets and inability to supply products to exporters. Therefore, we are encouraging the weavers to produce cotton-linen-silk face masks for livelihood.” Ansari said they have requested the Khadi and Village Industries Commission (KVIC) and other government agencies to requisition the face masks and gamchas being prepared in Bhagalpur to save the wobbling silk industry. Chartered accountant Pradip Jhunjhunwala said the business of silk industry is worth more than Rs600 crore per annum and it needs a revival plan by the Centre as well as the state government to boost it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bhagalpur-weavers-make-face-masks-for-survival/articleshow/75682298.cms||Kumar Rajesh
May 12, 2020||Business||Life insurers book 67% of last year’s premium in April||MUMBAI: The life insurance industry in April managed to achieve nearly two-thirds of the sales it recorded a year ago despite the lockdown. In terms of total premium income, the private industry and the LIC recorded a year-on-year dip of 33% and 32% respectively. However, in terms of number of policies, the industry was down 67%, largely because of an 80% drop in the number of policies sold by LIC, while private companies were down 34%. “While April is expected to be a washout for many segments of the economy, life insurance companies were able to deliver 60% of April 2019 individual annual premium equivalent (APE). This is better than our expectation of 90-95% decline for large players,” said a report by Kotak Institutional Equities. Industry insiders say it is a bit early to celebrate as a lot of the April sales may have been a spillover from the sales process initiated in end-March. Sale of insurance policies is highest in March before the fiscal closing as many taxpayers wait until the last day to make their tax investment. This year, because of the lockdown, many of these sales could not be concluded. With insurance being notified as an essential service, many banks and intermediaries were able to conclude their sales. The impact of the Covid-19 crisis is expected to be relatively lower on the life insurance industry because demand for protection is expected to grow. While savings products add to the top line of insurance companies, protection products improve their bottom line. On a total premium basis, SBI Life matched last year’s performance by selling policies worth Rs 917 crore as against Rs 913 crore in the previous year. Bajaj Allianz Life grew its sales 43% to Rs 314 crore from Rs 218 crore from the year-ago period. Among large listed companies, HDFC Standard Life saw premium collections worth Rs 668 crore, 52% lower than the previous year. While ICICI Prudential Life, another listed company, saw its total premium collection drop 60% to Rs 260 crore. Analysts, however, compare the APE to even out the impact of sales of single-premium policies on the top line. Under single-premium policies, the premium for the term of the policy is booked up front instead of instalments. According to the Kotak report, HDFC Life reported a 28% decline in individual APE in April 2020, while ICICI Prudential Life reported a 55% decline. SBI Life, which has a high share of unit-linked insurance plans (ULIPs) and depends on the bancassurance channel, saw its individual APE((decline 73%. Tata AIA reported 37% growth in the individual business, most likely on the back of strong increase in protection products.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/life-insurers-book-67-of-last-yrs-premium-in-apr/articleshow/75684355.cms||Mayur Shetty
May 12, 2020||Ahmedabad||35 new cases in western Ahmedabad; 665 active cases now||AHMEDABAD: The western part of the city saw 35 new cases on Monday of the total 264 new Covid-19 cases and 19 deaths registered in the city. The western part of the city now has 665 active Covid-19 cases with 411 from Stadium, Naranpura, Ghatlodia, Paldi and Vasna areas, while 103 and 151 cases were each reported from the North-West and South-West zones which consists of areas like Bodakdev, Satellite, Thaltej, Jodhpur, Sarkhej and Makarba among others. Of the 19 deaths reported on Monday due to Covid-19, two were at SVP, 11 at Civil Hospital, four at Sola Civil hospital and two in private hospitals. One case each was reported from Ramratna Complex on CG Road and Anand Bungalows near Cambay Hotel and one from Antriksh Tower at Panjrapole in Ambawadi. A cluster of cases — one each reported from PNT Colony, Kesarnagar Society, Vanraj Society, Shlokh Society and Tirth Villa —while one case was reported from Jai Mahadevnagar in New Ranip area. In Vejalpur, one case each was reported from Shrinandnagar and Shivnagar societies respectively. Four cases were reported from Naranpura area from Samarpan Tower, Nildeep Tower, Darshan Apartment in Shastrinagar and Pragatinagar. Two cases were reported from Gulbai Tekra from municipal water supply staff quarters and Sukhamukhi no Vas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/35-new-cases-in-western-abad-665-active-cases-now/articleshow/75684697.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata hospitals running out of test kits as demand shoots up||KOLKATA: AMRI Hospitals ran out of test kits on Monday, seriously disrupting treatment at its Covid unit, which is the largest among private hospitals in Kolkata. While supply of GeneXpert kits, which are used in RT-PCR tests to confirm the presence of nCoV, has been slow, it is now coming to a complete halt across laboratories. Kits are imported from the USA and Sweden and a batch is expected to arrive on Tuesday. But it may not reach hospitals and private laboratories immediately. While AMRI is set to start rapid screening tests at its Dhakuria unit, RT-PCR kits, which include GeneXpert, remain a key component of the treatment procedure and is crucial in helping resume normal services in hospitals, said experts and hospital authorities. “We are in the process of resuming normal operations and planning to start elective surgeries. But we can’t do either without scaling up the number of tests. But we have exhausted our kits and tests have come to a halt. This has stopped the normalization effort,” said AMRI CEO Rupak Barua. AMRI Hospitals has written to the chief secretary asking for more kits. It had earlier received just 60, which have been exhausted in a week. Last week, the health department asked private hospitals to introduce test facilities while those with functioning laboratories were asked to scale up the number of tests. At least three hospitals — Fortis, RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences and Medica Superspecialty — are in the process of introducing test facilities. Fortis Hospital has tied up with a private laboratory for RT-PCR tests that will use CB-NAAT, a variant of the GeneExpert. It is still waiting for approval. “Testing is the key to preventing transmission and will help to resume normal services,” said Fortis pulmonologist Raja Dhar. A state health official admitted that while there was a shortage of GeneXpert kits, hospitals and laboratories could apply to the state Covid nodal officers and get them immediately. He, however, added that supply will remain slow since demand has shot up across the world. Meanwhile, AMRI is scaling up testing infrastructure at both Salt Lake and Dhakuria units. While capacity is being enhanced at the Salt Lake RT-PCR lab, which will soon be equipped to conduct 160 tests a day and 5,000 a month, it has procured Biofer kits that can also be used on the RT-PCR platform. The hospital has received permission to use them. “We hope to be able to use the Biofer kits from May 22 and do 40 tests a day. We are also expecting clearance to carry out rapid screening Truenat tests at Dhakuria, too,” Barua said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/hospitals-running-out-of-test-kits-as-demand-shoots-up/articleshow/75683855.cms||Prithvijit Mitra
May 12, 2020||Patna||Patna: Private offices reopen with 33% workforce||PATNA: Several private offices in the state capital reopened with 33% staff strength on Monday. Strictly adhering to the directive of the district administration, the office-goers underwent thermal screening, wore masks and used hand sanitizers regularly. All private offices, except those in containment zones, have been allowed to run only on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays with limited workforce amid the Covid-19 lockdown. Patna district magistrate (DM) Kumar Ravi told this newspaper on Monday, “Police will not stop any employee who carries an identification card.” There are altogether 14 containment zones in Patna district. 27-year-old Sonu Mishra, state service manager of a private firm in A G Colony, was happy to rejoin office after staying at home for nearly two months. He said, “We are following the 33% workforce protocol and taking all precautionary measures. Those, who come to office, get their body temperatures checked at the entrance and use hand sanitizers.” Tricenarian Abhishek, who works with a private pharmaceutical company in Chitragupta Nagar, was also elated because working from home had “made me quite lazy”. The Ashiana resident claimed, “Although there were fewer vehicles on the road and a large number of policemen, I did not face any problem. After reaching office, I was surprised to see that a lot of space had been created between all the desks and sanitisers made available for all of us. We were also given masks and gloves.” 31-year-old Shruti Gupta, the employee of a service centre on West Boring Canal Road, said, “I have to go to office only on Mondays and work for only six hours. On the other four days, I work from home.” Meanwhile, there are some private offices that are still gearing up to start functioning again. Shilpi Mishra, who works with a private development organization, said, “As we handle different clients, we need to be more cautious about the health of our staff. We are, therefore, taking more time to reopen the office.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/private-offices-reopen-with-33-workforce/articleshow/75681791.cms||Faryal Rumi
May 12, 2020||Patna||331 join online faculty devpt programme||PATNA: Altogether 331 teachers of different universities across the country joined the online faculty development programme (FDP) on ‘Late X’ and ‘X fig’ jointly organised by A N College, Patna and Remote Learning Through IIT Bombay – Spoken Tutorial. While Late X is used by academician in preparation of articles and research papers, X fig, a vector graphic editor, is used in schematic drawing and figures. Inaugurating the seven-day programme, A N College principal S P Shahi called upon the teachers to learn and share new technologies designed and dedicated for development of the country in all fields. “The ongoing lockdown in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic reminded us to adopt newer technologies and methods of remote teaching and now it is a big opportunity for university and college teachers passing their time at homes to update and upgrade themselves on preparation of articles for online teaching,” he said. Of the total participants, 131 are from Delhi, Himachal, Bengaluru and other places. Zahira Shaikh of Spoken Tutorial, IIT Bombay is the training coordinator of FDP. The resource person, Mansaf Alam, teacher of computer science, Jamia Millia Islamia University, New Delhi said while the prevailing pandemic has disarrayed higher education, such FDP would help lessening the lockdown impact on it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/331-join-online-faculty-devpt-programme/articleshow/75681940.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Patna||Bihar: 21,000 more migrants come back by 18 special trains||PATNA: Altogether 21,600 migrant workers, students and others stranded in various states owing to the nationwide lockdown reached Bihar by 18 Shramik Special trains from New Delhi and nine other states on Monday. The railways has so far run 102 Shramik specials to Bihar so far, ferrying around 1.2lakh stranded people since May 2. Danapur DR) Sunil Kumar said, “Three Shramik special trains, carrying about 3,500 migrant workers, students and others reached Danapur from Coimbatore in Tamil Nadu, Katpadi in Tamil Nadu and Rayanapadu in Andhra Pradesh on Monday.” He added, “The Danapur administration had deployed about 150 railway security personnel and healthcare staff at Danapur station premises to clear the rush of passengers smoothly from three special trains.” Kumar further informed that the railways took extra care to maintain social distancing norms when passengers got down from the trains and each one of them was asked to fill a self-declaration form to keep records of their journey. ECR chief public relations officer Rajesh Kumar said a special train from Rohtak in Haryana, carrying nearly 1,200 migrants and other stranded people reached Araria early on Monday morning, while special train from Rewari in Haryana reached Katihar with around 1170 migrant workers and other persons on Monday afternoon. Similarly, a special train from Bhatinda in Punjab reached Muzaffarpur with around 1,200 migrant workers, students and others around 11.30 am on Monday. Another special train from Bengaluru in Karnataka, carrying mostly migrant workers and students reached Darbhanga on Monday afternoon, while a special train from Amritsar reached Barauni with about 1,200 migrants around 12 pm. A Shramik special train from Ludhiana reached Bettiah station around 11.30 am on Monday with 1,170 migrant workers and other stranded people . A Shramik special from Amravati in Maharashtra carrying about 1,200 migrants and others reached Barauni on Monday afternoon, while special train from Napalapalle in Telangana reached Bhagalpur. Another special train from Ajmer in Rajasthan reached Purnea with about 1160 passengers. Two special trains from Barmer and Kota in Rajasthan, carrying about 2,300 people reached Motihari and Siwan, while special train from New Delhi reached Muzaffarpur in the afternoon. Three other special trains from Mumbai, Surat and Rajkot reached Khagaria, Gaya and Chhapra. Shramik special from Rajkot in Gujarat reached Chhapra, carrying 1,206 migrants. Like previous occasions, all passengers were screened, sanitized before they were allowed to board buses for quarantine camps located in their home districts or home blocks. (With inputs from H K Verma in Chhapra)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/21k-more-migrants-come-back-by-18-special-trains/articleshow/75682227.cms||Kumod Verma
May 12, 2020||Patna||Ensure return of all stranded people, says Bihar CM Nitish Kumar||PATNA: Chief minister (CM) Nitish Kumar on Monday asked chief secretary Deepak Kumar and other senior officials to make necessary arrangements in next 7 days to bring back all those stranded natives of Bihar who are willing to come back to the state. At a review meeting on Covid-19 and lockdown related issues with all departmental heads, district magistrates (DMs) and superintendents of police (SPs), the CM asked the officials to make necessary preparations for return of migrants in coordination with the railways and other states. The departmental heads, DMs and SPs participated in the review meeting through videoconferencing from their respective locations. The CM also asked the officials to make appropriate arrangements for sending back all those people who are stranded in Patna and other cities in the state. He said all families in rural areas would be provided soaps and four masks free of cost by the state government. The CM asked the health officials to scale up testing to detect Covid-19 cases. “Only random tests of people returning from other states will not work. Ensure maximum possible testing of people,” the CM said. He also stressed on expediting construction work so that daily wagers can get job opportunities. “There is a need to give special attention on making construction materials, like sand, stone chips, cement and bricks available,” he said. Mines and geology department’s principal secretary Harjot Kaur informed the CM that all stone mines in the state had been reopened on April 20. Similarly, the sand mining had also started on May 4, he said. The CM asked the district magistrates to increase the number of block and panchayat level quarantine centres in proportionate to people arriving from the other states. He said the DMs should ensure availability of soaps and sanitizers at quarantine centres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ensure-return-of-all-stranded-people/articleshow/75682275.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Patna||Car showrooms reopen after 47 days, run into permission hurdle||PATNA: Several automobile showrooms in the city reopened on Monday after 47 days of lockdown without taking consent from Patna DM Kumar Ravi. While the automobile dealers claimed that they followed the home department’s order issued on Sunday, the district administration said no permission was taken as required by the home department. The order issued by additional chief secretary (Home), Aamir Subhani, on Monday, stated that automobile showrooms and service centres will resume services only after getting permission from the district magistrate. According to the district administration, no permission was given to any automobile dealers or service centres in the city on Monday. “The district administration has not allowed any automobile dealer to resume services at their showroom or service centre. Those who opened the showrooms have clearly defied the orders,” DM Ravi said. SK Singh, general manager of an automobile showroom at Bhattacharya Mor, said, “Almost all standalone showrooms in the city have resumed services from Monday. As per rules, we have decided to keep the showroom opened on Monday, Wednesday and Friday with limited number of staff.” Sumit, a senior consultant at another automobile showroom on New Bypass, claimed the showroom reopened on Friday after district administration’s order issued for reopening of several non-essential services, including electrical and electronic appliances and resumption of private offices with 33% staff. Dealers claimed they are following all precautionary measures issued by the government and the health department. Dhananjay Kumar, human resource manager of an automobile showroom at Boring Road, said, “We are following all social distancing norms and precautionary measures. In fact, as per the guidelines, we have allowed only 33% of our staff to report to duty at the showroom.” He, however, added that the response of customers is lukewarm. “People are still in panic mode because of which they are hardly visiting. Even the calls regarding queries about cars have reduced to 15%. Only those, who had pre-booked orders that weren’t delivered to them due to the sudden announcement of lockdown, asked us to complete the delivery,” he said. Another dealer, who requested anonymity, said not more than two people visited his showroom on Monday. However, a few dealers claimed they received a satisfactory response from customers. Prashant Kumar, an executive at an automobile showroom in Boring Road, said, “Even though the number of car purchases reduced from 40-50 per day to eight on Monday, we are happy to at least do some business,” he said. Patna DM’s nod: The district administration issued an order on Monday evening, allowing automobile showrooms, except those in containment zones, to function on Monday, Wednesday and Friday till 6pm. Patna DM Kumar Ravi said all employees and customers at the showrooms must follow precautionary measures and social distancing norms. “They must wear face masks and gloves and should maintain social distancing. Besides, the employees should ensure that the premises are regularly disinfected,” he said. “Those who are found defying the orders will be charged under relevant sections of the Disaster Management Act, 2005,” he said. Relief for Saran auto dealers: In a bid to provide relaxation to the people during current lockdown, the Saran district administration has allowed automobile showrooms selling two-wheelers, four wheelers and tractors to remain open on Monday, Wednesday and Friday from 9am to 2pm. Saran DM Subrat Kumar Sen directed that automobile repair shops should function only on days allotted to them following social distancing and other norms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/car-showrooms-reopen-after-47-days-run-into-permission-hurdle/articleshow/75681720.cms||Archi Rani
May 12, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Airport prepares for flight operations||Bhubaneswar: The Biju Patnaik International Airport authorities have started preparations to resume operations, and will maintain social distancing and other safety norms while handling passengers at the arrival, departure and waiting lounges. The airport has stopped operations since the start of the national lockdown on March 24. Barring flights and helicopters operating from here as part of relief work, cargo transportation and emergency services like carrying officials of the state government to different districts, no other flight is operating. Airport director V V Rao said they are readying the airport in view of the possibility of resumption of domestic flights. “We are keeping all safety issues as far as tackling the spread of corona is concerned. But the government will take a call on restarting operations,” said the director. He said they have started demarcating space for passengers who will be standing in queue to enter through the departure lounge. “We have planned to ensure no-touch check at the entry. The personnel of Central Industrial Security Forces (CISF) have been asked not to touch the tickets while allowing passengers in. A sanitized table will be kept near the entrance where the passengers will keep the tickets for the CISF to view. The table will be sanitised at regular intervals,” said Rao. He further said instead of using metal detectors to frisk the passengers, body x-ray will be relied upon to ensure social distancing is strictly maintained. The airport has also planned to view the printed tickets of the passengers through the see-through (glass) barrier at the entrance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/airport-prepares-for-flight-operations/articleshow/75682762.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Patna||25-year-old man shot dead over land row||PATNA: Criminals shot dead a man, Deepak Kumar (25), and injured another at Dulhin Bazar in rural Patna on Monday. Police said the incident took place around 8.30am when Kumar was sitting in a motor garage. Apprehending trouble, Kumar entered the house of one Chitranjan Mishra. The assailants, who had covered their faces with clothes, pumped bullets into Chitranjan’s body when he tried to protect Kumar. They then pumped two bullets into Kumar’s body and escaped on their motorbikes. SHO of Dulhin Bazar police station said Kumar succumbed to his injuries on way to hospital. Mishra is undergoing treatment at Patna Medical College and Hospital where his condition is stated to be critical. The SHO said Kumar was probably killed over a land dispute. “Raids are on to arrest the assailants,” he added. In another incident, one Md Saddam Hussain, who had suffered serious injuries in murderous attack on him at Dhapi village under Jokihat police station in Araria district on Saturday, died at sadar hospital during treatment on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/25-year-old-man-shot-dead-over-land-row/articleshow/75682358.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat industries seek labour law exemption like in UP||Ahmedabad: After Uttar Pradesh (UP) government announced exemption from labour laws for industries, their counterparts in Gujarat too have made similar demands. A slew of industry associations and industry bodies have made representations before the state government seeking exemptions from labour laws and full salary payments during the lockdown period, citing major revenue shortfalls.It was only last week that the government of Gujarat had announced that a new ordinance will soon be passed, providing exemption from labour laws for 1,200 days to new establishments that invest in the state, promising employment. “One of the major impediments towards attracting manufacturing investment in the country has been the archaic labour laws making it difficult for companies to operate in an efficient manner. While the relaxation is currently provided to much-required new investment, a similar extension to existing investors will further the common objective of rationale and sustainable industrial growth,” mentions a representation by Assocham – Gujarat council. The UP government has announced exemption of labour laws for all industries for a period of three years with effect from May 7. Citing the situation of the existing industries, Samir Shah, president, Saurashtra Oil Mills Association, stated in a representation to the state government, “The industry is reeling from trouble during the Covid-19 lockdown and some units are under so much financial trouble that they may not be able to reopen post the lockdown. While the government has extended the exemption in labour laws to upcoming units in the state, some relief is also expected for existing units. Even the Union government is yet to announce a stimulus package for the industries.” Federation of Kutch Industries Association (FOKIA) has also sought that a level playing field be provided to the existing industries and thus, labour law exemptions similar to those provided to new or upcoming industries be extended to existing units as well. Industry associations have also asked for relief from making full salary payments to labourers for the month of April as well because it may not be sustainable for them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gujarat-industries-seek-labour-law-exemption-like-in-up/articleshow/75684636.cms||Niyati Parikh
May 12, 2020||Patna||Plasma therapy trial takes off at AIIMS-Patna||PATNA: The All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Patna, has begun clinical trials for convalescent plasma therapy from Monday to treat seriously ill Covid-19 patients. The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has already given its nod to the state government for the therapy. Dr PK Singh, director of AIIMS Patna told this newspaper that a team has been set up to carry out the plasma therapy on a trial basis. “We have received the approval from the ICMR to conduct it as a clinical trial. The team of doctors have to report the positive and negative effects of plasma therapy to ICMR,” Singh said. AIIMS-Patna is contacting patients, who have completely recovered from the Covid- 19, for the therapy. Singh said the technique is to use cured patients’ plasma (blood containing antibodies to fight the virus) and transfused in critical patients, who are on ventilation or whose immune system cannot fight the virus. He added, “We will initiate the therapy as soon as we get the donor. This has to be a voluntary donation from the patients who have recovered from the disease.” Dr Neha Singh, blood transfusion officer at the department of transfusion medicine and blood bank, AIIMS- Patna, said “Any Covid- 19 cured patient who wants to donate blood will have to come thrice to the institute.” She added, “Their samples of swab or nasal have to test negative twice and they have to wait for two weeks quarantine to be over only after which their blood will be collected for plasma convalescent donation. It is the guideline of the ICMR that we have to follow, so that we are 100% sure that the donating person is not affected with Covid-19.” Singh said there were very few patients at Nalanda Medical College and Hospital, Patna, who need plasma therapy. “The plasma can be collected and stored for a year after that we have to destroy it. So far, no one has contacted the institute for the donation,” she said. For plasma donation people can contact: 9993028936, 9599274710, 8102483253, 8505864856.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/plasma-therapy-trial-takes-off-at-aiims-patna/articleshow/75681882.cms||Faryal Rumi
May 12, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Six of political party held for instigating migrant workers||AHMEDABAD: Vatva police on Sunday arrested Arjun Mishra, a resident of Vatva who is also president of Jan Sangharsh Virat Party for allegedly instigating migrant workers against the government.  According to police sources, he and five other used to call or visit migrant workers from Uttar Pradesh and Bihar and tell them that the government will not do anything and he would help them get back to their native places. Mishra had fought the 2019 general elections and lost. ACP Rajpalsinh Rana said the other five with Mishra were Jeetendra Mishra, Manikesh Mishra, Devendra Pandey, Ganesh Vaghe and Aditya Chauhan. “He would get migrant workers together, most of them from the Vatva GIDC area and take down their details saying that he would make arrangements to send them back to UP and Bihar. They have been booked under Sections 188, 185 and 505 of the IPC for spreading rumours,” added Rana. According Inspector H V Sisara of Vatva police station, when a team was on patrol, they got a tip-off that some persons were about despite the lockdown and and contacting migrant workers. “Our team quickly reached the spot which near Bachubhai Kuva and saw some persons were talking to migrant workers from UP and Bihar. When asked them what are they doing on the road during the lockdown they could not give a satisfactory reply and they were then brought to the police station,” added Sisara. Sisara added that during interrogation it came to light that all of them were contacting migrant workers and asking them to register so that they could make arrangements for them to go back to their native places in UP and Bihar. Rana said that the accused were instigating the workers against the government instead of supporting the government. “We are questioning them about whether they have taken any money either from somebody else or from the migrant workers,” added Rana. Sisara said all the accused have been sent for Covid-19 testing according to protocol.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/6-held-for-instigating-migrant-workers/articleshow/75684663.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Patna||Bihar government readies plan to provide jobs to migrants||PATNA: A big proportion of the poor appears to be in a state of utter joblessness in the state due to the coronavirus-triggered lockdown that has resulted in total disruption of income-generating activities, observers feel. The scenario has been further compounded by the sustained return of migrant workers, as they would add to the state’s existing unemployed workforce. Till Sunday, over 1.20 lakh migrant workers had returned to the state from different parts of the country. With the private sector at a standstill, the responsibility of creating work opportunities for these workers lies with the government. Though the poor and the marginal households with ration cards have been getting foodgrain under the National Food Security Act (NFSA), 2013 and the PM Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana (PMGKAY), the quantity is inadequate. The only silver lining is that the state government has undertaken the mammoth task of creating work opportunities for migrant workers in different sectors like water resources, road construction, building construction, rural development, rural (road) works and minor irrigation. Besides, there are works under the government’s ambitious Jal Jeevan Hariyali (JJH) campaign and construction of lanes and laying of drinking water pipes in villages. “At present, 9 lakh job card holders are engaged in various MGNREGA schemes in the state. A job card holder can join any work on his or her demand,” rural development department (RDD) minister Shrawan Kumar said. Incidentally, of the around 2.6 crore households (or 13 crore projected population) in the state, 1.64 crore households had job card holders during 2019-20. Further, 99,000 new job card holders have been added till now during the 2020-21 financial year. Moreover, 15,000 job cards were issued to migrant workers lodged at the quarantine camps. They together add up to a total of slightly over 1.65 crore households which have job card holders. “The scenario on the work front will improve after the lifting of lockdown,” the minister said, adding work opportunities have also been created through self-help groups (SHGs) under the Jeevika (livelihood) programme. “The SHGs have made 24 lakh masks worth Rs 2.30 crore. Masks worth Rs 1.65 crore have already been sold to various departments, banks and other bodies,” he said. The government has been giving 5kg of rice to each ration card holder under the FSA and another 5kg of rice and 1kg of pulse under PMGKAY. The central consumer protection department headed by Union minister Ram Vilas Paswan has been providing foodgrain for distribution among 8.57 crore people (or 1.71 crore families) of the state by way of ration card holders through the chain of active public distribution system (PDS) shops. However, the state’s food and consumer protection department minister Madan Sahni has demanded that the foodgrain be also supplied for distribution among the left out 14 lakh ration card holders. The department has already identified another chunk of 25 lakh families which needed support through the PDS shops, and is in the process of issuing ration cards to these newly identified beneficiaries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/govt-readies-plan-to-provide-jobs-to-migrants/articleshow/75682186.cms||Abhay Singh
May 12, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat’s unemployment rate spikes in lockdown||GANDHINAGAR: Figures released by an independent research agency, the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy (CMIE), suggest that Gujarat’s unemployment rate has jumped three times over the past month because of the lockdown. According to CMIE, there is more bad news on the employment front as the unemployment rate is expected to rise even further because of the ongoing lockdown. The only solace for Gujarat is that its figure is better than the national unemployment rate and that of some peer group states. The CMIE, in its “Unemployment Rate in India” report, noted that Gujarat’s unemployment rate which was 6.7% in March, increased to a whopping 18.7% in April. In its all India report, CMIE has noted that the unemployment rate is expected to increase even further in May. The agency reported that the national unemployment rate was 8.7% in April which jumped to 23.5% in April. With the unemployment rate of 18.7%, Gujarat’s number fares slightly better than the national average. Maharashtra’s unemployment rate, which was 5.8% in March, jumped to 20.9% in April. Karnataka’s unemployment rate, which was 3.5% in March jumped to 29.8% in April. “Data for the first week of May indicates that the unemployment rate could climb further. This worsening should be expected as the lockdown continues to get prolonged,” the agency noted. “Initially, a lockdown only hurts the most vulnerable labour, that is informally employed in unorganized sectors. Gradually, it starts hitting the more secure jobs. Startups have announced lay-offs and industry associations have warned of job losses.” The report further states, “It is not surprising that small traders and wage labourers account for most of these losses. They have been the most severely hit during the lockdown.” The category of hawkers and daily wage-earning labourers whose livelihood depends every day on a functioning economy also are worst affected, the report says. “They eke out a living out from their daily earnings and are therefore the most vulnerable to the economy shutting down,” it says. “A prolonged shutdown is their worst nightmare. 91 million of these lost their employment in April 2020.” Despite several attempts, deputy chief minister Nitin Patel and Dilip Thakor, minister labour & employment, were not available for comment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gujs-unemployment-rate-spikes-in-lockdown/articleshow/75684592.cms||Kapil Dave
May 12, 2020||Patna||Bihar: ‘Random tests of migrants led to spike in Covid-19 cases’||PATNA: The number of Covid-19 cases in the state started increasing from May 8, the day when the state health department began testing migrant workers randomly at the quarantine centres. As per the information shared by health department principal secretary Sanjay Kumar, the state recorded 11 Covid-19 positive cases on May 4, seven each on May 5 and 6 and eight on May 7. However, on May 8, the number went up to 29, followed by 32 on May 9 and a staggering 85 on May 10. The state health department has expedited the process of collecting random samples of migrants with an emphasis on those coming from red zones in other states and the elderly. State nodal officer for Covid-19 Dr Ragini Mishra told TOI on Monday that over 95% of those tested positive in the past three days were migrant workers. “Of the 85 people who were tested positive for Covid-19 on Sunday, all were migrants except the Alamganj resident, who is a cancer patient with no travel history,” Dr Mishra added. Asked about health department’s strategy to prevent community transmission, she said all migrants were being kept at quarantine centres and not allowed to mix with locals. She said the health facilities have been divided into three categories in the state – Covid care centre (CCH), dedicated Covid health centre (DCHC) and dedicated Covid hospital (DCH). Hotels and guesthouses being used to house suspects fall under CCH category and primary health centres and district hospitals under DCHC category. Three medical college and hospitals – Nalanda Medical College and Hospital (Patna), Jawahar Lal Nehru Medical College and Hospital (Bhagalpur) and Anugraha Narayan Medical College and Hospital (Gaya) are dedicated hospitals for Covid-19 where positive people and critical patients are treated. Dr Mishra added majority of Covid-19 positive people in Bihar are asymptomatic and they do not require critical care. “There are 2,344 beds in three DHCs and till Sunday only 59 patients were admitted there. CCHs and DCHCs can together accommodate 7,381 people and at present 547 people are housed there,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/random-tests-of-migrants-led-to-spike-in-covid-cases/articleshow/75681815.cms||Sheezan Nezami
May 12, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Returnees happy with new beginnings, small earnings||PATNA: Some of the migrant workers, who returned dejected from outside state, have reasons to smile now. They have started small businesses and are satisfied with their small income. Dasarath Sahni (42) of Fanga village has started selling ‘phochka’ (golgappa) in western parts of Muzaffarpur ever since he returned home from Fagwara in Punjab recently. He has set up a stall near Marwan Chowk on Muzaffarpur-Reva road to cater to the demand of customers. Sahni, however, admitted that the number of customers visiting the stall was limited due to the lockdown. “But the customers visit the stall once the police disappear from the area in the evening,” he said. Sahni’s childhood friend and neighbour Rupesh Rai (41) has also opened a roadside stall selling ‘litti-chokha’ near Lalu Chowk on Sariaya-Sahebganj road in the district. Similarly, Sunil Choudhary is selling fruits at Tajpur bazar in Samastipur since he returned from Ludhiana in Punjab where he worked in a farmhouse on a monthly remuneration of Rs12,000. Choudhary (28) of Kubauli village is happy with his daily income between Rs300-400. “I was perplexed for a while as I was jobless. Then I decided to purchase a cart for Rs3500 and started selling fruits in the local market. Initially I was a bit hesitant, but now I am happy with my earnings,” Choudhary, an undergraduate from a local college, told this newspaper. The story of Rajan Kumar (26) is more interesting. A resident of Runnisaidpur in Sitamarhi district, Rajan opened a stationery shop at Dumra recently. “I will invest more in the shop once the situation becomes normal. In addition, I have plans to purchase a photocopier machine to add to my daily income,” Rajan, who returned from Mumbai, said. Ganga Ram, another migrant worker, has set up a motor garage at Birpur market in Supaul district. Ram (36), a resident of Birpur Gandak Colony, is hopeful of saving more in the days to come than what he earlier earned at Ahmedabad in Gujarat where he worked in a cotton mill. Ram used to spend half of his salary on his food and accommodation at Ahmedabad. “I used to save not more than Rs6,000. It’s a fact that the income is not enough from the garage to run a family of five. But my wife is happy and I have no grievances at all,” he said. According to the state disaster management department sources, around 1 lakh migrant workers returned to the state from different parts of the country in 83 trains till Sunday and more were expected in the days to come. State rural development minister Shrawan Kumar said, “The state government is sensitive towards the problems of migrant workers returning home.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/returnees-happy-with-new-beginnings-small-earnings/articleshow/75682207.cms||Ramashankar
May 12, 2020||Patna||Rajendra Nagar-New Delhi AC special train to operate from today||PATNA: As part of its decision to partially resume passenger train services for the first time after the imposition of the Covid-19 lockdown, the railways will run a pair of special AC train (02309/02310) between Rajendra Nagar Terminal and New Delhi on Tuesday. With a load combination of 24 AC coaches, the train will leave Rajendra Nagar Terminal at 7pm and reach New Delhi at 7.40am the next morning. It will again leave Delhi at 5.15pm on Wednesday and reach the Patna Junction at 5.30am the following morning. Danapur divisional railway manager (DRM) Sunil Kumar told this newspaper that ticket booking facility for the special train was available on the website of the Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation. “As a precautionary measure, the railways has not yet opened its passenger reservation system counters and decided to allow only confirmed ticket holders to enter the premises of different stations. Besides, they have to reach the station at least two hours before the departure of the train so that they can undergo thermal screening before boarding the train,” Kumar said. City-based physician Dr Diwakar Tejaswi has, however, asked people not to travel by AC coaches. “Those, who cannot avoid doing so, should take utmost care and wear a face mask throughout the journey,” he suggested. Trade and commerce bodies, on the other hand, have hailed the government’s decision. Bihar Chamber of Commerce president P K Agarwal said, “The government is doing its bit for improving the country’s economy. People should also try their best to follow social distancing norms and take all precautionary measures while travelling.” People, who hail from Patna but work in other states, have also welcomed the decision, but are concerned about reaching their destinations after getting off the train. Mithapur resident Piyush Sinha, a banker in Kolkata, rued, “I have booked a ticket to Howrah which falls under the ‘red zone’. Since the movement of taxis is prohibited there, I wonder how I will reach the bank.” Kankarbagh resident Ranjan Sinha, a teacher in Arunachal Pradesh, is desperate to return to Patna. “Although the initial list of cities where train services have been resumed does not include Arunachal Pradesh, I am hopeful that I will go back home soon,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/rajendra-nagar-new-delhi-ac-special-train-to-operate-from-today/articleshow/75681767.cms||Kumod Verma
May 12, 2020||Lucknow||Over four lakh migrants arrive in Uttar Pradesh in 5 days||LUCKNOW: More than four lakh persons have arrived in UP through bus, train or other means in the past five days. Out of them, 1 lakh arrived on Monday itself. Reiterating that these people are escorted to their homes “with respect”, CM Yogi Adityantah has said any person who reaches home without informing the proper channels is to be reported immediately to the administration. The government will strengthen its ‘nigrani’ or watch committees, which will report arrival of people through unauthorised channels and ensure that those returning from other states are following home quarantine rules. Members of Nehru Yuva Kendra, Yuvak Mangal Dal, chowkidars, ASHA workers among others are being roped in to join these committees. “We are expecting several lakhs people to enter the state in the coming days and if home quarantine rules are not adhered to, we could see a rise in cases since we are already detecting positive cases among those who are returning. Community surveillance is, therefore, our strongest tool at present,” said an official. The CM has also said that arrangements should be made to send back about 2,000 people from Nepal who are stuck in the state due to the lockdown. For those who wish to stay back, arrangements for their stay should be made where they are. Till Monday morning, 2,20,640 persons had arrived by 184 trains from various states into UP. On Monday, an additional 71 trains expected to arrive by night, carrying another 70,000 people. “There are 42 stations which are functional in UP at present. We are running buses within the state now to transport people to various districts. A train will also run from Jhansi and take people towards Gorakhpur, Prayagraj and other east UP areas,” he said. The CM has also directed officials to ensure that 1 lakh beds are dedicated for Covid-19 patients in the state by May-end. Additional chief secretary, home, Awasthi said that beds in all three categories of hospitals, L-1, L-2 and L-3 have been increased to 52,000, as demanded by the CM and this has to be increased to at least 75,000 by May 20 and a lakh by the end of the month. Awasthi said that details of the returning migrant workers were being taken down, including their skill sets, so that jobs could be identified for them. The CM has said that employment for at least 20 lakh people should be generated to accommodate those who are returning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/over-four-lakh-migrants-arrive-in-state-in-5-days/articleshow/75685249.cms||Neha Lalchandani
May 12, 2020||Ahmedabad||Caste commandos enforce lockdown at infamous Una village||AHMEDABAD: Mota Samadhiyala, the village in Una taluka of Gir-Somnath district, which got infamous in July 2016 due to the flogging of four Dalit men by gau rakashaks (cow protectors), has now come up with a caste formula to combat Covid-19, by deploying ‘caste commandos’ to enforce the lockdown. Mota Samadhiyala has appointed representatives from each caste to monitor unnecessary movement within their ‘vaas’ (the ghetto of a particular caste in villages). Dhanji Korat, sarpanch of Mota Samadhiyala, said that as Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced the lockdown for the first time from March 24, these caste enforcers were deployed to restrict the movement of people. “We selected people from all castes in the village and gave them the responsibility of taking care of their vaas. If they find any unknown person in the village or unnecessary movement, they will inform me and I will inform the cops,” said Korat. Vashram Sarvaiya, who was flogged by gau rakshaks along with three of his siblings in 2016, has been nominated to monitor activities in his vaas. “When we were going to implement the idea, we were not sure on how this would work. But it has given good results and our village seems to be safe and has maintained untouchability with corona,” said Sarvaiya. Mukesh Chovatia, who belongs to the Patidar caste, said that benefit of this caste-based organization is that people listen to members of their own caste and do not get into unnecessary quarrels with people of other castes. “A person from a particular caste will know people and their relatives from his caste. If he finds any guest in the village, he will instruct people of his caste not to host them and as he has authority over members of his caste and there will also be effective communication,” said Chovatia. Bharat Vanjhar, who belongs to the affluent Ahir OBC community, said that the system has brought harmony in the village even though it puts the existing caste divisions on the surface. “Everything in this society is managed though caste system now and this is the situation in Mota Samadhiyala to. So rather than using the caste system in negative way, we have been using it in a constructive way to prevent corona,” said Vanjhar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/caste-commandos-enforce-lockdown-at-infamous-una-village/articleshow/75684671.cms||Ashish Chauhan
May 12, 2020||Kolkata||All covered up, but PPE gear becomes a load too heavy to bear for surgeons||Kolkata: During this pandemic, doctors in the OT have been re-learning the art of surgery. While the overall execution of certain things, like making an incision or suturing, is the same, the PPE surgeons now have to wear has made the procedures tougher. This is among the other challenges, including visual fogging, sweating and carbon-dioxide retention, that these doctors have to overcome while conducting surgeries at present. In addition to the three layers of apparel doctors usually wear in the OT, there is now the PPE to keep them safe from infection if the patient happens to be an asymptomatic carrier or Covid-positive. Apart from these, there is an N 95 mask, protective goggles. a surgical mask and a face shield or visor. “The vision becomes tunnelled due to the protective goggles and the Co2 retention and the humidity make it extremely suffocating. It is a kind of re-learning of the art of surgery,” said paediatric surgeon Partha Pratim Gupta. A few days ago, the head of paediatric surgery at Institute of Child Health (ICH) had operated on a newborn at Repose Nursing Home. Gupta could not even have the AC on since it is common practice to switch it off to prevent hypothermia in the infants. “Under normal conditions, without the PPE, the surgery would have taken just about 40 minutes. But due to the challenges of negotiating through the PPE, it took me almost 2 hours,” the surgeon said. Though doctors often take small breaks during long surgeries, they cannot afford to do it now, as that will require them to change the PPE if they step out of the OT. “Operating while wearing PPE, multi-layered gear and visors drains you. It is suffocating and claustrophobic and is like working in a mine in summer,” said Suddhasattwa Sen, who heads the department of GI HPB and oncosurgery at AMRI Dhakuria. The GI surgeon has conducted a some surgeries over the past few days, including two complicated procedures that lasted a few hours each. “The surgeries were successful and trying to save even one life during this pandemic is worth the pain,” he said. Dehydration and eye pain are some of the other problems surgeons face after each surgery now. “In addition to the sweating and the suffocation, the refractory power of the eye is disturbed. If one looks down straight, it is still fine. But if one has to look deep down a small hole, additional effort has to be made, putting a lot of stress on the eyes,” said Debasish Roy, consultant general surgeon at Apollo Gleneagles Hospitals, who now has to wear his glasses under protective googles. Inside the OT, the doctors are now pushing the temperature down to 18°C from the normal 22°C to beat the heat. Donning and doffing of the PPF also takes up a lot of time as these need extreme caution to prevent contamination from surfaces. Correct disposal of the PPE is also extremely important. “But this is how conducting a surgery will be like for many more months,” said Roy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/all-covered-up-but-ppe-gear-becomes-a-load-too-heavy-to-bear-for-surgeons/articleshow/75683836.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
May 12, 2020||Varanasi||Storm disrupts power supply, damages crops||Varanasi: The thunder storm followed by rains on Sunday night claimed a life in Bhadohi district and also caused a large-scale damage in other districts of eastern UP region. Many trees were uprooted and power supply was disrupted due to line damage at many places. A middle-age man identified as one Prem Shankar Chaubey was killed when a tree fell on him at Chandapur village in Koirauna area of Bhadohi district. Cowsheds and poultry shed were blown away by strong winds in Khaidopur village. The storm caused severe damage to the mango crop in the district. Many houses were also damaged in many areas. In Varanasi too several trees were uprooted and power transformers were damaged due to the thunderstorm. The pleasant weather took a fierce form at night causing damage to crops. Earlier, two kids were killed due to lightening during thunderstorm in Ballia district in day hours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/storm-disrupts-power-supply-damages-crops/articleshow/75682244.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Business||Lenders want bad bank to take NPAs||Mayur Shetty | TNN Mumbai: Lenders led by SBI are pushing for a ‘bad bank’ in the form of an asset reconstruction company (ARC), preferably sponsored by the government, which can take over loans that have been largely provided for by them. These include the historical bad debts that were expected to be resolved under the insolvency process and do not reflect their value in the books of banks, but consume significant management bandwidth. A senior banker told TOI that the concept of a bad bank is being actively pursued by lenders. “The government should come in with some contribution as this will help to free the bank of bad loans. This will not require more than Rs 15,000-20,000 crore to take over bad loans,” the banker said. The bad bank will also rope in private lenders that have a large share of bad loans in some accounts. The concept of a bad bank was floated by the committee headed by former Punjab National Bank chairman Sunil Mehta, which came out with project Sashakt. One of the five proposals to manage bad loans was transfer of NPAs above Rs 500 crore to an independent asset management company (AMC) supported by institutional funding through alternate investment funds (AIFs). At that time, the idea was to drive a private sector initiative along with public sector lenders with lower equity holdings and rope in global investors. In fact, talks had been initiated with IFC, the World Bank arm, which was keen to come on board. Although the government did not back the proposal two years ago, some suggestions such as an inter-creditor agreement were accepted. Banks have made 80-100% provisions on large accounts. For instance, in Bhushan Power and Steel, lenders have claims of Rs 40,000 crore but have fully provided for the loan from past profits. They can now sell such loans without having to make any additional provision even if they are sold at a steep discount. The bad bank (ARC) need not fully pay the discounted price and instead issue the lenders security receipts, which will entitle them to a share of the recovery. Bankers say that the main purpose of a bad bank is to cleanse their books of non-performing assets (NPAs) so that they are in a position to focus on the restructuring of loans for businesses that are hit by Covid-19. At present, almost every day, the senior managements of PSU banks spend time in discussing NPAs that are under the insolvency process. While the role of the management is played by the insolvency professional, bankers end up taking on the role of the board in the form of a committee of creditors. This role will pass on to the bad bank, which will be the sole owner of the NPAs. “Today, concluding a deal may take up to a year as there are 10 banks that have to go to their boards with a loan proposal. Here, only one entity has the freedom to decide and a decision can be much quicker,” said the banker. The twin entity structure — an ARC first, which acquires the bad loans — will enable to bring in private expertise. Below the ARC, there can be AMCs, which are special purpose vehicles that will manage the bad loans. “Going forward, public sector banks will have to do the heavy lifting as private lenders have tightened their risk parameters and are cutting down their loans.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/lenders-want-bad-bank-to-take-npas/articleshow/75684308.cms||Mayur Shetty
May 12, 2020||Kolkata||First group exits Bangur after new release norm||Kolkata: A group of over 20 people became the state’s first set of Covid survivors to be released without the negative confirmatory RT-PCR test, which was mandatory earlier. Following ICMR’s latest guidelines, the state’s largest Covid-19 hospital, MR Bangur, released 28 survivors. “Among the patients released on Monday, some had undergone the back-to-back RT-PCR test and the results had come negative. But the majority were allowed to leave without the exit test following the latest ICMR guidelines that prescribed release of patients on the basis of symptomatic improvements,” said Sisir Naskar, the superintendent of MR Bangur Hospital. According to the revised discharge policy issued by the Bengal government on Saturday, and reiterated by the Union health ministry on Sunday, only those with severe Covid-19 symptoms or having compromised immunity will need to undergo RT-PCR tests, that too, only one. Earlier, the results had to be negative for two consecutive tests before release from hospitals. Doctors said, the 24 patients discharged on Monday didn’t have fever, throat pain or any other suggestive symptoms of Covid-19 for three or more days. However, they have been advised to stay in home isolation for the next week. “It has been over 10 days since the onset of symptoms for all the patients. Now they are absolutely fit. The health department will, however, monitor them for the next few days,” said a doctor.  “We are following the ICMR guidelines. The move will help in resource optimisation, especially in terms of RT-PCR kits,” said a doctor. This revised discharge policy, health experts said, is in sync with the model being followed across the globe. Meanwhile, a representative body of medical practitioners in government service of Bengal — Association of Health Service Doctors (AHSD) — has written to Union heath minister Harsh Vardhan to reconsider the revised discharge policy, arguing that this should not be made applicable to states where the geographical spread of the disease has not been established. “Asymptomatics may potentially transmit the virus,” the letter, dated May 10, read.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/first-group-exits-bangur-after-new-release-norm/articleshow/75683878.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
May 12, 2020||Business||Consumers up spends as areas reopen for biz||Namrata Singh & Rupali Mukherjee | TNN Mumbai: Signs of a revival in consumer demand are emerging after weeks of a declining trend, as the country gradually opens up for business in the green zones. There is a slow improvement in overall spending across categories — be it for staples, household hygiene, food ordering-in, toys and even beauty — led by consumers in green and orange zones, finds a survey by Bain & Company and Price. The survey, which was exclusively shared with TOI, said online channels are starting to become more significant, in particular for essentials, as households increase their proportion of e-shopping. As online access is more broadly opened, it said one could expect to see a similar phenomenon for currently restricted categories. Bain & Company partner Nikhil Prasad Ojha said, “Our weekly consumer survey showed significant deterioration in sentiment all through April. Curtailment of spends, which started with lower-mid and low-income households, had become a pan-income-class phenomenon. This wasn’t only because of lack of access. Increasingly, income loss and uncertainty about future income were the main drivers of reduced compression. After that, in May week one, green and orange zones showed positive movement, possibly reflecting some pent-up demand. Red zones continue to contract spending and remain more pessimistic about return to financial normalcy. Amid all this, online channels grew in significance, particularly for essentials, and we can expect similar uptick for categories currently restricted.” Concurring with the view about an uptick in demand, ITC divisional chief executive (foods division) Hemant Malik said, “We have been witnessing a surge in demand for essential food items, including Aashirvaad atta, spices, salt, Sunfeast biscuits and Yippee! noodles across the country at a time when people are confined to homes. This trend is expected to continue for some time as people look to buy essential food products in bulk.” Malik said the demand for discretionary as well as on-the-go food offerings, including confectionery and chocolates, is impacted currently and will start picking up once the lockdown restrictions ease. But it will be lower than previous years. However, the revival of demand for such products will also be a function of shops reopening and availability. GSK Consumer Healthcare (GSKCH) area marketing lead-OTC, Naveed Ahmed, said after the initial impact on demand due to restrictions on people movement, and last-mile connectivity issues, “We have been seeing consistent demand for our products across the portfolio.” On the consumer front, GSKCH continues to stay relevant with the right messaging across brands. “On the retail front, we are making sure that our products are readily available to our consumers across channels where they shop,” said Ahmed. The ongoing weekly survey, which reached out to 2,500 households across rural and urban markets nationwide, said e-channels continue to be significant across categories, with interestingly 8% respondents being first-time buyers, of mostly staples. Online buying of essentials like household hygiene, semi-essentials like packaged food and even non-essentials like beauty saw an uptick in demand during this week. Up to 14% respondents have expanded online buying to new categories after the lockdown the started, with online penetration growing 1.5-2x across most categories. On the other hand, as the lockdown extended, outlook for large spends, including vehicles and durables, is starting to look increasingly less favourable over the next 12 months. Most households are likely to defer big-ticket buys like durables and property if existing conditions continue. “We foresee short-term uptick as the markets reopen. However, low and low-mid income households, especially self-employed ones, will rebuild savings that have been depleted in the last 45 days. Therefore, consumption demand revival will be gradual,” said Ojha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/consumers-up-spends-as-areas-reopen-for-biz/articleshow/75684350.cms||Namrata Singh
May 12, 2020||Ahmedabad||HC verdict likely today on challenge to Chudasama’s poll win||Ahmedabad: The Gujarat high court is likely to deliver its verdict on Tuesday on the petition challenging the thin-margin victory of the state education and law minister Bhupendrasinh Chudasama in the 2017 state assembly elections from Dholka constituency.Chudasama’s 327-vote victory over Congress candidate Ashwin Rathod was challenged by the latter alleging misconduct and violation of the poll code on part of Chudasama, particularly in counting of votes. Rathod had demanded re-verification of 429 postal ballots, which were rejected by the returning officer Dhaval Jani. Rathod submitted before the HC that the rejection on non-counting of postal ballots would have changed the result because the victory margin was only 327 votes. The court proceedings before Justice Paresh Upadhyay were marked by the court’s anguish expressed at Chudasama’s affidavit filed before the Supreme Court, in which Chudasama had termed the high court’s approach as partisan. Justice Upadhyay had given a dressing down to Chudasama’s lawyers saying that when the law minister himself made such a remark, the question would arise on court’s dignity and impartiality. Later in September 2019, Chudasama entered the witness box and apologized to the judge for his mistake. Chudasama insisted on entering the witness box, though he had not first offered himself to be examined while giving the list of his witnesses.Another highlight of the proceedings was the deposition of the returning officer, Jani, who admitted to mistakes on several counts. The high court took notice of the violation of the election guidelines by the Election Commission of India and recorded the officer’s admission. The CCTV footage showed Jani talking on his cellphone in counting room, where use of cellphone is prohibited. The high court was so furious over Jani’s conduct during the counting of votes that the state government had to withdraw a promotion granted to Jani last year. The court had made Jani and the election observer, a Rajasthan-cadre IAS officer Vinita Bohra, party respondents in the litigation.As many as 23 results of the 2017 assembly polls were challenged before the high court. In one such case, Dwarka’s six-time MLA Pabubha Manek’s victory was annulled by the high court because of a mistake committed in filing nomination.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/hc-verdict-likely-today-on-challenge-to-chudasamas-poll-win/articleshow/75684658.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Ahmedabad||PM’s video conference: Gujarat has neutral stand on Lockdown 4.0||Gandhinagar: The Gujarat government has maintained its stance of not articulating any opinion on extending or lifting the lockdown. However, at the PM’s video conference held with all state governments, Gujarat has categorically suggested that more economic activities ought to be allowed.Key government sources said that since deciding on lockdown 4.0 is a national issue, the state government basically provided an action taken report (ATR). The state government however, has suggested that more economic activities than those allowed in lockdown 3.0 should be opened up. The state government also apprised the Union government of measures taken to resolve the industrial labour crisis through labour law reforms.”Sources added that most chief ministers were of the opinion that the scope of economic activities should be increased, so it is expected that the government may further ease restrictions when lockdown 3.0 ends on May 17. “While restrictions are expected to stay in force in red zones, there could be further easing of restraints in orange and green zones,” sources added.Chief minister Vijay Rupani, deputy chief minister Nitin Patel, chief secretary Anil Mukim, CM’s chief principal secretary K Kailashnathan and few other key officials attended the video conference of states with the Union government, headed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/pms-video-conference-gujarat-has-neutral-stand-on-lockdown-4-0/articleshow/75684624.cms||Kapil Dave
May 12, 2020||Ahmedabad||Over 18,000 works begin under SSJA||Gandhinagar: Over 18,000 works have begun under the third phase of the Sujalam Sufalam Jal Abhiyan in 3,463 villages of the state, the government said on Monday.Providing details of the developmental works, Ashwani Kumar, secretary to the CM, said, “As many as 3,463 gram panchayats have started 18,824 works under MNREGA, thereby providing employment to 3,04,756 labourers and workers. This includes 37,519 workers from Bhavnagar, 33,800 from Narmada, 20,821 from Chhota Udepur, 20,168 from Dahod and 20,041 from Panchmahal, in addition to workers from the 3,463 villages. The administration is ensuring welfare of workers in addition to following safety protocols amidst the lockdown.” A total of 3,665 works have been completed against the target of 14,694 works in the third phase of SSJA. Around 35,465 machines, which includes 816 JCBs, and other equipment have been used so far. Water-holding capacity of more than 35.55 lakh cubic feet has been created so far. The dug-out soil has been provided to farmers free of cost.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/over-18000-works-begin-under-ssja/articleshow/75684651.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Odisha: Parents seek school fee waiver, stage protest||BHUBANESWAR: The Odisha Abhibhabak Mahasangha (OAM), the state-level parents’ association, on Monday reiterated its demand to waive school fees by private schools in the wake of coronavirus outbreak and consequent lockdown. Earlier the chief minister had requested all private schools not to collect fees for three months (March to May) due to financial constraints caused to parents due to lockdown. The parents, however, alleged that private schools in the state continue to collect fees. Opposing this, several members of the OAM observed a five-hour standing protest in front of Jayadev Bhawan here on Monday maintaining social distance. “The schools are using pressure tactics to collect fees from parents. Despite chief minister’s request they have been continuing collecting hiked fees, causing mental pressure and financial burden to parents, who are incurring huge financial losses due to lockdown and closed businesses and salary cuts,” said Basudev Bhatt, convener of the OAM. He alleged that schools have been collecting monthly fees, re-admission fees, transport charges even though schools are closed, instructor fees, computer fees, day-boarding fees and development fees from the parents during lockdown. The parents also alleged that the schools continued to sell books during lockdown and forced parents to come and collect books from school counters without maintaining social distancing. Even though the government had instructed schools to follow and sell NCERT books, several schools did not follow it. The schools did not follow the order of Odisha Human Rights Commission as well to upload books in school websites according to NCERT curriculum, said Bhatt. The parents association said they are urging the state government to intervene and ask the private schools not to increase or collect fees from parents and take action against schools. “The state government’s sympathy for private schools has cost hundreds of parents dear. If the state government does not take any strong action in this regard then the parents will intensify their protest in coming days,” said Prasanna Bisoyi, co-convener of the association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/parents-seek-school-fee-waiver-stage-protest/articleshow/75682776.cms||Minati Singha
May 12, 2020||Surat||Workers popping pills to go home||Surat: Many Odiya migrants are allegedly popping up paracetamol tablets to dodge thermal screening being conducted by health department of Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) at the railway station. They are doing this because of fear of being kept in isolation centres here and desperation to go home in special trains. Since May 2 when movement of migrant workers started from Surat, about 125 Odiya migrants from Surat who travelled in shramik special trains to Jagganathpur and Bhrahmapur in Odisha have tested positive for Covid-19 during sample testing drive by Odisha’s health department.Coronavirus cases have surged in the last one week in Odisha after movement of migrant workers started from Surat and other districts of Gujarat. Though some were asymptomatic, many had fever and cough.Health officials said Odiya workers are aware that paracetamol tablets will protect them from being caught during thermal screening. If they are suffering from mild fever or cold, taking paracetamol and other cold suppressant tablets can help them to easily bypass screening at the railway station.“Migrants are taking paracetamol tablets to lower their body temperature to bypass thermal screening,” said a health officer of SMC. Dr Ashish Naik, deputy municipal commissioner (health and hospital), told TOI, “We can’t rule out the fact that migrants may be taking paracetamol tablets to bypass thermal screening. Till now, thousands of Odiya migrants have travelled in special trains and only 125 have tested positive for Covid-19. It is not possible to test all the migrants coming from Surat.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/workers-popping-pills-to-go-home/articleshow/75682770.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Delhi||Ticket to ride: An all-new rail experience||NEW DELHI: While passenger trains resuming journeys from New Delhi Railway Station from Tuesday heralds a tentative return to normal operations, the directive to passengers to arrive early, enter only from the Paharganj side of the station and wear face masks underline the different circumstances in which rail services are being restored. The station premises were thoroughly disinfected on Monday.  Only a valid ticket will allow entry to the station, where each passenger will undergo thermal screening and only those asymptomatic for Covid-19 will be permitted to board a train. “Passengers are encouraged to carry their own food and drinking water. Dry, ready-to-eat food and bottled water will be provided on demand in the trains on payment basis,” an official revealed. “Other arrangements in the train include hands-free water and soap dispensers to reduce the risk of transmitting the novel coronavirus. Each passenger will have to maintain social distancing on the platform and on the trains.” The official said the boarding will be carried out in an orderly manner with a single passenger being allowed to enter the compartment at a time. “Passengers have been asked to reach the station at least 90 minutes before the departure of the train. Those who come late may face problems because all individuals have to undergo testing,” the official said. The passengers will have to use the entrance to New Delhi Railway Station on Chelmsford Road, more popularly called the Paharganj side. “We will use the Ajmeri Gate entry exclusively for Shramik special trains. Passenger arriving at the Ajmeri Gate side cannot board the passenger trains,” the official said. Railway officials said the trains were being scheduled so as not to cause gatherings on the platform. However, Railway Protection Force personnel will be deployed for crowd management and to ensure social distancing. For the moment, 15 pairs of trains (30 return journeys) will meet the special passenger demands and will consist entirely of the air-conditioned First, Second and Sleeper AC classes. These trains will connect New Delhi Railway Station with locations like Dibrugarh, Agartala, Howrah, Patna, Bilaspur, Ranchi, Bhubaneswar, Secunderabad, Bengaluru, Chennai, Thiruvananthapuram, Madgaon, Mumbai, Ahmedabad and Jammu Tawi. Railway officials said the on-route stoppages have been kept to a minimum. Like the Rajdhani services, with their fewer stoppages and, therefore, faster journeys, these special trains too will have premium fares, excluding the Rajdhani’s regular catering charges. They will have an advance reservation period of seven days, which means one can only book a ticket seven days in advance of a journey, unlike 60-120 days in normal times. No RAC/waiting list or Tatkal tickets will be issued. Northern Railway will also ensure that after a train arrives or departs from the railway station, the entire premises will be sanitised, and a special team has been created only for this work. “Each time the passengers disembark or enter a train, the benches, chairs, flooring and handles will all be disinfected to meet the required sanitary standards. This should greatly reduce the risk of virus transmission,” explained an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/ticket-to-ride-an-all-new-rail-experience/articleshow/75684710.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
May 12, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: People positive of a fresh start post-lockdown, shows GU-NGO survey||AHMEDABAD: The lockdown measures that are in place to deal with Covid-19 pandemic seems to have left some positive impact on the people of Gujarat, which is one of the worst-hit states in terms of the number of Covid-19 cases registered in the country. This is reflected in a recent survey carried out jointly by Gujarat University’s department of psychology and Mehrizm Foundation, a non-profit organization. While a majority of the participants said that they haven’t lost their appetite or sleep due to the lockdown situation, about 40.87% participants ‘agree’ and 39.75% ‘strongly agree’ that they feel happy to spend time with their family. The survey saw participation from 712 persons. As many as 22 questions were asked to the participants. The study was conducted in Gujarati and English both. A free helpline has also been set up for counselling purpose by the GU and Mehrizm Foundation. A team of 50 psychologists of various specializations have been roped in. “As psychologists, we believe the current physical health crisis would lead to mental health crisis in the near future. We were not sure what will be the nature of the crisis. So, rather than assuming, we designed a survey with a combination of positive and negative impacts of lockdown,” said Jasbirkaur Thadhani, head, Psychometrics and Counselling at Mehrizm Foundation. Thadani along with Kamayani Mathur, director of psychology and education department of GU initiated this project. “Based on the survey results, we will design remedial and prevention methods, so that we can cope better with any crisis related to emotional well-being,” added Thadani. The survey also showed that a majority felt their work productivity was affected due to the lockdown. In a question where people were asked if everything will be allright and if we can have a fresh start, 46.77% participants, ‘strongly agreed’ and 36.24% of said they ‘agree’. However, only 11.52% of people felt ‘neutral’ about this statement, whereas 3.23% said they ‘disagree’ and 2.25% ‘strongly disagreed’. Despite Gujarat being one of the worst-hit states, people have strong optimism towards a fresh start, Thadani. Usually a global pandemic might give us a feeling that the lockdown situation, rising cases of infection, new vaccine yet to be found, and sitting idle at home would induce a negative feeling about our health, said Thadani. However, this was not the case here, she added. A question where the participants were asked if they had negative feelings about their health, 36% ‘disagreed’ to it and another 18% ‘strongly disagreed’. While 18% remained neutral in their opinion. However, 23.03% of them did ‘agree’ that they were getting negative thoughts with regards to their health, a small percentage of participants, i.e., 4.78% ‘strongly agreed’ to this statement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/people-positive-of-a-fresh-start-post-lockdown-shows-gu-ngo-survey/articleshow/75684701.cms||Bharat Yagnik
May 12, 2020||Pune||Now, e-token system for liquor purchase in Pune||PUNE: The state excise department on Monday evening officially started an online token facility for those looking to buy liquor in the district. The system will have a pilot run in Pune district, with officials eyeing a phased roll-out in other districts of Maharashtra. “The e-token facility aims to do away with the queues and rush outside liquor stores and prevent further spread of Covid-19. Earlier, some liquor shops in Pune had started this system on their own, but now we have brought all operational liquor shops in Pune under one system. This facility is available at www.mahaexcise.com,” a senior state excise department official told TOI. The website went live on Monday evening. As per the new facility, customers who want to buy liquor have to visit this website, register themselves on the site and get an e-token. “The registering customer will need to mention his/her mobile number and name. Then s/he will be asked to enter his/her district and PIN code, and click on the submit button,” the official explained. The customer will be shown a list of liquor stores near them. “After selecting one of these shops, the customer can choose a specific date and time when s/he wants to visit the store to buy liquor. After providing the required information, the customer will get the e-token. Based on this token, customers can go to the respective shop at the time chosen and buy liquor,” the official said, adding that this system aims to do away with queues entirely.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/excise-department-rolls-out-e-token-system-for-liquor-purchase-in-dist/articleshow/75684694.cms||Neha Madaan
May 12, 2020||Bhopal||10 Shramik trains reached Madhya Pradesh on Monday||Bhopal: Around 1.90 lakh migrant labourers, including 60,000 by Shramik trains, have been brought back to state from across the country. On Monday, 10 Shramik trains reached different parts of the state, carrying migrants from other states. A train carrying 1400 migrants from Morbi (Gujarat) reached Bhopals’s Habibganj station In which workers of more than 10 districts were sent home by buses. On May 13 and 14, a special Shramik train will run from Indore to send workers of Rewa and Satna to their homes. District administration said workers have also been brought back to Madhya Pradesh from Goa, Delhi, Punjab, Haryana, Kerala, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana. As per the information, 8 Shramik trains in Bhopal division and as many such trains in Jabalpur divisions have been terminated. Trains in Bhopal division were terminated at Bhopal, Habibganj, Misrod, Habibganj and Vidisha. First train carrying 319 migrants had reached Misrod station on May 2 from Nashik. After migrants alleged that they were charged, the state governments had decided not to charge any amount from any migrant labourer travelling by train. The trains are being run by Railways only after concurrence is given both by the state that is sending the passengers and the state that is receiving them. Maximum 1200 passengers can travel in each special train. Every Shramik Special train has 24 coaches, each with a capacity of 72 seats. However, only 54 people are allowed in a coach to maintain social distancing norms and the middle berth is not allotted to any passenger.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/10-shramik-trains-reached-mp-on-monday/articleshow/75683994.cms||Ramendra Singh
May 12, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: 1.51 lakh cases, 27,000 arrests for lockdown violations||AHMEDABAD: As many as 1.51 lakh cases have been registered so far in Gujarat for lockdown and quarantine violations and more than 27,000 people arrested using CCTV and drone camera footage, DGP Shivanand Jha said on Monday. Footage from 2,000 drone cameras, deployed to monitor terraces and other areas, and CCTV networks in public places as well as residential complexes have been used to nab violators and so far 27,600 people have been arrested, Jha said in a video message. "After going through CCTV footage of residential societies in different parts of the state on Sunday, we found 23 persons roaming outside. Till now, we have lodged 662 FIRs and arrested 926 persons for lockdown violation. Using drone footage, we have lodged over 12,200 cases and arrested 22,559 persons," said Jha. With the help of CCTVs installed in public places, 74 violators were arrested on Sunday, he said. "Till now, we have lodged 3,032 FIRs and arrested 4,156 persons for defying lockdown. Using automatic number plate recognition (ANPR) system, we have lodged 10,370 cases so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/1-51l-cases-27000-arrests-for-violations/articleshow/75684698.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Varanasi||Migrants from Maha, Guj add to Covid-19 cases in east UP region||Varanasi: Eight new Covid-19 positive were detected in four districts on Monday. Most of them were newly detected infected migrants who had returned from Mumbai, Ahmadabad and other cities, most of them by private vehicles. In Varanasi also, two compounders of Jamia hospital were tested positive on Monday late evening. Before it a mechanic returned from Mumbai was tedted positive and an FIR was also lodged against him under sections of Epidemic diseases Act Meanwhile, with the arrival of fresh report Ballia has also come on the map of Covid-19 cases recording its first Covid-19 case on Monday. District magistrate Ballia Hari Pratap Shahi said that a 16-year-old migrant boy of Chandpur Diyar village of Bairiya area was tested Corona positive. This migrant boy, who was asymptomatic, had reached Jaunpur from Ahmadabad on May 4 and reached Ballia on May 5. His sample was collected at quarantine centre on May 7. Sample of nine other persons taken along with him had been found negative. The boya was sent to Azamgarh hospital’s isolation ward. In Jaunpur, three migrant labourers, who had returned home by motorcycle and car in past one week, were tested positive, said DM Jaunpur Dinesh Kumar Singh. One youth of Chhagapur village of Ramnagar block, who had left Mumbai with two others of his village on a motorcycle on April 28, had reached home on May 4. His sample had been taken on May 5 and the report confirming him positive was received on Monday. Another youth of Lakhapur village in Ramnagar block had returned from Mumbai with four others in a car on April 30. Another youth Satyam Singh of Prithvipur in Rampur block had returned home on motorcycle with one companion on April 30. Sample of these two had also been sent for laboratory test on May 5. DM Jaunpur said that following the arrival of the reports of their samples, all three had been sent to DDU district hospital’s isolation ward in Varanasi while their villages have been declared hotspots. Before confirmation of these three cases, Jaunpur had eight Covid-19 positive cases. These eight persons had been discharged from Varanasi hospital by Sunday after getting cured. In Ghazipur, a youth of Nasiruddinpur village of Mardah block, who had returned from Mumbai on May 5 with his father, was tested positive on Monday, said the officials adding that he has been sent to Varanasi for treatment. The total number of coropnavirus positive cases in Ghazipur has reached to eight now. Of these six had become cured. In Varanasi, a 46-year-old motor mechanic was tested positive on Sunday late night. He had returned from Mumbai with his 13 relatives of Mirzapur district by two vehicles on May 4. He belongs to Pratappur village of Mirzamurad area and came on radar of the Varanasi officials after his three relatives, who had returned with him, were tested positive in Mirzapur, said chief medical officer Dr VB Singh. With these new developments Pratappur village has become 27th hotspot of Varanasi. An FIR against the mechanic was also lodged by the police under sections of Epidemic diseases Act. Besides, the repeat sample of a Delhi returned elderly cancer patient was also tested positive, said the CMO. Other 92 reports of Varanasi received from BHU lab on Monday were found negative. Total number of Covid-19 positive cases in Varanasi has now reached to 83, he said adding that of them 48 had been cured and discharged from the hospital by Monday evening while one had died on April 3. Now active cases in district are 34, said the CMO.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/migrants-from-maha-guj-add-to-covid-19-cases-in-east-up-region/articleshow/75682268.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Nagpur||MSRTC shifts over 800 migrants on second day||Nagpur: Even as shifting of migrants from other states is in full swing by the railways and Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC), regular passengers are set to benefit from eight trains that will pass through Nagpur in north, south and east directions. On Monday, MSRTC had shifted over 800 migrants in 40 buses till 9pm to MP border near Khawasa and the Chhattisgarh border at Shirpur (Deori). Similarly, a ‘Shramik Special’ train carried 1,600 passengers to Darbhanga from Nagpur. To a question on dropping migrants to their destinations of choice in between, MSRTC divisional controller Nilesh Belsare said, “We cannot do so as per government orders. This is an inter-state arrangement, where officials from other state will quarantine these migrants.” “Earlier, there were plans to introduce inter-district transportation of migrants but this move could have led to people from red zone moving to orange and green zones, causing spread of Covid-19 cases. There are plans to introduce such transportation, but it will be a paid service,” said Belsare. “There are orders to depot managers in respective district that if migrants from Maharashtra arrive at the state borders they will be dropped to their villages. On Monday, we dropped five such passengers from Chhattisgarh border to Gondia,” Belsare said. Meanwhile, the Indian Medical Association (IMA), Maharashtra, has demanded that all passengers arriving in the state should undergo a swab test on arrival and they should be sent for quarantine. This will take care of persons with or without symptoms. “The thermal scan of these people, which is being done right now, should be discarded, as it is absolutely not a reliable method for screening,” said Dr Avinash Bhondwe, IMA president. After closure of train traffic during lockdown, the Indian Railways announced running of 15 pairs of trains on Monday. Of these, Bengaluru-Delhi (02691) will arrive in Nagpur at 3.35pm on May 13, and Delhi-Bengaluru (02692) will arrive at 10.40am the same day. Railway officials said there will be no counters for general quota passengers except for certain categories like VIPs, freedom fighters and free privilege passes for railway employees. Sources said, thermal scanning and sanitization will be done of incoming and outgoing passengers. Similarly, Chennai-Delhi (02433) will run on Friday and Sunday from May 15, while Delhi-Chennai (02434) will run twice a week, and reach Nagpur on Thursday and Saturday at 5.50pm. From May 14, a biweekly train has also started between Bilaspur and Delhi. The 02441 Bilaspur-Delhi will run on Mondays and Thursdays and will reach Nagpur at 9.15pm. Similarly, 02442 Delhi-Bilaspur will run on Tuesdays and Wednesdays. It will reach Nagpur on Wednesday and Monday at 6.10am. Besides, weekly train from Secunderabad to Delhi (02437) will operate from May 20 and will reach Nagpur at 9.15pm, and Delhi-Secunderabad (02438) will run from May 17 and reach Nagpur at 5.10am on May 18.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/msrtc-shifts-over-800-migrants-on-second-day/articleshow/75684716.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Goa||Matka makes a comeback in Goa as cash starts to flow||COLVA: After seven weeks of being locked down, matka operations have restarted in the state, curiously a day after the death of Matka King Ratan Khatri in Mumbai. Bookies have started accepting bets on numbers that fetch dividends of 1:90. For every rupee, you will get Rs 90 if you predict any of the 100 numbers correctly, and although the ‘business’ is not roaring like prior to the national lockdown, sources said it’s only a matter of time before it picks up pace. On Monday morning, some of the matka bookies started operations. According to one bookie, agents in Goa have been told to restart the business and there’s little to worry about the flow of cash. “Cash is everything in matka business. Betting money has to be dispatched to Mumbai, money has to be received to pay the winners too. This business is based on flow of money as the winner does not wait, nor does the agent,” said the bookie. The two major markets in Goa for matka are Kalyan and Main Ratan, both of which functioned normally with betting websites also displaying the winning numbers. Matka betting had come to an unexpected halt since March 22 when Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced the Janata Curfew. Two days later, the PM declared a national lockdown and matka operators were forced to take a backseat since then. The lockdown prompted bookies to look at alternative jobs with some of them forced to sell vegetables and eggs in villages where they normally accepted bets. “Not everyone has started to accept bets. There is lot of work to do now. It’s like starting afresh. For now, the business is not like before, but once word is out, everyone will start again,” said another bookie. Colva police, however, said they were not aware of matka making a comeback and promised to look out for bookies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/matka-makes-a-comeback-in-state-as-cash-starts-to-flow/articleshow/75685263.cms||Nisser Dias
May 12, 2020||Lucknow||Eid mubarak sans embrace this time?||LUCKNOW: Islamic seminary Darul Uloom Farangi Mahal issued a fatwa on Monday stating that Muslims should offer Eid namaz and Alvida Namaz (last Friday of Ramzan) in their homes if Lockdown 3.0 is extended beyond May 17 and mosques remain closed for devout. Also, there will be no embraces or handshakes on Eid, except with family members at home, the fatwa stated. Eid is likely to be celebrated on May 25. The fatwa was signed by four clerics — Maulana Khalid Rasheed Farangi Mahli, Maulana Nasrullah, Maulana Naeem-ur-Rahman Siddiqui and Maulana Mohammad Mushtaq — of the Lucknow-based seminary. Seminary’s Darul Ifta (which can proclaim fatwas) had received some Eid related queries from a Lucknow resident, Fazlur Rehman, about the namaz, buying new clothes, khutba to be recited, and other celebrations. The fatwa states that buying new clothes is not mandatory and that if lockdown is extended then Eid namaz should be offered in homes only. “Darul Ifta has ordained that Eid will be celebrated in homes with families, and Alvida Juma Namaz and Eid namaz will also be offered in homes. If the lockdown is extended beyond May 17 and mosques continue to be off limits, Eid will be celebrated as per the government protocols on lockdown,” said Maulana Khalid Rasheed. He added that, as mentioned in fatwa too, buying new clothes on Eid is not mandatory and whatever best and clean clothes one already has, should be worn on the day. “For Alvida and Eid namaz, the Imam and muezzin (person who gives out the azaan) of the mosque and only three other people, should offer the prayers in the mosque. This count should not exceed beyond five people following social distancing norms,” said the cleric. The fatwa also asked the people not to step out of their homes to greet others on Eid, and instead exchange greetings with friends and relatives over the phone. The biggest charity would be to help the needy and celebrate a simple Eid, the fatwa added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/eid-mubarak-sans-embrace-this-time/articleshow/75685262.cms||Yusra Husain
May 12, 2020||Varanasi||Two killed, 7 injured after truck carrying migrants overturns||Gorakhpur: Two labourers died and seven were injured at Kasarwal, Sahjanwa in Gorakhpur after a truck carrying them overturned on Monday morning. The bodies have been sent for postmortem and injured labourers are undergoing treatment, said SDM, Sahjanwa Anuj Malik. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath expressed deep condolences and announced Rs 2 lakh each for the family of the deceased, and Rs 50 thousand each for injured labourers. As per the reports, all the labours. resident of Maharajganj district, were walking to their native place from Hyderabad. They took lift in a sand-laden truck in Kanpur. As soon as they reached near Kasarwal, suddenly the truck went out of control and overturned and nine migrant labourers came under it. After hearing their cries the villagers rushed to rescue them and informed the police. Sahjanwa police station in-charge, DK Mishra said that the families of labourers have been informed through Kothibhar police post. “At CHC, doctors declared Parshuram (42) of Kasmaria village and Rahul (22) of Bariyapur village dead while seriously injured Sanjay of Belwapur village and Munna of Bariyapur village were referred to Maharajganj district hospital. Vidyasagar of Bariyapur, Rajesh of Belwa Khurd, Bhola, Dharm Raj and Ram Snehi of Kothibhar are undergoing treatment at CHC in Maharajganj dictrict” said Sahjanwa police station in-charge.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/two-killed-7-injured-after-truck-carrying-migrants-overturns/articleshow/75682487.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Bhubaneswar||22,000 teachers to check matric papers||Cuttack: To hasten the evaluation of matriculation examination answersheets, the Board of Secondary Education (BSE) will deploy 6,000 more teachers for the process starting May 20. With it, altogether 22,000 teachers will be checking the papers at 60 centres across the state and finish it within 26 days. President of BSE Ramashis Hajra said as this year the evaluation was delayed due to the lockdown, we have engaged 6,000 more evaluators,” he added. Earlier 16,000 teachers had been selected as evaluators. Hajra told TOI that no centre is in the containment zone. “If during the evaluation process, any centre comes within the containment zone, then we will make some alternative arrangements,” added Hajra. Government teachers of different schools have been engaged in the process. The results will be announced by the end of July, informed Hajra. He said evaluators will reach their respective centres by May 19 and special focus will be given on social distancing norms according to Covid-19 guidelines issued by the government. “We have also made sanitisers and wearing of masks and gloves mandatory for all staff and evaluators at the centres to prevent spread of coronavirus,” added Hajra. According to BSE, altogether 5,60,891 students have appeared in the examination.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/22000-teachers-to-check-matric-papers/articleshow/75682784.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: Restrooms in marriage halls, dhabas for migrants on foot||PUNE: Marriage halls, dhabas and public establishments along the five highways passing through the district will be resting camps for hundreds of migrant workers walking to their homes in states outside Maharashtra. District collector Naval Kishore Ram on Sunday passed the order facilitating conversion of these facilities located at a specific distance along the national highways connecting Pune with Bengaluru, Solapur, Mumbai, Nashik and Ahmednagar. A senior officer said tehsildars will use State Disaster Relief Funds and take help from gram panchayats to provide washrooms, breakfast, lunch and dinner and first aid for them. “Due to the prevailing summer heat, it has become imperative to provide these workers apt resting places where they can go through their morning chores, have breakfast, lunch/and dinner and some allied relief while they are on the move,” the order stated. The block development officer of the gram panchayat where the resting camp is to come up has to move a proposal to the tehsildar who will approve it on priority, the order stated. Gram panchayats and their volunteers managing the camps will have to follow all directives issued by the government on Covid-19 prevention. They have to provide sanitizers and maintain social distancing norms, the order added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/restrooms-in-marriage-halls-dhabas-for-migrants-on-foot/articleshow/75684706.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Kolkata||Break from gloom: Puja organizers order idols, make advance payment||Kolkata: The gloom that descended on the city due to the lockdown to combat the spread of Covid-19 failed to dampen the spirit of big budget puja organisers who have started preparations for the festival, though it is five-month away. On Monday, the organizers of Santosh Mitra Square made advance payment to the Kumartului artisan Mintu Pal for the idol of the puja this year. Pradip Ghosh, president of the puja committee said the advance payment was made to ensure that Pal can rope in assistants and finish the idol-making work on time. “This year, the scenario is different. Studios at Kumartuli are lying vacant as the workers are stuck in their respective districts. But that does not mean that we will not celebrate our biggest festival,” said Ghosh. He added that a major portion from their puja budget this year would be kept aside for the needy. Ekdalia Evergreen organizers will make the customary advance payment to a Kumartuli artist in June (on Ulta Rath day) as has been the tradition of the club for years. The club president Subrata Mukherjee said they won’t compromise with the spirit of the festival. “We will make it happen in a most befitting way. We don’t want to compromise with the tradition associated with our puja,” he said. However, Mukherjee reminded the present scenario arising out of the spread of coronavirus in large parts of the city, saying that they would like to spend a large chunk of the puja budget on distributing essentials to those in distress. Debasis Kumar, president of Tridhara Sarbojanin too does not want the puja spirit to get dampened by the virus. In fact, the puja committee has already made an agreement with the theme artist Gourangya Kuilya for making the idol. However, after Covid-19 struck the city, Kumar made a major change in the plan that includes helping the needy with essentials. Naktala Udayan Sangha will also not be lagging behind in this regard. Bappaditya Dasgupta, one fo the key puja functionaries, said the committee had already booked an artisan for making the idol. He added that they would maintain social distancing in the puja pandal where no unnecessary gathering would be allowed. He also laid emphasis on charity with the help of the puja budget this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/break-from-gloom-puja-organizers-order-idols-make-advance-payment/articleshow/75684012.cms||Saikat Ray
May 12, 2020||Rajkot||‘Made In Rajkot’ machine for PPEs||Rajkot: Rajkot has made India’s first seam sealing machine used in sealing the seams of personal protective equipment (PPE) kits. The machine was launched by Gujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani through video conferencing on Monday. “Hitherto, we had to import this machine from abroad, which would cost us exorbitantly and take three to four months to reach us. The machine indigenously manufactured by us would cost us 50% less than the imported one,” said Rupsh Mehta, director of Makepower CNC. “In the first lot, 200 units at the cost of Rs 4 lakh will be manufactured,” informed Mehta. Dr Mayank Thakkar of IMA-Rajkot Corona Task Force said that PPE kit was considered unsafe until it was 100% sealed. “Without seam sealing, the PPE kits would become exposed to coronavirus infection. With the help of the seam sealing machine, the PPE kits can be made 100% air and water proof,” said Dr Thakkar.Rajkot entrepreneurs have already indigenously developed machine to make N-95 masks and a cost-effective ventilator.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/made-in-rajkot-machine-for-ppes/articleshow/75682795.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Allahabad||Masks made by Kaushambi jail inmates boost Covid-19 armour||Prayagraj: Doing their bit in the country’s fight against novel coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic, inmates of Kaushambi district jail are busy making face masks out of cloth and have managed to produce 18,000 units since starting the initiative in March-end. These masks have been distributed in nagar panchayats, chief development officer’s office, chief medical officer’s office, power distribution unit, district magistrate’s camp office, toll plazas, old age homes and hospitals. Superintendent of Kaushambi district jail BS Mukund said that the face masks manufactured by these inmates have been distributed among other prisoners and prison staff as well. “A group of 10 inmates is still working overtime to make these face masks. While seven of the inmates cut the cloth and layer it with tissue, the other three sew the masks. They started making these masks in March-end and have manufactured over 18,000 masks till date. The first 2,000 pieces made were distributed among other prisoners and our own staff and rest were sent to other departments,” he added. Most policemen posted at various police stations of Kaushambi and Reserve Police Lines are wearing face masks made these inmates. Talking about how the jail administration idea got the idea, Mukund said, “In our case, necessity was the mother of invention. While we were worried about how soon we could procure masks for our jail, some of the inmates suggested that they get together to make face masks inside the prison premises. The group of 10 inmates, who were taking vocational training, volunteered for the job,” the jail superintendent said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/masks-made-by-kaushambi-jail-inmates-boost-covid-19-armour/articleshow/75682533.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Pune||Homebound migrants slip through bylanes, keep to tracks||PUNE: Determined to go home, even if it is thousands of km away, and on foot in this summer heat, migrant workers in the sealed containment areas of Pune have started exploiting the gaps in the protective ring to reach Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh. On Monday, TOI came across four such workers who found their way out of the areas where the police claimed barley 24 hours ago that vigil had been stepped up due to contain the workers watching others from the non-containment areas hitting the road. The authorities have prevented those in the containment areas from moving out. They cannot get a travel pass which can facilitate their journey by special trains operated for these workers. Mahesh Shankar (34) started his walk to Satna in MP on Monday. “Kya karein. Ab humara dimag kaam karna band ho gaya hai aur hum aise hi latak gaye hai.” (What to do. My brain has stopped working now and I am stranded),” he said. Shankar shared a room at Narveer Tanajiwadi in Shivajinagar gaothan. It is one of the 69 containment areas in the city. He had approached the Shivajinagar police for a travel pass, but was told to wait. “I waited but the authorities said I won’t get a pass. I will walk to Satna. The news on my cellphone told me about people walking to their home towns in Uttar Pradesh or Bihar from Mumbai,” he said. He used an unmanned narrow lane leading to the railway tracks. “No one was around. I started walking towards Yerawada from Patil Estate slums,” he added. Ajay Chouhan from Agra was working at a tea shop in Pune. He walked out of his Raviwar Peth home, another Covid-19 hotspot. “I had applied for a travel pass with the Faraskhana police. They told me on Saturday that I won’t get a pass. I waited for a day but when nothing changed, I decided to start walking to Agra. I left early in the morning and nobody noticed,” Chouhan, who was spotted in Yerawada, told TOI. Ashwini Kumar started from Mangalwar Peth for his home in Jhansi and Madhav Saha stepped out of Shivajinagar gaothan for Hoshangabad. Both hoped to hitch rides from truckers. The Shivajinagar and Faraskhana police officials said migrants moving out of the containment zones via small unguarded lanes was possible. “The entry/exit points of the containment zones are sealed and we are counselling the migrant workers to be patient as the government is trying hard to address their problem. We will now keep better watch over the unguarded lanes,” an officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/homebound-migrants-slip-through-bylanes-keep-to-tracks/articleshow/75684720.cms||Gitesh Shelke
May 12, 2020||Kolkata||Free HCQ tablets for traffic cops||Kolkata: More than a week after the state government had proposed the use of hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) for cops, Kolkata Police has decided to distribute the tablets for free among all traffic policemen. An order has been issued by the police headquarters at Lalbazar to all ACPs and OCs of 25 traffic guards in this regard. However, taking into consideration the side effects of the medicine, the police headquarters stated that cops would have to produce a prescription by a certified doctor to get it. A senior IPS officer said those who are aged above 50 years and suffer from heart ailments or have any other health complication should avoid taking the medicine.  The officers at the police headquarters are yet to send a similar order to around 80-odd police stations across the city. “The traffic cops have to remain on roads most of the time. If we see the medicine is required for cops at police stations, we will definitely supply it to them,” said the officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/free-hcq-tablets-for-traffic-cops/articleshow/75684027.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
May 12, 2020||Allahabad||How equipped govt hosps in city are to treat Covid-19 patients: HC||Prayagraj: Hearing a PIL alleging laxity in treatment of a corona positive patient, which resulted as the first death due to Covid-19 in Prayagraj, the Allahabad High Court on Monday directed the state government to inform as to how the 11 government-run hospitals in Prayagraj city are equipped to manage the situation as has arisen owing to the coronavirus. These 11 government-run hospitals of city of Prayagraj are SRN Hospital, Prathamik Chikitsalaya Kendra, Duffrin Hospital, Colvin Hospital, Kamla Nehra Hospital, SN Children Hospital, Sardar Patel Memorial, TB Sapru Hospital, TB Hospital, Rajkiya Medical Care Unit, Phaphamau and Government Hospital, Prayagraj. Hearing a PIL registered as ‘inhuman condition at quarantine centres and for providing better treatment to corona positive people’, a division bench comprising Chief Justice Govind Mathur and Justice Siddhartha Varma also directed the state government to inform as to whether the facilities like intensive coronary care units, intensive care units, dialysis units, ventilators and mobile X-ray machines are available with the hospitals run by the government in the city of Prayagraj. Besides, the court also directed the state government to inform the number of qualified doctors and nurses (apart from interns) working in these hospitals. “With regard to each hospital details shall also be furnished as to how the premises are sanitized and cleaned,” the court directed. The court fixed May 14 as the next date of hearing. Earlier, on May 7, 2020, the court had taken cognizance of a letter alleging that first Covid-19 death in Prayagraj had taken place due to laxity in treatment and had asked the chief standing counsel, representing the state government to avail necessary instructions (information) in the matter. A high court lawyer, Gaurav K Gaur, through an e-mail had conveyed to the court that wife of Virendra Singh, an engineer had conveyed him telephonically that the quarantine centre, where her husband and other family members were lodged, lacks adequate hygienic conditions. Engineer Virendra Singh was first person who had died due to Covid-19 in Prayagraj. The letter also brought to the notice of the court that adequate treatment was not provided to Virendra Singh, who unfortunately succumbed to coronavirus on May 6. Today (on Monday), the state government informed that Virendra Singh, despite medication, passed away. On this the court observed, “The video which had been floated by the wife of the deceased also showed certain slackness on the part of the administration so far as the maintenance of the quarantine centers were concerned.” Before passing the above directives, the court observed, “The instructions as have been received by the E-mail from the state, show that there were sufficient steps taken by the State to improve the quarantine centres. The treatment which was administered to V K Singh also appears to be appropriate. However, as we are not aware about the preparedness of the State with regard to medication it intends to administer to people who might be further getting affected by the Novel Covid-19 virus, we are continuing with the instant Public Interest Litigation.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/how-equipped-govt-hosps-in-city-are-to-treat-covid-19-patients-hc/articleshow/75682570.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
May 12, 2020||Varanasi||BHU webinar ends with call to spreadcorona awareness||Varanasi: A three-day webinar on “COVID-19: The Mahamana’s Indian Vision in Global Context”, organized by Mahamana Malaviya Mission, Banaras Hindu University (BHU) Unit, concluded on Monday. Union HRD Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’ had inaugurated the webinar on Saturday. The inaugural function was addressed by distinguished persons including chairman of University Grants Commission Prof. Dhirendra Pal Singh, BHU vice-chancellor Prof. Rakesh Bhatnagar, Dr. Upendra Kumar Tripathi and others. The speakers expressed his concern over coronavirus pandemic, and laid stress on moral responsibilities of citizens towards the nation. They highlighted the importance of maintaining hygiene and spreading awareness. Delivering the keynote address on the second day, MP Sudhanshu Trivedi highlighted the establishment of Ayurveda discipline in BHU by Mahamana Madan Mohan Malaviya in 1927, and said that Ayurveda is progressing by linking itself with CSIR. Ayurveda, as the name suggests, is a part of the Vedas. The system of medicine was already present in the religious texts thousands of years back. Surgery, which is considered to be a part of modern medicine, has been described thousands of years ago in the Sushruta Samhita and there are documentary references of many surgeries that have been done through it. Speaking on the occasion, former head of the department of Dravyaguna Prof. Kamal Nayan Dwivedi spoke about Indian methods to avoid any infection and other kind of communicable disease. Now even the scientists approve of the anti-viral and anti-septic values of camphor, which has been in use in Indian household since long, especially in aarti, etc. Another session on ‘Mahamana’s thought on Swadeshi and Economy’ was addressed by chairman, Uttar Pradesh State Council of Higher Education & former vice-chancellor, Banaras Hindu University, Prof. Girish Chandra Tripathi. He stressed on production in India on the basis of 'swadeshi', as per the Swadesh vision of Mahamana. Many eminent speakers including Dr. Usha Tripathi, Prof. Devendra Pratap Singh, Dr. Balmukund Pandey, Prof. Awadhesh Pradhan, Prof Arun Divakar Nath Vajpayee, Prof. Rama Shankar Dubey and others took part in the webinar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/bhu-webinar-ends-with-call-to-spreadcorona-awareness/articleshow/75682329.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Coimbatore||Man arrested for placing metal snare||Coimbatore: Four days after arresting a man for setting a meal snare to trap deer near Pedhakuttai Pirivu, the forest department on Sunday arrested another man from Vellingadu in the Karamadai forest range for the same offence.Officials identified him as Balan. He has confessed to the crime, they said.A 20-year-old man, arrested recently for trying to poach deer, was slapped with a fine of Rs 5,000.During quarantine, people living on forest fringes tend to go inside the forest to poach animals, an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/man-arrested-for-placing-metal-snare/articleshow/75684024.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Delhi||Most Haryana Covid-19 cases have Delhi link, high court told||NEW DELHI: The Haryana government has defended its decision of sealing its borders touching Delhi saying a majority of Covid-19 cases in its districts came from the capital. Responding to the court’s last week notice, the government also raised the issue of jurisdiction on the ground that any challenge to an executive order of Haryana should lie in Punjab & Haryana high courts. The Haryana government’s affidavit filed on Monday listed a break up of Covid-19 cases in Faridabad, Gurgaon, Jhajjar and Sonipat claiming that more than half of these had a Delhi link. For instance, of the 100 positive cases in Sonipat till May 9, 84 have Delhi connections, the government in its reply said. In Jhajjar, of the 75 positive cases, 74 are linked to Delhi, while in Faridabad 37 of 94 cases have Delhi links, it added. “As is clear from the above table, many of the corona cases in the bordering districts of Haryana are due to their Delhi connection, therefore, it became imperative in the interest of public, to impose stricter restrictions on the movement of daily commuters to contain the spread of the virus,” the government said. While claiming that movement of essential goods and services and people involved in essential services across the border was continuing, the reply filed through additional advocate general Anil Grover argued that “any laxity in the movement of people from the containment zones in Delhi into the bordering districts of Haryana runs the risk of rapidly spreading the contagion.” The Haryana government has also blamed Delhi for failing to issue special passes to employees working with Delhi government and commuting from neighbouring districts. It claimed that while no restrictions on movement of essential service towards Delhi from Sonipat were in place, the district magistrate was left with no option but to restrict the movement of farmers from Sonipat to Azadpur mandi, as of the 19 positive cases in Sonipat, at least 14 appeared to have a connection with the visits to the mandi. The court last week had observed that the order by Haryana authorities preventing movement of doctors, nurses, court staff and trucks to and from Delhi to Sonipat prima facie infringes upon the right to freedom of movement and sought an explanation from the government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/most-haryana-cases-have-delhi-link-hc-told/articleshow/75684739.cms||Abhinav Garg
May 12, 2020||Goa||Goa’s borders to remain sealed even after May 17: CM Pramod Sawant||PANAJI: Chief minister Pramod Sawant suggested to PM Narendra Modi on Monday that the interstate movement of people continue to be restricted, in view of the rising cases in Goa’s neighbouring states. He said that if interstate public transport is allowed, there’s a possibility of Covid-19 positive individuals entering Goa. He said that the general public should not be allowed to enter Goa, adding that rail and flights to Goa should only be operated to bring back people stranded elsewhere. Section 144 will be in force in Goa till the end of lockdown-4, he said. Sawant said the government is mulling over restarting public transport so that economic activities in can resume. Speaking to reporters after a video conference with Modi, Sawant said that he suggested that the Centre allows the resumption of mining activities, and that a standard operating procedure (SOP) for tourism is prepared, so that once lockdown ends, the state can welcome tourists again. The CM said that Goa, being a tourist destination, has suffered a lot due to Covid-19. Once the Centre finalises an SOP for tourism, the state too will come out with an SOP, he said, adding that Modi said during the meeting that after lockdown is removed, states will have to be aggressive to attract tourists. Commenting on mining, Sawant said that even if the matter is in the Supreme Court, the Centre should help the state government restart the industry. “Airlines should not start full-fledged operations,” he said. “They should only be operated to get Indians stranded abroad. Slowly, airlines can be allowed to operate, while trains should be operated only for those stranded to commute to their home states.” He also said that in lockdown phase-4, states will be given the power to decide on what restrictions must continue in their respective jurisdictions. Meanwhile, the CM briefed Modi on the Covid-19 situation in the state. He told the PM that Goa is the only state to test everyone entering the state, whether Goan or non-Goan. “If a person is found negative for Covid-19, only then do we allow them to enter.” He also said that state is thinking of starting public transport to start economic activities in the state. he also said that section 144 CrPC will continue in the state till the end of lockdown phase four.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goas-borders-to-remain-sealed-even-after-may-17-cm/articleshow/75685269.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Covid-19 forces decongestion of police barracks||Bhubaneswar: Police have decongested their barracks in almost every district to ensure safety of personnel. Temporary shelters are being built for personnel, who will be moved out of the barracks as part of the decongestion process. The state police headquarters is jittery as Covid-19 cases have shot up in the state in the past few days, though not a single employee of Odisha Police has so far tested positive for the virus. Safety of the force has been one of the focus areas of the police headquarters in view of increasing cases of police personnel getting infected and dying in other states. A total of 190 platoons of police force, consisting of about 4,800 personnel of the rank of constable and havildar, are currently deployed on lockdown duty across the state. In the past few days, DGP Abhay and additional director-general of police (law and order) Soumendra Priyadarshi have visited several districts and inspected the barracks. SPs in the red zone districts and Covid hotspots like Ganjam, Berhampur, Balasore, Jajpur, Bhadrak and Angul have been specifically asked to take care of their personnel. “Our medical officers have been regularly inspecting the health of the people living in the barracks. Adequate precautions have been adopted to maintain social distance and hygiene in the barracks. Entry of outsiders in the barracks is prohibited,” commissioner of police (Bhubaneswar and Cuttack) Sudhanshu Sarangi said. Bhadrak SP Rajesh Pandit said the guidelines issued by the government for safety of police personnel and upkeep of barracks were being strictly implemented. “We have segregated platoons engaged on lockdown duty and deployed in containment areas. Distance between beds in the barracks is at least 6 or 7 metre. Since the decongestion of barracks has led to a shortage of accommodation, we have made alternate arrangements in some schools and colleges. Two special quarantine centres have also been set up in Bhadrak for our personnel,” Pandit said. The police headquarters regularly imparts lectures on Covid-19 and precautions to the force.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/covid-19-forces-decongestion-of-police-barracks/articleshow/75682805.cms||Debabrata Mohapatra
May 12, 2020||Allahabad||Foreigners allege harassment by guest house owner||Varanasi: One of the foreigners stranded in the city following lockdown levelled serious allegations of harassment on the guest house he was staying in through a Facebook post. However, when circle officer Dashaswamedh Priti Tripathi reached the guest house in Dashaswamedh are to investigate, it was found that he and one more tourist were left wkith no money with them and were trying to leave the guest house without clearing dues of over Rs 17,000. Tripathi said that a Russian national Stepan Christanov staying in a guest house since March 22 had levelled several allegations through a post on his social media page on Sunday. This foreigner alleged that he and other foreigners staying in the guest house were not allowed to go outside even to buy medicines and they were finding it difficult to get proper meals too. When the police reached there for investigation, she said, two tourists including the Russian and a German national complained against the guest house owner and his family members. On being questioned the guest house owner said that he was not allowing these foreigners to leave the campus in view of the directives of the administration and police. The guest house also showed the list of dues, including room rent and others, of over Rs 17,000 against these foreigners and said that even after offering to pay half of the dues and then leave for another accommodation these foreigners were levelling allegations, said Tripathi. The CO said that the guest house owner had been directed to allow the foreigners staying there to go outside to buy essential articles and medicine during the hours of market opening. She said that police will send a report to the embassy concerned in this episode.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/foreigners-allege-harassment-by-guest-house-owner/articleshow/75682472.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Surat||Textile sector says it’s unable to pay workers’ lockdown wages||Surat: Textile associations of the city have urged the state government to withdraw its notification regarding payment of wages to workers for lockdown period.In a letter to chief minister Vijay Rupani, the associations have stated that the survival of MSME units in the textile sector is at stake due to lockdown. The industry paid full wages to the workers for March, but was not in a position to pay lockdown wages due to its poor financial condition, the letter said.Sachin Industrial Cooperative Society secretary Nilesh Korat said, “The spread of coronavirus and announcement of lockdown to contain it have cast a dark shadow on the textile sector. Since the units are shut for the last one-and-a-half-month, people do not have funds to pay suppliers as they are not receiving pending payments. In such a situation, forcing unit owners to pay wages for lockdown period is not morally correct.”Pandesara Weavers’ Association president Ashish Gujarati said, “We had paid full wages for the month of March and are supplying kits and food packets to workers since the first day of lockdown. There is severe financial crisis in the sector and we are unable to pay lockdown wages. We request the state government to withdraw the notification. Any forceful measure will result in indefinite closure of the units in the city. ”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/textile-sector-says-its-unable-to-pay-workers-lockdown-wages/articleshow/75682818.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Allahabad||Shramik Spl trains continue to bring back migrants home||Prayagraj: Hundreds of migrants native to Uttar Pradesh reached home via five Shramik Special trains on Monday, after being stranded for days due to the lockdown in various cities. The special trains arrived at different stations of North Central Railway’s (NCR) Prayagraj division. Of these, three trains arrived at Prayagraj Junction and, one each at Kanpur Central and Etawah railway station. According to public relations officer (PRO) of NCR’S Prayagraj division SK Gupta, the first Shramik Special arrived at Prayagraj Junction around 8.40am from Navsari in Gujarat. The train had 1,178 passengers on board in its 24 coaches. “After arriving at platform number one, Railway Protection Force, Government Railway Police and the ticket checking staff directed the passengers to queues for medical check ups,” said Gupta. After a medical check up, the passengers were provided food and water, and then sent to their respective home towns by 38 UP State Road Transport Corporation (UPSRTC) buses. Gupta said that second Shramik Special train arrived at Prayagraj Junction around 3.35pm from Surat, carrying 1,200 migrant labourers. The third Shramik special arrived from Pune around 7pm, bringing 1,200 stranded passengers. At Kanpur, the train from Ankleshwar (Gujarat) arrived around 7.50am, with 1,201 passengers on board. In Etawah, a Shramik Special train from Ahmedabad arrived at 12.50pm with 1,205 passengers. The migrant labourers arriving at the two stations were sent to their home towns via 40 state transport buses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/shramik-spl-trains-continue-to-bring-back-migrants-home/articleshow/75682618.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Coimbatore||Business hrs extended in Nilgiris dist||Udhagamandalam: The Nilgiris district administration has relaxed the timing for commercial establishments in the district up to 7 pm with effect from Monday as per the government’s announcement. Earlier, commercial establishments had been asked to wind up by 2pm in the district. “Plantations and tea factories are already operational. But their timing has been relaxed up to 7 pm,” said J Innocent Divya, Nilgiris collector.Timings for vegetable and fruit stalls is marked from 6am to 7 pm. Standalone shops of 30 kinds, including electrical, electronics, household articles and small time textile shops without AC facility can function from 10.30am to 7pm. Saloon, spa and beauty parlours are not permitted to operate, according to the collector.“Divisional officers will inspect other shops not mentioned in the list and permit accordingly,” said Divya.A flying squad has been formed involving police, revenue officials and toll staff with power to impose spot fine if individuals and shops don’t follow the ‘standard operative procedures’. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/business-hrs-extended-in-nilgiris-dist/articleshow/75684042.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Coimbatore||Concern over safety of kids, elderly when borders open||Coimbatore: It has been only a week since senior citizen couple, K Sudhakar, 86, and his wife Sargunam, 82, got back their domestic maid and cook. But their children based in the US are persuading them to stop the services of their domestic help once the lockdown is eased, fearing widespread transmission. The couple from Father Roundy Street in R S Puram is just one of many families with children and senior citizens in the city who opened their doors for domestic help on May 3, but are now scared at the prospect of the district’s borders being opened up. “Our children now fear that both my maid and cook live in heavily populated localities, and their neighbours or family members may arrive from cities like Mumbai or other affected districts within the state and eventually infect them. They are constantly pestering us to stop them again from next week,” said Sargunam. “They also don’t want us to go to the temple in the evenings, and buy fresh flowers or visit grocery shops which we already miss.” Families with children and those who have to attempt their board exams next year are also a worried lot. Kavundampalayam-resident Nandhini Babu’s son goes into Class X this June. She said “They say children don’t get affected much by the virus... but he had wheezing problems as a child, I don’t want to risk him getting infected and infecting his classmates. So I am considering stopping services of my cook and maids permanently unless they agree to live with us.”Vaishali Vinodh, another mother of a three-year-old who suffers from severe bouts of wheezing, is planning drastic measures due to opening up of borders and transport facilities. “Now is when I am truly scared. I won’t send him to playschools, birthday parties or take him to play centres until next February,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/concern-over-safety-of-kids-elderly-when-borders-open/articleshow/75684033.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Nabarangpur villagers revive defunct well||Koraput: Residents of a remote village in Nabarangpur district have utilised the lockdown to build a water distribution system from scratch, beginning with the revival of a defunct well. Always faced with acute shortage of water in summer, the residents of Patiasil under Umerkote block have not only revived the well, they have laid pipes with their own money so that some households at least can get running water. Situated at a distance of 80 km from the Nabarangpur town, Patiasil is home to 75 families. A solar-based water supply system installed by the administration there was the only source of water for the villagers, with two wells of the village lying defunct. “We unanimously decided to try to solve the water problem of the village,” said Bijay Hantal, a diploma holder in civil engineering and the brains behind the project. Bijay said the villagers were sitting idle in their homes due to the lockdown, and were asked to contribute labour to rejuvenate one of the wells. Once the well was cleaned and its water sources were activated, he decided to seek contribution from the villagers to install a motor and an overhead water tank to store water. Depending on their capacity, the villagers donated between Rs 3,000 and Rs 4,000. While a motor was installed at the well to lift water, a 10-feet-stand was prepared by putting stones and a 2,000-litre water tank was installed over it. “After the water was stored in the tank, we decided to lay pipes for household water connection. We spent around Rs 1 lakh on the work. So far, piped water has been supplied to 26 households. The project took around two weeks to complete,” said Bijay. The villagers said though it is not possible to provide piped water to every household, the project had decreased their dependence on the lone water standpost of the village.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/nabarangpur-villagers-revive-defunct-well/articleshow/75682839.cms||Satyanarayan Pattnaik
May 12, 2020||Nagpur||Lawyer duo moves HC against reopening of liquor shops||Nagpur: There seems to be a split in the legal fraternity over reopening of non-essential shops, particularly those of liquor, in the city. After five lawyers filed a case for reopening of those establishments, two lawyers filed an intervention demanding its dismissal. Interveners — former District Bar Association (DBA) president Sudeep Jaiswal and Satish Uke — raised objections on the petition on its maintainability and also questioned the locus of petitioners. A single-judge bench of justice Rohit Deo directed the registry to keep the hearing on their application on May 15. Expressing concern over professional ethics displayed by the petitioners, the interveners contended that such a case seeking relief of opening of liquor shops ought not have been filed by the lawyers. Tendering apology on behalf of the legal community, the duo stated that respect for their fraternity should be maintained as lawyers are caretakers for the rights of citizens and society. Pointing out that one of the petitioners — Kishor Lambat — withdrew his name from the petition due to the reason that only liquor establishments were highlighted in the entire petition which was never his intention, the interveners stated that a wrong message may go out of the society that the legal community is only thinking of its own luxury and not worrying about dangers due to coronavirus to the population. “The efforts of these lawyers could have been salutary had they used their professional expertise to bring before this court the issues like the serious plight and sufferings of migratory citizens walking hundreds of kilometres to reach their native places,” Jaiswal and Uke said. They argued that if the court intends to allow the petition, at least directives should be issued to the government to frame strict guidelines for the sale of liquor while taking precautions that Covid-19 shouldn’t spread due to it. Uke suggested that only licence holding consumers would be allowed to take delivery of the liquor as the health and lives of the citizens and the society is of paramount importance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/lawyer-duo-moves-hc-against-reopening-of-liquor-shops/articleshow/75684741.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
May 12, 2020||Rajkot||Rigging the system||People of Amreli form groups and book a private bus operator or GSRTC to carry 30 passengers. Once the booking is done, they apply online for the passes. According to sources, sometimes they also get recommendation from some political leaders to pressurize mamlatdar to clear their applications immediately. Surat administration has beegets more then 15,000 application for travel permission per day so they don’t have time to verify the facts they have declared in the forms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/rigging-the-system/articleshow/75682746.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Pune||Cops send 1,188 Uttarakhand migrants home||PUNE: The Pimpri Chinchwad police on Monday sent 1,188 migrants back home to Uttarakhand by a special train. Most were cooks in restaurants while some were construction workers. “We gave them food packets, water bottles and sanitizers for their journey,” R R Patil, assistant commissioner of police Pimpri Chinchwad, told TOI. Another officer said they have a state-wise list of migrants in Pimpri Chinchwad area. Uttarakhand had the most and the police contacted the administration of that state. Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Ltd buses ferried the migrants to Pune railway station. “We ensured social distancing. Deputy commissioner of police Vinayak Dhakane was at the station,” the officer added. The Wakad police on Sunday sent 60 migrants to Uttar Pradesh in two private buses. “We got confirmation from the state authorities and arranged for the buses,” assistant inspector Harish Mane said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cops-send-1188-ukhand-migrants-home/articleshow/75684726.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Goa||Goa to test every single train passenger for Covid: Government||MARGAO: As special trains begin to arrive in Goa this week, the state government said on Monday that every single passenger will be tested for Covid-19. South Goa district collector Ajit Roy said that although he was yet to receive any official communication with regards to the arrival of the train in Goa, facilities would be put in place for testing all passengers for Covid-19. Unlike in other states, where passengers are subjected to just screening, where only their body temperatures are noted and they checked for symptoms, if any, Roy said that in Goa, all passengers entering the state will be made to undergo the Covid test. “Goa is following a better and stricter control regimen,” Roy said. “Whenever any train comes here, we will make detailed arrangements for subjecting all passengers to Covid tests,” Roy said. “We will take all the passengers to one location, where their throat swabs will be taken. They will then be accommodated in quarantine facilities. They will only be discharged when their tests return negative.” The South Goa district administration and Konkan Railway are now gearing up to put in place logistics, medical facilities and quarantine arrangements for the passengers. The first such train – among the 30 pairs of trains scheduled to start from May 12 – will arrive from New Delhi on May 15, and will depart on its return journey to the capital on May 17. Sources in the district administration said that additional quarantine facilities will be set up in view of the arrival of a large number of passengers by train. “We have some hotels, government-owned as well as private, already taken in our possession. Some more may be requisitioned once a plan works out,” a senior official of the district administration said. All facilities will be put in place at least two days ahead of the arrival of the first train, official sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-to-test-every-single-train-passenger-for-covid-govt/articleshow/75685273.cms||Govind Kamat Maad
May 12, 2020||Surat||Leukaemia patient fights off Covid-19 in just seven days||Surat: He took just a week’s time to slay Covid-19, while still fighting his blood cancer. The 35-year-old patient from Intvai village in Kukarmunda taluka of Tapi district defeated coronavirus in an Ahmedabad hospital on May 8. According to Dr Harshad Patel, chief district health officer, Tapi, Vinayak Padvi, was tested positive for Covid-19 in Ahmedabad hospital on May 2, was discharged from the hospital on Monday after he tested negative. “This particular case will bolster other patients to fight off Covid-19 with the strength of their willpower as Padvi could recovered from his infection in just seven days,” Dr Patel told TOI. Padvi was admitted into SMIMER hospital in Surat city for treatment of his cancer on April 26 and on April 30 he was referred to B J Medical College’s cancer wing in Ahmedabad for further treatment. On May 1, his samples were taken for Covid-19 testing and he tested positive the next day. “Padvi successfully defeated Covid and has been shifted back to the cancer ward after his report came negative. He could overcome the infection in only seven days as he was discharged on May 8 from the Covid-19 hospital,” Dr Patel said. “My brother was diagnosed with blood cancer only a few days ago. He is a fighter and did not give up even when he tested positive for Covid-19. He has recovered fully and is now undergoing cancer treatment at Ahmedabad,” said Pankaj Padvi, Vinayak’s brother, talking with TOI over phone from Ahmedabad. The brothers are farmers. After Padvi’s report for coronavirus came positive, Tapi district health department sanitized the village as a precautionary measure. With Padvi’s discharge, Tapi district for now has cleaned it Covid slate again after the other two patients from the district too have recovered and gone home.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/leukaemia-patient-fights-off-covid-19-in-just-seven-days/articleshow/75682834.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Nagpur||Civaan opposes govt move to scrap 15-yr-old pvt vehicles||Nagpur: Central India Vintage Automotive Association Nagpur (Civaan) has opposed the ministry of road transport and highways (MoRTH) move to scrap private vehicles after 15 years of life by introducing a scrappage policy for compliance of stake holders under Voluntary Vehicle Fleet Modernization programme (VVFMP). The MoRTH is all set to introduce the scrappage policy for both private and commercial vehicles mandating compulsory scrapping of even private vehicles after 15 years. The ministry justified its move by presenting analysis of segment and age of vehicles causing air pollution. According to it, trucks and buses contribute to 60% of pollution, while older vehicles, typically 10 years of age and pre-BS I compliant, contribute to only 15% of total fleet but pollute 10-12 times more than a new vehicle because of drastic change in pollution norms. Old vehicles also have lower mileage which leads to more fuel consumption per km travelled compared to new vehicles, leading to significant loss in energy efficiency. The Civaan has objected to the move in a letter submitted to Prime Minister’s Office on May 9. “A consent of private vehicles’ owners must be taken into consideration before sending their vehicles for scrap,” Civaan secretary A K Chatterjee said in its letter to the PMO. He said India is not a rich country to afford only 15-year life for automobiles. “We have lower class, lower middle class, daily wagers, retired persons and a host of others who buy an automobile only once or twice in their lifetime,” Chatterjee said. Exceptions should include automobiles that are declared unfit under the Indian Motor Vehicles Act 1988 by an authorized official. Registrations of such automobiles are cancelled by the Registering Authority, he argued. “Apart from this, we have enthusiasts who maintain old automobiles that are 16 to 49 years’ old in perfect condition.” “With a compulsory automobile scrappage policy, we will only punish the poor lower class, lower middle class, retired persons and also automobile enthusiasts,” the letter said. Fédération International des Véhicules Anciens, Paris, vice-president Gautam Sen too expressed his concern over the neglect and apathy for the 15-50 year-old motor vehicles in India by the officialdom and vintage elite alike. “I would hence like to add that by preserving the old motor vehicles, we will not only create a new class to add to our national wealth but will also preserve industrial history. These suggestions are made with a holistic approach to ensure that rules and regulations are made in such a manner that old private vehicles are preserved and our heritage is nurtured,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/civaan-opposes-govt-move-to-scrap-15-yr-old-pvt-vehicles/articleshow/75685274.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
May 12, 2020||Coimbatore||Horticulture dept honours frontline workers||Udhagamandalam: The horticulture department on Monday opened the Government Botanical Garden (GBG) exclusively for 50 government nurses to honour them for their fight against Covid-19. The staff at GBG welcomed the nurses by clapping and presenting flower bouquets to each one of them. Besides ‘floral structures’, there were 15,000 flowerpots displayed in the garden. “This is to honour the people who are working amid coronavirus pandemic. We are going to honour all the frontline workers including doctors, nurses, police, revenue officials and sanitary workers,” joint director of horticulture department Shiva Subramaniam Samraj said. “We are going to honour 50 people daily. To start with, 50 nurses were honoured today,” the official said.“It is a proud moment. We feel honoured,” one of the nurses said. The GBG was closed for public in the last week of March following COVID-19 crisis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/horticulture-dept-honours-frontline-workers/articleshow/75684037.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Nashik||2 pedestrianskilled in accident||Nashik: Two pedestrians — a 45-year-old man and a 60-year-old woman — were killed after being hit by a speeding car near Nimani bus stand on Sunday night. According to police, the deceased were residents of Panchavati Karanja and they were walking back home when the incident took place.  “Due to the impact, the bodies of the pedestrians were flung around 50 feet away. The woman’s body was smashed against a boundary wall, while the man landed on the road divider. There were eyewitnesses who have noted down the registration number of the car,” a police officer said. A case has been registered at Panchavati police station. "We are searching for the car and will also take the help of CCTV footage available in the vicinity to nail the suspect," the officer said. "Since shops and establishments close by 7pm and there are fewer obstructions on road, some people are taking undue advantage of the situation," he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/2-pedestrianskilled-in-accident/articleshow/75682846.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Surat||22 get discharged as 22 fresh cases emerge||Surat: Twenty-two new cases of Covid-19 were reported in Surat city on Monday, taking the tally to 898. On the same day, 22 patients who recovered from the infection were discharged. As many as 528 patients have recovered from the coronavirus infection in Surat till date. According to Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) officials, the new cases were reported from Limbayat, Varachha (A) and Rander zones of the city. Limbayat zone alone accounts for 352 cases. “We have launched a massive health surveillance in Limbayat zone and distributed 5.72 lakh homoeopathy tablets recommended by Ayush ministry,’’ Banchhanidhi Pani, SMC commissioner, said. “I request people to keep social distancing while going out or purchasing essentials. Total 46 people including vegetable vendors, milkmen, grocers have tested positive for Covid-19 and therefore, every one needs to ensure that they do not get infected from such people while dealing with them,” Pani added. Meanwhile, SMC chief held a meeting with chemists and drugists’ associations in the city and asked them to keep Ayush recommended medicines at their stores and sell them at MRP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/22-get-discharged-as-22-fresh-cases-emerge/articleshow/75682853.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Kanpur||Cop suspended for demanding bribe after video goes viral||Kanpur: A sub-inspector was suspended after a video showing him demanding bribe and abusing his seniors went viral on various social media platforms. In the video which went viral, the SI posted in Bithoor, while sitting in a car could be heard demanding Rs 20,000 from some people and later he lso abused senior officials and an MLA. SSP/DIG Anant Deo told TOI, “On the basis of the video, the SI identified as Suraj Singh Chauhan has been suspended.” Man ends life : A 23-year-old man allegedly committed suicide at his house in Ajgain area of Unnao on Monday. The couple had attempted suicide on Sunday evening. Rohit survived but his wife Kiran died. In pain of losing his wife, he hanged himself from ceiling of his room. He got married after a love affair in 2019. “Rohit, who was depressed by his wife’s death, allegedly committed suicide,” ASP Vinod Kumar Pandey. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/cop-suspended-for-demanding-bribe-after-video-goes-viral/articleshow/75683257.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Nagpur||1 death each in Ngp and Akola, total 33||Nagpur: Two Covid-19 patients, admitted in isolation wards of GMCHs in Nagpur and Akola died, during treatment on Monday. With this, the death count of Vidarbha reached 33, including 1 suicide. Amravati, Akola, Yavatmal, Nagpur and Buldhana together recorded 16 new positive patients on Sunday, taking the total number of Covid-19 cases in Vidarbha to 671. While 16 new cases were recorded, an equal number of patients recovered in Yavatmal and Nagpur with which the number of discharged patients in Vidarbha hit a double ton on Monday. Now, a total of 201 patients have recovered in Vidarbha, which is nearly 30% of the total cases. Nagpur recorded its fourth Covid-19 death on Monday evening when a 29-year-old male patient from Pandharabodi died in GMCH. He was admitted in Covid Hospital HDU on May 6. He was suffering from chronic alcoholic liver disease with severe anaemia and pulmonary tuberculosis. He had tested positive too. In Akola, a 65-year-old man from Baidpura locality, who was admitted on May 2 and tested positive the next day died on Monday. He was having hypertension and diabetes. Apart from this, six new cases were reported from Amravati. They include a 11-year-old boy from old city area, a 55-yr-old man, a 56-yr-old woman, 40-yr-old man and 26-yr-old youth. The total cases in Akola is 159. In Amravati, a 70-year-old woman patient of SARI tested positive on Monday morning. Five new cases were reported late on Monday night. Amravati now has 84 cases with 12 deaths and 21 discharges. Monday’s cases include five women and one man. A 35-year-old woman from Kholapuri Gate locality tested positive. This is the 14th case from this locality and it includes one death. Three women — aged 38, 52 and 35 — from Patwapura locality in Masanganj ward also tested positive along with a 45-year-old man. Masanganj count with today’s four cases has gone up to six, including one recovered person from Chetandas Bagicha area. In Yavatmal, two more positive cases were reported on Monday taking the total number of cases to 97. Both patients are women and one is expected to deliver in a day or two. A special arrangement has been made in the maternity ward for her delivery. The GMC has prepared a special operation theatre if she needs caesarean operation. “In the containment area, 80 pregnant women are under our vigil,” said civil surgeon Dr Tarangthushar Warey. The good news for Yavatmal came when 12 patients in the isolation ward tested negative and were discharged. In the last 3 days, a total of 34 patients have been discharged reducing the active cases to 63. Yavatmal collector MD Singh on Monday lifted the liquor sale ban across the district except in the containment areas of Yavatmal, Ner and Dhanora village in Umarkhed tehsil. The shops will operate from 8am to 2pm till further orders. Wardha district administration has sealed seven villages after it became clear that deceased woman of Hiwara (Tanda) village of Arvi Tahsil was infected with Covid-19. Administration has taken swab samples of 28 close relatives and neighbours who might have come in contact and quarantined 141 people on Monday. The rumours of death of a second Covid-19 patient from Washim district who is taking treatment at Kasturba Hospital, Sewagram, was viral on social media. Administration made it clear that this patient is stable and undergoing treatment. In Chandrapur, no new patient was detected on Monday. Two more samples of the contact persons of the positive security guard sent on Sunday were found negative. Official sources informed that health administration has prepared a list of 95 contact persons of the lone positive patient. All 59 swab samples of contact persons sent so far have been found negative so far. Three family members of positive security guard too have turned out be negative. Officials claimed that the condition of the positive patient being treated at Nagpur is stable.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/1-death-each-in-ngp-and-akola-total-33/articleshow/75685307.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Goa||Goa: More than 2,000 doctors, nurses trained since February||PANAJI: Goa’s healthcare is prepped to handle the Covid-19 pandemic in terms of manpower with more than 2,000 doctors and nurses being trained since February. Presently, a batch of six doctors is undergoing training in epidemiology supported by the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC). Doctors and nurses are also being trained in handling ventilators in addition to continuous online training. “We have trained 1,188 doctors and nurses, member doctors of the Indian Medical Association (IMA)-Goa and other allied workers till last month,” state epidemiologist Dr Utkarsh Betodkar said. Goa reported seven Covid-19 cases, all of whom have been cured. Since April 3, no new case has been detected even as over 350 samples are tested every day. However, the state cannot afford to be lax in implementing measures. With the easing of lockdown conditions, Goans stranded in various parts of the country and seafarers have started returning. Every day 200 to 250 of these are being quarantined. Betodkar said that all those entering the state are tested for Covid-19 and that testing facilities have been ramped up. In addition to a virology laboratory at Goa Medical College, a Real-Time Polymerase Chain Reaction (RTPCR) Truenat testing facility has been set-up at the two district hospitals and the Chicalim sub-district hospital. A RTPCR facility will be shortly started at the Ponda sub-district hospital. Once the testing facility at the sub-district hospital starts, Goa will be able to test about 700 samples a day, Betodkar said. In the case of the RTPCR test, a sample needs to be retested only if it tests positive. Talking about the state’s preparedness in testing more samples when the number of people arriving increases with railway service starting from Tuesday, Betodkar said that teams trained in taking swab samples have been kept ready at both district hospitals. “Only if they (those arriving) test negative for Covid-19 will they be allowed to go home. Our task is to detect a carrier before he or she mixes in society,” he said. Betodkar said that, as per protocol, all entering Goa from various parts of the country are tested and placed in facility quarantine until their results are known. Those returning from overseas are quarantined for 14 days. He said they have adequate quantities of personal protection gears for frontline workers as also laboratory kits sufficient for three months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/more-than-2000-docs-nurses-trained-since-feb/articleshow/75685293.cms||Bindiya Chari
May 12, 2020||Pune||Late by 30 minutes, seven miss special train||PUNE: A 30-minute delay in reaching Dattawadi police station on Monday kept seven youths from boarding the special train to Madhya Pradesh. They could not return to their shelters in Pune as they had left without intimating their employer. Anshul Rai, one of the youths, told TOI that they could not get transport to reach the police station. "We had to walk up to the police station from Parvati industrial estate,” he said. By that time, the bus arranged by the police had left for the railway station. All seven work for a sweet shop. Vivek Rai, another worker, said their employer had been taking care of them. Sub-inspector of the Dattawadi police Kuldeep Sankpal told TOI, "We are in the process of making arrangements for those who could not go on Monday."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/late-by-30-minutes-seven-miss-special-train/articleshow/75684735.cms||Mihir Tanksale
May 12, 2020||Pune||Duo booked for slapping policewoman in Pune||PUNE: Two young men were booked on Sunday by the Yerawada police on the charge of threatening and slapping a woman beat marshal in the evening. Both men belong to police families. Police said the incident occurred in the evening when the beat marshal confronted the youths for loitering in front of the Vishrantwadi police colony without masks. “The woman beat marshal, attached to the Vishrantwadi police station, had received a call from the city police control room around 7.20pm about two youths quarrelling in front of the police colony in an inebriated condition. She reached the spot and asked the duo to stop fighting. The duo told her that they belong to family of police constables and one of them slapped her when she asked them to go home,” an officer from the Yerawada police said. “The policewoman then summoned help from the nearby police station and the duo was booked ,” the officer added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/duo-booked-for-slapping-policewoman/articleshow/75684743.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Brass craftspersons stare at a bleak future||Kendrapada: Around 1,500 brass craftspersons of Jajpur district, which is a Covid-19 hotspot, are staring at a bleak future with no takers for their wares. “Around 45 families of our village earn their livelihood by making brass items. But sales became zero with the lockdown. We were not even included in the economic package announced by the Centre and state government,” said Biswanath Behera, an artisan of the village in Rasulpur block. Businessman and people visit these villages to buy brass items but the lockdown has forced them to postpone their visit. “Artisans have also stopped working with no takers. Workers are reluctant to come to work,” said Brunadaban Sahoo of Kundapatana. This craft has passed on through generations in Atalapur, Samantarapur, Laxminagar, Kundapatana, Balipatana, Kulugaon and other villages in Rasulpur block. The trade was already hit with the advent of stainless steel, aluminium and plastic utensils. “I learnt the art of making brass items from my father. In our village, around 120 families used to make brass items two decades back. But now only 40 families are doing so,” said Jagannath Sahoo of Atalpur. He said earlier a craftsperson used to earn Rs 5,000 to Rs 20,000 a month but now they have to do other odd jobs to earn their livelihood. They make flower vases, photo frames and ornamental buntings. With vastu shastra and feng shui becoming popular, people prefer to buy brass bells, laughing buddhas, turtles, frogs and dragons. “But Covid-19 has dealt a body blow to our hopes,” said Priya Ranjan Kar, secretary of Odisha Shilpi Mahasangha, while demanding a package for the craftspersons.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/brass-craftspersons-stare-at-a-bleak-future/articleshow/75682857.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Delhi||1,500 CISF men call Delhi metro stations their home||NEW DELHI: For over 1,500 Central Industrial Security Force personnel, Delhi Metro stations are home for the time being. By also spending their non-duty hours at the station, the men hope to reduce the risk of Covid-19 infection while commuting for work. The securitymen have been given light bedding kits and other essentials, while meals are brought from the CISF mess. CISF officers said that around 10 personnel were deployed at each station even though train operations were currently halted by the Covid lockdown. They secure the empty premises and check the Delhi Metro staff and officials arriving for maintenance and sanitation activities. They also monitor the station premises periodically through patrolling and on CCTV for any unusual activity. Any abnormal situation is reported to the control room. Till May 11, of the 66 CISF personnel testing positive for the novel coronavirus, 19 were posted with the metro network. An officer explained that the decision to house the security men at the stations was taken to reduce the risk of transmission when commuting every day. CISF personnel are required to travel to the metro station of posting from as afield as Noida, Ghaziabad and Gurgaon. “We hope this step will prevent operational efficiency from being affected,” the officer added. The move is temporary. “Right now, 8-10 people are deployed and there is space for their stay at the stations. When normal operations resume, around 30 will be posted at each station and we cannot continue with this,” said the officer. While train operations ceased after March 22, the 389-km network with 285 stations is open to keep the system in working mode. “CISF continues to guard the stations round the clock. It has been agreed that to avoid transportation and logistical issues, the security personal posted at each station can continue to stay at these stations during the lockdown period,” confirmed Anuj Dayal, executive director (corporate communications), Delhi Metro Rail Corporation. “However, their food will be brought to each station from their mess.” Earlier too, before the shutdown of services, six-eight CISF men used to stay at metro stations during their night shift, Dayal said, adding that the present arrangement is only till the start of revenue services for the public resumes. DMRC is making sure there is uninterrupted power supply at all metro stations and depots as illumination for CISF personnel, station control room, toilets and galleries. The urban rail company is also ensuring functional water pumps so there is no lack of water in the toilets. All communication systems like radio sets, intercom, etc, have also been kept in working mode along with CCTV cameras in the lockdown period. Power supply is available for all the metro corridors via DMRC’s 26 receiving sub-stations. Limited power supply is also kept available at night to prevent thieves from entering the stations. Not all metro stations are manned by DMRC staff round the clock. Only the terminal stations on the various corridors, depot entry/exit stations and interchange stations are manned 24x7 by the metro staff in shifts. Elsewhere on most of the 285 stations, the round-the-clock monitoring is carried out by CISF personnel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/1-5k-cisf-men-call-metro-stns-their-home/articleshow/75684760.cms||Sidharatha Roy
May 12, 2020||Rajkot||Rajkot discharges 17 people, including a month-old infant girl||Rajkot: The city on Monday sent home 17 people from the Civil Hospital, prime among them being a one-and-half-month-old baby girl, along with her parents Seema, 18, and Arifbhai Piludia, 25. Along with the trio, all the other patients too hailed from city’s Covid hotspot, Jangleshwar area. The baby was the first to be infected with Covid, said doctors, after which the parents too contracted the disease and were admitted to the hospital around April 25. The city so far has registered 63 positive cases, of which 48 people have been discharged. In Jamnagar, three people with travel history, including a journalist, tested positive on Monday. The district has 29 positive cases so far. A 49-year-old woman from Palitana tested positive on Monday, taking the total to 95 in Bhavnagar. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/rajkot-discharges-17-people-including-a-month-old-infant-girl/articleshow/75682870.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Allahabad||Govt guidelines for special trains||Prayagraj: A day after announcing its decision to ply 15 passenger trains during the nationwide lockdown, the railway ministry has issued detailed guidelines to be followed to run these special trains. The instructions have been notified to principal chief commercial managers of all 17 zonal railways of the country. Informing about the important points of the letter, chief public relations officer (CPRO), North Central Railways (NCR), Ajit Kumar Singh said, “The structure and time-table of these special train shall be similar to that of regular Rajdhani train, and the tickets shall be booked only online on IRCTC website or mobile app with advance reservation period of a maximum of seven days”. Moreover, passengers will only be issued confirmed tickets as there would neither be RAC or waiting list tickets nor there will be any ticket checking staff onboard. “Passengers with confirmed tickets shall be allowed to enter the premises of all the stations to catch the train and there would not be any current booking, tatkal or premium tatkal booking for these trains”, Singh said. According to instruction, the allotment of seats en-route stations will be as per the regular time table train and in case regular stoppages have not been provisioned, the quota for the stoppage shall be transferred to the previous schedule stoppages.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/govt-guidelines-for-special-trains/articleshow/75682630.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Mumbai||Now, Karnataka allows workers from Maharashtra; huge rush for buses||MUMBAI: As Karnataka finally withdrew its objection to receiving migrants from Maharashtra, a train was slotted to leave from Thane for Kalaburgi in the southern state on Monday. Sixty-six trains have left Maharashtra so far with around 73,132 passengers. The bulk of trains have gone to Uttar Pradesh and Bihar from the state. Meanwhile, there was a huge rush of passengers at various MSRTC depots on Monday morning, including Parel and Nalasopara. MSRTC dropped and picked up 11,866 migrants to and from state borders on Monday. As many as 21,714 commuters have been ferried free of cost over three days. Those stranded hoped to catch a free ST bus to the border too, though the earlier scheme of inter-district travel had been paused. “I have appealed to people not to come to bus depots but to register themselves at police stations. We will be discussing the norms for inter-district travel and will make an announcement soon,” said state transport minister Anil Parab. Officials said 10,000 people were ferried on free ST buses over two days. Parab said the scheme for free inter-district travel by ST buses had to be scrapped after districts in the green zone were reluctant to accept passengers from red zones. “We had three lakh requests for travel from Mumbai to Konkan alone,” said Parab. Workers employed in industrial units in Virar, Boisar, Jawhar and Dahanu made a beeline for ST depots. At Nalasopara, thousands gathered at the depot outside the railway station, demanding buses for Konkan, Marathwada and Vidarbha. People said they are finding it difficult to meet their daily expenses and want to return to their villages. “Hundreds of people from my district work in Mumbai and all want to get back home,” said Arjun Barwale from Jalna. Others wanted to be transported to the border. A day earlier, ST buses picked up several migrants from the national highways and ferried them till the Madhya Pradesh border free of cost. “I presumed that the ST bus will take us till the state border,” said Akash Singh, a waiter who came to the Parel bus depot. Meanwhile, the authorities are flooded with applications from migrants to return to their home states and districts. Around 1.9 lakh people filled the forms in Palghar district alone that caused systems to crash for two days. (With inputs from Sandhya Nair)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/now-karnataka-allows-workers-from-maha-huge-rush-for-buses/articleshow/75684756.cms||Priyanka Kakodkar
May 12, 2020||Nashik||Malegaon needs more docs to treat Covid patients||Nashik: The Malegaon Municipal Corporation (MMC) is in dire need of more doctors, nurses and paramedical staff to treat patients suffering from coronavirus. MMC commissioner Dipak Kasar had written to the state health department a few days ago requesting the latter to provide more doctors, nurses and paramedical staff as quickly as possible since Covid-19 cases are rapidly increasing in the textile town in Nashik district. MMC will require 30 more allopathic doctors, 50 Ayush doctors, 100 nurses, 10 X-Ray technicians and 10 path laboratory assistants.  “MMC will be requiring more doctors, nurses and paramedics since plans are afoot to set up more Covid care centres and hospital. The Covid care centre at the Haj House is almost ready. We will need doctors, nurses and other health care workers to start that new facility,” said MMC officials. Recently, Aasif Shaikh, the former Congress MLA of Malegaon Central, had requested the state health minister Rajesh Tope to provide more doctors and nurses for Malegaon as Covid-19 cases in the town was rising constantly. “Tope had asked me to instruct MMC to send a written request to his department about the additional manpower requirements. Following which MMC has sent its requirements. I am sure that the state health department would provide us with more manpower in the near future,” added Shaikh.12 fresh cases reported in MalegaonOn Monday, the textile town reported 12 fresh Covid-19 cases. With this, the total number of Covid-19 case rose to 547 in Malegaon. As many as 11 Covid-19 cases were reported on Monday afternoon and one more case was reported at 7pm on Monday.A 10-day-old baby girl is among the 12 patients.Other casesApart from that, two jawans of State Reserve Police Force, posted in Malegaon to enforce the lockdown, tested positive for Covid-19. A 5-day-old boy from Lasalgaon in Nashik rural areas and a person whose place of the residence is yet to be known tested positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/malegaon-needs-more-docs-to-treat-covid-patients/articleshow/75682869.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Kanpur||‘Collect random samples of migrants from others states’||Kanpur: Divisional commissioner Sudhir M Bobde directed the officials, specially the health authorities, to collect random samples of people coming to the city from other states. At a review meeting held with nodal officer Anil Garg, IG police Mohit Agarwal and other officials here on late Sunday evening, the commissioner also asked the authorities to collect samples of all those people who are suffering from breathing problems and are being treated at private hospitals. He directed the the district magistrate, Kanpur Nagar, additional director health and chief medical officer Dr Ashok Shukla to convene a meeting and chalk out a plan to identify such patients being treated in private hospitals. It was told in the meeting that as many as 19 hot pots are active in the city, and maximum 96 cases were found in Qul Bazar and 76 in Colonelganj. The commissioner directed the administration and police to enforce the lock down in these two areas in more effective way.  Bobde also directed the officials to prepare a 100-bedded reserve ward at LLR hospital for routine patients. DIG Anant Deo, the municipal commissioner and other officials were also present in the meeting. District magistrate Brahmadeo Ram Tiwari informed the meeting that sampling was being done on contact tracing basis . Meanwhile, CMO Dr Ashok Shukla directed superintendents of community health centres to increase sampling for random case reporting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/collect-random-samples-of-migrants-from-others-states/articleshow/75683313.cms||Anant Chandak
May 12, 2020||Coimbatore||Special train carrying 1,140 guest workers leaves for Jharkhand||Coimbatore: A special train with 1140 guest workers left Coimbatore Junction for Jharkhand on Monday. The train is expected to reach Bokaro in two days.With this, as many as six train services have so far been operated from the district to eastern states – three to Bihar, two to Uttar Pradesh and one to Jharkhand. An official from district administration said that they have planned to schedule more non-stop trains to multiple states including Assam and Odisha in the upcoming days. “Soon, we could get a train service or two every day,” an official said. Meanwhile, a video of thousands of guest workers who had gathered at Jaivabai Municipal Girls Higher Secondary School in Tirupur on Friday went viral on social media. The guest workers had gathered at the school to register in the state government’s portal in order to be eligible to travel back to their respective states.Even though workers were seen wearing masks, the huge congregation in a small place meant social distancing norms had been thrown to the winds. It was only after officials from police and revenue department reached the spot that the workers were made to fall in line. An official said that all workers were screened for Covid-19 symptoms at the school.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/special-train-carrying-1140-guest-workers-leaves-for-jharkhand/articleshow/75684063.cms||Nivedha Selvam
May 12, 2020||Bengaluru||Now, Karnataka allows workers from Maharashtra; huge rush for buses||MUMBAI: As Karnataka finally withdrew its objection to receiving migrants from Maharashtra, a train was slotted to leave from Thane for Kalaburgi in the southern state on Monday. Sixty-six trains have left Maharashtra so far with around 73,132 passengers. The bulk of trains have gone to Uttar Pradesh and Bihar from the state. Meanwhile, there was a huge rush of passengers at various MSRTC depots on Monday morning, including Parel and Nalasopara. MSRTC dropped and picked up 11,866 migrants to and from state borders on Monday. As many as 21,714 commuters have been ferried free of cost over three days. Those stranded hoped to catch a free ST bus to the border too, though the earlier scheme of inter-district travel had been paused. “I have appealed to people not to come to bus depots but to register themselves at police stations. We will be discussing the norms for inter-district travel and will make an announcement soon,” said state transport minister Anil Parab. Officials said 10,000 people were ferried on free ST buses over two days. Parab said the scheme for free inter-district travel by ST buses had to be scrapped after districts in the green zone were reluctant to accept passengers from red zones. “We had three lakh requests for travel from Mumbai to Konkan alone,” said Parab. Workers employed in industrial units in Virar, Boisar, Jawhar and Dahanu made a beeline for ST depots. At Nalasopara, thousands gathered at the depot outside the railway station, demanding buses for Konkan, Marathwada and Vidarbha. People said they are finding it difficult to meet their daily expenses and want to return to their villages. “Hundreds of people from my district work in Mumbai and all want to get back home,” said Arjun Barwale from Jalna. Others wanted to be transported to the border. A day earlier, ST buses picked up several migrants from the national highways and ferried them till the Madhya Pradesh border free of cost. “I presumed that the ST bus will take us till the state border,” said Akash Singh, a waiter who came to the Parel bus depot. Meanwhile, the authorities are flooded with applications from migrants to return to their home states and districts. Around 1.9 lakh people filled the forms in Palghar district alone that caused systems to crash for two days. (With inputs from Sandhya Nair)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/now-karnataka-allows-workers-from-maha-huge-rush-for-buses/articleshow/75687879.cms||Priyanka Kakodkar
May 12, 2020||Pune||Man held on charge of attacking cops in Pune||PUNE: The Dighi police on Sunday arrested a 45-year-old man from Bopkhel on the charge of attacking two policemen and breaking the glass window of a police vehicle. The incident occurred at Bhopkhel Phata on around 6pm on Sunday when the suspect was stopped at a check-point. “The man, under the influence of alcohol, began abusing the police personnel there for stopping him. He slapped police constable Sanjay Kamathe and hurled a stone at constable Umesh Jadhav,” sub-inspector PS Patil of Dighi police told TOI. The officer said the suspect was immediately taken into custody. “While he was being taken to the police station, he banged his head against the glass window of the police vehicle and damaged it,” Patil said. “He was released on bail on Monday,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/man-held-on-charge-of-attacking-cops/articleshow/75684750.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Goa||Overseas returnees to be charged up to Rs 3k per day for quarantine facility||Panaji: The state government is likely to charge those returning from overseas between Rs 1,000 and Rs 3,000 per day for quarantine facilities, with the exception of seafarers, whose cost will be borne by their company for minimum 14 days. The charges will depend on the hotel tariff. Quarantine facility for non-Goans returning from within India will be Rs 2,500, an order issued by both district collectors stated. Asked on the modalities that will be followed in the eventuality that all the lower tariff rooms are occupied and a person cannot afford the costlier rooms, chief minister Pramod Sawant said that as and when such issue come before us we will take necessary decision. All those entering the state, will be sent to the institutional quarantine centre for testing on arrival. “If tested positive for Covid-19 they will be shifted to the Covid hospital as per existing protocol,” the collectors stated in their order. Overseas returnees who test negative will have to undergo mandatory institutional quarantine at their own cost while those returning from within the country on testing negative will be discharged on the same day to be sent on home quarantine for 14 days, the collectors said. For those returning from within the country, “accommodation will not be charged for those persons producing proof of residential address in Goa (Goans) during their stay in the quarantine centre”, the order stated. The order is issued in supersession of the conditions as specified by various orders of the ministry of home affairs, which will also be adhered to. Food, if provided by the quarantine centre, will charged based on prevailing rates. However, inmates are allowed to make their own food arrangements. Over 5,400 Goans living in other parts of the country have registered to come back, with nearly half coming in from the neighbouring states of Karnataka and Maharashtra. Over 12,000 Goans who are stranded overseas, including seafarers, also want to return to the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/overseas-returnees-to-be-charged-up-to-rs-3k-per-day-for-quarantine-facility/articleshow/75685305.cms||Murari Shetye
May 12, 2020||Nashik||Spurt in Covid-19 cases in rural areas sparks concern||Nashik: The rural areas of Nashik district have witnessed a sudden spurt in the number of coronavirus cases in the past week, with the number of positive patients rising to 81 on Monday as against the tally of 17 on May 4, triggering concern. Officials have attributed to the over four-fold jump in the cases to violation of the lockdown rules and ignoring of the social distancing norm by people.Meanwhile, the total number of Covid-19 cases in the district has increased to 686, with Malegaon reporting the highest of 545 cases while Nashik city 39 cases.Dindori taluka reported its first Covid-positive case on May 8 and the number of cases have jumped to six — all high-risk contacts of the patient. “Yeola has witnessed the maximum number of cases in the Nashik rural areas, barring Nashik and Malegaon Municipal Corporations, as the numbers rose to 31,” said a senior official. “It has been noticed that most of the people who tested positive have contracted the infection from Malegaon. The cases in Malegaon rural, in Manmad, include the police personnel who contracted the infection while performing duty in Malegaon,” a senior official of the zilla parishad said. “There are, however, still others who have contracted the infection because they failed to follow the lockdown and social-distancing rules across the talukas,” added the official.According to the official, there were also cases of people having been infected after had returned from Mumbai and this is worrisome. The administration is talking to the villagers and asking them to cooperate by restricting the movement of the people to cities where the infection rate is high. Except Yeola, where a large number of people have tested positive for coronavirus, cases in all other areas are so far limited. “Through 25 containment zones, which sometimes cover the entire village, we are effectively monitoring the health of the people who have come in contact with patients. Every small change in their health will be monitored by the health workers, who carry out survey in and around the house of the person who has tested positive,” said the official.The citizens of Dindori taluka , which was in the orange zone at the time of classification by the district collector, are worried because of five of the contacts of the first patient testing positive for the contagion. “It is unfortunate that a few people of a couple of a villages have been infected, though accidentally. We hope that the infection remains limited to the areas. Hope coronavirus does not take the entire taluka into its grip and disrupt life and economic activities, which are normal as of now,” said Sampat Ghuge, a resident of Dindori.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/spurt-in-covid-19-cases-in-rural-areas-sparks-concern/articleshow/75682878.cms||Abhilash Botekar
May 12, 2020||Nagpur||Janmanch complains of harassment of visitors to containment areas||Nagpur: Coming to the help of harried citizens facing hardships while entering Pandhrabodi, Ram Nagar and other areas, NGO Janmanch has demanded smooth passage for citizens, who have genuine needs, in containment areas. Since Pandhrabodi has been declared a containment zone, the police have deployed strict bandobast in the area and restricted movement of citizens. On Monday, the area witnessed serpentine queues as cops were not allowing all any visitors to enter the area. The visitors included many senior citizens, who wanted to visit the bank in the area, but they were kept waiting in the scorching heat, due to strict checking by the cops. Janmanch president Pramod Pande said the area was sealed after a Covid-19 positive patient was found in the area adjacent to LIT Gate, which opens in front of Nagpur University vice chancellor’s bungalow. “The entire area was sealed and only one entry point was allowed at Ram Nagar Square. Several citizens residing in Gokulpeth, Dharampeth and other areas have official work in containment zone. The police are allowing entry only after registering citizens, but there is only one entry point with just one person to register details of visitors. It was taking time and citizens were made to wait in the scorching heat for hours,” Pande said in a press release.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/janmanch-complains-of-harassment-of-visitors-to-containment-areas/articleshow/75684752.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Kanpur||Rs 3Cr IMFL being smuggled as medicine seized in Maharajpur||Kanpur: Liquor smugglers are trying innovative ways during Covid-19 lockdown to smuggle liquor from other states into the region and in neighbouring state Bihar. On Sunday, a gang from Haryana attempted to smuggle liquor worth Rs 3 crore in two trucks on the transport receipts of medicine and medical equipments. Police said it seized 2,000 boxes of Indian Made Foreign Liquor (IMFL) worth Rs 3 crore in Maharajpur area of the district when the consignment was being smuggled in trucks during the Covid-19 lockdown. One driver of a truck identified as Avtaar Singh Goga of Ludhiana has been arrested by a team of Special Task Force on a tip-off, the police said. Initial investigations said the liquor was being illegally transported from Haryana for supply to north east parts of the state and adjoining Bihar. The police said that they have registered a cases under Excise Act at Maharajpur police station. Circle Officer STF Tej Pratap Singh said that huge consignment of illicit liquor was being smuggled from Haryana. “We busted an interesting case on Sunday. At Kanpur- Fatehpur border, we stopped two suspicious trucks. One of the driver managed to flee while other was held. On being questioned, he showed transport receipts of medicines and medical equipments and told investigators that the trucks were carrying consignment of same to north east parts of UP and Bihar. Vehicles carrying medicines is allowed because they come under the essential items. However, on checking the two trucks, to our surprise, we found 2000 cartons that had huge numbers of bottles of liquor hidden under tarpaulin,” the police officer said. SSP/DIG Anant Deo said police deployed at the checkpost on highways particularly at the district borders, have been told to be step up vigil to put a check on smuggling of liquor. “We have instructed them to check vehicles particularly which are running in the name of essential services,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/rs-3cr-imfl-being-smuggled-as-medicine-seized-in-maharajpur/articleshow/75683296.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
May 12, 2020||Kanpur||41 patients discharged from Covid-19 hospitals in city||Kanpur: The city officials once again heaved a sigh of relief on Monday as there was no fresh case of Covid – 19 reported till late evening hours and the total tally of Covid 19 patients remained stable at 302. The total number of 41 patients got cured and were discharged on Monday from various Covid -19 hospitals at Kanshiram Trauma Centre, Lala Lajpat Rai hospital and AHM Duffrin hospital. The list included three women, who had delivered babies at AHM Duffrin hospital. The health department informed, besides as many as 30 suspected cases had completed their quarantine period at Naraina institute quarantine centre, DTS quarantine centre and EPS Convent school quarantine centre in Jajmau and they all were discharged on Monday. The total number of Covid cases remained stable at 302, total death at 7 and total number of active cases at 194, said chief medical officer Dr Ashok Shukla. 36 people who were undergoing treatment at Kanshi Ram Trauma Centre, were discharged after their two test reports came out to be negative. . Senior district and police officials including DM Brahm Ram Dev Tiwari and SSP Anant Deo reached Kanshi Ram Trauma Centre and along with medical staff bid adieu to the cured people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/41-patients-discharged-from-covid-19-hospitals-in-city/articleshow/75683275.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Goa||Goa airport preparations for resumption of passenger flights||PANAJI: The Goa International Airport, along with other major airports in the country, have received directions to prepare for commercial operations. The exact date for resuming operations remains undecided, said sources. Officials said that the Centre is working on a calibrated plan to restart scheduled flights while taking into consideration green zones and areas where the novel coronavirus is widespread. “Informally, directions have been issued to prepare for commercial flights. We can’t say when the flights will start, it could be in three days it could be after a week. Preparations are already on in Goa,” said a senior official. Officials pointed out that while all airports in the country have remained operational, scheduled passenger flights have been suspended. “Relief flights, lifeline Udan flights are landing, cargo operations are on. So where is the question of the airport being shut down,” said another official. An Airports Authority of India official in Delhi said that the civil aviation ministry and the Director General of Civil Aviation has begun preparations based on models for flights with smaller aircraft such as the Bombardier Q400 and the ATR 72-600. “Our models showed that smaller aircraft with a capacity of 70-90 passengers will be more viable for airlines in the present scenario as the passenger load will not be high. The savings on ATF will also be significant for operators, who are already facing steep losses,” said the AAI official. On May 8, Union civil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri said that opening of civil aviation operations in the country would be done in a “calibrated and slow manner” with social distancing and safety norms becoming the new normal. On Sunday, chief minister Pramod Sawant said that international flights would be allowed to land at Goa International Airport, in the coming days to facilitate the return of Goans from abroad. The BJP-led state government has already written to the Centre to allow Goans working abroad to return via direct flights to Goa. Runway maintenance complete Indian Navy has completed the maintenance and repairs of the lone runway at Goa International Airport and the runway is available all day round for operations, said sources. The maintenance activity was completed on Sunday by the Military Engineer Services (MES). The pre-monsoon maintenance of the runway began on April 25. “Around 1,500 sqm of the runway was re-done. The emergency repairs proposed have been completed, and the airfield is available for operations,” said an official. Sources said that the Navy could not take up further maintenance activity on the runway, which is used by civilian and military aircraft, due to lack of workers. “Further repairs, if need be, could be undertaken during the routine weekly maintenance scheduled every Saturday,” said a source. The pre-monsoon maintenance not only addresses the deterioration of the runway, but also helps in initiating preventive measures which allows unhindered aircraft operations during the monsoon in Goa.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-airport-preps-for-resumption-of-passenger-flights/articleshow/75685309.cms||Newton Sequeira
May 12, 2020||Nagpur||Migrants not on travel list now back at shelter homes||SLUG: Not so soon Nagpur: Shelters home in the city, which had been lying vacant after majority of the stranded migrants left for their hometowns, have now started filling up fast due to influx of people from far-off states. Hundreds of migrants from Panjri Naka were in the process of being shifted to city shelter homes as no immediate travel arrangements for them could not be made. Deputy municipal commissioner Ranjana Lade said provisions are being made for their stay. “Though the exact number is not currently available, but it will definitely be upwards of 400 easily. These are people who hail from Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand etc. The ones from Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh have left already,” said Lade. At Agrasen Bhavan, the inflow of out-of-state migrants has again started. Devendra Kumar from Livewell Foundation, which manages the shelter, said the batch comprises people from far-off states. “The first batch has been dropped off here from Panjri Naka. It’s a temporary arrangement till travel arrangements are made for them,” said Kumar. “All the other migrants who were staying with us have already reached their home states. Now, we are expecting another batch to reach our centre soon,” he said. Those from neighbouring states like MP and Chhattisgarh were being routed to their home states via buses. Kumar said, “From the naka, they are being taken to Ganeshpeth bus stop and ferried to the border. But that’s because the distance is not much. Hence, those from Bihar, Jharkhand etc will have to wait a bit till alternate arrangements are made for them.” Other centres are also on standby, though no intimation of new batches has been received. Vijay Chourasiya, who is part of the team that manages the shelter home at Jain Kalar bhavan, said, “I have checked with the manager today to see if some migrants are being sent to our place as well, but so far no instructions from NMC have been received. I believe the plan is to accommodate all of them at a large facility just outside city limits.” Nagpurians, who were stranded outside, have also started coming back. Ravindra Khajanchi, resident deputy collector, said, “Over 2,000 people have already come back to the district. We are coordinating with other districts to facilitate movement.” Divisional commissioner Sanjeev Kumar said all health guidelines for those coming back to all six districts under him are being followed. “We have a mandatory 14-day home isolation for them and these things are being handled at the district level,” said Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/migrants-not-on-travel-list-now-back-at-shelter-homes/articleshow/75684771.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
May 12, 2020||Coimbatore||Forest watcher’s body retrieved||Coimbatore: The body of forest watcher C Santhru, who was washed away on Saturday evening while retrieving the carcass of an elephant from a contour canal in Udumalpet, was recovered 14 km away from the spot on Sunday evening. As many as 120 fire and rescue services and forest department personnel were searching for the body from Saturday. Firemen found it floating two kilometres away from the Thirumurthy Dam in Udumalpet. The body was sent to the Udumalpet Government Hospital, where postmortem was conducted. It was later handed over to Santhru’s family on Monday morning. The last rites were performed at Keeramanagalam in Pudukkottai.Though the 24-year-old forest watcher was a good swimmer, he could not escape strong currents, Udumalpet range officer C Dhanabalan said. Santhru, a native of Pudukkottai, was recruited last December.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/forest-watchers-body-retrieved/articleshow/75684065.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Civic body seals Berhampur mango hub||Berhampur: The Berhampur Municipal Corporation (BeMC) authorities on Monday sealed the mango market on Andhapasara Road here — one of the biggest wholesale mango bazaars in the state — for violating Covid-19 regulations. The market will remain closed till further notice. “The mango traders violated rules by not maintaining social distance, even though we repeatedly asked them to follow guidelines prescribed by the government as well as the district administration,” said BeMC commissioner Chakravarti Singh Rathore. “As they did not obey the instructions, we had no choice but to close the market,” he added. Around 70 wholesalers trade at the market. Mangoes from Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and Telangana arrive here in trucks before being supplied to Cuttack, Bhubaneswar, Puri, Rourkela and even to West Bengal and Jharkhand. “At present, 4,000 to 5,000 tonnes of mangoes are coming from the southern states to the market daily. The quantity is expected to increase post-lockdown and in the run-up to Savitri Amabasya,” a trader said. The market saw crowds for the past few days as several retail businessmen from across the district would visit it to procure the fruit. “No social distancing was maintained,” said a BeMC official. Moreover, since the mango-laden trucks are coming from states like Andhra, Telangana and Karnataka, the fruits should have been sanitised before delivery, the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/civic-body-seals-berhampur-mango-hub/articleshow/75682889.cms||Hrusikesh Mohanty
May 12, 2020||Mumbai||Air India Dhaka-Mumbai flight lands, MSRTC ferries flyers||MUMBAI : The Air India Dhaka-Mumbai flight AI-1244 with 110 passengers on board was the only Vande Bharat Mission flight to land on Monday. It landed at 6.17pm and the next arrival was scheduled past midnight—a Newark-Mumbai flight AI-144 with 319 passengers on board. The Newark flight was to fly onwards to Ahmedabad. MSRTC has deployed 70 special buses—AC and non-AC— for passengers at the airport since Sunday. “We have been asked to ferry passengers arriving in Mumbai from various countries and take them to their respective cities and districts across Maharashtra where they belong,” said an MSRTC official. Till Monday evening, the state transport buses catered to passengers arriving in Mumbai from London, Singapore, Manila and Dhaka. As per the mandatory rule for repatriation, the MSRTC will have to drop passengers at medical camps set up by collectors at the respective districts—be it Pune, Nashik, Kolhapur, Solapur or Nagpur. The collectors will then decide on institutional quarantine in those districts, a spokesperson said. Apart from state buses, Mumbai RTOs arranged for BEST buses for those travelling to places of institutional quarantine within the city while the officials also arranged for private taxis and private buses, which were strictly asked to drop the passengers to the collector’s office or medical camps in districts outside Mumbai. A senior RTO official on duty at the airport said it was difficult to arrange private taxis and buses and demanded since the airport had a facility of private cabs, authorities should ask them to resume.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/ai-dhaka-flight-lands-msrtc-ferries-flyers/articleshow/75684775.cms||Somit Sen
May 12, 2020||Nagpur||Buses carry migrants from other states, no place for those from Maharashtra||NAGPUR: “Food is available for all of you. It’s free of charge,” announced a volunteer from a microphone at the Ganeshpeth state transport bus stand as groups of migrant workers entered slowly. The buses were lined up to take them till the check-posts on the Madhya Pradesh (MP) and Chhattisgarh border. Most of them were picked up from highways as they hitchhiked from places like Hyderabad, Pune, Nashik and Mumbai. As others settled waiting for their turn to board the bus, some equally weary travellers who managed to reach till Nagpur were turned back. Like workers from MP and Chhattisgarh, Raju Undirwade and four others, too, reached Nagpur by hitchhiking on the highways. Working as security guards at a metro rail site in the city, they left after survival became tough due to the lockdown. The group wanted to go to Bhandara but were not allowed to board buses which were meant only for migrants from other states. Pragati Nimgade, a student who reached Nagpur, also waited at the bus stop for her kin to pick her up. She had to go to Gadchiroli but there was no bus for her. “We can’t allow them to use these buses. These special buses will only ply till the inter-state borders,” said an officer in-charge at the station. Divisional transport officer (DTO) Tanuja Kalmegh told TOI that they had no say in the matter. The MSRTC only went by the list provided by the police. Most of the workers were heading to Seoni in MP through the Khawasa border followed by Balaghat and other places in Chhattisgarh. There was a mixed reaction among the lot. While some said they don’t plan to return soon and may even stay back up to a year, there were those who admitted that they would have to head for the cities again. “I’ll go back and till my land,” said Shankerlal, who was in the queue to board the bus for the MP border. The one-acre farm he has is enough to keep him going, he said. The others in the queue had the same answer. There were others like Tinkaram and Santosh Majhi from Chhattisgarh and Odisha respectively who said that sooner or later they will have to come back in search of work. There were groups of workers heading further to states like Uttar Pradesh (UP) and Odisha too. Mahendra and his four friends were heading for Sidharthnagar district in UP which borders Nepal. They worked in a factory at Bijapur in Karnataka. “Let’s see what happens after we reach MP. We don’t plan to come back as there is enough work in the village, though the locals who employ us don’t pay us on time,” said one of them. A senior official in Seoni district of MP said that buses have been arranged to take such passengers further ahead till borders of neighbouring states. They will be dropped till the UP border form where the state’s government will take over. “We will have to come back as our children go to schools in Pune. We are leaving because there is no work at present,” said a woman heading for her village in MP. Dhuleshwar Lanjewar, who runs a hair cutting salon in the city, was out of business after the lockdown and was heading towards Seoni, his native place. A worker in a cement plant at Yavatmal said over 3000 engaged in the unit have already left due to the corona scare. Meanwhile, near the railway station, another group of workers that had reached Nagpur from Hyderabad, was heading towards Bihar on foot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/buses-carry-migrants-from-other-states-no-place-for-those-from-mah/articleshow/75685312.cms||Shishir Arya
May 12, 2020||Surat||Two A’bad-return SRP jawans test positive in Bharuch||Surat: Two State Reserve Police (SRP) jawans, who returned from their duty in Ahmedabad to Bharuch have tested positive for Covid-19. With this, the total active cases in Bharuch district has reached to three on Monday. Health officials said that Ashok Patel, 37, and Priyavadan Vasava, 40—SRP Jawans from Roopnagar SRP camp in Bharuch’s Valia taluka—returned from duty in Ahmedabad on May 1 and were under home quarantine in the SRP campus. However, the SRP jawans developed symptoms of the virus on Sunday. The samples of both the jawans were collected, which turned out to be positive. Dr Nilesh Patel, Epidemic Medical Officer (EMO), Bharuch told TOI, “A total of 44 SRP jawans who returned from Ahmedabad are under home quarantine in the SRP camp at Valia. However, we took samples of five SRP jawans, out of which two tested positive on Monday.” Both jawans have been shifted in the Jayaben Modi Covid-19 hospital in Ankleshwar. On May 9, an 18-year-old boy, who returned from Surat, had tested positive for Covid-19 in Bharuch. Meanwhile, the district administration has declared seven villages in Valia and Jhagadia taluka—located in the vicinity of the SRP camp—as containment zones and the movement of people has been restricted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/two-abad-return-srp-jawans-test-positive-in-bharuch/articleshow/75682907.cms||---
May 12, 2020||India||Shramik Specials to carry full load, no social distancing||NEW DELHI: The Indian Railways will now run Shramik Special trains with full capacity forgoing the earlier norm of keeping the middle berth vacant to maintain social distancing. Till Monday night, the railways had ferried back home at least 6 lakh stranded migrant workers, students and tourists in 513 trains since the service was launched on May 1. The numbers will increase further as the railway ministry has decided to increase passengers in these special trains, particularly with broad-bodied LHB coaches, from the existing 1,200 to around 1,700. In a letter written by railway board joint director Ajay Pratap Singh to all general managers and chief secretaries of states, he said, “All berths will now be allotted to passengers.” The ministry has asked railway zones to provide three stoppages in the destination state other than the final stop at the request of the state government concerned. Earlier, the railways had issued guidelines saying these trains should have at least 90% occupancy to operate and to ensure social distancing middle berth should not be allotted. Justifying the move, an official said so far almost all the stranded migrant workers, students and tourists who travelled were asymptomatic and most of them have followed the norms. Middle berth in these sleeper coaches has been allotted after clearance from the health ministry and experts. Moreover, the passengers have been sensitised during the past 50 days’ lockdown and strict health protocols are followed at stations before they are allowed to go home. Another reason for the changed norm is the pressing need to ferry desperate, stranded migrants and to take steps that will discourage people from attempting to walk to their native places. “No movement will be allowed except for using the toilets,” said a source. However, more passengers in each coach is likely to add to the challenge of maintaining “do gaz ki doori”. Union railway minister Piyush Goyal tweeted on Monday morning that 468 such trains had departed from different stations since May 1. (With inputs from Arvind Chauhan in Agra)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/shramik-specials-to-carry-full-load-no-social-distancing/articleshow/75685950.cms||Dipak K Dash
May 12, 2020||Surat||Valsad ensures cops stay infection-free and fit||Surat: From temporary bathroom erected outside their homes, to warm water dispenser with salt to gargle before entering home and an electric kettle at every home are some of the preventive measures Valsad police has taken up to protect their Covid warriors.These special arrangements are extended to each of its staff members and their family members to stay free of infection. Besides these, cops have also been given face-shields made of hard plastic that can be used for few months to save themselves from coronavirus while on duty.So far, a gram rakshak dal (GRD) jawan and family members of a police constable were found Covid positive from the district. While the GRD jawan has recovered and discharged from hospital, the constable's wife and son who tested positive in Mehsana are currently in isolation. So far six persons were found infected in Valsad.“Along with the health workers, even police personnel come in contact with Covid-19 positive persons unknowingly. In such a scenario, the department is only trying to take maximum precautions and facilitating them with life saving amenities,” said Valsad superintendent of police, Sunil Joshi, talking with TOI.Made from metal sheets, the temporary bathrooms comprise a shower and cloth hanger. These have been erected outside each building in the police colonies of Valsad and Vapi. “A cop returning from duty will first have to change clothes and take a bath before they enter their individual homes. We have also provided hot water dispensers, salt and disposable glasses at the entry of the building to help each personnel gargle,” Joshi added.Total 2,800 kettle have been distributed to cops and other staff supporting them in a bid to encourage them to regularly gargle and also drink warm water. Kettles were given to 1,150 cops, including 700 GRD jawans, 625 home guard jawans, two companies of State Reserve Police (SRP), 150 traffic brigade jawans besides staff of the forest department.Sanitizer holders have been installed outside each home of policeman and they were provided facility to wash hands at each point of duty in the district. Cops have also been provided with face-shields that they can wear while dealing with people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/valsad-ensures-cops-stay-infection-free-and-fit/articleshow/75682938.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
May 12, 2020||Ludhiana||Day after ward boy, 4 others test +ve, DMCH quarantines 100 healthcare workers||Ludhiana: Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMCH) quarantined about 100 healthcare workers on Monday, a day after its 31-year-old ward-boy and four others tested Covid-19 positive.The four were walk-in patients and included a 13-year-old girl of Khanna’s Ahluwalia Mohalla, a 69-year-old woman of Gurdaspur, a 60-year-old man of Faridkot and a 53-year-old woman of Patiala’s Rajpura.DMCH medical superintendent Dr Ashwani Chaudhary said, “We have quarantined over 100 healthcare workers as a precautionary measure, for they came in contact with the five positive cases. Some, including doctors, nurses and Class IV employees, have been isolated in the hospital. As the ward-boy has tested positive, about 10 officials of the isolation ward have been recommended quarantine. Their samples will be taken after five days. If they test positive, they will be put up in the isolation ward. The ward-boy, a resident of Haqikat Nagar in Haibowal Kalan, has mild symptoms of fever and cough.”The ward-boy had attended to a Jammu man, who had succumbed to the virus on May 9.DMCH secretary Prem Gupta said, “All staff members are taking full precautions. The hospital has sufficient staff as footfall has reduced by 75%.”Patient screening tightenedDMCH has started screening walk-in patients twice. Besides, transparent curtains have been put up in OPDs to check infection spread. “Patients and attendants are first screened at the entrance of the hospital and then at OPDs. As some walk-in patients had tested positive recently, the authorities decided to tighten the checks,” said a doctor.Previous walk-in cases that tested +veA 58-year-old kanungo of the revenue department had walked in DMCH with complaints of breathlessness, fever and cough. He had tested positive on April 16 and died the next day A 62-year-old woman of Basti Jodhewal was admitted to DMCH on May 2 with complaints of cough, cold and breathlessness from the past one week. She tested positive on May 2 and died the next day A 65-year-old man of Phagwara had visited DMCH on May 1 with complaints of fever and breathlessness. After he was confirmed to have contracted the virus, he succumbed on May 3A 65-year-old man of Jammu was confirmed positive on May 5. He succumbed on May 9.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/day-after-ward-boy-4-others-test-ve-dmch-quarantines-100-healthcare-workers/articleshow/75682920.cms||Mehak Jain
May 12, 2020||Cuttack||The week that changed Odisha’s coronavirus graph||BHUBANESWAR: From the first Covid-19 positive case that Odisha reported on March 15 till the return of migrant workers started on May 3, the state had reported 162 cases in around 50 days. However, in just one week after that, it added 252 cases making up more than 60% of the total cases — mostly infected returnees from Gujarat. This drastically increased the state’s corona positive count to 414. Until May 3, as many as 14 districts had not reported any positive case. By Monday, 21 of the 30 districts have reported positive cases, leaving only nine with no such case. In the week gone by, the state received more than 67,000 returnees from some of the worst-affected states such as Gujarat and Maharashtra in 29 trains and around 400 buses. Among the infected, more than 200 returned from Surat alone. The overall positive cases also include 113 who returned from West Bengal or were close contacts of those who did, 41 linked to the Nizamuddin Markaz and seven foreign returnees. In view of the mass import of positive cases, the state’s current challenge is to keep the returnees in quarantine centres so that they don’t spread the virus among the local residents. The government authorities said the heartening fact is that most of the cases that have been reported are from quarantine centres and not from among people roaming free. “Of the last 241 cases from among the 391 (when state had reported 391 cases till 12pm on Monday), only 12 were people not in the quarantine centres. The remaining 229 were in the temporary medical centres meant for recent returnees to the state where they are kept in isolation. This means spread from them to local people is less,” government spokesperson Subroto Bagchi said. He added, “The number of infected people will increase. There is no need to panic. So far, nothing has happened that the government did not anticipate. We are well prepared.” To ensure that isolated people don’t mix with their kin in the affected places, they are being kept 70km to 80km away from their villages. In Digapahandi block of Ganjam district where some Surat returnees had tried to violate the quarantine norms and enter their villages, the government swung into action and shifted them 75km away to Khallikote in the same district. Similarly, Surat returnees to Khallikote were relocated to Digapahandi. In Kandhamal, Kerala returnees to G Udayagiri were kept in quarantine centres in Baliguda and those returning to Baliguda have been kept in G Udayagiri. “In some places, spouses and mothers of the returnees tended to offer them home-made food if they are staying in a quarantine centre just outside the village. To stop family members from visiting them, some people have been kept far away from their villages,” another officer said, adding that in places where the villagers and returnees are cooperating, they are being kept in their own panchayats. Notably, the district administrations have imposed Section 144 of the CrPC outside the quarantine centres. Trying to make the stay for the returnees comfortable, they are offering them lessons on yoga and corona awareness so that they work as community health workers after the completion of isolation. The government has also been offering them 10-day work that includes cleaning and plantation for a wage of Rs 150 per day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/cuttack/the-week-that-changed-odishas-corona-graph/articleshow/75695673.cms||Ashok Pradhan
May 12, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Rape accused in isolation as survivor tests positive||NEW DELHI: A rape accused lodged at Tihar Jail was sent into isolation along with two of his co-inmates after the survivor tested positive for Covid-19 recently. A juvenile who had allegedly helped the rape accused in the crime was also put under quarantine at the juvenile home. The jail in which the rape accused is lodged has high profile inmates like Chhota Rajan and Shahabuddin staying in different cells. On Monday evening, the jail officials, however, said that the accused tested negative for the novel coronavirus. Meanwhile, Tihar Jail has intensified measures to prevent the spread of the coronavirus within the jail premises. Guidelines on enhanced social distancing rules have been issued for inmates and a special task force has been formed for contact-tracing in case if anyone is found Covid-19 positive. Tihar DG Sandeep Goel said that the rape accused was jailed in prison number-2 with two other inmates. They were jailed for different crimes. “On Friday evening, the jail officers were informed about the rape victim turning out to be Covid-19 positive after which all the three inmates were put under observation. Their samples were collected at the jail hospital and sent for the test. Though their test results have been negative, they will continue to be kept in quarantine,” Goel added. The security guards who had interacted with the accused were sent to isolation too. Jail authorities say that every jail will now have an isolation ward, apart from the usual quarantine cells, and no inmate will be allowed to leave the jail premises. Entry of new inmates will also be restricted to a few selected jails. “From now on, everyone entering the jail premises will have to undergo scanning. A medical screening guideline has been framed for all jail staff. Referrals and visits to hospitals have been restricted only to emergency cases. The entry of NGOs and non-essential services has been suspended,” a jail staff member told TOI. “Experts from well-known mental health institutes are counselling inmates and new arrestees about the benefits of quarantine facilities in the jail. Inmates are preparing sanitisers, gloves and facemasks within the jail premises itself,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/rape-accused-in-isolation-as-survivor-tests-positive/articleshow/75684785.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Bhopal||Gandhi Medical College doctors in quarantine served notice for Covid-19 protocol breach||BHOPAL: After coming into contact with a Covid-19 positive patient, seven doctors at Gandhi Medical College (GMC) here in the state capital have been issued showcause notice by the medical college administration. It is the first such notice to doctors, after recent directorate of medical education (DME) guidelines on Covid-19 and protocols for medicos at hospitals and on campus. Doctors in the largest tertiary care hospital of Madhya Pradesh have indicated their apprehension over the guidelines. “If the doctors do not take care, what do we expect from the general public. If the doctors themselves go into quarantine in such a way, who will look after the patients. Not wearing masks and not adhering to social distancing is no less a criminal offence,” said GMC dean and Hamidia hospital superintendent Dr A K Shrivastava. The seven doctors, all males, were found to be with a Covid-19 positive doctor without protective gear and precautions. The 27-year-old doctor has since been shifted to Chirayu hospital for treatment. The seven doctors are now under quarantine. Their trace contacts are also expected to be sent into quarantine. “So far, 16 medicos of GMC have tested positive for coronavirus. Almost 100 doctors and other staff have gone into quarantine. This showcause notice will serve as a stern warning and example for others”, said Dr Shrivastava. The notice to the seven doctors was issued on Saturday. They had to submit their reply within two day. On Monday, the administration had not received any reply, he added. They have been asked to respond to the allegations that they were with coronavirus positive doctor after meeting in a medical ward on May 7. They spent about two hours with the infected doctor, without wearing any protective gear in room number 79 of hostel block F. It is not clear how the Covid-19 positive doctor was present in the hostel block. The notice, cited DME guidelines for the need of social distancing and wearing protective gear for the medicos. It also termed the situation as one of gross negligence and lack of discipline. The doctors have since been categorised as ‘high risk’ for the deadly virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/gmc-docs-in-quarantine-served-notice-for-covid-protocol-breach/articleshow/75684067.cms||Jamal Ayub
May 12, 2020||Kanpur||1,200 students of coaching institutes sent back to homes||Kanpur: Smiles came back on the faces of around 1200 coaching students when they were sent back to their homes on Monday. The students, after being brought from Kakadeo and Rawatpur areas to the labour welfare centre park in Shastri Nagar, were sent to their destinations after competing the necessary formalities. According to a district administration source, around 1200 students of different professional courses and competitive examinations coaching institutes were facing food and money related problems after the lockdown and had appealed to the administration to send them back to their homes. The officials, considering their requests, decided to send them to their homes. Kakadeo and Swarup Nagar police team along with Rapid Action Force was deployed at the labour welfare centre park from where the students were to board buses. The students were examined before they boarded the bus. Additional city magistrate (Six) Abhishek Singh said, “Since the state government had taken the initiative to send the student safely to their houses, their journey was absolutely free. A mask, lunch and a bottle of drinking water was given to them. “Around 40 buses were flagged off for Ambedkar Nagar, Mau, Ghazipur, Basti, Ballia, Kannauj, Farrukhabad, Shahjahanpur , Hardoi and other districts of the state, he added. Rajesh Singh, a student said that he and his friends had been trapped in the lockdown . “Our parents were worried about our health and other problems . Now, we will be able to reach our homes”, he said . The students thanked the administration for considering their appeal. BJP MLA Surendra Maithani too reached there to supervise the arrangements.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/1200-students-of-coaching-institutes-sent-back-to-homes/articleshow/75683338.cms||Anant Chandak
May 12, 2020||Nashik||99 buses from Nashik pressed into service to carry migrants||Nashik: A fleet of 99 MSRTC buses from Nashik picked up migrant workers from different parts of the state on Monday and dropped them off at the Madhya Pradesh borders free of charge.In Mumbai and Thane, hundreads of migrant workers continued to pour out onto the streets for the fourth day on Monday, forcing the state government to operate the buses for them till the Madhya Pradesh borders in the absence of any special train in the region. While most workers started walking on Friday, the state government, on Saturday, night ordered the MSRTC to pick them up and drop them off at the border.“The MSRTC is carrying the workers free of cost till the Madhya Pradesh border. From there, they can go to their homes in MP, Uttar Pradesh and even Bihar and Odisha. Each bus is carrying 22 passengers only for the entire route to ensure social distancing,” said an MSRTC official. Each seat is occupied by one person and they are seated in a zig-zag manner in the buses, which also have hand sanitizers. At least 18 buses started from Nashik 1 depot which meant they picked up workers from Trimbakeshwar (coming in from Palghar side) Igatpuri (Thane side). A buses were also sent to Kasara, where the workers had came walking along the tracks.A set of 13 buses originated services from Sinnar, Nashik Road and other parts of the city, four buses started from Manmad bus depot, eight from Igatpuri, nine from Lasalgaon and 11 others from Pimpalgaon. A total of 63 buses left Nashik with the migrants towards the MP border.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/99-buses-from-nashik-pressed-into-service-to-carry-migrants/articleshow/75683002.cms||Abhilash Botekar
May 12, 2020||Bhubaneswar||The week that changed Odisha’s coronavirus graph||BHUBANESWAR: From the first Covid-19 positive case that Odisha reported on March 15 till the return of migrant workers started on May 3, the state had reported 162 cases in around 50 days. However, in just one week after that, it added 252 cases making up more than 60% of the total cases — mostly infected returnees from Gujarat. This drastically increased the state’s corona positive count to 414. Until May 3, as many as 14 districts had not reported any positive case. By Monday, 21 of the 30 districts have reported positive cases, leaving only nine with no such case. In the week gone by, the state received more than 67,000 returnees from some of the worst-affected states such as Gujarat and Maharashtra in 29 trains and around 400 buses. Among the infected, more than 200 returned from Surat alone. The overall positive cases also include 113 who returned from West Bengal or were close contacts of those who did, 41 linked to the Nizamuddin Markaz and seven foreign returnees. In view of the mass import of positive cases, the state’s current challenge is to keep the returnees in quarantine centres so that they don’t spread the virus among the local residents. The government authorities said the heartening fact is that most of the cases that have been reported are from quarantine centres and not from among people roaming free. “Of the last 241 cases from among the 391 (when state had reported 391 cases till 12pm on Monday), only 12 were people not in the quarantine centres. The remaining 229 were in the temporary medical centres meant for recent returnees to the state where they are kept in isolation. This means spread from them to local people is less,” government spokesperson Subroto Bagchi said. He added, “The number of infected people will increase. There is no need to panic. So far, nothing has happened that the government did not anticipate. We are well prepared.” To ensure that isolated people don’t mix with their kin in the affected places, they are being kept 70km to 80km away from their villages. In Digapahandi block of Ganjam district where some Surat returnees had tried to violate the quarantine norms and enter their villages, the government swung into action and shifted them 75km away to Khallikote in the same district. Similarly, Surat returnees to Khallikote were relocated to Digapahandi. In Kandhamal, Kerala returnees to G Udayagiri were kept in quarantine centres in Baliguda and those returning to Baliguda have been kept in G Udayagiri. “In some places, spouses and mothers of the returnees tended to offer them home-made food if they are staying in a quarantine centre just outside the village. To stop family members from visiting them, some people have been kept far away from their villages,” another officer said, adding that in places where the villagers and returnees are cooperating, they are being kept in their own panchayats. Notably, the district administrations have imposed Section 144 of the CrPC outside the quarantine centres. Trying to make the stay for the returnees comfortable, they are offering them lessons on yoga and corona awareness so that they work as community health workers after the completion of isolation. The government has also been offering them 10-day work that includes cleaning and plantation for a wage of Rs 150 per day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/the-week-that-changed-odishas-corona-graph/articleshow/75682927.cms||Ashok Pradhan
May 12, 2020||Nagpur||New policy could see 185 of 196 Covid-19 patients in Nagpur go home||NAGPUR: If state health department adopts the revised discharge policy of Covid-19 patients issued by the Ministry of health and Family Welfare, more than 90% of the patients admitted in the isolation wards of two government hospitals in city can go home in next three days. To be precise, 185 of total 196 active positive cases in Nagpur can be discharged because most of them are pre-symtomatic and some have very mild or mild symptoms. The term pre-symptomatic is used for those who have tested positive 19 but are not showing any symptoms. It’s not that such patients are ‘asymptomatic’, but that they develop symptoms later and start transmitting the virus 24 to 48 hours before they develop symptoms. According to the new policy, pre-symptomatic patients and those having mild/very mild infection can be discharged after ten days of symptom onset and if there is no fever for three days. There will be no need for testing prior to discharge. At present, patients are tested twice – on 14th and 15th day of isolation— and discharged only if the swab samples test Covid-19 negative both times. According to new policy, patient discharged after 10 days will have to be in home isolation for further seven days. Earlier, after 14 days of isolation at hospital, patients had to follow another 14 day home quarantine. On the same line, more than 75% of the active Covid-19 cases in Vidarbha region are pre-symtomatic or having mild symptoms. All of them could be benefitted by this policy. Vidarbha had 666 total cases on May 11, with 201 already discharged and 33 deaths. This means, more than 320 patients in Vidarbha might get discharged in next three days. Taking a step forward, the revised guidelines make patients having moderate infection eligible for discharge in ten days, if their symptoms resolve within three days and they maintain oxygen saturation above 95% for the next four days. Nagpur has nine patients showing moderate symptoms at present. However, the policy needs to be locally accepted and implemented. It depends on the state health department, district administration and the civic body whether to accept and implement it. In Nagpur, the revised policy has not been adopted till May 11. But it is likely to be adopted soon with the notification by district authorities and civil surgeon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/new-policy-could-see-185-of-196-covid-19-patients-in-city-go-home/articleshow/75685338.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
May 12, 2020||Nagpur||Lockdown & corona fear stopping them from bidding last goodbye to loved ones||Nagpur: The fear of the coronavirus, the lockdown and the limit of 20 are stopping people from saying their final goodbyes to their loved ones. It’s emotionally more painful for those who could not make it for the funeral or the last rites of their parents or family members as travelling from one city to another was impossible despite a pass as public transport — road, rail and air — had come to a standstill. Sangeeta Mangalkar, who lost her father, will carry the bitterness for life as she could not see him for one last time. “We couldn’t even travel by car. Getting emergency passes was not easy. The body couldn’t be kept for many days. I wish it was easy to travel by car. I was having cough and cold and hence, doctors advised me against travelling,” she said. City businessman Inderjeet Singh Baweja lost his elder brother on April 26. The deceased’s sisters couldn’t say their final goodbyes. The Bawejas were, however, firm on following the norms issued by the government and made sure that not more than 20 were present for the last rites. “Our other relatives joined us for the last rites, but sadly, my sisters could not come from Delhi. We also requested many of our well-wishers not to come over to our residence due to the norms. It’s heartbreaking because all the family members could not be present,” said Baweja. Mangal Raut has been working at a crematorium for over 20 years. He said that the number of visitors has reduced drastically, from an average 135-140 to 40-50. “Every month, 100-odd deceased are brought for cremation, but now, the numbers have gone down. Not more than 20 people come for the last rites of a deceased. It’s good that people are following the rules, but it’s also sad at the same time,” said Raut. Not a single patient, who has died of a heart problem, sugar or any other health issue, has been cremated at the ghat since the lockdown. “As people are at home, life expectancy has increased. They are happy and have all the facilities,” feels Raut. Dr Harshwardhan Barihat lost his father on May 5. Many of his relatives could not make it to the city to pay their last respects. “Getting emergency passes and travelling overnight was not feasible for them. Many of our family members live in the city, but still could not attended the last rites as only 20 are allowed,” he said. Cop Shashikant Awasthi lost his mother, but made sure that rules weren’t broken. His mother’s sisters and close friends could not bid her adieu. “Travelling across the state is very risky. It was a painful situation. We haven’t immersed the ashes yet. We need family support.” he said and made sure that the 10th and 13th day custom of feeding family members was performed with covid distancing. Rajesh Paunikar’s close friend passed away a few days back. Despite being in town, he chose not to attend the last rites as his friend’s 15-20 relatives were already present. “The fear of the pandemic has become so rigid in our brains that we ourselves avoid going to public places. I couldn’t attend the last rites of my dear friend as the lockdown was enforced and cops were patrolling all the streets,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/lockdown-corona-fear-stopping-them-from-bidding-last-goodbye-to-loved-ones/articleshow/75685113.cms||Shreya Tinkhede
May 12, 2020||Nagpur||Migrants need not pay a penny for travel: CP||Nagpur: City police chief BK Upadhyay, who interacted with migrants at Panjri toll naka on NH 7 on Monday, assured them that they would not have to shell out any money for their travel back home. City police have so far facilitated more than 5,000 stranded labourers’ return to their native places during the lockdown in about 50 buses provided by the government and also private transporters. One of the biggest camps for stranded migrants has been set by the city police at Panjri toll naka, which is one of the seven entry and exit points of the city, converting it into a makeshift interstate bus terminal. Additional CP Nilesh Bharne and his team has roped in some NGOs and volunteers to provide medical facilities, food and water to the stranded people for the last few days after government had asked the department to facilitate the movement of the migrants. Upadhyay also promised the labourers to ensure their passage to home at the earliest once the respective district administrations in different states approved their homecoming applications sent from here. The CP, being an additional DG, enjoys the rank equivalent to state chief secretary. He said all the expenses are borne by the government for the labourers’ travel. The top cop also requested the labourers, especially from states like Jharkhand, Bihar, Uttar Pradesh etc, to remain at the shelter homes till the city police received approval from their district administration. The CP said police would ensure that stranded labourers at the shelter homes are looked after and their needs fulfilled. Upadhyay said migrant labourers are being looked after by his team, NGOs and volunteers in an exemplary manner. “The labourers from Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh would be shifted to Ganeshpeth bus depot through shuttle services. The state transport buses would take these labourers to the state borders free of cost,” he said. “At the Panjri camp, we are conducting thermal screening too,” he said after the visit. He was accompanied by Bharne, zonal DCP Nirmala Devi, senior PI Vijay Akot of Beltarodi police station. Migrant labourers from faraway states would be sent by train and their travel cost would be borne by the state government through chief minister’s special fund. “No one would demand any travel cost from the labourers,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/migrants-need-not-pay-a-penny-for-travel-cp/articleshow/75684801.cms||Soumitra Bose
May 12, 2020||Ludhiana||17 more test positive, most are from RPF||Ludhiana: Seventeen men tested Covid-19 positive late on Monday evening when their reports were received from virology lab of Rajindra Hospital, Patiala. Two days after two Railway Protection Force (RPF) personnel tested positive, 38 of their colleagues were quarantined at Meritorious School, Civil Lines. Deputy commissioner Pradeep Kumar Aggarwal said, “As many as 111 samples were sent to Rajindra Hospital, of which 17 patients have tested positive. Of them, 14 are RPF men, two are Majnu Ka Tilla, Delhi, returnees and one is a 91-year-old Jalandhar man. We are compiling other reports. Of them, only two cases (Delhi returnees) are from Ludhiana.”To date, 4,173 samples have been taken in the district, reports of 3,975 have been received and 3,780 were negative. Out of total positive cases of 175, as many as 40 are from other districts. A total of 13 patients have been declared cured and 10 deaths have been reported in the district, including one each from Barnala, Jammu, Jalandhar and Phagwara. He said at present, there were 133 active cases in the district. Agrawal said, “Every employee of the district administration is working 24x7 to check the spread of Covid-19 and the situation is completely under control. The residents must stay indoors and follow all directions of the Punjab government.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/17-more-test-positive-most-are-from-rpf/articleshow/75682931.cms||Mehak Jain
May 12, 2020||Mangaluru||Party@island: Coastal cops seek action against 7||Udupi: The Coastal Security Police (CSP) has urged Udupi DC G Jagadeesha to act against seven people who violated lockdown norms by spending time on St Mary’s Island on Saturday. Jagadeesha is ex-officio chairman of Malpe Beach Development Authority that also takes care of maintenance and tourist activities at the island, 7km off Malpe coast. The island is off limits for people for 12 hours from 7pm. In a report submitted to the DC, R Chethan, SP, CSP, said that seven persons were found on the island past 7pm when CSP personnel visited the island following a complaint by Yogish Salian, councillor of Vadabandeshwara ward of Udupi CMC. Sudesh Shetty, manager of the authority, was present in the island along with Devanand, Nandakishore K R, Sachin Y Kumar, Panduranga P Kunder, Sachin and Raghava. They had allegedly gone to the beach on Hanuma Vithobha, the boat bearing registration No. IND KA-02 MO-1877. Chethan told TOI that all seven were then brought to CSP station at Malpe and questioned. “I have requested the Udupi DC to take action against them for violation of tender conditions (pertaining to beach and island maintenance) and for staying on the island when lockdown was in force,” the SP said. Jagadeesha said he will go through the report submitted by CSP SP and initiate action against Sudesh and others. Sudesh had told police inspector of CSP Malpe station that they had gone to the island to dismantle equipment prior to monsoon, but could not return in time to the mainland due to high tide. However, the island showed telltale signs of a party, not lending credence to their claim of being there officially. Their presence and the alleged party would have gone unnoticed had some people on the shore not noticed electric lights on the island around 9.30pm. When the lights were on at the same spot around 11pm, they informed Malpe police and CSP. The presence of cars of Sudesh and another belonging to Nirmithi Kendra at the Malpe jetty confirmed doubts of police on the information received.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/partyisland-coastal-cops-seek-action-against-7/articleshow/75681808.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
May 12, 2020||Ludhiana||Ludhiana cops sing to inspire, spread message||Ludhiana: Singing has been their passion since childhood. But, unable to eke out a living off singing, they decided to join the police force. Sub-inspector Nirmal Singh Toor and constable Sandeep Singh of Ludhiana police are now using their art to bolster the morale of force and spread awareness about Covid-19. SI Nirmal, 53, who is deputed at the residence of inspector general of police, Ludhiana range, Jaskaran Singh, has released four songs related to Covid-19, including two songs dedicated to ACP Anil Kohli, who succumbed to Covid-19, and Patiala ASI Harjeet Singh, whose hand was chopped off by curfew violators, and a poem dedicated to Jodhewal SHO SI Arshpreet Kaur Grewal, who defeated coronavirus.Similarly, constable Sandeep Singh, 25, who is deputed as the gunman of deputy commissioner of police (headquarters) Dr Akhil Chaudhary, has recorded his first song, “Eh vi bacheya wale ne”, dedicating it to the cops of Punjab. Sandeep has a master’s degree in music.Speaking to TOI, SI Nirmal of Manakwal, who has already recorded a few songs during his service with the police department, is also the lyricist of these songs. His song on ACP Anil Kohli, “Je disda hunda corona, tuhanu haran na dinde” (We would not allowed you to see the defeat, if we could see corona), is being appreciated by one and all.He said, “I learnt singing for a few years, alongside my duties. I have written and sung songs on outbreak of Covid-19 pandemic. But, my song on ASI Harjeet Singh ‘Main vi Harjeet Singh’ and the one dedicated to ACP Anil Kohli are being liked the most.” The cop, who is currently deputed at a check-post near Baddowal village, said his son Gurmehar Singh is also fond of music and edits his songs.Constable Sandeep Singh, who hails from Rajpura, shared, “I have been into singing since childhood. I represented my school and colleges at different platforms in singing competitions and also took part in youth festivals. However, I knew that I won’t be able to earn a living from singing, so I decided to join the police force.“In 2016, I joined Punjab Police as a constable, but singing stayed in my heart. I am deputed with DCP Dr Akhil Chaudhary, who knew that I am MA in music and fond of singing. During Covid-19, when police started adopting different ways to make people aware of the disease, DCP Sir asked me to sing a song for it, and I could not refuse. So, I approached my friends Gulam Ali, who is the lyricist of this song, and Ujjwal Soni, who has given music.”Constable Sandeep’s song “Eh vi bacheya wale ne, eh vi tabran wale ne” (They too have children and family) is dedicated to all cops who leave their families back home to performing their duty with full dedication amid Covid-19 threat. The song says they too miss their families, but their duty is to save others, and that despite their sacrifices, they are judged and abused. The song will be uploaded on YouTube on May 13.DCP (headquarters) Chaudhary said, “Sandeep had once said he has got a degree in music. The Ludhiana police are already trying different ways to make residents aware. So, I thought, we can release a song. Sandeep has good voice. In future too, we will use his talent for different projects.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/ludhiana-cops-sing-to-inspire-spread-message/articleshow/75682952.cms||Payal Dhawan
May 12, 2020||Kanpur||Migrant woman delivers baby under roadside tree||Jhansi: A 26-year-old woman migrant labourer, who along with a dozen others was marching on foot from Dhar in MP towards Lalitpur, gave birth to a baby girl under a roadside tree in Balabheat village of Lalitpur district on Saturday. Both the mother and child are said to be doing well. Reports said a group of migrant labourers was walking on foot towards their village in Lalitpur from Pritampur area of Dhar district in MP after the factory in which they were working was closed because of lockdown. “While walking 500 kms back towards their home village, Barkhariya, under Bar police station jurisdiction, they settled down for rest in Balabheat village of Lalitpur district on MP-UP border,” said an official. Here, as per one of the migrants, Tantu, his wife Rajabeti was preparing food during the short break when she went into labour and after sometime delivered a baby girl under a tree. She was assisted by her husband and some women in the group. Meanwhile, when the village head of Balabheat came to know about the news, he summoned a medical team from nearby primary health centre (PHC). The team provided immediate medical aid to the mother and the newborn and then took them to the hospital from where they were discharged on Sunday. CMO Lalitpur Dr Pratap Singh said, “The woman had delivered a healthy baby girl before our medical team reached the site. Later, both the mother and the newborn were given medical assistance on the spot and shifted to PHC. Both are safe and have been sent to their destination on an ambulance.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/migrant-woman-delivers-baby-under-roadside-tree/articleshow/75683371.cms||Arindam Ghosh
May 12, 2020||Meerut||22 of a family linked to one vegetable vendor test Covid +ve in Meerut||Meerut: At least 22 people from a family have tested positive for Covid-19 in Meerut. The cases have surfaced from Ravindra Puri - from where the first positive patient had died last week.Apart from these 22, a private doctor, resident of Saket, has been found positive. In all, at least 29 people have tested positive from Ravindra Puri. The first positive patient used to have a vegetable makeshift cart at Naveen Sabzi Mandi. Out of the total 22, 16 tested positive on Saturday - all contacts of the first positive case. And five more tested positive on Sunday.This is the biggest chain in Meerut so far – and also a hotspot with the maximum number of cases. Apart from the 22 cases from one family, as many as seven other cases from Ravindra Puri have already tested positive in the past few days. While the first positive tested person died on May 6, others continue to battle against the deadly virus. All the other family members reside nearby.“We are conducting sampling and have identified the contacts. The samples of suspected cases have been sent for testing. At least 72 people have been quarantined so far. Travel history of the suspected as well as confirmed cases is being checked,” said Dr Vishwas Chaudhary, Meerut district surveillance officer.Notably, the first positive case was a vegetable vendor who died earlier. The number of vegetable vendors infected with the disease is on the rise. Initially, 24 people linked with Naveen Sabzi Mandi had tested positive, followed by 22 from the same family, while four more cases emerged on May 8 – from Brahmpuri, Sardhana and Rohta, taking the total cases linked to vegetable vendors to 50.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/22-of-a-family-linked-to-one-vegetable-vendor-test-covid-ve-in-meerut/articleshow/75682953.cms||Ishita Bhatia
May 12, 2020||Trichy||36 discharged from Ariyalur GH, first set of Koyambedu cluster||Trichy: As many as 36 Covid-19 patients including those from the Koyambedu cluster were discharged from the Ariyalur government hospital on Monday. This is the first mass discharge in the district ever since the Koyambedu returnees spiked the number of cases in the district. The 36 people discharged from Ariyalur GH, include 24 who had returned from Chennai and labourers at the Koyambedu vegetable market. Similarly, 12 others were contacts of the Chennai and Koyambedu returnees. Three drivers of 108 ambulance service and one female emergency medical technician were among those recovered. The discharged people have completed 14 days of observation ever since their swabs were collected for Covid-19 tests. Consecutive test conducted for the 36 people tested negative. With this, a total of 48 people have recovered from Covid-19 in Ariyalur district. “Still people from Chennai are returning to their native places in Ariyalur district. We are tracking them. We expect the number of people recovering from Covid-19 to increase further in Ariyalur district in the coming days,” D Rathna, district collector told TOI. Those who were discharged from Ariyalur GH on Monday were asymptomatic. They were strictly told to be in home quarantine for a period of 14 days. The recovered people attributed their recovery to the prompt treatment provided by medical professionals. Officials said the mass recovery of people has boosted the spirits of the frontline staff. As on Monday, more than 400 people were accommodated at the quarantine facilities, which include four centres for housing asymptomatic patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/36-discharged-from-ariyalur-gh-first-set-of-koyambedu-cluster/articleshow/75684809.cms||Deepak Karthik
May 12, 2020||Madurai||Alagiri files complaint against fake Twitter account||Madurai: Former Union minister M K Alagiri has lodged a complaint with the Madurai city police seeking action against mischief-mongers, who have been operating a Twitter account in his name. The complaint was lodged after a tweet from the fake account endorsed actor Rajinikanth’s tweet criticizing the state government for opening Tasmac outlets. The former DMK heavyweight in south Tamil Nadu, in a statement stated that he does not have any social media accounts. In his complaint, he sought action against the mischief-mongers under various sections. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/alagiri-files-complaint-against-fake-twitter-account/articleshow/75684109.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Ludhiana||ASI who locked rooms, forcing inmates to urinate inside shunted||QUARANTINE WOES Ludhiana: Khanna police on Monday transferred an ASI and ordered a probe after a video of inmates of a Machhiwara quarantine centre forced to urinate inside their rooms surfaced. After the cop allegedly locked the centre doors from outside, the inmates uploaded the video, saying they had to urinate in dustbins of their rooms. Police officials said 29 people, mainly Nanded Sahib returnees, were housed in the quarantine centre at Shankar Dass Senior Secondary School on Samrala Road, Machhiwara. They said after spending seven days at a quarantine centre in Ludhiana, they were brought here on May 3. One of the inmates, in the video message, said on Sunday night, the police official on duty locked the doors of the rooms from outside. He added that after pleading in vain for help to go out to urinate, some inmates had to urinate in the room dustbin. They alleged that they were treated like animals, forcing them to upload the video online. After the video went viral, a team of police and civil administration officers, comprising Samrala DSP HS Mann, tehsildar Navdeep Singh and Machhiwara SHO Sukhvir Singh, reached the school and pacified the agitated inmates. They assured them necessary facilities.Talking to the inmates, DSP Mann told them that the police official has been transferred. The DSP told The Times of India that ASI Satwinder Singh felt that since the inmates claimed that they had completed 14 days’ quarantine, they might escape… he was being extra cautions. “The ASI has been transferred and we are probing the matter,” he added.Police officials said the health department has to take a decision on the duration of their quarantine, but they will have to complete the isolation period of 14 days at the Machhiwara centre.Four from MubarakpurPolice officials said of the inmates, four were from Mubarakpur, whose two acquaintances had tested positive. They added that most of them work as combine harvester drivers and had gone outside the state, from where they went to Hazur Sahib and returned to Ludhiana with the pilgrims.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/asi-who-locked-rooms-forcing-inmates-to-urinate-inside-shunted/articleshow/75682980.cms||Shariq Majeed
May 12, 2020||Bhopal||Turned away by BMHRC, gas victim dies of Covid-19||BHOPAL: He was taken to three major government hospitals of the city — JP Hospital, Hamidia and BMHRC — six times in the course of three days. Each time he was denied admission. By the time Hamidia Hospital put him in the Covid-19 ward on the night of May 4, it was too late. Anwar Ahmed didn’t live to see the next morning. The 44-year-old is the 20th gas tragedy victim to die. As in most of the other cases, his Covid-19 report arrived after he had died. That’s not the only grim similarity. Most of the other gas victims who died had been turned away by several hospitals. Anwar would have been one of the youngest survivors of the gas tragedy of 1984 that took nearly 3,800 lives and left 5.5 lakh with lifelong ailments. Anwar’s son Almas choked up as he narrated their desperate but futile attempts to get him admitted. “It was the afternoon of May 2. My father complained of severe chest pain. We called a 108 ambulance and went to JP Hospital, where he was admitted for a few hours for an ECG. The doctor told us that he had suffered a minor heart attack, gave us some medicines, and referred him to Hamidia Hospital,” Almas told TOI on Monday. JP Hospital gave them an ambulance, but in Hamidia, they had to wait another five hours before he was examined. “After an X-ray, a doctor said he didn’t have Coronavirus symptoms and that the ECG was a “little erratic”. He advised us to take him home,” aid Almas. Anwar’s brother-in-law, who had joined them by now, advised them to take him to BMHRC. Since he is a gas victim, he won’t have a problem getting treatment there, he said. To their shock, at the BMHRC gates, the family was asked to show “final compensation” judgment of the court to verify that he was a gas victim, said Almas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/turned-away-by-bmhrc-gas-victim-dies-of-covid/articleshow/75684091.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Ludhiana||Jalandhar nonagenarian dies of Covid-19 in city||Ludhiana: A 91-year-old Jalandhar resident died of Covid-19 at Christian Medical College and Hospital, here, on Sunday night. With this, the toll tally in the district has gone up to 10, including one each from Barnala, Phagwara, Jalandhar and Jammu. The nonagenarian was referred from Life Hospital, Jalandhar, to CMCH on May 9. Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said, “He had Covid-19 and died on Sunday night. His body was shifted to civil hospital, Kapurthala, on Monday afternoon.” CMCH medical superintendent Dr Anil Luther said, “He was admitted to the hospital’s isolation ward around 9pm on May 9 after he complained of cough, cold and breathlessness. His sample was sent for testing from Life Hospital, Jalandhar, the previous week. He was confirmed positive on May 10. Thereafter, his health started deteriorating as he was extremely sick due to cardiac problems. He succumbed around 10.15pm on Sunday.” Earlier casualties A 42-year-old woman of Amarpura Mohalla had died of Covid-19 on March 30; a 69-year-old woman of Shimlapuri on April 6; a Mehal Kalan, Barnala, woman, 52, on April 8; a 58-year-old revenue department kanungo on April 17; a 52-year-old Ludhiana Police ASI on April 19; a 62-year-old woman of Basti Jodhewal and a 65 -year old resident of Phagwara on May 3; and a Jammu man, 65, and a Jagraon resident, 56, on May 9||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/jalandhar-nonagenarian-dies-of-covid-19-in-city/articleshow/75682958.cms||Mehak Jain
May 12, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Sarpanch wins Odisha CM's praise for shutdown||BERHAMPUR: The chief minister’s office on Monday praised the sarpanch of Manitara in Ganjam district’s Buguda block for declaring a total shutdown of the panchayat for 20 hours in a day to contain the spread of the novel coronavirus. Two more sarapanchs of Madhupalli and Mandara in Polasara block in the district followed suit by declaring a similar shutdown from Sunday. By exercising the power of district collectors vested in the panchayat heads by the state government, Manitara sarapanch Shantilata Nayak announced a total shutdown of her panchayat from 11am to 7am the next day from May 8. All the non-essential goods and services shops remained closed during the period, while people were asked to remain at home. This will continue till the end of the third phase of the nationwide lockdown on May 17. “This step was taken to prevent people put up in the quarantine centres from coming out and also to stop villagers from visiting these places,” the 75-year-old sarpanch said. She added that this will help maintain social distancing. At least two officers from the state visited the panchayat on Sunday to assess the situation. “The timely steps taken by the sarapanch is praiseworthy. She has truly implemented the historic move of chief minister Naveen Patnaik, who has delegated the powers of the district collector to the sarpanchs,” the chief minister’s office said in a tweet. Last month, the chief minister had delegated the powers of the district collectors to the sarapanchs in their respective jurisdiction to fight the Covid-19 pandemic. The state government delegated the powers to them under Section 51 of the Disaster Management Act 2005, the Epidemic Diseases Act 1897 read with Odisha Covid-19 Regulations-2020. Meanwhile, the sarapanchs of Madhupalli and Mandara have declared a shutdown of their panchaayts from 12 noon to 7am the next day. During the period, all the non-essential service shops will remain closed. “We have taken this step to maintain social distancing in a bid to fight Covid-19,” Kali Charan Nayak, the sarpanch of Mandara, said. Similar views were also expressed by the sarpanch of Madhupalli, Kasturi Karana.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/manitara-sarpanch-wins-cms-praise-for-20-hr-shutdown-to-check-covid/articleshow/75682987.cms||Hrusikesh Mohanty
May 12, 2020||Surat||Uttarkhand govt sponsors two trains for its people||Surat: At a time when stranded migrant workers continue to shell from their pockets to return to their natives, the Uttrakhand government has set an example for the other governments to follow.It sponsored two Shramik special trains to ferry its people stranded in Surat. A special train ferrying about 1,200 migrants left from the Surat railway station to Haldwani—Kathgodam on on Monday, while another train from Surat to Haridwar is scheduled to leave on Tuesday morning.Surat is home to about 20,000 people from Uttrakhand. These migrants are employed in the hotel and hospitality sector, textile and diamond sector. Many own their private businesses and some are doing odd jobs in the city.Dr Deveshwar Bhatt, president of Surat Uttrakhand Samaj told TOI, “Many migrants from Uttrakhand had left in private buses. When the Shramik special trains started operation, we got in touch with the Uttrakhand government. We got a prompt reply that the government will bear the travel cost of the migrants. The government has deposited Rs 50 lakh with the railway and booked two special trains to fetch its stranded migrants from Surat.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/uttarkhand-govt-sponsors-two-trains-for-its-people/articleshow/75682964.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Trichy||Work on smart footpath begins in city on WB road||Trichy: The city corporation has started work on the smart pedestrian platform project which will covering major commercial streets at an outlay of Rs69 crore. Smart pedestrian platforms will have multiple ducts for laying electricity and telephone cables and for draining rainwater from roads. Under the smart cities mission around the Rockfort hillock, the project has been divided as 75 sub-works and the existing pedestrian platform slabs on the arterial roads shall be demolished in a phased manner. In the first phase, work commenced on the West Boulevard (WB) road connecting Mainguard gate with Singarathope. The civic body will dig to a depth of 3ft to lay three separate ducts each for transmitting electricity cable, telephone cable and one duct to discharge run-off water. “Until now, underground electricity cables were not laid in the city. Provision was made to meet future needs,” a corporation official told TOI. The ducts will have a width varying between two and three feet. EVR road near MGM government hospital, Sanakaranpillai road and Kaliammankoil road near Chathiram bus stand and Puthur road will get similar smart pedestrian platforms. “Construction work will conclude in 2-3 months,” the corporation official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/work-on-smart-footpath-begins-in-city-on-wb-road/articleshow/75684797.cms||Deepak Karthik
May 12, 2020||Coimbatore||Lawyer lodges complaint against cop||Coimbatore: A city-based lawyer on Monday lodged a complaint with superintendent of police Sujit Kumar against Vadavalli police inspector for assaulting him.In his complaint, A Eswaran, 40, of Marudhamalai Road, said he has been practicing as a lawyer for the last five years. On May 7 around 9pm, he was chatting with a friend in front of his house. Vadavalli police inspector Manivannan assaulted him and his friend using a lathi, Eswaran said. “The police inspector did not inquire anything with us. But he beat us severely. He took us to the police station where he threatened us with dire consequences.”TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/lawyer-lodges-complaint-against-cop/articleshow/75684120.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Trichy||Man held for assaulting health inspector||Trichy: Police, on Monday, arrested a fish vendor on charges of assaulting a health inspector attached to the Thiruthuraipoondi municipality, on Sunday evening. According to police, health inspector, N Venkatachalam, 45, had told the fish vendor V Kalvipriyan, who runs a shop at Ramar Mutt Street near Thiruthuripoondi old bus stand, that his shop did not adhere to precautionary measures and posed a threat to hygiene. He also levied a fine of Rs 500 on him. However, when Venkatachalam insisted Kalvipriyan to vacate the outlet on Sunday evening, the fish vendor started to assault him. Venkatachalam, then, tried to escape on his two-wheeler, but Kalvipriyan chased him down and attacked him with a sickle. Venkatachalam has been admitted to the government hospital in Thiruthuraipoondi for treatment, police said. Kalvipriyan is also the urban secretary of PMK, sources said. Based on a complaint, the Thiruthuraipoondi police arrested the accused after investigating a CCTV recording that captured the whole incident, which also went viral on social media. Meanwhile, sanitary officials with the Trichy Corporation staged a protest on Monday condemning the assault. The officials said that such attacks are demotivating civic body employees to act against people flouting the norms. “Officials seal shops and levy penalty on people, who do not adhere to precautionary measures. This incident throws light on how unsafe the environment is for officials like us,” a sanitary official said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/man-held-for-assaulting-health-inspector/articleshow/75684812.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Coimbatore||Female elephant found dead||Coimbatore: An 18-year-old female elephant was found dead in a decomposed state at Pethikuttai beat in Sirumugai forest range on Sunday. Postmortem was carried out on Monday. The forest department’s veterinary doctor said the elephant had died three days ago and a 12-month-old decomposed fetus was found inside the carcass. There were no external injuries and no fighting marks noticed. The samples were collected from the animal and sent to the forensic lab for analysis. The carcass was in advanced stage of decaying.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/female-elephant-found-dead/articleshow/75684122.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Ludhiana||Residents refuse to cremate labourer, demand compensation for his family||Ludhiana: Demanding compensation for the family of deceased Ajit Rai of Rajiv Gandhi Colony, the area residents and some leaders of migrant labourers opposed his cremation on Monday. Rai, 38, a labourer, had allegedly committed suicide by hanging himself at his house on Saturday night after “failing to get ration”. Rai’s wife Savita Devi alleged that her husband would daily go to the Focal Point police station to get ration, but was every time asked to come the next day. Residents protested against the administration and alleged that they have to wait for hours in long ration queues and then return home empty-handed. Bablu Kumar, a resident of Rajiv Gandhi Colony, said, “For the past two days, I have been going to the Focal Point police station to get ration. But both the days, the officials asked me to come when I was called.” Another resident of the locality, Geeta Devi, said “About six days ago, I called up on helpline 1905 for ration and received a confirmation message, too. But as everyone told me that only those who were called by the police were getting ration, I did not go there.” Kanchan, also from the locality, said, “On May 8, I received a message to get ration. Since then I have been visiting the police station and standing in long queues only to be asked to come the next day. All of us are sharing whatever food is left with us.” In the afternoon, the area residents and local leaders of a labour association convinced the family not to cremate the body till they got compensation. Later, assistant commissioner of police (Industrial Area-A) Vaibhav Sehgal reached the spot and pacified the protesters. At Focal Point police station, people standing in long queues alleged corruption in ration distribution. A resident of Gobindgarh village, Manish Kumar, said, “I came here with my neighbours to help them. Even as they had received a message on May 6, they were being refused ration every day. People standing in queues are getting nothing, but some with approach are getting it. After standing for hours, when our turn comes, we are told our message is old and ration would not be given.” Bains meets kin MLA (South) Balwinder Bains visited the house of Ajit Rai and met his family. He also gave them ration, as they had nothing to eat. Bains alleged, “Rai went to the police station, but was beaten up with a stick. After that he came home and hanged himself. An FIR must be lodged against those who hit him.” He also demanded Rs 50-lakh compensation for the family, as promised for corona warriors. Family agrees to perform cremation Following a meeting of the administration officials and representatives of labour union as well as Smajwadi Party in evening, his family agreed to cremate the body. Samajwadi Party general secretary (Punjab) RK Yadav said, “We have sought Rs 40 lakh for his family of wife, mother and two minor sons. We have agreed to perform the cremation, as the administration has assured to financially help the family and take care of their basic needs.” The ACP (Industrial Area-A) said, “Their compensation demand will be sent to the state government.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/residents-refuse-to-cremate-labourer-demand-compensation-for-his-family/articleshow/75682993.cms||Payal Dhawan
May 12, 2020||Nagpur||MoEFCC regional offices to be brought under one roof||Nagpur: In a bid to provide synergy and strength, and make regional offices more effective, the environment ministry plans to merge MoEFCC offices and centres by bringing them all under one roof. The issue was discussed at a meeting headed by director general of forests Sanjay Kumar on May 2. All regional environment ministry heads, National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA), Central Zoo Authority (CZA), Forest Survey of India (FSI) and Wildlife Crime Control Bureau (WCCB) office heads working under MoEFCC attended. There are 29 MoEFCC regional offices and centres in the country. This strength will be brought down to 19, and will include 10 old regional offices (ROs) and 9 additional ROs at suitable locations. Forest officials said more than one office of above organizations are situated in one place at present. Yet, they appear to work with little coordination. Therefore, environment minister Prakash Javadekar though of reorganization to provide synergy and strength so they could act as an effective arm of MoEFCC. “Working under one roof will ensure better coordination and also help mobilize manpower for completing some time-bound targets of ministry given by Supreme Court,” they said. Total 19 offices have been proposed as per suitability. In the proposed set up, 10 existing regional offices at Shillong, Ranchi, Bhubaneshwar, Bengaluru, Chennai, Lucknow, Bhopal, Nagpur, Chandigarh and Dehradun will be headed by deputy DGF level officer (equivalent to APCCF rank). Seven out of nine new offices at Jaipur, Gandhinagar, Vijayawada, Raipur, Hyderabad, Kolkata and Guwahati will be headed by inspector general of forest (IGF) level officers (equivalent to CCF) drawn from NTCA and FSI. The remaining two offices at Jammu and Shimla will be headed by deputy IGF level officer (equivalent to CF) drawn from above four organizations. Presently, there are 703 sanctioned posts at 29 regional offices and centres, which will continue, and will be redistributed or redeployed among the 19 offices. CZA member-secretary SP Yadav endorsed the proposal saying, “The merger will help in better monitoring, hand-holding and quicker availability of information.” One example is zoos, which are spread all over the country but there are no regional offices in Jaipur, Guwahati, Hyderabad, and Nagpur, though announced in 2011. In the present set up, CZA has to hire experts for evaluation of zoos, which is not only time consuming but costly too. “This is delaying many processes for effective management and modernization of zoos. Each zoo has to be evaluated annually but in 2019-20, 117 cases of evaluation are pending,” Yadav said. Similarly, NTCA has three regional offices looking after 41 tiger reserves. These include Nagpur (17), Guwahati (10) and Bengaluru (14) spread in South, Central India and North-East. However, there is still no representation in Uttarakhand, UP and Rajasthan. NTCA deputy IG Nishant Verma was of the view that the new structure of regional offices will represent NTCA in all tiger reserves in the country. With the authority being constituted under provisions of Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972, the designated officers in the ROs under proposed structure can be authorized under WPA. The FSI officials said FSI being a specialized institution created for forest cover mapping and forest inventory, it should not be split and brought under the ambit of regional offices. Similar views were expressed by Wildlife Crime Control Bureau (WCCB) officials, who felt WCCB is a body set up to combat wildlife crime and needs intelligence gathering and operations without leakage of information. “This necessitates a linear command structure and hence WCCB should be kept intact,” said officials. However, most senior officials TOI spoke to were of the view that the new structure would improve functioning of ministry in a significant manner and will eliminate redundancy and duplication because of multi-dimensional information. SOME SUPPORT, SOME OPPOSE * CZA: With proposed strengthening, all responsibilities could be delegated to regional office, thereby cutting both cost and time, as well as comfort level of states and zoos will enhance decision making, make it more local * NTCA: There is no regional office in Uttarakhand, Rajasthan and UP. New structure of ROs will represent NTCA in all tiger reserves * WCCB & FSI: Both institutions involved in specialized work, want their status to be kept intact||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/moefcc-regional-offices-to-be-brought-under-one-roof/articleshow/75684817.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
May 12, 2020||Vadodara||After audit, VMC says only 7 died of nCov, rest due to co-morbidities||Vadodara: The Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) began segregation of Covid-19 deaths in the city, based on the other health conditions that could have led to the death of the patient who tested positive for Covid-19. After the exercise of death audits, VMC has stated that only seven persons died due to Covid-19 while others died due to comorbidities or acute diseases.The details furnished by the civic body on Monday acknowledged the death of a man Amirshah Diwan (65) from the Yakutpura area of the city. He had died on Thursday, but his death was included in the bulletin after the death audit was completed. With the fresh death, the total number of deaths in the city went up to 32.If the break up of deaths provided by the VMC based on the death audit reports is to be believed 15 of the 32 persons who had tested positive died of multiple comorbidities. Six died due to hypertension, three due to diabetes and one due to another acute illness.The VMC is yet to include some other deaths that have taken place in hospitals in the city during the last few days. These include two deaths in the Waghodiya Road area that were disclosed by municipal councillor from the area and Dabhoi MLA Shailesh Mehta. He has even alleged that positive cases were not being included in the medical bulletins.With 29 fresh cases being reported since Sunday evening, the total number of cases went up to 580 on Monday including 19 cases from the rural areas of the district and Bhayli located on the border of the city.More Covid-19 positive cases are surfacing from Bhayli area of the city. After two residents of Bhayli tested positive on Sunday, two other residents from the area tested positive on Monday.The two who had tested positive on Sunday are patients who were admitted at city-based Bhailal Amin General Hospital (BAGH) for other medical conditions.The two who tested positive on Monday are family members of the 61-year-old man, a resident of Emerald Flat, who is one of the two patients admitted at BAGH.“A 62-year-old vegetable vendor from Vemar village of Karjan taluka has also tested positive. We had carried out screening and collected samples during which the vendor has tested positive. He is asymptomatic and has been admitted at ITI on Ajwa Road,” he said.A vegetable vendor from the Waghodiya Road in the city has also been tested positive after he showed symptoms during the screening drive by VMC. The drive will be conducted on a regular basis by the civic body.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/after-audit-vmc-says-only-7-died-of-ncov-rest-due-to-co-morbidities/articleshow/75682997.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Trichy||Only 50% of tea shops resume business, but record less sales||Trichy: Days after the state government permitted the functioning of tea stalls from Monday, only around 50% of them in the city opened their shutters. However, there was not much business as the sale was restricted to takeaway only. Most owners were reluctant to open shop as they said 80% of the sales comes from dine-in. “People who visit tea stalls for relaxation will not prefer takeaway,” S Ravuthar Shah, organising secretary, Trichy tea stall owners association said. There are around 1,600 tea stalls in the city of which only half of them resumed business on Monday. Parcel is preferred by those at construction sites and commercial outlets where many are employed. With labourers in construction sites yet to return to work due to suspension of public transport, tea stall owners said the demand for takeaway was almost nil. “By facilitating only takeaway, we will not break-even. Some of us opened the stalls only to make money to pay the outstanding shop rent,” S Vijayakumar, a tea stall owner from Palakkarai said. The shops that had opened purchased a very minimal quantity of milk anticipating poor business. Owners hope that the situation will change only if the lockdown is completely lifted and customers ensure social distancing at the outlets.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/only-50-of-tea-shops-resume-business-but-record-less-sales/articleshow/75684833.cms||Deepak Karthik
May 12, 2020||Coimbatore||TNSTC all set to resume service||Coimbatore: The Coimbatore division of the Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation (TNSTC) is all set to resume bus services and is awaiting the state government’s direction. TNSTC had suspended all services – inter-district, inter-state and town buses – on March 24 after the lockdown was announced. As the state government is planning to lift the lockdown gradually, TNSTC officials are preparing to resume the services. “We are ready to resume the services any time. We are expecting directions from the state government within a week,” an official said. “As of now, we have received directions to operate half of the buses with half of passengers after ensuring physical distance. As many as 1,326 buses - 539 in Coimbatore, 173 in Ooty, 334 in Erode and 280 in Tirupur – will be operated in Coimbatore division.”Only those who wear masks will be allowed to travel in the buses, the official said. “Conductors will provide hand sanitizer to passengers before they enter the bus. Conductors and drivers will be given masks, gloves and hand sanitizers. Buses will be disinfected after every trip,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/tnstc-all-set-to-resume-service/articleshow/75684153.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Ludhiana||13-yr-old’s family, health workers of pvt clinic quarantined||Ludhiana: A day after a 13-year-old student of Class VIII Of Sacred Heart Convent School, Khanna, tested positive, her mother father and eight-year-old brother were quarantined at the community health centre, Khanna, on Monday. Besides, more than 10 health workers of a private health centre were also quarantined, where the girl had visited following respiratory problems. Talking to TOI, father of the girl said, “We have been isolated at the Sub-Divisional Hospital, Khanna. Our samples were taken in the morning and reports are awaited.” After knowing that the 13-year-old had tested positive, on Monday, his father visited the DMCH to hand over the mobile phone to his daughter so that they could communicate with each other. He said, “I have handed over the phone to my daughter and it’s been over a month that we have not stepped out as she is an introvert and doesn’t play with children. We are worried about her.” Girl’s mother said said , “ She was complaining of cough, cold and fever and breathlessness from last 5-7 days and we got her diagnosed from Khanna Nursing Home near our home . We got through CT scan and they were doubtful that there is infection in the lungs. Further, they recommended us to get the medication from Apollo hospital.On May 10, she was taken to Apollo hospital via ambulance. But after reaching I have realised to get her tested at DMCH.” After reaching DMCH, her X ray and samples were and she was admitted in the isolation ward of DMCH. Dr Sandeep Sharma Medical Superintendent of DMCH said , “ She has been admitted in isolation ward and her health is stable.” Health department officials said that thirteen year old girl had respiratory problem and she had gone to a private clinic few days ago. They added that after the doctor there took note of her symptoms, he referred her to a private Hospital near Sherpur Chowk but her family took her to DMC. The health department officials further said that on Sunday, the authorities at DMC got her test done before starting her treatment. They added that in the evening report of the girl came as positive after which Health Department officials at Khanna were informed about her report. The Civil Hospital authorities at Khanna said that after the report of the girl came as positive, they traced five of the immediate contacts of the girl including her parents, grand parents and six year old brother. They added that samples of the immediate contacts of the girl have been taken and same have been sent to Ludhiana for testing. Senior Medical Officer (SMO) Civil Hospital Khanna, Dr Rajinder Gulati said that more than ten health workers at a private healthcare centre have been quarantined and their samples will be taken after five days as it just about one to two days that the girl had visited the centre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/13-yr-olds-family-health-workers-of-pvt-clinic-quarantined/articleshow/75684151.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Coimbatore||Sacked from job, 20-yr-old Odisha native kills self||Coimbatore: A 20-year-old guest worker from Odisha was found hanging from a Neem tree at Kovilpalayam on Sunday.The deceased was identified as P Panchanan Phoi, 20, a native of Mankhera village in Balangir district in Odisha. He was working in a pump manufacturing unit at Kovilpalayam along with his elder brother P Samapan Phoi, 22. Both were staying in a rented house at Kurumbapalyaam. Police said due to the lockdown, Panchanan was not able to travel to his hometown and was depressed after being sacked from his job a few days ago. His elder brother, Samapan, said “My younger brother thought that he was affected with Covid-19. Then he was sacked and became depressed. We were having lunch on May 7 together and he slept for a while. After 3 pm, he went missing...we could find his body hanging by a tree only on Sunday.”Panchanan went missing on May 7 and was found dead on Sunday morning. Police registered an FIR under IPC section 174 CrPC (unnatural death). Following a postmortem, Panchanan’s body was handed over to his elder brother on Sunday evening and was cremated in Coimbatore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/sacked-from-job-20-yr-old-odisha-native-kills-self/articleshow/75684133.cms||A Subburaj
May 12, 2020||Bhubaneswar||29 trains carrying 34k migrants reach Odisha so far||Bhubaneswar: So far 29 trains have reached Odisha by carrying around 34,000 people between May 3 and May 11 midnight. The migrant workers came from Surat and Ahmedabad in Gujarat, Aluva, Ernakulam and Palghat in Kerala, Bengaluru in Karnataka, Chennai in Tamil Nadu, Panvel in Maharashtra and Rayanpadu in Andhra Pradesh. On Monday, five trains reached Odisha by carrying around 5,500 Odia migrant workers. One train from Rayanpadu near Vijayawada in Andhra Pradesh reached Titlagarh in Balangir district. Three trains left Surat on Sunday arrived at Jagannathpur station in Ganjam district on Monday. One train from Chennai started its journey on Saturday and reached Jagannathpur station on Monday. As most of the migrant workers belong to Ganjam and south Odisha, these trains halt at Jagannathpur station. Railways has started increasing the number of trains and originating stations day by day. On Monday, six Shramik Special trains left for Odisha. These trains have left their originating stations at Guntur in Andhra Pradesh, Nasik and Mumbai in Maharashtra, Thangadh in Gujarat and two from Surat. Most of these trains will arrive at Khurda Road and Jagannathpur station in Ganjam district. “These trains will reach on Tuesday or Wednesday morning. Some trains will have more stoppages in Odisha than two or three right now,” said a senior railway officer. Several migrant workers and stranded Odia people in Surat in Gujarat, Mumbai in Maharashtra, Tirupur and Chennai in Tamil Nadu, Visakhapatnam in Andhra Pradesh and other places like Karnataka and Kerala are waiting to return home. More special trains will run from different places of the country towards Odisha in coming days, an official source said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/29-trains-carrying-34k-migrants-reach-odisha-so-far/articleshow/75683004.cms||Hemanta Pradhan
May 12, 2020||Ludhiana||Garment industry blames govt as 85% units remain shut||Ludhiana: More than a fortnight after the Punjab government allowed opening of factories, close to 85% of the garment manufacturers in the district have not been able to resume operations. According to representatives of Knitwear Club, one of India’s largest bodies of the garment manufacturers, the reason for such high percentage of units not being able to start operations is that the government has granted permission to only those factories which are located in the designated industrial areas, whereas 85% of Ludhiana’s garment industry is based in non-designated and mix-land use (MLU) areas. The businessmen have already told the government that they are out of funds by providing financial assistance to workers despite zero business. They cannot bear these expenses anymore and they will not be responsible for any consequences, they said. Speaking to TOI, Vinod Thapar, chairman of Knitwear Club, said, “It’s been almost 20 days since the state government allowed factories to start operations. But, it had said that only those in designated industrial areas can reopen. As a result, close to 25,000 micro and small garment and textile units are still shut. Barring 15% of the units, the rest are located either in mix-land use (MLU) areas or non-designated industrial areas. How can these units operate when government has still not issued any orders granting them permission?” Figures with the Knitwear Club show that the manufacturers from Ludhiana have been exporting garments worth Rs 700-1,200 crore every year. Thapar further said, “In another setback to us, for more than 45 days our units have been shut and we were not even able to make any sales. We kept looking after our workers and supplied them ration and financial assistance in form of salaries. We are totally drained out now and can’t pay the workers before operations resume. We tried our best to retain the workers and ensure that they do not leave Ludhiana, but the situation is beyond our control now.” According to Harish Kairpal, finance secretary of Knitwear Club, as of now, only the large scale units and a small percentage of garment factories located in the designated industrial areas are operating, while all micro, small and medium enterprises (MSME), which are only located in MLU areas, are still shut. “Imagine the amount of huge losses every single unit has faced till now by not only paying to the workers but also footing power bills and other fixed charges. We can only request the government to compensate the losses and allow us to operate our units, so that we are able to retain our workers, who will run away very soon if they do not get work and earn,” Kairpal said. Dinesh Kalra, president of Ludhiana Business Forums and a garment manufacturer himself, said, “MLU areas and non-designated areas like Shivpuri, Kundanpuri, Kidwai Nagar, Chandan Nagar are the hubs of garment industry and there are thousands of units located in every nook and corner of these areas. When restaurants, food outlets can get permission to operate, why can’t the small industries be allowed to run which gives livelihood to lakhs of migrant labourers who as of now are planning to go back to their native places?”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/garment-industry-blames-govt-as-85-units-remain-shut/articleshow/75683005.cms||Mohit Behl
May 12, 2020||Delhi||Talking shop: Delhi malls brace for business unusual||NEW DELHI: Watching a movie, leisurely hops from one brand showroom to another, grabbing a bite at a food court, even a fine-dining experience, all in the comfort of an air-conditioned space — the very factors that made malls the buzzing spots may be the reasons why they may now be deserted. A mall’s two biggest attractions — cinemas and restaurants — are closed, and no one knows when they will reopen. Their closure means a big dip in footfall at the retail outlets. And the central air-conditioning is now suspect, such closed spaces being considered ideal for the spread of the novel coronavirus. The global lockdown to check the Covid-19 infection has left industries reeling, but malls too are suffering the adverse effects of the pandemic. Their popularity with people made them preferred venues for brand launches, food and music events, family activities and a lucrative bet for retail brands. With such events cancelled in the wake of the total closure, malls in the city are facing their most uncertain times ever. “Rather than a high footfall, we are actually planning on how to have the right number of people at any particular time to facilitate social distancing,” said Abhishek Bansal, executive director, Pacific Malls. The major focus in the days following the relaxation of the lockdown will be to inspire confidence in customers and communicating to them the safety measures in place at the malls, he added. Just weeks ago Select Citywalk was abuzz every day, multiple takers vying for every inch of space at the south Delhi mall. Today, Yogeshwar Sharma, CEO and executive director, Select Infrastructure Pvt Limited, is being inundated with requests from tenants for a rent waiver, with some requesting the concession till March next year. Sharma said the people foregoing foreign travels could help malls return to normal faster, but it was too early to comment on the future. He was dealing with each phase as it happened — lockdown, post-lockdown, partial opening, business as usual, Sharma said. “We are in lockdown and we have not raised bills for our tenants yet. Some malls have asked retailers for rent, but we like to work with brands as partners. We will formulate the future course relative to the situation and based on individual basis,” he said. But the malls are already preparing to win back customers. Pushpa Bector, executive director, DLF Malls, revealed that the mall apps would “aggressively” provide real-time information on safety, security and sanitation. She said retail brands were being asked to restrict the number of people in each store, while fashion brands had been advised to do away with trial rooms and follow a stricter return policy. Food outlets are being instructed to keep a distance of six feet between tables, accept pre-orders and focus on takeaway. “Social distancing is the new normal, and this will persist and re-shape the retail world going forward,” predicted Bector. “Contactless shopping and serving experiences will become the new regular.” Although Sharma plans to follow precautions such as sanitising handrails, one person per step on escalators, ensure social distancing and educate people about hygiene, mall regulars such as marketing professional Gautam Sharma admitted that people will take time to return to malls after the lockdown. Teacher Atreyee Das, 61, who has seen the best of both neighbourhood markets and malls, concurred. “Walking along Sarojini Nagar market or window shopping and eating out in a mall both have their charms,” she said. “But both are out of question for me. These days when I think of malls, I imagine swarming germs. And markets remind me of the overcrowding.” While most mall operators pin their hopes on things looking up by Diwali and business as usual from Christmas onwards, they also say they can only defer the rent payment because they have not got waivers from banks or authorities on the interests for loans taken during construction of their properties. Bansal the last word. He said an anti-Covid vaccine is the only shot that will boost the customer’s confidence as well as business prospects.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/talking-shop-malls-brace-for-business-unusual/articleshow/75684157.cms||Amin Ali
May 12, 2020||Nagpur||Registration of pet shops made must to check zoonotic diseases||Nagpur: Post the Covid-19 lockdown, the government has made it mandatory for all pet shops and dog breeding establishments to be registered in order curb the outbreak of zoonotic diseases. Animal Welfare Board of India (AWBI), a statutory body under the Ministry of Fisheries, Animal Husbandry and Dairying, recently issued a circular stating all pet shops and dog breeding establishments could reopen after the lockdown only after registering with the state animal welfare boards. On March 24, the board had issued a letter requesting authorities to ensure safe evacuation of animals in pet shops and other commercial establishments. The board noted that the animals would die without food and water and had directed the state animal welfare boards to evacuate such animals across the country with the help of local administration and Society for Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (SPCA). During the evacuation process, the authorities found the establishments possessed various local, exotic and wild animals and birds, violating the laws. “It was also noticed that the animals were not kept in an ideal environment and were suffering from a lot of pain and cruelty,” the board stated. Further stressing on the need to regulate pet shops, breeding establishments and mitigating spread of zoonotic diseases, the board stated it was time to strictly implement the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (Dog Breeding and Marketing) Rules, 2017, and Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (Pet Shops) Rules, 2018, laid down by the Centre. Under these rules, the state animal welfare boards are the registering authorities. “It will issue certificate of registration to each pet shop. As per rules, operation of pet shops and breeding of dogs without the certificate is prohibited,” AWBI stated. According to experts, the move is a primary step to solve various issues. “The registration will prove to be an effective way to stop illegal breeding of animals, which leads to not just cruelty but also spread of diseases. Rules allow breeding of a female dog only till she is five years old. However across India, it is violated,” said Karishma Galani, member of Nagpur SPCA. Registering pet shops and breeders will also ensure people take home healthy animals. “Once registered, the shops will have to maintain a proper environment. Timely inspections will also take place. They should start the process now as online forms are available for registration. We are aiming to register all establishments in coming six months,” added Galani.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/registration-of-pet-shops-made-must-to-check-zoonotic-diseases/articleshow/75684939.cms||Manka Behl
May 12, 2020||Coimbatore||More than half of businesses reopen||Coimbatore: More than half of the commercial establishments in the district opened on Monday after a gap of 47 days.Even though business was dull on the first day, the trading community is confident that it will pick up gradually.The state government had granted permission on Sunday to reopen as many as 34 stand-alone trades like service centres for electronic goods, hardware stores, bakeries, courier and parcel services, small textile and jewellery shops that are functioning without air conditioning and follow the Covid-19 precautionary measures.“As the government has not allowed air-conditioned jewellery shops to reopen, only 25% of us, who own small shops, are open in the district. Even though the sales were not even 10% of what it used to be, we are relieved,” said Purushotaman, owner of Haripriya Jewellery. “We are confident that the business will gain pace, as the wedding season is fast approaching,” he told TOI.Only 30% of goldsmith workshops reopened on the first day, president of the Coimbatore Goldsmiths’ Association S M Kamalahasan said. “We are now planning to start work on the pending orders. To continue making jewellery, we need gold bars and they can be obtained only if jewelleries are allowed to function. Our business will return to normalcy only if public transportation services start functioning as before. We are not sure how long it will take.”“Most of the machines need to be serviced as they were lying idle for one-and-a-half months. We are more worried about arranging money and skilled labourers to service the machines,” Kamalahasan added.President of the Federation of Trade Association S Balasubramaiam said only important items like electronic components and cables are getting sold. “The sales will increase only if industries and factories in the city are allowed to resume operation.”More than 90% of the workshops were open. It will take at least a year to return to normalcy, said Selvaraj, a mechanic. “During the lockdown, most of us exhausted our savings to manage daily expenses. Now, we don’t even have money to purchase the required items to resume business.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/more-than-half-of-businesses-reopen/articleshow/75684139.cms||Nivedha Selvam
May 12, 2020||Trichy||Man held for post against health min||Trichy: AMMK’s Villupuram IT wing functionary was arrested by Pudukottai police on Monday for sharing derogatory remarks against health minister C Vijaya Baskar. IT wing secretary Muthu Kumar was brought to Pudukottai by a three-member team from Pudukottai town police station. He was booked under five sections including under IT Act, 2000, and lodged in the prison. According to the police, Muthu Kumar had shared a derogatory post against the health minister on May 4 on social media. A complaint was filed by Gunaseelan, AIADMK IT wing functionary from Pudukottai, against Muthu Kumar. Terming the arrest politically motivated, AMMK general secretary TTV Dhinakaran demanded his immediate release. “Such arrests will question the dignity of the police department when it is short-staffed and struggling to face the pandemic but make such arrests by travelling to other districts,” said Dhinakaran. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/man-held-for-post-against-health-min/articleshow/75684837.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Delhi||Migrant workers: Lives derailed, they can’t wait for trains||NEW DELHI: Jobless for six weeks and barely surviving on their meagre savings and loans, a group of six friends on Monday decided to walk down to New Delhi Railway Station to catch the first available train to their village in Uttar Pradesh’s Mau district. Their landlord had given them an ultimatum to either pay the rent or vacate and the company they worked for was unlikely to resume work for at least three more months. When they heard that the government was going to start train service, they decided to be the first ones to board the one going to their village. Upon being told that the regular train service was yet to start, they said they would walk down to Mau, about 750-km east of the national capital. “What do we do in Delhi? We had come here to earn a decent living and financially help our families back in the village. Whatever little we earned and saved is all spent in last two months and we had to borrow money to buy train tickets,” said Vinod Kumar who lived with the other five in a small one-room tenement in Jharera Village in southwest Delhi and worked at a firm that installed elevators in buildings. The Centre’s decision to start special train service for migrant workers, tourists, pilgrims and students gave hope to thousands of those living in Delhi without money or work since the lockdown was imposed on March 25. They walked down to the railway stations and bus terminals to board one to their home states. When told that transport services were yet to begin, they set out on foot to their villages. While most were stopped at the border by police and told to return, some even managed to sneak past. “Police asked me to go back and wait for the lockdown to be lifted. But I don’t have a place to live in Delhi now. All my saved money has been spent on buying food,” said Tilak Ram, a native of Mirazpur in eastern Uttar Pradesh. “I will work in agricultural fields this year and come back to Delhi in 2021 if normalcy returns by then,” he added. Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had on Sunday urged migrant workers to stay put for a few more days assuring that the economic activities would resume soon, but the working class does not seem to be convinced. “My contractor told me that there would be no work for at least 2-3 months. What is the point of staying in Delhi then?” asked Tej Ram who worked as a welder near Arjan Garh. He walked down to the railway station with his younger brother Biren to catch a train for Chhatarpur in Madhya Pradesh. Not just in Delhi, but almost all states, thousands of migrant workers are stranded and desperate to go home. Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla recently wrote to the chief secretaries of all states asking them to counsel such migrants and provide food and shelter to them till they are facilitated to board the ‘shramik’ special trains and buses to their native places. Delhi government has so far shared the list of about 12,000 such migrants staying in 500-odd night and special shelter homes and who registered on the government portal, with the governments of Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Jharkhand, Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan among others. So far, about 3,000 people have already returned while more trains and buses are being arranged by Delhi and receiving states. “Our focus initially is to send those staying in the shelter homes. Later, others who are also desirous to return will be sent back,” said a senior Delhi government official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/lives-derailed-they-cant-wait-for-trains/articleshow/75684173.cms||Atul Mathur
May 12, 2020||Madurai||Tamil Nadu’s liquor policy myopic, says Madras HC||CHENNAI: Slamming Tamil Nadu government’s insistence on reopening liquor shops during lockdown, Madras high court has said the government is promoting kabasura kudineer for immunity, but wants to destroy immunity by opening up liquor trade. “In a republican democracy as ours, when the Executive wing was to pursue a policy that is likely to destroy the right to life, the judicial wing cannot afford to sleep like Kumbhakarna… When a myopic State policy stands pitted against public health, the natural choice should be to protect the latter at the cost of the former…The State cannot be permitted to hide behind the cloak of policy decision when its action is likely to kill people in droves. At this critical juncture, if the judiciary fails to come to the rescue of the people and protect their cherished right to life guaranteed by Article 21 of the Constitution of India, history will not forgive this court,” said a division bench of Justice P N Prakash and Justice B Pugalendhi on Monday. As for tipplers’ argument that they have a right to pander to their habits of drinking which is personal and no instrumentality of State can interfere, the judges said said: “Yes. We can afford to agree with this, if the COVID-19 pandemic is not at our doorsteps threatening to devour lives.” The bench rued: “On the one hand, the State wants its citizens to develop immunity by consuming Kabasura Kudineer and homeopathy medicines, and on the other hand wants to destroy the immunity by making liquor freely available to the public.” The judges were hearing a batch of writ petitions on the issue and asking the court registry to place the issue before the chief justice, perhaps to be clubbed with similar cases pending before a division bench. Whatever gains we gathered, thanks to our citizens, who, unlike citizens of certain Western countries, wholeheartedly remained indoors, are bound to get dissipated with the re-opening of the TASMAC shops, said the judges. “The right of the State to carry on liquor sales via Tasmac shops is not an absolute one, but only a qualified one under Article 19(1)(g) of the Constitution and when that right seeks to trample the right to life guaranteed by Article 21 of the Constitution, the former has to give way and remain subservient to the latter,” they reasoned. Be it noted that what the petitioners are seeking is not a complete prohibition of liquor vending by Tasmac shops, but a wise decision to keep the shops closed for a limited period and, thereby, support the laudable efforts of the frontline Covid-19 warriors like doctors, nurses, paramedicals, police, corporation and municipal workers, judiciary, fourth estate, et al, the bench observed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/tns-liquor-policy-myopic-harms-public-health-says-hc/articleshow/75687774.cms||Kaushik Kannan
May 12, 2020||Coimbatore||No coronavirus case for record eighth day in dist||Coimbatore: Monday was the eighth day that the district went without recording a new Covid-19 case. The district will have to not record any new case until May 24 to be declared a green zone. Meanwhile, the last two of Tirupur’s 114 patients were also discharged on Monday, making it a coronavirus-free district.Coimbatore district last recorded Covid-19 cases on May 3. “Since then, all the patients with flu like symptoms and breathlessness have tested negative for the virus. All the pregnant women tested before delivery were also found negative in the last eight days,” said a senior health department official. “Regarding cases with a travel history, we have lifted samples from the Maldives returnees. Bus drivers who returned from Maharashtra and Koyambedu have all tested negative,” he said. “However, they remain under quarantine,” he added.However, the results of three of the 53 people who returned from Maldives, are still awaited. The remaining 50 people have tested negative. Their samples were lifted on Sunday night, immediately after their arrival from Kochi by bus. Officials said the results of the three people were found inconclusive and hence retests were ordered. However, before the retests’ results arrived, the three of them were sent to their hometowns—one to Cuddalore and two to Trichy, where they have been asked to home quarantine themselves. The deputy director of public health department Dr G Ramesh Kumar confirmed that all the returnees were asymptomatic. “Since home quarantine is now allowed for those with no symptoms or mild symptoms, we sent everyone home. In the scenario that they test positive, we will inform health department in Cuddalore and Trichy, from where they will follow up the patients,” he said. The 53 people from the state, working in Maldives, reached Kochi via sea and took a bus to Coimbatore. With inter-district buses being opened and the railways also announcing starting of passenger trains in a phased manner, the health department has decided to shift its focus to people on entering the district. “So far, only road borders are open for incoming passenger traffic. Since we are present at all check-posts, we are quarantining people coming from hotspot districts like Chennai, Ariyalur and states like Maharashtra etc. However, even people allowed to go home are instructed to quarantine at home for 14 days and sticking stamps on all their hands,” Dr G Ramesh Kumar said. “We will continue this system once inter district buses are also allowed,” he said. “We have not been asked to test asymptomatic people coming from other districts so far,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/no-coronavirus-case-for-record-eighth-day-in-dist/articleshow/75684164.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Bhopal||Limit lockdown 4.0 curbs to infected areas, says Shivraj Singh Chouhan||BHOPAL: Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said that with the Prime Minister’s farsightedness, will power and skilful leadership, Team India will win the battle against Corona soon. In a video conference regarding COVID status with all the chief ministers of the country taken by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday, he said that lockdown 4 must be mixed with restrictions limited only to infected areas. Chouhan said the Prime Minister has implemented a strong strategy against coronavirus in the country by consistently communicating and coordinating with the states in accordance with the honour and dignity of the federal structure, due to which we have gained effective control over Corona. The home ministry advisory is very clear and useful for the states. Stating that the states are getting continuous support and guidance from the Centre, Chouhan said the team sent by the Centre visited severely infected areas in hotspots in the state and gave valuable suggestions. Similarly, the trains run for the labourers have proved extremely helpful in getting them home while the amount of Rs661 crore under MNREGA and Rs910 crore under NDRF sent by the Centre during this crisis has proved immensely useful. As many as 16 lakh labourers have been given work under MNREGA in the state. He said that different types of economic activities have been started in the state and the states should be given packages for MSME industries. Chief minister also talked about the bold reforms made in the labour law for maximum investment promotion keeping in mind the interests of workers in the state. Changes have been made in the Mandi Act to provide maximum value of their produce to farmers, under which farmers can now sell their crops from their homes through Sauda Patraks, in the mandi and also through e-tendering. Chouhan suggested that to prevent the infection of Corona in the state effectively and to restore the economy, the fourth lockdown should have a mixed form. Strict action should be taken in the infected area, while in other areas exemption should be given so that economic activities can be resumed smoothly. The night curfew should remain unchanged from 7pm to 7am. Gradually, public transport should be started in a controlled manner. All celebrations must be banned, he said. Health Minister Dr. Narottam Mishra, Chief Secretary Shri Iqbal Singh Bains, Additional Chief Secretary Health Shri Mohammad Suleman etc were present in the video conference.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/limit-lockdown-4-0-curbs-to-infected-areas-says-shivraj/articleshow/75683009.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu’s liquor policy myopic, says Madras HC||CHENNAI: Slamming Tamil Nadu government’s insistence on reopening liquor shops during lockdown, Madras high court has said the government is promoting kabasura kudineer for immunity, but wants to destroy immunity by opening up liquor trade. “In a republican democracy as ours, when the Executive wing was to pursue a policy that is likely to destroy the right to life, the judicial wing cannot afford to sleep like Kumbhakarna… When a myopic State policy stands pitted against public health, the natural choice should be to protect the latter at the cost of the former…The State cannot be permitted to hide behind the cloak of policy decision when its action is likely to kill people in droves. At this critical juncture, if the judiciary fails to come to the rescue of the people and protect their cherished right to life guaranteed by Article 21 of the Constitution of India, history will not forgive this court,” said a division bench of Justice P N Prakash and Justice B Pugalendhi on Monday. As for tipplers’ argument that they have a right to pander to their habits of drinking which is personal and no instrumentality of State can interfere, the judges said said: “Yes. We can afford to agree with this, if the COVID-19 pandemic is not at our doorsteps threatening to devour lives.” The bench rued: “On the one hand, the State wants its citizens to develop immunity by consuming Kabasura Kudineer and homeopathy medicines, and on the other hand wants to destroy the immunity by making liquor freely available to the public.” The judges were hearing a batch of writ petitions on the issue and asking the court registry to place the issue before the chief justice, perhaps to be clubbed with similar cases pending before a division bench. Whatever gains we gathered, thanks to our citizens, who, unlike citizens of certain Western countries, wholeheartedly remained indoors, are bound to get dissipated with the re-opening of the TASMAC shops, said the judges. “The right of the State to carry on liquor sales via Tasmac shops is not an absolute one, but only a qualified one under Article 19(1)(g) of the Constitution and when that right seeks to trample the right to life guaranteed by Article 21 of the Constitution, the former has to give way and remain subservient to the latter,” they reasoned. Be it noted that what the petitioners are seeking is not a complete prohibition of liquor vending by Tasmac shops, but a wise decision to keep the shops closed for a limited period and, thereby, support the laudable efforts of the frontline Covid-19 warriors like doctors, nurses, paramedicals, police, corporation and municipal workers, judiciary, fourth estate, et al, the bench observed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tns-liquor-policy-myopic-harms-public-health-says-hc/articleshow/75684165.cms||Kaushik Kannan
May 12, 2020||Nashik||17 migrants & 4 others escape accident with minor injuries||Nashik: As many as 21 people, including 17 migrant workers who were travelling to Rajasthan on a truck, had a narrow escape after four vehicles piled up at the treacherous spot in Rahud ghat near Chandwad town on the Mumbai-Agra national highway on Monday morning. Chandwad police said that three trucks and a car were caught up in the mishap, in which apart from the 17 migrant workers, two occupants in the car and two truck drivers also sustained minor injuries. Police have booked the truck driver who was transporting the workers. The accident occurred around 7.45am when the vehicles were crossing the rumbler strips at the treacherous section of the ghat while going to Malegaon from Nashik. According to police, the migrant workers boarded the truck from Thane. When the truck reached Rahud ghat, there were several vehicles in front of it. Police said that the truck driver failed to exercise cation while manoeuvring the dangerous spot and his vehicle came very close to a truck in front of it. “In a bid to slow down the truck, the driver lost control. As a result, his vehicle hit another truck in front of it before steering to the right and climbing up the divider. In the process, it also hit another truck in front that had slowed down near the rumbler strips,” said police. The driver of the third truck also lost control and hit a car in front of it near the rumblers. All four vehicles blocked the entire section of the road going towards Malegaon, paralysing traffic flow for sometime. Both the locals and the police swung into action and rescued at least 17 migrants, who were rushed to hospitals in Chandwad and Malegaon. “We cannot ascertain the number of migrant workers in the truck as the people who were not injured or received bruises continued their journey home either by walking or in other vehicles,” said a police officer.The section of the ghat which has earned the dubious distinction of a treacherous spot has a steep descent and a sharp left turn, where drivers often tend to lose control over their vehicles. Rumblers have been put in place at regular intervals to break the speed of the vehicles.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/17-migrants-4-others-escape-accident-with-minor-injuries/articleshow/75683026.cms||Abhilash Botekar
May 12, 2020||Trichy||Spike in Ariyalur dist as 33 test positive for Covid-19||Trichy: Ariyalur district saw a spike in Covid-19 positive cases as 33 people tested positive on Monday. With this, the total number of Covid-19 cases in the district has increased to 308. Ariyalur is the only district in the central region that crossed 300 positive cases, after Chennai, Tiruvallur, Cuddalore and Chengalpat in the state.The new positive cases include 28 who had returned from Koyambedu market and belonging to Nammagunam, Sendurai, Sirukalathur and Vanjinapuram villages. The remaining five people were close contacts of the Koyambedu returnees.With 260 active Covid-19 cases in the district, asymptomatic people were accommodated in four isolation centres established in schools and colleges in Andimadam, Rayampuram, Jayankondam and Ariyalur. Active Covid-19 cases displaying symptoms were admitted to Ariyalur GH, Ariyalur covid care centre and Trichy MGMGH.In Perambalur, a 32-year-old woman tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday. Her husband, who was working at Koyambedu market, tested positive a few days ago. The number of Covid-19 cases in Perambalur district is 105. The 97 active Covid-19 cases in Perambalur are undergoing treatment at MGMGH in Trichy, government hospital in Perambalur and Ariyalur.Around 50 samples were awaiting results in Perambalur district. “We are testing at least 20 expecting mothers per day,” an official with the Perambalur district administration said.Thanjavur numbers climbed to 69 on Monday with three more new positive cases. A 37-year-old truck driver from Cuddalore district, a 32-year-old Chennai returnee, a native of Kazhumangalam in Ariyalur and a 23-year-old woman of Thippirajapuram in Thanjavur tested positive. The woman is a teacher in Chennai.Trichy, which witnessed no new cases on Monday, discharged four patients from MGMGH after recovery. Nine active cases in the district are undergoing treatment. The total number of positive cases in Trichy is 64.There were no positive cases in Karur district on Monday, but six positive patients are undergoing treatment at the Karur government medical college hospital. Five positive patients from Namakkal district were discharged on Monday from the hospital.No new cases were reported in Pudukottai, Tiruvarur and Nagapattinam on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/spike-in-ariyalur-dist-as-33-test-positive-for-covid-19/articleshow/75684844.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Trichy||Worry over people hitch-hiking back home||Trichy: As four of six Covid-19 positive cases in the last 10 days in Karur district are those who returned from Maharashtra, health department officials wait with bated breath as roughly 200 people are expected to return from Maharashtra. Most of them are from Kulithalai and Pallapatti of Karur district, and engaged in finance business in some parts of Maharashtra. They had hitch-hiked to reach Karur district. One among the four patients under treatment at the Karur government medical college hospital narrated his 40-day ordeal in Mumbai. A utensil trader for over 25 years in the commercial capital, he was to return to Karur in the last week of March. But his train got cancelled after the lockdown was declared. Living in a cramped room with others in a congested locality in Mumbai could be one of the reasons for him picking up the disease. He narrated those 40 days as dark days of his life as he had to listen to the weeping of his family members over phone concerning his safe return. “Instead of living under constant fear of getting beaten up by the police or picking up the infection, I chose to travel back to Karur hitch-hiking. I reached back successfully but with the infection. But the infection doesn’t hurt as much as isolation did to me in Mumbai,” he said. Deputy director of health services (DDHS) Karur N Selva Kumar said people have been coming from Maharashtra in the last few days. He said that 15 people have reached Pallapatti while nine reached Kulithalai on Monday. He said that about 50 people who have come from Maharashtra, which is a red zone, to Karur have been identified, adding the numbers could be as high as 200, as many came secretly and didn’t inform health officials.  “We will be closely monitoring patients coming from Maharashtra. As per the recent directions from the health department, we have decided to keep asymptomatic patients under home quarantine rather than admitting them in hospitals. If they develop any complication, they will be shifted to the hospital,” said Dr E Theranirajan, dean of Karur government medical college hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/worry-over-people-hitch-hiking-back-home/articleshow/75684864.cms||Sampath Kumar
May 12, 2020||Pune||Five more succumb to Covid-19, 112 turn positive in Pune||PUNE: Five more patients, including two aged over 60, succumbed to Covid-19 infection, while 112 tested positive for the contagion in the Pune Metropolitan Region on Monday. With this, the total number of casualties and cases have risen to 161 and 2,969, respectively, in PMR. Among the 112 fresh cases, 94 were recorded in Pune municipal limits and 18 in the rural areas of the district. No fresh positive case and death due to Covid-19 was reported in Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation limits on Monday. Over 101 patients were cured and discharged in the region on Monday, pushing the count of discharge up to 1,240 in the region. Civic health officials said the rigorous exercise of swab collection of suspected patients in the containment areas was under way. On Monday, PMC collected and sent over 1,008 swabs for testing. For the last few days, the civic administration has been collecting over 1,000 samples on a daily basis, the officials said. Among the casualties, a 66-year-old woman from Yerawada died at a private hospital, while a 63-year-old male from the Padmavati area also succumbed to the infection at a private hospital. Both patients had co-morbidities. A 40-year-old man from Bhavani Peth, who had died on May 9, also came positive for Covid-19 on Monday. A 57-year-old man of Bhavani Peth died at YCM hospital, while a 42-year-old man was brought dead to Sassoon hospital. The health officials said about 98 patients were in critical condition, of which 19 were put on ventilator support.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/5-more-succumb-to-ncov-112-turn-positive-in-pune/articleshow/75684851.cms||Sarang Dastane
May 12, 2020||Bhopal||Kanpur to Chattarpur: Migrants cross rivers, jungles to cover 350 kms, 1000 more to go||BHOPAL: They have already covered 350 kms on foot, criss-crossing jungles, rivers and hillocks from Kanpur to Chattarpur. Deliberately taking the non conventional route to dodge the police and check posts, a group of 50 labourers is now headed towards Chattisgarh. Former employees of an industrial area of Kanpur, this group comprises more than 15 children and women. Walking down from Kanpur since May 2, they crossed Banda of Uttar Pradesh and reached Chattarpur’s Luvkushnagar, crossing the shallow waters of river Ken on Sunday night. “As we were sacked and had no jobs left in Kanpur, we would have died of hunger. So, we took a chance to reach home,” the labourers told the villagers who had offered them meals and a place to rest for few hours.. Kevat community of Luvkushnagar offered them meals at a primary school in village Barua. “We maintained social distancing while serving them dinner cooked by the villagers”, said Ajay Kevat and Deepu. We also packed some food for them for the next meal.” The migrants started their journey again in the night. One of the migrants, Lal Sahu, said, “We try to cover major part of our journey in the night . Because of scorching heat in the afternoon, it is difficult to walk.” he added, “The children may look tired but they are full of energy and are confident to walk another 1000 kms.”Another traveller, Santosh Sahu, however, said, “ I don’t know how we would we cover the remaining nearly 1000 kms.” To reach Raipur, they have to first reach Bhopal and then go to Nagpur, before walking down to their final destination.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/kanpur-to-chattarpur-migrants-cross-rivers-jungles-to-cover-350-kms-1000-more-to-go/articleshow/75683030.cms||Deshdeep Saxena
May 12, 2020||Ranchi||Mobile app to track Rims docs attendance soon||Ranchi: Rajandra Institute of Medical Sciences (Rims) will soon come up with a mobile-based attendance system for on-duty doctors to ensure their presence during OPD hours and prevent them from engaging in private practice. The move comes after a Jharkhand high court order where the Rims director was pulled up for not being able to ensure attendance at the OPD section. Speaking to TOI, Rims director Dr D K Singh said, “The installation of a mobile-based attendance tracking system is an innovative way to manage the workforce effectively. As I was directed by the Jharkhand high court to take appropriate measures in order to secure attendance of all doctors during duty hours at any cost, I have taken an initiative to come up with a technology-driven solution to ensure my workforce is present to serve the patients.” The high court took serious objection to the fact that even after being the head of institute, the director of Rims isn’t able to deal with the situation due to practical difficulties. The mobile-based tracking system would thrive on the GPS features of a phone. Doctors will be able to mark themselves present only after reaching the designated area. This will help the hospital authorities to track if a doctor has reached the hospital or not. An expression of interest was invited by Rims director on May 8 for supply, installation and commissioning of the tracking system using face recognition functions. “It is the duty of the Director RIMS; being the head of the Institution to ensure attendance of doctors during duty hours and so that no doctor is absent from duty and if any of the doctors is found not available, it is up to the Director RIMS to deal with such situation by taking appropriate action in accordance with law and as per the rule applicable to the employees/the officers working under the RIMS.” read the directive which was issued after hearing a public interest litigation filed by Sanicchar Oraon over private practice by Rims doctors and their unavailability at the state-run institute during duty hours. The court had also directed the state government to constitute a special vigilance unit to monitor doctors indulged in private practice after duty hours as that is in contravention of the rules as the doctors are provided non-practising allowances apart from the salary to deter them from private practice. Acting upon the directive of the court, a three-member special vigilance unit was created which also nabbed four senior doctors involved in private practice in the month of January this year and submitted their report to the state government. During the inspection, the members of the surveillance teams also recorded the statements of the patients who were present at the clinics and also inquired about the fees being charged by the doctors for consultation. The inspection team was informed that the doctors are levying a heavy amount as consultation charges.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/mobile-app-to-track-rims-docs-attendance-soon/articleshow/75664323.cms||Gaurav Pandey
May 12, 2020||Delhi||Chandni Chowk project may lag further as hands in short supply||NEW DELHI: Delhi government’s ambitious project to beautify and pedestrianise the historical Chandni Chowk is likely to get further delayed due to non-availability of workforce. Sources said the contractor is left with less than a third of the total workforce, while several others have expressed their desire to go back to their native states for the time being. With a handful of construction workers on site, the Shahjahanabad Redevelopment Corporation — the agency executing the project — is unlikely to complete the first phase by the revised deadline of May 31. While contractors had been alerted earlier this month to arrange the workforce, sources say there is a serious crisis of foremen and supervisory staff, apart from labourers. Already delayed, especially after Supreme Court banned construction work in the capital due to severe air pollution, the redevelopment work had just picked pace when the lockdown was imposed on March 25 to prevent Covid-19 from spreading. While more than 200 labourers work on the project, the current workforce at the site is just around 60. Sources said the contractor on Monday tried to resume work with around 5-6 workers. “It was a trial and not a full-fledged resumption of work,” said a representative of a contractor, requesting anonymity. “We cannot even bring foremen and supervisory staff from other states due to the lockdown. A clearer picture will emerge only after May 17.” He added that proper construction would only begin when the workforce is available to carry out all aspects of construction. “Not just civil construction, we also need workforce for laying down pipes, electrical wires, carrying out welding and other jobs. Construction activities are a cluster of various steps, which are interrelated,” he added. Concretisation of surface, granite work, storm water drains, and fire hydrants pipeline are in various stages of completion, an official said. With no clarity on availability of the workforce, officials said it was difficult to predict the deadline for completion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/chandni-chowk-project-may-lag-further-as-hands-in-short-supply/articleshow/75684182.cms||Atul Mathur
May 12, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: Despite permits, industries continue to face hurdles||BHOPAL: Lockdown 3.0 is almost over, but the industries of Madhya Pradesh have seen little activity. While, the Bhopal district administration is yet to permit operations at Govindpura Industrial Estate, the Mandideep industrialists with permission to run their factories have not been able to start production “properly”. Industrial units producing medicines, health equipment, essential commodities and packaging, among others, continue to function — with less than 50% capacity. There are about 1,100 industrial units in Govindpura Industrial Estate. The administration is still reviewing the situation. And as lockdown continues in the industrial estate, industrialists have urged the administration to give permission to start production “with 30-40% staff and commitment to follow all guidelines”. President of the Govindpura Industrial Estate, Amarjeet Singh, said, “As the units continue to be shut down, their overheads continue. Entrepreneurs here are so frustrated that they are talking of putting locks in their units and handing over the keys to the government.” Though some pharmaceutical units have started production, they are working with “less than 50% of their capacity”. Dr RS Goswami, owner of a pharmaceutical unit in Govindpura, said, “There is a problem of workers. Ingredients and packaging material are also not available. Major component of the packaging material comes from Gujarat and Mumbai, where only 25-30% units have started production.” In Mandideep industrial estate, a large number of entrepreneurs have taken permission to resume functioning but continue to “battle against the odds”. “The industries work in totality. Partial production has started in a large number of major industrial areas in the country. They complement and supplement each other. It is difficult to start functioning in isolation,” said CB Malpani, general secretary of the Association of all Industry Mandideep.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/despite-permits-industries-continue-to-face-hurdles/articleshow/75683017.cms||Deshdeep Saxena
May 12, 2020||Kolkata||Borough IV under strict coronavirus vigil||Kolkata: Firhad Hakim, the chairperson of board of administrators that is governing the Kolkata Municipal Corporation now, came down heavily on a section of civic officials and ward coordinators (former councillors) for not being able to implement the lockdown rules in large parts of Burrabazar, Chitpore, Jorasanko and Jorabagan areas under Borough IV.  Hakim, on Monday, visited the Borough IV office and interacted with the civic officials on the rapid spread of virus in these areas. Hakim expressed concern over Burrabazar where the number of Covid-19 positive cases is growing. The board chairperson wanted an explanation from the civic officials and ward coordinators why traders were allowed to continue with their business in the densely populated Raja Katra area in Burrabazar, which has been made a containment zone. He also expressed his concern over the wholesale milk market in Burrabazar. Hakim said efforts were on to find a parking zone for the trucks coming from outside the state. He was upset with a section of ward coordinators for their failure to implement the lockdown laws in Rabindra Sarani and Chitpore. He said the trucks coming to the wholesale fruit market at Mechua should be allowed entry as Rabindra Sarani has been one of the containment zones in the city. He also visited Pathuriaghata Street, which has also been made a containment zone, and asked the local ward coordinator Ellora Saha why shops were allowed to open there. Later at a meeting, Hakim instructed all the ward coordinators to work in tandem with civic officials and cops to combat the Covid-19 threat. “While we need to tighten lockdown rules in the areas registering a spurt in Covid cases, we should relax the rules in any containment area that refuses to record any fresh case in 14 days,” said Hakim.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/borough-iv-under-strict-virus-vigil/articleshow/75684181.cms||Saikat Ray
May 12, 2020||Nashik||Four more patients discharged||Nashik: Four more patients suffering from coronavirus have recovered and were discharged from Evangeline Booth Hospital in Ahmednagar on Monday. On their way out, the patients were cheered and applauded by the medical staff. A district administration official said that all the four patients hail from Jamkheda taluka of the district. “On Sunday too, a patient hailing from Nevasa was discharged from the hospital following his recovery,” the official said. So far, 40 patients have recovered in the district and 10 are still undergoing treatment at the hospital of which eight are from Sangamner and one each from Pathardi and Jamkhed. So far, 53 cases of Covid-19 have been reported in Ahmednagar district of which, three patients have succumbed to the infection. “One more patient from Jamkhed was supposed to be discharged from the hospital along with the other four, but his throat swab sample tested positive. He will now remain in the hospital for another week following which another swab test will be conducted,” the official said. Ahmednagar was the first among the five districts in Nashik divisional commissionarate to report a case of Covid-19 after a local resident, who had returned from Dubai, tested positive on March 12.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/four-more-patients-discharged/articleshow/75683034.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Trichy||44% dip in freight revenue for rlys during lockdown||Trichy: Indian Railways witnessed a massive surge in transportation of food grains during the lockdown period, recording a 136% increase in terms of quantity in April, compared to the corresponding period the previous year. However, there was a 35% decline in the volume of goods handled compare to same period last year with a 44% drop in revenue, officials said. In the case of Southern Railway alone, it recorded a 53% dip in goods transportation.Freight traffic is the major source of revenue for railways. Though one-third of the total trains are operated for transporting goods, it accounts for more than 60% of the railway's total revenue, authorities said. There has been a steady growth in freight loading by the railways. The railways has been able to operate plenty of goods trains despite several constraints. As it is in the delta region, 1.03 lakh tonnes of food grains were transported by Trichy railways division between March 24 and April 22. A total of 5.96 lakh tonnes of goods was handled by division alone, officials said. According to data available with the ministry of railways, the total volume of freight handled during April 2019 was 101.09 million tonnes across the country, while it was 65.4 million tonnes in April 2020, a decrease of 35.31%. In the case of revenue, the total money earned in April 2020 was Rs5,998.81 crore against Rs10,652.28 crore during the corresponding period the previous year, a loss of 43.69%. Apart from regular freight traffic, the railways had also transported several tonnes of essentials, medicines and medical equipment from one place to another across the country during the lockdown period, officials said. “Despite the lockdown, the railways managed to earn 55% of revenue (compared to last year). Once the lockdown would be lifted, the railways could recuperate in the coming days,” a senior official from Trichy railway division said. “Since passenger segment is proved to be a loss to railways, the revenue earned from freight is the only source of income. The railways has witnessed a loss of around Rs4,500 crore in April 2020. Definitely it would continue for the next few months amounting to a loss of around Rs15,000 crore,” said Dakshin Railway Employees Union deputy general secretary D Manoharan. “Ever since the railway budget was merged with the general budget, budgetary allocation to the railway has been drastically minimized. To safeguard railway department, the government of India should allocate budgetary support fund. Otherwise, railways will be forced to incur huge losses,” he further stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/44-dip-in-freight-revenue-for-rlys-during-lockdown/articleshow/75684849.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
May 12, 2020||Vadodara||After infection, nurse vows to return to Covid-19 ward||Vadodara: She tested positive for Covid-19 on the eve of the International Nurses Day, but is keen to join duty. Not shaken by the result, this nurse sent out a video message stating that she will work again in the same ward where she fell sick.Bhavika Parekh got fever at the Bankers Superspecialty Hospital in Manjalpur on the last day of her duty in the isolation ward where Covid-19 patients are being treated. A test was conducted on her and it transpired that she too had got infected.In a video message, Parekh said that there was no need to be afraid and one should fight against the disease. “I feel at home at the hospital. My family members and my society has supported me a lot while I was working here,” she said.Functionaries in the hospital said that the nurse’s residential society was aware that she was going to work in the Covid-19 ward. The neighbourhood supported her instead of being apprehensive or sceptical.Parekh said that the country needed health workers. “Health workers should not be afraid. We need to come out and fight this,” she said in the message.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/after-infection-nurse-vows-to-return-to-covid-19-ward/articleshow/75683070.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Delhi||Water woes overflow: One cop with each tanker at 600 vulnerable points in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Water tanker operators of Delhi Jal Board have been instructed not to stop at a distribution point where crowding is observed. They may later return with a constable and helpers to ensure that water is distributed without any chaos-- the new standard operating procedure for tanker water distribution in view of Covid-19 pandemic mandates. Meanwhile, a list of 600 vulnerable points which are prone to crowding and fights during summer months has been prepared and care is being taken to ensure that these places do not lead to spread of the novel coronavirus infection, a senior DJB official told TOI. These points constitute about 7% of 8,738 locations where water is distributed using DJB tankers. “In vulnerable areas, police have been requested to provide one cop each for every tanker. Markings have been made in some of these areas. In case a tanker driver finds the situation going out of his control, he has been directed to come back to the filling point and request local police for help,” an official overseeing the operations said. “Every zonal executive engineer has been asked to certify that the measures are in place in their respective area,” added the DJB official. “Some of the places where water will be distributed under police protection include Usmanpur village, Shiv Vihar, Mustafabad, Rajeev Gandhi Nagar, Mukundpur and Chauhan Patti. The tankers’ numbers and distribution timings have already been sent to the local thana,” an official from the northeast zone said. In the last few years, multiple fights have been reported over water from several city areas, including Sangam Vihar, Khajuri Khas and Wazirpur. In the summer of 2018, a man was even shot in Sangam Vihar following a dispute over water. Centre for Science & Environment has estimated that more hand washing may increase water woes of water-stressed regions this year. It estimated that a family of five would need 100 to 200 litres of water per day only to wash hands recommending that “emphasis should be laid on reducing the amount of water that comes out of a tap per minute.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/water-woes-overflow-one-cop-with-each-tanker-at-600-vulnerable-points/articleshow/75684205.cms||Paras Singh
May 12, 2020||Pune||Pune Municipal Corporation plans to clean 155 loos in slums five times daily||PUNE: The Pune Municipal Corporation has said it is keeping a close eye on the condition of community toilets within the containment zones of the city. Sources said the civic body wants the common loos — many located in slum pockets — to be cleaned at least five times a day. There are currently 69 containment zones within the municipal corporation's limits with over 155 community toilets between them. Their maintenance will be vital in the fight against Covid-19 in the city. Authorities have now asked healthcare centres (Aarogya Kothi) and ward offices to ensure the toilets are maintained as per high cleanliness standards. Supervisors have been told to ensure the facilities are sanitised throughout the day. They have also been asked to upload photos of the toilets into the PMC’s mobile app. Community toilets serve thousands of people in the city’s slum pockets where many households are still without attached loos. “During the third phase of the lockdown, the administration will focus on the condition of community toilets. Every toilet is expected to be deep cleaned at least five times a day,” a PMC official said. “Priority is on door handles and entry/exit points.” The official added that besides regular cleaning, teams have been told to ensure each toilet has functional wash basins, adequate supply of water and soap. “We have set up a system that will pass on complaints directly to supervisors. We will get regular updates on the condition of these toilets,” the PMC official added. But residents of slum pockets said much more needs to be done by the civic body to maintain effective sanitation and hygiene. In the past, community loos in the slums have had problems like leaky taps, missing doors and a range of other issues. There are over 1,200 such loos within PMC limits. “We still don’t have daily lifting of garbage from the slum pockets. These common toilets need to have more security and better maintenance,” said Sanjay Chavhan, a resident of the Yerawada slum. The municipal corporation has also installed hands-free wash basins at hotspot localities within Patil Estate slums, Parvati Darshan and at Covid Care Centers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmc-plans-to-clean-155-loos-in-slums-five-times-daily/articleshow/75684875.cms||Sarang Dastane
May 12, 2020||Madurai||Teach people on Covid, dispel myths: MKU VC||Madurai: Students should play an active role in educating people on Covid-19 and dispel myths associated with it, urged M Krishnan, vice-chancellor of Madurai Kamaraj University (MKU). He took part in the two-day training programme on ‘Psycho Social Care During Covid-19’ jointly organized by MKU, Mannar Thirumalai Naicker College and MS Chellamuthu Trust and Research Foundation on Monday. Addressing National Social Service (NSS) students, he said that many are not fully aware of the virus and how it spreads. Government and doctors are there to protect infected people. But, students need to play their part by reaching out to the public and keep them informed. “Educate your parents first, then relatives and then people in your village. We are planning to train 3,000 students and if each one can reach out to 100 people, we can cover more than three lakh people,” Krishnan said. Madurai MP Su Venkatesan said the whole world is going to through something unprecedented. “It is important to deal with the psychological issues faced by the people at this crisis. Scientific understanding of the issue and ways to deal with it without succumbing to fear is need of the hour,” he said. He said that some countries and states like Kerala have done well because of people’s cooperation and not just because of the governments alone. “I have been writing to various central government departments including Prime Minister’s Office and finance ministry seeking all possible help to the state and my constituency,” he said Founder of M S Chellamuthu Trust and Research Foundation, Dr C Ramasubramanian said the module for the two-day programme was prepared by experts from Nimhans, Bengaluru. Around 220 students have already been trained from MKU, American College and Lady Doak College. These students will get certification from the university. City police have said that they will make use of the students. Dr J Sangumani, dean, Madurai Medical College, M Vijayaragavan, secretary and B Manoharan, principal of Mannar Thirumalai Naicker College also took part.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/teach-people-on-covid-dispel-myths-mku-vc/articleshow/75684188.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Pune||Pune: Government facilities to ramp up tests soon, says divisional commissioner||PUNE: Divisional commissioner Deepak Mhaisekar on Monday said the number of testing would be ramped up at the government facilities soon, while the central team reviewed arrangements in the containment zones in the city. The central team, after inspecting the containment pockets along Tadiwala Road, called for strict barricading and containment measures in all the 69 containment areas in the city. Mhaisekar, the Pune divisional commissioner, meanwhile, stressed that the existing government testing centres — National Institute of Virology, BJ Medical College and Armed Forces Medical Colleges (AFMC) — would ramp up their testing facilities in the coming days. He said the state was now following the new protocol of the Indian Council of Medical Research regarding the discharge of Covid-19 patients. On the arrangements for Palkhi, the Pune divisional commissioner said the organisers would soon have a meeting soon with the administration. Mhaisekar said trains with migrant workers had left for Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand so far. He said trains would also ply to Tamil Nadu and Jaipur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/govt-facilities-to-ramp-up-tests-soon-div-commissioner/articleshow/75684868.cms||Nisha Nambiar
May 12, 2020||Trichy||PNB burglary case: Murugan gets bail||Trichy: Tiruvarur N Murugan, 46, prime accused in the Punjab National Bank (PNB) burglary case was granted bail by the Trichy district court on Monday. Murugan, who is also prime accused in the Lalitha Jewellery heist case, was granted bail on Friday. However, his release has been put on hold pending bail in several other cases. The district munsif and judicial magistrate court in Srirangam issued the order allowing the release of Murugan on bail from the Trichy Central Prison. In a video-conference hearing, his counsel P Hari Bhaskar sought Murugan’s release stating that the accused was jailed since January 8 in connection with the burglary at PNB, Bikshandarkovil branch. Bhaskar also pointed out that the Kollidam police in Trichy district was yet to submit the final report of the case even after 120 days at the court. The prosecutor too observed that the accused was entitled to avail bail. Hence, the court granted him bail on the execution of own bond for Rs 20,000. Since Murugan has to get bail in several other cases, his release will take place later, said his counsel adding that his health condition was deteriorating. A gang led by Murugan broke into the Punjab National Bank branch and took away 470 sovereigns of gold jewellery and Rs 19 lakh from three lockers in January 2019.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/pnb-burglary-case-murugan-gets-bail/articleshow/75684871.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Nashik||Real estate projects hit due to lack of workers||Nashik: Over 500 real estate projects across the city that had got permission from the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) to resume construction activities are now affected for want of workers as most of the have returned to their hometowns. Owing to the shortage of workers, some builders have stopped construction activities while some have slowed down the pace of work at their sites. “We have given nod to 525 real estate projects to carry out construction activities against certain conditions like maintaining social distancing and safety of workers. This includes large 50 projects with over 100 apartments each,” a senior official from the town planning department said. “These projects had already got commencement certificates from the municipal corporation, but the construction activities at these sites were stopped due to lockdown. These projects are now facing the issue of manpower crunch,” he added. According to city-based builders, over 60% of construction workers in Nashik are from states like Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Gujarat and Rajasthan. The remaining 40% of the workers include workers from Vidarbha, Marathwada and even parts of Nashik district. “Many city builders have obtained permission from the NMC to start construction work, but the activities are yet to gain momentum due to lack of workers,” Naresh Karda, vice-president of Confederation of Real Estate Developers Association of India (Nashik), said. Karda, who is also the chairman of a major construction firm in the city, said, “We have around 14 residential projects under construction across the city and have over 450 workers. We have provided all the facilities, still around 25% of them have already moved back to their native places.” “We are worried that others too will follow suit and this will affect the construction activities across the city,” he added. “Lack of workers has become a major issue for the construction industry,” Jayesh Thakkar, senior member of National Real Estate Development Council (Naredco), said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/real-estate-projects-hit-due-to-lack-of-workers/articleshow/75683061.cms||Tushar Pawar
May 12, 2020||Goa||4 days left for firms to take benefit of EPFO scheme||Panaji: Organisations have just four days more to opt for the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana (PMGKY) which offers upfront benefits for employers with a maximum of 100 employees. The scheme, which has received a lukewarm response in Goa, benefits employers and employees, said regional provident fund commissioner Ashwini Kumar Gupta. Under the scheme, the central government will pay both the EPF contributions (12% employers as well as 12% employees) of establishments for March, April and May. This benefit is for firms that have up to 100 workers and where 90% of the employees are paid less than Rs 15,000 per month. “Last date to avail the benefits for March and April is May 15. No penalty will be levied and the establishments may upload ECR with only 1% as administrative charges and EDLI contribution. All establishments in Goa should log into the unified portal and avail the benefits,” Gupta added. He said that of the 1,702 establishments which are eligible for the scheme in Goa, only 425 employers have availed the benefit for a total of 5,748 employees to the tune of Rs 1 crore. On May 2, just 307 firms had signed up for the scheme. The Centre rolled out the scheme to provide relief to MSMEs, which are facing a liquidity crisis due to the lockdown imposed in the wake of the novel coronavirus pandemic. However, many local industries have called on the Centre to amend the scheme so that more private sector firms could take benefit of the scheme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/4-days-left-for-firms-to-take-benefit-of-epfo-scheme/articleshow/75685395.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Madurai||MKU researchers developing filters for Covid-19 prevention||Madurai: Madurai Kamaraj University (MKU) researchers are developing copper-based filters that disinfect and destroys SARS-CoV-2 virus so as to aid in the prevention of spread of Covid-19. The project was recently sanctioned by the department of Science and Technology (DST) through Science and Engineering Research Board (SERB) under special project call on Covid-19. The project, for which Rs 25 lakh has been sanctioned as initial funding, is being headed by Dr Ramasamy Mayilmurugan, School of Chemistry and Dr P Gopal, department of Plant Biotechnology at MKU. Sources said the research for the filters will be carried out at the labs in MKU School of Chemistry and that support is also being sought from Theni Government Medical College for getting samples and testing the filters. According to Dr Mayilmurugan, the ‘bioinspired copper-based virus filter’ can arrest the catalytic site of virus. Both filtration and virus disinfection take place simultaneously with the use of copper-based filters, allowing the filter to reduce the risk of infection by removing contamination from the air or surfaces. “The filters can remove pathogens including Covid-19 effectively as well as to interrupt human-to-human transmission by killing them completely. It will be useful in confined places such as educational institutes, hospitals, transportation, waiting areas, shopping malls, and meeting halls,” he explained. MKU vice-chancellor M Krishnan said that these filters, which would be developed at the university, can be rapidly prototyped and tested. “This would help facilitate a middle-of-the-road approach without lockdowns to keep the day-to-day life lively at all levels. The filters would provide safer alternatives to surgical masks, N95 respirator masks and other filters available in the market,” he said. He also added they are now looking for industrial partners to bring findings into products for the public service. The project has been sanctioned for one year after which it may be extended depending on the progress made.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/mku-researchers-developing-filters-for-covid-19-prevention/articleshow/75684220.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Ahmedabad||Mehsana: Cop’s ‘Beti Bachao’ act in time of corona||AHMEDABAD: A sub-inspector of Mehsana district traffic police has given his share of rations and dry fruits to a woman who delivered her first daughter just 12 days ago. The woman was unable to get food as she was living alone with her mother. The family had migrated from Rajasthan to find work as daily wagers in Gujarat, and the woman was not able to feed her newborn daughter.  On Mothers’ Day on Sunday, PSI Manoj Rathod was distributing food packets to destitute people in a slum on Visnagar Road in Mehsana district. When he finished distributing food, he saw one elderly woman was still standing there though she had two food packets. Seeing tears in her eyes, Rathod asked her if she needed a couple of packets more, the woman replied, “I need much more as I live along with my daughter who recently gave birth to my granddaughter. But as we are alone in this new place and we have not been getting any work for two months, we do not have enough food which is needed for a lactating woman and a newborn girl.” Rathod said that he had assured the woman that he would help her. Rathod went to her hut. A pale young woman was lying on a cot. Her sari served as a cradle for newborn daughter. The PSI’s wife advised him to give their rations along with ghee and dry fruits to the woman. He made a kit of grains, dry fruits and ghee which could last for three months and gave that to the woman. “I also gave my number and told them that I would take care of their rations and other nutritious food for at least three months,” he said, adding that he has two daughters and he knew the importance of daughters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/cops-beti-bachao-act-in-time-of-corona/articleshow/75684226.cms||Ashish Chauhan
May 12, 2020||Trichy||TNPCB: Cut used face masks to prevent reuse||Trichy: As used face masks and gloves make a big part of waste generated from households due to Covid-19 outbreak, the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board (TNPCB) has suggested users to cut the masks to prevent them from being reused. TNPCB has suggested people should keep the wastes in paper bags for at least 72 hours before disposing them of as general waste. This is apparently to avoid Covid-19 spread if waste collectors come in contact with infected face masks and gloves. TNPCB had on Sunday issued a public notice on the do’s and dont’s to those home quarantined and public on specific procedure for handling biomedical waste. It has asked quarantine centres to collect biomedical waste separately in yellow coloured bags and hand them over to the authorised waste collectors. It asked to avoid storing and mixing Covid-19 waste with other types and suggested against storing it for more than 24 hours. Workers should not be exposed to Covid-19 waste without wearing PPE and workers with symptoms should not be allowed to work, said the public notice from TNPCB. K Velmurugan, manager of Medicare enviro systems that has been operating common bio-medical waste treatment facility (CBWTF) in Thanjavur, said they will inform civic bodies about the public notice from TNPCB. He said that civic bodies in Trichy and Thanjavur are gearing up to hand over bio-medical waste generated from containment zones to CBWTF staff. This will ensure that Covid-19-related biomedical waste is handled separately and incinerated in CBWTF. A total of 13 vehicles collect biomedical waste from eight central districts, including Trichy, to the CBWTF in Thanjavur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/tnpcb-cut-used-face-masks-to-prevent-reuse/articleshow/75684878.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Trichy||Tamil Nadu: Darasuram veggie market sealed as trucker found Covid-19 positive||THANJAVUR: After a truck driver who transported potatoes to Darasuram vegetable market in Kumbakonam from Mettupalayam tested Covid-19 positive, officials sealed the market on Monday. The 37-year-old truck driver, a native of Cuddalore, has been quarantined at the Government Medical College in Thanjavur (GMCH). Health workers have identified 50 people from the market with contact history and took their swab samples. All the 50 contacts – mostly loadmen and vendors - have been asked to quarantine themselves at their home itself, officials said. Darasuram vegetable market is the biggest market in the central region, next to Gandhi Market in Trichy, with 950 shops and handling around 300 tonnes of vegetables daily, sources said. The truck driver reached Mettupalayam from Uttar Pradesh with a load of Bellary onions. After unloading the onions, he reached Kumbakonam with potatoes. Before entering the town, police intercepted the truck at Neelathanallur check-post in Kumbakonam on May 8. After disinfecting the truck at the check post, health workers took swab from the driver and allowed him to proceed to the market. When the results came on May 10, health workers called the truck driver and took him to the isolation ward at GMCH. Based on the information, municipality commissioner Lakshmi and revenue officials sealed the market. The market was shifted to Darasuram-Valayapettai Bypass road on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/darasuram-veggie-market-sealed-as-trucker-found-ve/articleshow/75684883.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Madurai||Kanyakumari reports first Covid-19 death||Madurai: A 65-year-old cancer patient died at the Kanyakumari Government Medical College hospital on Saturday, but samples taken from him tested positive on Monday, making it the seventh death in south Tamil Nadu. With 14 fresh cases on Monday, the total number of Covid-19 cases in the southern region climbed to 571. The man had stage 4 carcinoma pancreas and multiple metastasis and was admitted to the hospital on Saturday. He died at 9.40pm the same night and his body was preserved in the mortuary as per standard protocol and his samples were sent for Covid-19 test. As his samples tested positive, his body was cremated on Monday. Trained Nagercoil Corporation sanitary workers wearing personal protective equipment took the body to the corporation crematorium, where his last rites were performed. It is the first Covid-19 death in Kanyakumari. More than 140 Kanyakumari denizens, who were stranded in Maldives and were brought to Kochi by ship, reached the district by buses and were taken to quarantine facilities. Four people including a 23-year-old pregnant woman and an 11-year-old girl tested positive in Ramanathapuram on Monday taking the total count to 30 in the district. “Three of them are those who returned from other places and were under quarantine for 14 days. Two of them had come from Chennai and one from Ariyalur. The only other positive person is a pregnant woman who has a history of travelling to containment zones,” district collector K Veera Raghava Rao said. Madurai district reported four fresh cases on Monday, including one among the migrant workers who returned from Maharashtra. Sources said that out of the 15 migrant workers who returned from Maharashtra, a 35-year-old woman tested Covid-19 positive. The three other cases, all with contact history, were a 54-year-old man and a 43-year-old woman from Goripalayam and a 23-year-old man from Thodaneri. Three new cases in Tuticorin district are men aged 65, 27 and 24 years. All of them are contacts and this takes the total positive cases in the district to 33. In Virudhunagar district, a 60-year-old man tested positive. He is the 40th Covid-19 case in the district. Dindigul district too reported one more case as a 23-year-old man tested positive for Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/kanyakumari-reports-first-covid-19-death/articleshow/75684207.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Nashik||‘Procure onions directly from farmer at Rs 2,000/quintal’||NASHIK: The Maharashtra state onion growers’ association (MSOGA) has urged the Union and state governments to procure onions directly from farmers at Rs 2,000 per quintal. Their demand comes against the backdrop of the onion auctions stopping in most agriculture producers market committees (APMCs) and the wholesale rates dropping to Rs 500-650 per quintal. According to the association, it costs more than Rs 1,000 to grow each quintal of onion and farmers incur losses if they get prices below that. “Onion auctions in most of the APMCs, including Lasalgaon, have been stopped due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The average wholesale price has also dropped to Rs 550 per quintal. Farmers are making heavy losses,” confirmed Bharat Dighole, the MSOGA president. The National Agricultural Co-operative Marketing Federation of India Ltd (NAFED) has also started procuring onions in the district, but it is procuring onions at the market rate. Nafed is buying onions to create a buffer stock for the Centre with target of 50,000 tonne. Of which, 40,000 tonne are to be procured in different markets in Maharashtra and remaining 10,000 tonne from Gujarat. “We want the Centre to increase Nafed’s onion procurement target to 1 lakh tonne and procure onions at the average wholesale price of Rs 2,000 per quintal,” said Dighole.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/procure-onions-directly-from-farmer-at-rs-2000/quintal/articleshow/75683162.cms||Tushar Pawar
May 12, 2020||Delhi||IGI gets tech help to fight Covid-19||NEW DELHI: On National Technology Day, the Delhi airport introduced several devices that will be crucial in fighting novel coronavirus, especially when commercial passenger flights resume operations. Some of these innovative devices, which are aimed at cutting down on human contacts, are a sanitising baggage and trolley tunnel, sensor-based taps in passenger washrooms, foot-operated sanitiser dispensers, and sensor-based and paddle-operated drinking water fountains. While the disinfection tunnel uses ultraviolet (UV) rays to disinfect surfaces of luggage and used trolleys, walk-in shoe mats are soaked with chemical that will sanitise the shoes of the passengers, said an official of the Indira Gandhi International Airport. “The baggage, used trolleys and trays can be passed through a tunnel one after another, and each of them will take approximately five seconds to come out virus-free,” the official added. The sanitising tunnel has been installed in the baggage belt area of IGIA’s Terminal 3. There are also mobile disinfecting towers to keep the entire premises clean and safe. These towers use UV lamps for disinfection in a cordoned-off area and can be manually re-located once an area is disinfected. Hand-held torches will be used to disinfect desks, laptops and other devices. Since the beginning of the nationwide novel coronavirus lockdown in March end, commercial passenger flight operations have been suspended. The commercial operations will initially resume at T3.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/igi-gets-tech-help-to-fight-covid-19/articleshow/75684246.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Delhi||Covid-19: Delhi's Saket court judge in isolation, alarm bells ring||NEW DELHI: A judge coming in contact with a Covid-19 positive person, who was produced before him at a court, has set alarm bells ringing in district courts across the city. On May 10, district and sessions judge Neena Bansal Krishna, in a circular, said a Saket court judge, who is the wife of the central district judge, had gone on a self-imposed isolation for 14 days. The judge of the Saket court said her husband, who presides over a magisterial court in Central district, came in “contact with a Covid-19 patient on May 6, who was produced before him to record his statement under Section 164 of CrPC”. Following the guidelines from the central government, the judge thereafter isolated herself for 14 days at home. A separate circular revealed that a junior judicial assistant working in the court of one of the civil judges at Saket court had tested positive on May 9. Owing to judicial work, the staffer came in contact with another employee, a stenographer, on May 4. The stenographer has been directed to remain in “self-quarantine” for two weeks. To minimise further spread, judge Krishna directed that “in-charge of care taking branch, Saket courts, take immediate steps as per the government’s norms, with the help of authorities and staff concerned”. The incident comes at a time when courts across the country are shut for regular work. “Only very urgent matters are being taken up, that too through videoconferencing. This just shows that judges, court staff, police officers and advocates shall have to be very careful when courts open for normal function,” advocate Manish Makhija said. The advocate also pointed out that while those who had come in contact with the patient were at a greater risk, others had to ensure social distancing to make sure that the decision to open courts — as and when taken — was not subjected for a review. “Being the capital, Delhi courts are visited by lakhs of people from all walks of life. I am certain that if we work together, we could ensure a safe environment in courts at all times,” Makhija explained.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/judge-in-isolation-alarm-bells-ring/articleshow/75684236.cms||Aamir Khan
May 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Woman succumbs to injuries in stone-pelting incident||NARSAMPET: Land dispute turned fatal for a woman, who succumbed to head injuries sustained in a stone-pelting incident on Monday. The deceased, identified as Posarapu Latha (36), died while undergoing treatment at MGM Hospital in Warangal. The incident took place in Itukalapally village under Narsampet police station limits of Warangal Rural district. A quarrel over a land dispute between her family and Mallaiah resulted in the incident. According to sources, Latha had gone to her parent’s home in Itukalapally village a few of days ago after she gave birth to a baby. Mallaiah and his two sons Anil and Raju were booked by the police. She was first shifted to Narsampet government hospital, and later to MGM Hospital. Police are investigating the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/woman-succumbs-to-injuries-in-stone-pelting-incident/articleshow/75684242.cms||Shiva Kumar Pinna
May 12, 2020||Madurai||South Tamil Nadu records lowest average Covid-19 positive cases per district||Madurai: With south Tamil Nadu averaging 57 cases per districts, the region recorded the lowest average Covid-19 cases per district. After witnessing lowest average, experts pointed to various factors like rural-urban divide, population density and literacy that are likely to be influencing the number of cases. Though the western region, which includes Coimbatore, has lower number of Covid-19 cases in total as compared to the south, the average cases per district there stands at 60. In the central and north regions, the average cases per district are 85 and 126 respectively. However, these numbers are still fewer than the average cases per district in the state, which is 216. Chennai region on the other hand, comprising Chennai, Chengalpattu, Kancheepuram and Thiruvallur, which has been seeing massive rise in cases, has recorded as many as 1,325 average cases per district. According to experts, for any kind of epidemic, the main influencing factor for spread is the mode of transmission. In the case of Covid-19, the main mode of transmission is by aerosol and transmission by contact. “Population density is a major factor. The population density of Chennai is 26,903 per sq km as per the latest census data, which is highest in the state. The average population density in the state is, however, close to around 550 per sq km. In such a scenario for Chennai, where the number is higher, it is expected that spread happens without people even realising,” said Dr Sudharsan Balasubramanian, assistant professor, community medicine at a private medical college hospital in Madurai. Notably, among the southern districts, barring Madurai and Kanyakumari, which have relatively higher numbers, the population density of all other districts is well below the state average. In fact, Ramanathapuram and Sivaganga have among the least numbers in the state when it comes to population density. However, in the case of Kanyakumari, which has the second highest population density in the state at 1,106 per sq km, the number of Covid-19 cases in the district is as less as 25. “Kanyakumari has the highest literacy rate in the state. When people are more educated and aware and are able to follow preventive measures, it is likely that the numbers will be less,” Sudharsan said. Meanwhile, experts also admit that without equal and enough testing done across the state, it is hard to get a grasp of the real picture of whether in some areas the number of cases are actually less because of factors other than low number of testing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/south-tamil-nadu-records-lowest-average-covid-19-positive-cases-per-district/articleshow/75684231.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
May 12, 2020||Hyderabad||At 79 cases, Telangana reports highest one-day jump||HYDERABAD: Health workers have been asked to step up surveillance across the city, after Telangana reported the highest single-day record of 79 Covid-19 cases from Hyderabad city on Monday, raising fears of another spike in numbers. With 143 positive cases coming to the fore in the last 10 days from greater Hyderabad as against 158 from rest of the districts in the same period, top health department officials went into a huddle on Monday to chalk out a more vigorous strategy to flatten any possible new curve. “GHMC had 100 cases in a span of six days and with the numbers shooting up, we are back to testing even asymptomatic contacts of family and close contacts of Covid-19 patients,” said a senior health department official. When Telangana reported the second-highest number of 75 cases on April 3, the total tally stood at 229, but on Monday the overall count reached 1,275 cases. A probe has revealed that the Saroornagar area has turned out to be a new hotbed with 11 members of the same family getting infected with the deadly virus. During contact tracing authorities found out that a 75-year-old dialysis patient from Gaddiannaam area of Saroornagar, who died a few days ago, was the first victim of coronavirus in the family. One of them is also a close relative of a top Bollywood actress of yesteryears who made her debut in the Telugu film industry during the 1970s. The man’s sons and daughters and their spouses are also infected, officials said. Another 10 tested positive from one family in the Charminar area, while eight others got infected in Secunderabad and Vanasthalipuram areas. “Some of the cases have been contacts of the migrant labourers too,” a source said. Officials said they will undertake door-to-door fever survey in Saroornagar area on Tuesday, with 200 staff deployed in four containment zones. A citizen tweeted to TRS working president KT Rama Rao saying that his father died due to Covid-19 but it was not declared on April 10. Seven migrant labourers from Yadadri-Bhuvanagiri district were sent to Fever Hospital for isolation as they had high fever. They had all returned from Maharashtra. On a positive note, 50 people were discharged from Gandhi hospital, taking the total recovered cases to 801. While the death toll stands at 30, the active cases under treatment are at 444.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/at-79-cases-t-reports-highest-one-day-jump/articleshow/75684900.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
May 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Jana Sena’s posers to Jagan government on gas leak||HYDERABAD: Jana Sena Party has posed several questions to the AP government on the Vizag styrene tragedy. Jana Sena, which had set up an expert committee to study the gas leak accident at LG Polymers, submitted a representation on Monday, seeking answers from the state. “What is the inhibitor to arrest polymerisation of styrene in the tank? How its concentration is monitored? What is its depletion rate per day in the tank? How it is analysed during monitoring?” Jana Sena panel, comprising chemical engineering Prof KV Rao, asked the AP government to investigate. “Our primary question is why the consent for establishment and consent for operation was issued when the land itself is in litigation?,” Jana Sena general secretary Satya Bolisetty asked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/jana-senas-posers-to-jagan-govt-on-gas-leak/articleshow/75684255.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
May 12, 2020||Ahmedabad||Man strangles wife to death, surrenders||Ahmedabad: A 25-year-old man on Monday strangled his wife, 23, to death at their home in Fatehwadi over domestic dispute and later surrendered before cops at Fatehwadi police chowky of Sarkhej police station. Inspector B B Goyal, at Sarkhej police station, said that the incident took place on Monday when the accused Shahnavaz Shaikh, 25, strangled his wife Halimabano until she died in their house at Meera Row House. Shaikh, an autorickshaw driver, told cops that he and his wife were not going along well and often had fights over domestic issues. And on Monday they had a scuffle during which he killed his wife, said Goyal. Goyal said that Shaikh and his wife shifted to another place two days ago from Shaikh’s parental home due to domestic quarrel. “Since their marriage around two years ago, their relationship was not smooth and they used to fight on trivial issues. This is what we came to know from the accused,” said Goyal. “We learned from nearby residents that they had frequent fights during the last two days and even neighbours could hear the accused abusing his wife,” said Goyal. Police have arrested Shaikh and booked him for murder and begun an investigation into the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/man-strangles-wife-to-death-surrenders/articleshow/75684252.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Jaipur||Greens on their toes after 15 birds die in two days||Jaipur: Following 15 avian deaths reported from the Sambhar Lake recently, the animal husbandry and forest departments on Monday rushed to the Ramsar site from where mass deaths were reported last year. A few environmentalists were once again on their toes, but the situation appeared to be normal on the ground. No death was reported on Monday. Om Prakash, president of Wildlife Creature Organisation, said, “Our team members are working with the forest department as volunteers. We covered almost entire lake today, but did not see any carcass. The deaths occurred in the past two days were due to dehydration. Also, if there is a huge flock, 4-5 deaths are normal.” The death of waders was reported, as per the forest records. As thousands of migratory birds come to the salt lake, the environmentalists urged the authorities to take concrete steps to check the deaths before next season. After the death of thousands of migratory birds in Sambhar Lake, the Rajasthan government had formed ‘Rajasthan State Wetland Authority’ for the conservation of water bodies such as lakes in the state. The forest minister is the chairperson of the authority while the principal secretary of the department is the vice-chairperson. It was proposed that the wetland authority will work towards conservation of wetlands in the state. A forest department source said, “Nothing has been done so far. Not a single meeting has been convened to improve the habitat for migratory birds in Sambhar.” Last year, thousands of birds died at the Sambhar Lake. These birds were of over 14 species, including the northern shovelers that had flown in from Europe, and pallas’s gulls of Mongolia and southern Russia.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/greens-on-their-toes-after-15-birds-die-in-two-days/articleshow/75684897.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Goa||Canacona’s Maida Talli set for Rs 40L worth facelift||Poinguinim: Known locally as Maida Talli, the over 100-year-old lake at Nagorcem in Canacona is all set to get a facelift. The foundation stone for the project was laid on Monday by deputy speaker and Canacona MLA Isidore Fernandes. Water resourced department, junior engineer, Kalpana Gaonkar said that the beautification project, estimated to cost Rs 42 lakh, will cover 600sqm. It will include excavation work, construction of a footpath around the lake with railings on both sides and a jogging track. The work is expected to be completed by December this year, Gaonkar told TOI. The lake, which in the jurisdiction of the Canacona Municipal Council, once served as a source for irrigation of fields. However, after a major portion of the land its vicinity was acquired by the Konkan Railway Corporation, the water got polluted. The fields too now lie fallow after more land was acquired for road widening and construction of the NH 66 Manohar Parrikar bypass via Talpona to Galgibaga.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/canaconas-maida-talli-set-for-rs-40l-worth-facelift/articleshow/75685403.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Keep only two firearms, give up extra weapon: Telangana police||HYDERABAD: Telangana police on Monday directed weapon licence holders in possession of three weapons to surrender one weapon since a person can hold a maximum of two weapons only. This directive was issued following instructions from the Union government. It is learnt that there are around 9,000 arms in the state. In a tweet, Hyderabad police commissioner Anjani Kumar said: “Govt of India have made amendments to Arms Act. For self protection now maximum 2 weapons are allowed. Anyone having 3rd weapon has to deposit the same. One year permission is given to sell the 3rd weapon (sic).” Asked about the number of people who would be allowed to possess three weapons in Hyderabad as well as the state, Anjani Kumar said: “As of now, I do not have the details. It has to be ascertained. The section concerned is not working since all the policemen in the city are involved in Covid-19 related security duties.” It is learnt that there are around 9,000 arms, for which permission has been granted across Telangana, apart from the permission granted to sportspersons associated with the National Rifle Association. During the assembly election held in December 2019, on the direction of the state police, 8,482 weapons had been surrendered. As per the Arms (Amendment) Act, 2019, “a person who has in his possession more firearms than two at the commencement of the Arms (Amendment) Act, 2019, may retain with him any two of such firearms and shall deposit, within one year from such commencement, the remaining firearm with the officer in charge of the nearest police station.” It further said, “Or subject to the conditions prescribed for the purposes of sub-section (1) of section 21, with a licensed dealer or where such person is a member of the armed forces of the Union, in a unit armoury referred to in that sub-section after which it shall be de-licensed within 90 days from the date of expiry of aforesaid one year.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/keep-only-two-firearms-give-up-extra-weapon-say-police/articleshow/75684260.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Kolkata||Registration starts after 50 days with lucky Rs 13 lakh||Kolkata: Thirteen needn’t always indicate bad luck. It was Rs 13 lakh that came into the state coffers on Monday when a deed was registered at the office of Registrar and Assurances, Kolkata, after 50 days of zero revenue, owing to the lockdown. “Only one deed of an apartment in south Kolkata was registered on Monday. The office has earned a princely sum of over Rs 13 lakh by way of stamp duty and registration fee. We hope this will usher in good tidings and more buyers and sellers of property will come in to register sale agreements and sale deeds,” an official said. The apartment that was registered is valued at Rs 1.6 crore. The property owner, wearing a mask, had to wash hands before entering the building, sanitize his hands again, take off the mask briefly to be photographed, then sanitize his hands again to complete the biometrics — thumb impression and eyeball scan — before finally signing with a digital pen. Properties in Kolkata and rest of the state can be registered at the RA office opposite Raj Bhavan in Dalhousie. Revenue from stamp duty and registration fee on property make up nearly 10% of the state’s overall earnings. This year, the finance department had set a revenue target of Rs 6,872 crore fromthe office of RA and district sub-offices. Lawyers that facilitate registration said the turnout would increase once transport improved. Confederation of Real Estate Association of India (Credai) West Bengal president Sushil Mohta agreed. “Those who purchase expensive apartments will have their own cars. But a majority of flats sold are in the affordable category. These owners depend on public transport. Once bus or metro services resume, registration will go up,” he said. Officials at the RA are also looking beyond May 17 for relaxations in transport services. “It was a very different day in office. No one had ever seen the office this empty. Of course, we don’t want crowds now. Only seven persons are allowed to enter at a time. We hope the number of registrations will increase,” said an official. To limit crowding and ensure social distancing, the office has made it mandatory for registrants to seek prior appointment online. Also, it has limited the number of deeds to be presented at the office from 200 earlier to 20. Of the four offices, of additional registrar and assurances in the RA office, two functioned on Monday. Also, there were only three staffers per office on Monday instead of the usual 13-14. “The last Saturday we functioned, March 19, was an extremely busy day. There are over 100 pending deeds. Once we complete the backlog, we will perhaps be able to issue the documents faster. But as of now, it will take a couple of days at least for the registered deeds to be handed over to the owner,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/registration-starts-after-50-days-with-lucky-rs-13l/articleshow/75684899.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Jaipur||UDH eases norms for stressed real estate, developers want more||Jaipur: The Urban Development and Housing (UDH) department has provided some relief to the real estate sector by giving relaxation in depositing betterment levy fee, which is charged on additional floor area ratio (FAR). At present, the developers must deposit betterment levy (25% of the reserve price) in four instalments. While, 25% of the amount is deposited at the time of building plan approval, remaining 75% must be deposited in instalments generated after every six months. As per the relaxation, the developers can deposit betterment levy after one year from building plan approval. This is much-needed breather to real estate developers who are facing financial setbacks. Rajasthan Credai chairman Gopal Das Gupta said, “The developers were demanding this relaxation in the state since long. Till the time additional FAR is utilised, the government was taking 75% of the betterment levy from the developers, which was a burden.” In its representation to the Real Estate Regulatory Authority (RERA), which was submitted on Monday, the developers have mentioned due to recession and lesser money with buyers, there is a strong possibility of people trying to cancel their booking by taking various pleas. This would lead to a steep cash crunch and with very low sales expected in future the promoters might take 1-2 years to recoup the availability of funds. Also, there will be non-availability of financial resources for developers. “The finance providers would now prefer to invest in assets with the lowest risk and would shy away from ongoing projects. Even the rate of interest could be higher, going forward, there would be a race towards ‘safe deals’. So, it looks that new lending may now be almost impossible or very difficult and if it is then it may be on very unfavourable condition to the promoter,” reads Credai memorandum. The developers demanded RERA to declare period of March 15, 2020 to December 2020 as period of Force Majeure and no liabilities and penalties under the act may be attracted either towards the allottees or authority, for the said duration, thereby providing complete relief to the projects.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/udh-eases-norms-for-stressed-real-estate-developers-want-more/articleshow/75684905.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Vadodara||‘Test of emotions, but very satisfying’||Vadodara: For the first time after her son was born, she is away from the 15-month-old for weeks. But this has not affected the way Anne Christian works and attends Covid-19 patients at the GMERS Medical College and Hospital, Gotri which is designated Covid hospital for Central Gujarat. “I have never left him alone but Elan is away from me since the last 25 days,” said Anne, a staff nurse at the hospital who has left her son at her mother’s house at Jambughoda, 80 km away from Vadodara. Anne’s seven days duty at Covid-19ward has ended and so has her seven days quarantine period. But she continues working with the NICU of the general hospital. “If the number of patients increase, we might be assigned duty at the Covid-19 ward again. So, I have deliberately kept my child with my mother,” said Anne. “It is emotionally challenging but there is also a sense of satisfaction when you help in treatment of patients in such challenging times. There is constant motivation and we always hope that patients recover fast,” she said. “The nursing staff at the hospital works in three shifts. Daily 78 nurses and brothers perform their duty while staying away from their family and kids,” said Dr Sheetal Mistry, spokesperson for the hospital. “So far, 300 nurses and brothers have performed their duties on rotation basis. These include those from our own hospital apart from those who are on deputation from Jamnabai General Hospital and Mental Hospital, Karelibaug,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/test-of-emotions-but-very-satisfying/articleshow/75683183.cms||Prashant Rupera
May 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Maoist surrenders before SP||MULUGU: CPI (ML) Maoist party state military chief protection team commander Vetti Itu alias Itadu surrendered before the Mulugu superintendent of police Sangram Singh G Patil on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/maoist-surrenders-before-sp/articleshow/75684263.cms||Shiva Kumar Pinna
May 12, 2020||Meerut||After DME, now work on Delhi-MeerutRRTS resumes with pruned labour force||Meerut: After Delhi-Meerut Expressway (DME), now Delhi-Meerut Regional Rapid Transit System (RRTS) has also got a go ahead to resume its operations, though with curtailed labour force. The government has plans to complete the ambitious Rs 30k crore project by 2025, but imposition of Covid-19 lockdown had led to a complete shutdown of the construction work. The much awaited 82 km rail transport system will reduce the commuting time between Delhi and Meerut to a mere 50 minutes. At present, the work is in full swing in Duhai-Sahibabad priority sector. The National Capital Region Transport Corporation (NCRTC) is the nodal agency entrusted with the task of developing the mammoth project. According to CPRO, NCRTC, Sudhir Sharma, the work area, including casting yards, site containers, cabin of every crane and batching plants, are being sanitised with 1% sodium hypochlorite solution once a day. "All the frequently touched elements like railing, stairs, water points etc. are being sanitised twice a day. Besides these, the corporation is not only training labourers on how to work with precautions under the prevailing circumstances but is also making all arrangements that include maintaining social distance at the worksite and during to and fro commute to the site, regular sanitisation of the vehicles used for transportation of the workers, staggered lunch hours and maintenance of social distance during lunch, among others steps," Sharma said. Under the relaxation given by the government during the lockdown, NCRTC has commenced construction work at different locations in a phased manner by strictly complying with the SOP. Apart from castings, testing and fabrication, work like construction of piers for the viaduct, construction of station building at Ghaziabad and Guldhar, and road widening as well as utility diversions works between Duhai and Meerut South are in progress. The RRTS corridor will originate from Sarai Kale Khan station in Delhi and Modipuram in Meerut will be the last stop. In the first phase, the Meerut-Ghaziabad-Delhi corridor will be completed at a cost of Rs 30,274 crore by 2025. NCRTC, the implementing agency of RRTS, is a joint venture of the Centre (50%) and state governments of Haryana (12.5%), NCT Delhi (12.5%), Uttar Pradesh (12.5%) and Rajasthan (12.5%). It is mandated to design, construct, finance, operate and maintain RRTS in NCR and works under the administrative control of Union ministry of housing and urban affairs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/after-dme-now-work-on-delhi-meerutrrts-resumes-with-pruned-labour-force/articleshow/75683160.cms||Sandeep Rai
May 12, 2020||Meerut||Leopard cub caught in trap rescued, set free||Bijnor: Forest department rescued a three-month-old leopard cub caught in a trap set up near a graveyard on the outskirts of Jahanabad village, under Bijnor police station, on Monday evening The cub was spotted day after a leopardess with two cubs was spotted at Mussoorie village, 35 km from Jahanabad village According to villagers, someone spotted the cub in the trap and the forest authorities were informed. A crowd gathered at the spot to see the cub.. Forest authorities rushed to the scene and rescued the cub. They released it into the nearby jungle area so that it could find its way back to its mother. Bijnor divisional forest officer M Semmaran said, "We got a tip-off that a cub was caught in a trap. Our team reached the spot and rescued it. Now, we have released it into jungle area so that it can go back to its mother who seems to be around the spot where cub was trapped." Camera traps have been installed in the area to locate the leopardess. The area where cub was found is near Ganga river. "We have appealed to villagers not to harm the big cat family," Semmaran added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/leopard-cub-caught-in-trap-rescued-set-free/articleshow/75683173.cms||Harveer Dabas
May 12, 2020||Kolkata||Silicon Valley plots for post-Covid boom||KOLKATA: With the Covid-19 pandemic triggering a redistribution of the global manufacturing network, specially in the fields of electronic components, telecommunication and data centre, the Housing Infrastructure Development Corporation (Hidco) has floated an expression of interest (EoI) for allotting land at the Bengal Silicon Valley IT hub in New Town. As per the EoI, 22 plots spread over 63.35 acres is being offered in the fifth phase of land allotment at Bengal Silicon Valley. The largest plot is 21.75 acres. All the plots are available on a 99-year leasehold basis. Hidco officials said that they had received one serious enquiry for the setting up of a data centre at Silicon Valley. “The Covid-19 pandemic has already started to redistribute the global manufacturing network with technologies that assist ‘work from home’. Streaming movies and on-line gaming are going to be the new normal in the post-Covid-19 world. We are providing the best available infrastructure for the Bengal Silicon Valley to have IT and IT-enabled service offices that can help in the ‘new normal’ work environment,” said a senior Hidco official. Hidco held a webinar that discussed the possibility of some big firms in China moving elsewhere. “India was already reaching out to over 300 industries in China, offering them to relocate to India,” said a source from the state secretariat. Out of the total 200 acre of land in Bengal Silicon Valley, there are about 169 acres of allotable land excluding the roads and commercial space inside the valley. Some companies who have already applied for plots in the previous phases are Reliance Jio (40 acres), CTS (25 acres), TCS (20 acres), Capgemini (7 acres), Indian Statistical Institute and others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/silicon-valley-plots-for-post-covid-boom/articleshow/75684907.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Woman, 2 kin kill alcoholic husband in Telangana||HYDERABAD: A quarrel between a couple ended in the wife, along with her son and a relative, allegedly killing her alcoholic husband by slitting his throat in Manganur village of Nagarkurnool district on Sunday night. The deceased was identified as G Srinivas, a labourer. Nagarkurnool circle police said the deceased’s wife Lakshamma, son Ishwar and nephew Shiva surrendered before the police after villagers alerted them. The accused told the police that as Srinivas used to beat them up and harass them, they killed him. “The crime happened during a quarrell between Srinivas and his wife. In a fit of rage, Srinivas’ son slit his throat, while Lakshmamma and Shiva, who was also present in the house at the time, held the victim. When Ishwar became frightened seeing his father bleed, Lakshamma took the knife from him and slit the victim’s throat again, following which the victim died,” police said. Police took the accused into custody and registered a murder case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/woman-2-kin-kill-alcoholic-husband/articleshow/75684270.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Hyderabad||With 4 cases, green zone Yadadri slides into red zone just in a day||HYDERABAD: In the past 70-odd days, Yadadri-Bhuvanagiri district, where the famed Yadadri temple is coming up, did not have a single Covid-19 case. But on Sunday, the district also joined the ‘league’ of Covid-19 affected districts with four people — sent to Hyderabad for tests — reporting positive. With this, only Warangal Rural and Wanaparthy among 33 districts in Telangana remain untouched by the virus since the state’s first Covid-19 case was reported on March 2 in Hyderabad. District officials said the workers who returned from Mumbai were in their Pallerla village in Atmakur mandal just for three hours. “Since seven returnees had shown symptoms, they were sent for tests in Hyderabad and three of them had tested positive. Similarly, in Narayanpur village, three persons returned from Mumbai and were under quarantine at a local school. After two days, one of them had symptoms and was sent to Hyderabad for tests, where he was confirmed with the infection,” a district official said. After the villagers tested positive, district authorities sent some more people to quarantine at Bibinagar AIIMS, and some primary and secondary contacts to Hyderabad for tests. “Six persons from Atmakur have been sent to Hyderabad for Covid-19 tests as they have shown symptoms,” Yadadri DM&HO D Manohar said. But, officials are in a dilemma. They are wondering if these four cases should be bracketed under the district’s name in as the persons who tested positive are migrant workers from Mumbai. As per the Centre’s guidelines, Yadadri-Bhuvanagiri was in the green zone as it did not report a single case so far. With these four cases, the district is now a red zone. “Once the district is considered as a red zone, all the activities, like running shops, will remain suspended,” officials explained. The state is worried about the large number of workers who are returning from various states, especially from Mumbai. “As of now, 27 districts are either in green or orange zones. If new cases of migrant workers are reported from these 27 districts, the government may have to shut some activities as per the guidelines of the Centre,” a senior official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/with-4-cases-green-zone-yadadri-slides-into-red-zone-just-in-a-day/articleshow/75684273.cms||Koride Mahesh
May 12, 2020||Ahmedabad||2 held for illegal tobacco sales||Ahmedabad: Two persons were held in two separated cases by police for illegal sale of tobacco in Gandhinagar and Ahmedabad. The cases were registered at Adalaj police station of Gandhinagar and Sola high court police station of Ahmedabad on Sunday and Monday respectively. In the first case, a team of Adalaj police on Sunday afternoon stopped a car, checked its driver and found around 5kg of betel nut and five small boxes containing tobacco along with a packet which contained 500 grams tobacco. The total value of the tobacco and betel nuts is estimated around Rs 2,000. Cops have filed a complaint of lockdown violation against the accused Govind Parmar alias Shilpade Kashishde, an eunuch, and began an investigation.In another case, Sola high court police arrested a milk parlour owner, Jayesh Bhavsar, resident of Gota, for allegedly selling tobacco and cigarettes from his shop. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/2-held-for-illegal-tobacco-sales/articleshow/75684265.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Meerut||Meerut’s first cop among 15 to test positive, tally reaches 261||MEERUT: About 15 people tested positive for novel coronavirus in Meerut on Monday, taking the tally to 261 in the district. The positive cases include a UP Police constable, making him the first cop in Meerut to be infected with the virus. Meerut chief medical officer Dr Raj Kumar confirmed that the cop who tested positive had even come to the CMO office, which was sanitised to exercise precaution. The concerned police constable worked as a driver at Lisari Gate police station. Breaking the last three days tend, Meerut city did not report any deaths on Monday. However, Hapur reported its first death after an 85-year-old man of Pilkhua passed away at Ghaziabad district hospital. Aditi Singh, district magistrate, Hapur, said, “An 85-year-old man from Hapur passed away at Ghaziabad district Hospital on Monday night. He was shifted from LLRM Medical College, Meerut, on Sunday on his family’s request. He was initially admitted at a private hospital in Delhi and later shifted to Ghaziabad district hospital.” “As many as 15 people tested positive for Covid-19 in Meerut on Monday. The 15 cases include a 30-year-old resident of Jalalpur Jora in Hastinapur —he worked as a labourer at a mandi—a 41-year-old fruit seller in Delhi who is a resident of Behsuma village, a 38-year-old man from Panwari village who works at Arihant Medical Store in Daurala, and a 55-year-old police constable from Lisari Gate,” said Dr Vishwas Chaudhary, Meerut district surveillance officer. He further said, “Other positive cases include a 20-year-old woman from Bhagwatpura who was admitted at Vimal Shree Hospital. A 38-year-old man from Lakhipura lane number 15, a 22-year-old man, a 41-year-old man—all the three are contacts of a previously positive tested case. A 60-year-old woman from Tejgarhi lane number 2 has also tested positive.” The other cases were from Brahmpuri, Shyam Nagar, Lisari Gate and Jagriti Vihar. Another positive case is a resident of Panwari village from Daurala. He worked at a medical store here and used to purchase medicines from the Meerut’s biggest wholesale market of medicines – Khair Nagar. His contacts have also been put into quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/meeruts-first-cop-among-15-to-test-positive-tally-reaches-261-in-dist-hapur-reports-fist-death/articleshow/75683212.cms||Ishita Bhatia
May 12, 2020||Meerut||Meerut constable commits suicide||MEERUT: Constable Vijay Gaud who was currently posted with UP police and was deployed at the SSP office in Meerut allegedly committed suicide at his residence in Ganganagar area in the district Gaud hailed from Ballia district in UP. While primary probe in the case has begun, police suspect a family dispute to be the reason behind him taking the extreme step. According to police, Gaud used to live with his family – wife and two children – in his flat in a gated apartment in Ganganagar area. After he failed to respond to repeated calls of his brother, the latter went up to his flat to check on him. That is when he was found hanging from a ceiling fan. According to sources, Gaud was in a troubled marriage as his wife had pressed harassment charges against him. Following an altercation, his wife had left for her native place last month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/meerut-constable-commits-suicide/articleshow/75683191.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Gandhi hospital begins plasma trial, 24-year-old turns first donor||HYDERABAD: A 24-year-old man from Warangal has become the first one to donate blood for plasma trial in the state, after he recovered from Covid-19. Gandhi Hospital began the clinical trials on Monday. “This is not a sacrifice. It should be the duty of recovered patients to donate plasma for other patients undergoing treatment,” said Akhil, who had returned from Scotland to Hyderabad. Appreciating Akhil’s initiative, Gandhi Hospital superintendent Dr Raja Rao said the returnee was awarded a certificate by the hospital. Ever since the state began the clinical trial, nearly 100 recovered patients have showed willingness to donate their plasma. Experts are now chalking out instructions regarding who can become a plasma donor and the precautions need to be taken for the process, since plasma can be a carrier of a horde of other infections like hepatitis, typhoid, malaria etc. Convalescent plasma therapy is based on the concept of passive immunity, where antibodies of a disease developed in a person are used for treating others. “There is no artificial antibody available to treat Covid-19 since its a new strain of virus. Recovered patients might have developed antibodies in their body, which can be a boon for others. Vaccination may take time to develop, but the need of the hour is to treat patients,” said Dr SA Rafi, consultant pulmonologist at Care Hospitals. There are, however, numerous factors to take in account. “Aspects such as how much plasma (quantity) should be given and when should it be given (at the beginning of the infection or when it turns critical) are factors that need to be taken into consideration. It has been identified that the optimum volume of plasma to be given is 700 ml. But since all systems, including the circulatory system in Covid-19 affected patient is slow, it could lead to overloading of the system,” said Dr P Vinay Kumar, surgical gastroenterologist.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/gandhi-hospital-begins-plasma-trial-24-yr-old-turns-first-donor/articleshow/75684267.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Nashik||Rise in cement price, raw material leave builders worried||NASHIK: Lack of workers is not the only problem giving city-based builders sleepless nights, the 30% rise in price of cement and other raw materials are also adding to their woes. According to Confederation of Real Estate Developers’ Association of India (CREDAI), the rise in construction cost may also lead to rise in prices of apartments. "Around a fortnight ago, the price of a 50-kg cement bag was in the range between Rs 235 and Rs 255 around a fortnight back. Now, the price has increased in the range between Rs 360 and Rs 380 per bag,"Naresh Karda, vice-chairman of CREDAI Nashik, said. "There has been around 15% rise in the cost of steel and other raw materials required for construction of houses due to rise in loading and unloading charges. The rise in prices of cement and raw material will lead to rise in construction cost," he added. "Lack of workers will also lead to rise in construction cost as we will have to bring workers from places like Vidarbha and Marathwada," another office-bearer of CREDAI Nashik said. "The rise in construction cost due to hike in prices of cement and other raw materials is not good for the realty sector as the prices of apartments will also increase by 30%," he added. The real estate sector in Nashik is already facing problems due to various reasons for the past two-three years. "There had been some improvement in the sector for the past three-four months before the lockdown, but the scenario has again become completely negative due to the Covid-19 outbreak," the office-bearer said. "Priority of people who were willing to buy homes will change and they may defer their plans. At this juncture, who will buy apartments if the prices go up by 30%," he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/rise-in-cement-price-raw-material-leave-builders-worried/articleshow/75683267.cms||Tushar Pawar
May 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Snap power connections of big defaulters: Discom||Warangal: Northern Power Distribution Company Limited (NPDCL) chairman and managing director Annamaneni Gopal Rao has ordered Karimnagar, Peddapally, Jagityal officials to snap electricity connections of defaulters who owe over Rs 50,000 dues and defaulters who have more than one connection. During a video conference with superintending engineers (SEs) and other officials on Monday, he directed them to concentrate on online bill payment during the lockdown period. He also suggested that the staff concentrate on government sector bill payments with the help of district collectors. He directed the staff complete work orders pending from the past two years and speed up sanction of agricultural and domestic connections in the circle. —Shiva Kumar Pinna||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/snap-power-connections-of-big-defaulters-discom/articleshow/75684277.cms||Shiva Kumar Pinna
May 12, 2020||Ahmedabad||Another PIL challenges ban on vegetable sales||Ahmedabad: Another PIL was filed in the Gujarat high court on Monday challenging the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation’s abrupt decision taken on May 6 to prohibit sale of vegetables and groceries. Petitioner advocate Vinod Pandya has contended that the decision to close down all vending centres except for milk and medicines without making an alternative arrangement was not proper. He has contended in his PIL that stopping supplies of essential food items is against the law. To stop spread of Covid-19, the authorities could have changed shop timings, but shutting them down is never an option. Advocate Pandya has also contended that the order was so abrupt that people got only a couple of hours to stock vegetables and other essential items leading to overcrowding in markets, which again resulted in the violation of the lockdown. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/another-pil-challenges-ban-on-vegetable-sales/articleshow/75684272.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Vadodara||Excise officer harassed by husband, in-laws for dowry||Vadodara: A travel businessman and his parents were booked for harassing the former’s wife, who works as a sub-inspector in the excise department, for dowry.Sunita Meghani alleged that her husband Nilesh and in-laws have been harassing her since her marriage a year ago. She alleged that they would demand money from her and force her to take personal loan or credit card in her name. As harassment continued even during lockdown, Meghani called her brother, who works as a home guard jawan, to her house on Waghodiya Road to pick her up. Meghani told police that as her brother Sagar Rathod reached her house along with her parents, Nilesh rushed out and beat him up. However, Meghani could manage to leave her husband’s house and go with her parents and brother. Later, she lodged an offence of cruelty to woman, assault and under Dowry Prohibition Act at Panigate police station. Cops said Nilesh too registered a complaint of assault against Rathod.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/excise-officer-harassed-by-husband-in-laws-for-dowry/articleshow/75683213.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Meerut||Now, Meerut RS MP writes to Yogi Adityanath, points at loopholes in dist admin’s Covid-19 preparedness||MEERUT: Nearly a fortnight after Agra mayor Naveen Jain wrote a letter to UP CM Yogi Adityanath, urging him to save the city “which is on the verge of becoming the next Wuhan”, Meerut Rajya MP Kanta Kardam has now in a letter to CM Yogi apprised him of the loopholes in the district administration’s tackling of the Covid situation. In her letter dated May 9, MP Kardam pointed out “rampant violation” of the lockdown in hotspot areas, “irregularities and mismanagement” at Lala Lajpat Rai Memorial (LLRM) Medical College, death of a local party worker due to Covid-19 and “flouting of social distancing norms” at liquor shops in the district. “LLRM College is a victim of mismanagement. Patients are wary of being treated here, and their family members have consistently been raising concerns about poor treatment, substandard meals and unhygienic conditions,” the MP wrote. She also spoke about death of a party worker due to Covid-19. “With a heavy heart, I want to bring this to your attention that our dedicated party worker died due to Covid-19 on May 8. In his case also, negligence of medical and health officials had surfaced,” Kardam said in her letter. Several videos of patients narrating their ordeal from isolation and quarantine centres over substandard meals, lack of medical aide and unhygienic conditions in the wards have surfaced on social media drawing severe criticism from netizens. In a recently shared video, a quarantined man writhing in pain was left unattended in the facility and later succumbed to his ailments. In another video, a city trader under isolation had raised concern over lack of medical aid and prevailing irregularities in the ward. Earlier, Meerut Lok Sabha MP Rajendra Agarwal, too, had raised concerns with the state government over the prevailing mismanagement at LLRM. “Spoke to medical education minister Suresh Khanna and apprised him of the irregularities at Meerut Medical college. He told me Dr Suryakant Triapthi is being sent to Meerut...,” Agarwal had tweeted. Dr Tripathi is professor and head of department of respiratory medicine at King's George Medical University in Lucknow. Upon arrival in the city on Monday, he held a meeting with a delegation led by MP Kardam at the circuit house and heard about the grievances from local representatives and party functionaries. The state government finally woke up to the piling complaints and a four-member team of nodal officers led by T Venkatesh, principal secretary, irrigation, was sent to Meerut to take stock of the situation on ground which was been consistently deteriorating with 14 deaths due to Covid-19 in the district. The team held meeting with senior administrative and health officials in the district, including district magistrate Anil Dhingra and chief medical officer Rajkumar. As of now, 254 patients have tested positive of the virus in Meerut while 14 succumbed to it. Out of the total, nine fatalities were reported in the last 10 days while three had tested positive after their death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/now-meerut-rs-mp-writes-to-yogi-points-at-loopholes-in-dist-admins-covid-19-preparedness/articleshow/75683222.cms||Piyush Rai
May 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Fire breaks out at children’s hospital, none hurt||HYDERABAD: A fire broke out at Krishna Children’s Hospital in Lakdikapul in the wee hours of Monday. No casualties were reported. The accident occurred around 2:45 am when a storeroom stacked with files caught fire due to short circuit, said Telangana State Disaster Response & Fire Services officials. The store room was located on the second floor of the G+2 building. It was adjacent to the paediatric intensive care unit. A nine-year-old and her parents rushed out of PICU after they saw the smoke, said officials. “There were nine infants on the first floor, who were shifted to a nearby hospital,” an official added. The ground floor was empty. The fire department pressed into service two fire tenders at 2.50 am. “We were able to douse the fire by 3:30 am,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/fire-breaks-out-at-childrens-hosp-none-hurt/articleshow/75684278.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Vadodara||Pvt hospital faces hostility over treating nCov patients||Vadodara: While there may be support pouring in for individuals treating Covid-19 patients, that does not seem to be the case for hospitals. A private hospital in the Manjalpur area of the city is facing opposition from residents of apartments nearby who are apprehensive of Covid-19 infected patients being treated there. The residents of the Sahajanand Iris apartments near the Bankers Superspecialty Hospital (BSH) in Manjalpur are up in arms against the hospital. They held demonstrations inside the campus of the housing scheme and even raised slogans against the hospital. The immediate trigger for the protest was the case of a nurse at the hospital testing positive. The nurse was posted in the isolation ward where Covid-19 patients were being treated. The hospital, however, said that sufficient care was being taken inside and around the hospital. Sanitization, disinfection as well as entry and exit screening were being conducted at the hospital. Dr Parul Banker from the hospital said that there was also some distance between the hospital building and the apartments. Banker said that individuals and institutions fighting Covid-19 needed support. “Even our daughter is on Covid-19 duties at the Ahmedabad Civil Hospital while doing her post-graduation there. There is no need to fear the virus. We need to fight it together,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/pvt-hospital-faces-hostility-over-treating-ncov-patients/articleshow/75683236.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal to promote all class XI students to be promoted||KOLKATA: The West Bengal Council for Higher Secondary Examinations (WBHSC) has asked schools to promote students of Class XI to Class XII for this current academic year. Marks of already completed examinations of Class XI are to be sent in the format specified earlier by the Council and delivered as per the norms of the past year within June 22. The institutional heads have also been requested to conserve the issued blank answerscripts of Class XI by the Council. It will be collected after proper notification. Earlier, the WBHSC had intimated that the three remaining board exams will be conducted in June. The dates will be published later. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee in April, while discussing the measures which the government was initiating amid the coronavirus crisis, had clarified that the HS Council can only hold the exams in June and not before. The CM also announced that all students of Class XI studying in the state boards will be promoted to Class XII. “There were around one or two examinations pending for Class XI. We have around 11.1 lakh candidates who were appearing. Question papers are set by the HS Council and assessment is done by the respective schools. Mostly, we have observed that the schools promote 92% to 95% of students to Class XII. Only when they fail in selection tests, they are held back for another year,” said a source. He added, “The decision to promote all students to Class XII will not impact the quality of education.” “The remaining HS examinations are unlikely to be held before June 10, when the school reopens,” pointed out a Council official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/all-class-xi-students-to-be-promoted-hs-council/articleshow/75689354.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Jaipur||Travel restrictions eased in Rajasthan||Jaipur: After facing flak from NGOs and trade unions on restrictions on travel put in place on May 7, the state government has relaxed guidelines for movement of people during the lockdown period. It has allowed inter-district and intra-district travel in personal vehicle for permissible activities from 7am to 7pm without pass. But this exemption will not be applicable in curfew or containment zones. For those coming to Rajasthan from other states, passes issued by the respective states will be valid. If that state asks for NOC of Rajasthan, the district collector concerned is authorised to issue NOC. People could contact the state war room number 181 on emergency for passes. A 14-day quarantine will be mandatory for people coming to Rajasthan from other states. Under the May 7 order, only the designated home department officials were allowed to issue passes while the district collectors could issue e-passes in case of medical emergency and death, which were to be communicated to the home department on the same day. Chief minister Ashok Gehlot cleared the new guidelines late on Sunday night, which came into force with immediate effect on Monday. District collectors, superintendents of police, sub-divisional officers, deputy superintendents of police, tehsildars, RTOs, DTOs and SHOs will be able to issue passes to people going in their own vehicles to other states. Also, district industries officer, SE mining, general manager DIC, district-level officer of RIICO and other district-level officers will be able to issue passes for activities related to their department. All these officers will have to inform the district collector daily about the passes issued. Only district collectors can issue passes for traveling by bus and train to other states after obtaining approval of the recipient state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/travel-restrictions-eased-in-rajasthan/articleshow/75684917.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Man chased, killed as public watch in horror||HYDERABAD: A 26-year-old man, who is a murder-accused, was chased and killed by his rivals in full public view at Rickshaw Pullers’ Colony in Jagadgirigutta on Monday afternoon. The victim was identified as Lavakusha alias Cherpat Fayaz from Chintal.  Two days ago, Fayaz picked up an argument with friend Prashant and his associate Naresh while consuming liquor. Fayaz threatened to kill Prashant, Balanagar ACP Purushotham said. Fearing threat to life from Fayaz, Prashant and his group planned to eliminate him. “Prashant, Naresh and two associates confronted Fayaz when he came out of his lover’s house in the afternoon. Fayaz pulled out a knife, which was snatched by the gang. The quartet chased, stabbed and bludgeoned him to death with boulders,” the ACP said. According to cops, Fayaz had been in a relationship with the woman for over a year. CCTV camera footage of Fayaz being chased even showed a group of locals, including children running behind them. Police said both Fayaz and Prashant have criminal records.  A murder case was registered and a manhunt launched to nab the accused. Watch Caught on cam: Murder accused chased by rivals, killed in full public view||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-chased-killed-as-public-watch-in-horror/articleshow/75684281.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Ahmedabad||News portal editor held for article on leadership change||Ahmedabad: City crime branch sleuths on Monday detained the editor of a news portal, Dhaval Patel, a resident of Sola, for publishing an article about a likely change in the political leadership of Gujarat, on his news portal ‘Face of the Nation’ on May 7.He was booked for sedition under Section 124A IPC and relevant provisions of Disaster Management Act. Assistant commissioner of police B V Gohil said that Patel was sent for Covid-19 testing. The gist of the article was that as the number of Covid-19 cases were rising in Gujarat, the alleged lack of leadership was noticed in Delhi.Gohil said Patel had further published that as a trusted man of the Prime Minister, Mansukh Mandavia had been called by the BJP high command. He then said a change of leadership in Gujarat was thus likely.Investigations into the article found that it was published without any evidence and with the intention of creating an atmosphere of instability during the Covid-19 epidemic. An offence was registered against Patel on Monday and he was detained, Gohil said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/news-portal-editor-held-for-article-on-leadership-change/articleshow/75684282.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Nagpur||Mominpura woman in trust-run hosp tests +ve; 36 staff quarantined||Nagpur: Yet another woman from Mominpura, the city’s second Covid-19 hotspot, had been admitted to a trust-run hospital at Sitabuldi, and tested positive on Monday. A team of 36 doctors and staff from the hospital were quarantined at Pachpaoli Institutional Quarantine Centre. Among other patients, a 29-year-old positive person from Pandhrabodi, who tested positive on May 7, died at GMCH Isolation Ward and was cremated at Ambazari Ghat on Monday.A private hospital at Kamal Chowk on Kamptee Road was temporarily closed down for fumigation on Monday as a 60-year-old woman from Mominpura had been admitted here, and later tested positive on Sunday. A team of 48 doctors and staff of this hospital were quarantined at a private hotel on Central Avenue on Monday.Thus, 84 doctors and staff of two hospitals have now been quarantined. Swab samples of all quarantined doctors and staff will be taken and tested for Covid-19 on Tuesday.Doctors and staff of another private multispecialty hospital at Shankar Nagar on North Ambazari Road too are likely to be quarantined on Tuesday. A 50-year-old woman from Mominpura was taking dialysis for kidney treatment. She went to the private hospital at Shankar Nagar complaining of vomiting and loose motions on May 8.Since she was taking dialysis from trust-run hospital at Sitabuldi, doctors advised her to get admitted there. “She was admitted at the trust-run hospital. Swab samples were sent by the hospital to IGGMCH, which tested positive,” NMC additional medical officer health Dr Praveen Gantawar told TOI.Gantawar added, “Trust and state-run hospitals should handle patients from containment zones with outmost care. The same should be done when they receive patients of SARI or high-risk category,” he said.The trust-run hospital has become the sixth whose doctors and staff had to be quarantined for handling patients who later tested corona positive. First one was Jaripatka-based hospital followed by cancer hospital on Kamptee Road, Parvati Nagar, Congress Nagar, and Kamal Chowk.Mominpura has been a containment zone since April 4. The NMC is doing door-to-survey daily to find suspected, high-risk patients. Also, the civic body is tracing close contacts of positive patients almost every day. With latest two cases, it has again become clear that people are not giving correct information to NMC teams.A 30-year-old man quarantined at Vanamati Institutional Quarantine Centre also tested positive on Monday. He is also a resident of Mominpura.Thus, the district’s total cases increased to 298. The tally of Mominpura is 147 which, is 49.32% of district’s total cases. The number of cases from Satranjipura, city’s first hotspot, has remained at 116. These two localities account for 88.25% of total cases in the district.With a large number of cases came from Mominpura and Satranjipura, municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe and CP Bhushan Kumar Upadhyay have restricted shops selling essential commodities to six hours in a day. Only one or two entry points are open.Also, 14 more patients of SARI were admitted at GMCH on Monday and will be tested for Covid-19. In last few days, some SARI patients, including one from Pandhrabodi, have tested positive. He died on Monday.The NMC arranged his funeral at Ambazari Ghat. A patient with comorbidities, the deceased was cremated in the LPG crematoria as per Covid-19 guidelines. Sources said 28 family members, relatives and friends of the deceased have already been quarantined on May 8 and 9.Meanwhile, four more corona positive patients were discharged on Monday after recovering totally. All four are from Satranjipura, of which three were discharged from IGGMCH and one from GMCH. Total number of recoveries from the district has increased to 96.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/mominpura-woman-in-trust-run-hosp-tests-ve-36-staff-quarantined/articleshow/75684285.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
May 12, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat high court intervenes for poor, sick people and migrants||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat high court on Monday decided to intervene and keep a check on the state government’s action in dealing with the Covid-19 pandemic. The HC felt that the “situation seems to be going out of control” and that “something is wrong somewhere”, because, said the HC, the government is dealing with people who are not afraid of Covid-19, but are afraid that they would die of starvation. Hence dealing with them needs more humane approach. The bench of Justice J B Pardiwala and Justice I J Vora took suo motu cognizance of different news reports on police denying people access to doctors, migrant workers walking on empty stomachs, labourers demanding food and migrants made to wait for hours before they can board trains. The HC felt the need of intervention not in the government’s day-to-day functioning, but to ensure that the “situation does not go from very bad to worst”. It said, “In such circumstances, the judiciary will have to intervene,” and sought status report and action taken report from the government by May 14. The HC observed, “The state government should keep in mind that they are at present dealing with the most downtrodden, under privileged and weaker sections of the society. They are all afraid. They are not afraid of Covid-19, but they are afraid that they would die due to starvation.” The court said that this delicate situation needs to be dealt with very carefully and the government should instil confidence in the minds of the people at large that they will be taken care of. On denial of access to doctors, the HC said, “This is something very serious and needs immediate attention. If a person has any other ailment and is in need of medical treatment, then he cannot be asked to remain himself locked in his house… Some modalities in this regard need to be worked out at the earliest.” On migrant workers walking on highways, the HC said, “Their condition is pathetic. As on date, they are living in the most inhumane and horrendous conditions.” The HC called for more actions to resolve their problems.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/hc-intervenes-for-poor-sick-people-and-migrants/articleshow/75684275.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Jaipur||No restriction on intra-state movement of industrial labour: Labour secy||Jaipur: Intra-state movement of labour is now free from any lockdown riders and there is no mandatory requirement to 14-day quarantine if they are not coming from outside the state, labour secretary Neeraj K Pawan said on Monday. “The companies can bring in labour from any part of the state and they don’t need any passes for that. Only restriction is the movement from the containment zones. The basic things they need to ensure that the labour coming to work in the factories do not have influenza-like-illness (ILI) symptoms and follow social distancing norms,” said Pawan. On the issue of the skilled manpower leaving the state and the difficulty in replacing them, he said that this is time to learn how to become self-reliant. “Why cannot we train and groom plumbers and why we need to depend upon Odisha always. The labour department along with RSLDC is prepared to train workers with specific skills but the industry has to tell us what they need, “ said the labour secretary to a question of Credai-Rajasthan president Sunil Jain. In place of 1 lakh workers leaving the state, over 3 lakh workers have come back and the industry should tap them, he added. Addressing the concerns of the industry at a webinar by CII, Pawan assured that the industry in Rajasthan will not lose any competitiveness to UP, Gujarat and MP because of the labour reforms which was highlighted by Dileep Baid, a leading handicraft manufacturer from Rajasthan. Baid said that the relaxations from labour laws to industry would encourage companies to hire more and the skilled labour who have gone there may not return. But Pawan said they are watching the developments and will take appropriate steps whenever required to ensure that the industry in Rajasthan does not lose out. On paying April salary payment, Pawan said that the industrial units should not deprive the staff whose monthly wage is below Rs 21,000 and people earning more than that could be given subsistence assistance. On a suggestion that the government should leave the wages for the overtime to the industry, Pawan said it’s a central law which they have reiterated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/no-restriction-on-intra-state-movement-of-industrial-labour-labour-secy/articleshow/75684931.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Naming of rape victim a definite no-no, rules Telangana HC||HYDERABAD: Reiterating that guidelines issued by the Supreme Court must be followed by police, officials and media while dealing with sexual abuse cases, Justice P Naveen Rao of the Telangana high court has directed DGP and chief secretary toensure that name of the victim/survivor is not revealed at any stage. “Let the trial court receive the facts of the case along with the name and particulars of the victim in a sealed cover and decide the case. But, all other proceedings that are visible in the public domain should not reveal her name,” the judge said, while dismissing a petition of a school principal facing charges of molesting a class IX girl in his chambers in the school. The principal was arrested and later released on bail. A departmental enquiry was also initiated against him by the school management. He later moved the high court, saying that the departmental enquiry should be dropped till the conclusion of the trial in the criminal court on the ground that the findings may impact the trial against him. The judge, however, dismissed the plea saying that both are different and a pending trial cannot be shown as a reason to stall a domestic enquiry by the school. During the course of hearing of the plea, the judge also observed that police and the school management have been using victim’s name in the chargesheets, counter-affidavits, etc. “This is violation of SC guidelines in Nipun Saxena case wherein it was made clear that police should inform the name of the victim only to the judge of the trial court in a sealed cover. All those who come to know of the particulars of the victim during the discharge of their duties should not do anything that will even remotely reveal the identity of the victim,” he asserted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/naming-of-rape-victim-a-definite-no-no-rules-hc/articleshow/75684287.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Meerut||Revellers in Saharanpur throng streets, burst firecrackers & cut cake on road to celebrate Maharana Pratap Jayanti||Meerut: Fear of coronavirus pandemic had little effect on revellers who threw all caution of social distancing to the wind and celebrated Maharana Pratap Jayanti by bursting firecrackers and cutting a cake in the middle of a road in Saharanpur. Twelve of them were booked and nine arrested after a video they had uploaded on social media went viral. “The incident occurred in Rankhandi village where a few youths assembled near a statue of Maharana Pratap and indulged in the revellery. There were firecrackers and cake-cutting. Later, the video was also uploaded on social media which shows them violating the social distancing norms. We have booked 12 and have arrested nine,” said Saharanpur superintendent of police (rural) Vidya Sagar Mishra. Similarly, 13 villagers in Shamli were booked for holding a panchayat. The event was marked by a 'mahayagya' and pledge to follow the principles of Maharana Pratap. “We came to know about the incident from a video on the social media. There is a protocol and permission was supposed to be taken for any such event after which we would have ensured social distancing. We have booked 13 persons,” said Prabhakar Kaintura, SHO, Thanabhawan police station. No arrests have been made so far. In both incidents, IPC’s sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) were slapped on those flouting lockdown norms. Notably, there have been several incidents of large-scale violence in Saharanpur in the past over the bringing out of procession on this annual affair. In May 2017, clashes had broken out in Shabbirpur village when Dalits objected to a procession on the occasion of Maharana Pratap anniversary leading to one death and leaving several injured. A few days later in the same month, there was a clash between police and Dalit outfit Bhim Army, in which 20 vehicles were set on fire in Saharanpur city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/revellers-in-saharanpur-throng-streets-burst-firecrackers-cut-cake-on-road-to-celebrate-maharana-pratap-jayanti/articleshow/75683240.cms||Sandeep Rai
May 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana, Andhra Pradesh row brews over Srisailam lift project||HYDERABAD: The bonhomie between Telangana and Andhra Pradesh in the last few years suffered a setback when Telangana chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao announced on Monday night that his government would approach the court against the Rayalaseema lift irrigation (LI) project which, he said, was detrimental to the interests of India’s youngest state. The LI project was proposed by the AP government to draw 3 tmcft of water daily from Srisailam project on river Krishna. Calling AP’s decision unilateral and that it violated the AP Reorganisation Act-2014, KCR also asked the irrigation officials to file a complaint before the Krishna River Management Board (KRMB). KCR said it was unfortunate that AP had taken up the project on combined Srisailam project without getting a clearance from the apex panel first. “Telangana government will fight on the issue. There is no compromise on this,” he said. KCR held a high-level review meeting with senior officials till late in the evening and decided to move the court against the project. “If the project is taken up, there will be severe drinking and irrigation water problems for the combined Mahbubnagar district, Rangareddy and Nalgonda districts. We will stall the project,” KCR said. He recalled that Telangana had always wanted to have cordial relations with the neighbouring Telugu state and even extended friendship to AP on all front. “But, it is unfortunate that the AP government has issued a GO unilaterally without consulting us,” the CM said. He directed the irrigation officials to file the case immediately as there was a delay on allocation of Krishna water share by the Brajesh Kumar Tribunal. The AP government issued the GO (No. dated May 5, 2020) to take up the LI project to draw and utilise 3 tmcft per day from Sangameshwaram to Srisailam Right Main Canal (at km 4) from Pothireddypadu Head Regulator (PHR) costing Rs 3,825 crore and upgradation of the canal system from PHR and BCR complex from the foreshore of Srisailam reservoir costing Rs 570 crore. The GO also specified about lining of existing SRBC and Galeru-Nagari Sujala Sravanthi Canal up to berm level to draw 30,000 cusecs at a cost of Rs 939 crore. Apart from these works, two more workings have also been proposed. Cost of the all these projects is pegged at Rs 6,829 crore. Both KCR and his AP counterpart YS Jaganmohan Reddy have been maintaining cordial relationship and even proposed to take up linking of Godavari and Krishna rivers as a joint project by constituting a committee of irrigation officials from both the states. Sources said they had also decided to work together on resolving various issues between the two states, especially the bifurcation issue. Following the issuance of the GO, irrigation experts, retired engineers from Telangana and the opposition parties have raised concerns over the project proposed by AP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-ap-row-brews-over-srisailam-lift-project/articleshow/75684970.cms||Koride Mahesh
May 12, 2020||Goa||‘Use of booster pumps affecting water supply’||Saligao: The Goa Consumer Action Network (Goacan) in a letter to North Goa collector R Menaka has sought coordinated action against the illegal use of booster pumps on the PWD water supply lines in the district, during the ongoing lockdown.  Goacan coordinator Roland Martins urged the district collector to requisition a detailed report from the PWD on the impact of the illegal use of booster pumps on water reserves and called for them to create awareness about the same.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/use-of-booster-pumps-affecting-water-supply/articleshow/75685430.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Pune||Puneites stranded outside struggle to get back to city||PUNE: City-based working professional Girish Jain has been stuck in Indore along with his wife and two daughters for about two months. The family is desperately trying to acquire a travel pass to facilitate their travel back home. “The first time we tried to get the pass was when the lockdown was extended for the first time. We made an application on a Madhya Pradesh government website but it was rejected. Now, we are trying to get a pass once again,” said Jalan. Similarly, businessman Shailesh Modi has been trying to arrange a pass for his wife to travel to Pune from Mumbai. “I am ready to there, but I am not getting permission,” he said. Like Jalan and Modi, several people from Pune stranded across the country are struggling to acquire travel passes to get back home. Some like Wanowrie resident Pascoal D’Souza and his wife did manage to return home after an extended stay away. “Both my parents have medical issues. They were stranded in Goa for over 45 days. They finally got a pass from the Goa authorities and a cab brought them to Pune on May 6,” said Sylvester D’Souza. Social media is replete with posts by stranded people seeking help. Many people are still unaware of the online system set up by the Maharashtra government. There is also concern about the position taken by various state governments on allowing movement of vehicles across their border. Some states have refused to honour the travel passes issued by states severely hit by pandemic. Maharashtra has appointed additional chief secretary (revenue) Nitin Kareer as a nodal officer to issuing NOCs and passes to facilitate inter-state travel (see box). “Since May 1, we have issued 2.48 lakh travel passes to people heading outside Maharashtra,” Kareer stated in a note placed before the state cabinet meeting on May 6. “Passes issued by us are applicable in all states. We have not yet come across any complaint about our travel pass not getting honoured by other state.” Pune police nodal officer deputy commissioner of police Bachchan Singh stated, “As per central and state government directives, we are allowing movement of stranded persons from Pune to other destinations within and outside Maharashtra with certain precautionary measures.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/puneites-stranded-outside-struggle-to-get-back-to-city/articleshow/75684951.cms||Asseem Shaikh
May 12, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Phone, jewellery stolen from Covid patient’s body in Civil hospital||AHMEDBAD: After a Covid-19 patient, Bindu Rajput, 50, of Amraiwadi succumbed to the infection on Monday morning in the 1,200-bed Covid hospital in Civil, her husband Shivpujan Rajput informed police control room that her jewellery, mobile phone and charger were missing. Jagdish Rathod, the Congress councillor of Amraiwadi ward shot a letter to M M Prabhakar, the superintendent of Civil Hospital raising the issue. He marked copies of the letter to the chief minister, the health minister and the city police commissioner.  Stating that it was most unfortunate that such a thing happened with the body of a Covid-19 patient, Rathod added in the letter that the act was unpardonable and the person responsible should be dealt with severely according to law. “Two gold earrings, one gold nose-bud, her mobile phone and charger were missing when her husband went to receive her body from Civil Hospital,” Rathod told TOI. Rathod added, “This is not the first such incident in the hospital. On Monday morning a man had approached me and said that on May 5, his wife’s jewellery was stolen from the same hospital after her death. He didn’t approach cops as he was then in a state of shock.” “If the footage from the CCTV cameras of the hospital are checked we are sure that whoever committed this crime will be caught. If nothing is done, then such theft will continue to happen in one of the most reputed hospitals of the country,” Rathod said. Inspector M B Barad, who is in-charge police inspector of Shahibaug police station said the application in the case has been sent to the superintendent of the Civil Hospital. “We have not received anything as of yet,” Barad said. The husband of the deceased told TOI that after his message to the control room in the morning, he has now been called to Shahibaug police station to lodge an FIR. ‘Today, the Civil Hospital authorities took me along and roamed the entire hospital without giving me any protective gear. Isn’t this wrong?” Rajput asked. “It was the policemen at the gate who asked me why I had gone inside without protective gear. They made me sanitize my body and then I came back home,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/phone-jewellery-allegedly-stolen-from-covid-patients-body-in-civil/articleshow/75684290.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Nagpur||7 +ve persons kept with suspects for 3 days at Pachpaoli centre||Nagpur: Two women and a man were infected while taking care of their Covid-19 positive relatives in isolation wards of GMCH and IGGMCH last month. Not learning from the experience, the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) kept seven coronavirus patients with suspects who tested negative at the quarantine centre at Pachpaoli police quarters for three days. The seven patients were shifted to hospital only on Sunday morning even as others in the B wing of the centre registered strong protest questioning the delay by the civic health department entrusted with the task of ferrying patients. The patients and the suspects were among several people picked up from Mominpura’s Choody Galli on May 4 following death of a 70-year-old Covid positive man during treatment at IGGMCH. The seven patients and suspects were sharing space in room no. 201, 202, 203 and 204 at B wing of the newly-built police quarters. Their samples were collected on May 5 and their results came on May 7. TOI has a copy of the report. The seven were among the over 100 persons who tested positive on May 6 and 7 when the city saw a huge spike in Covid-19 cases. A relative of the seven patients said that around 35 people from the B wing have tested positive so far. Out of the 35 people, around 16 suspects were staying in the same building in Mominpura where the city’s second Covid-19 deceased lived. “Rest of us had never met him or came in contact. We have no connection. The lane where the deceased used to sit has not been quarantined,” said the relative who is a businessman. The businessman said, “We asked the doctors why were these seven not promptly shifted when the report came on May 7. They want to infect us all.” The businessman was staying in one of the rooms with his wife, 15-year-old daughter and 3-year-old son, beside 20-year-old niece. The niece has tested positive. In another room, a 19-year-old tested positive. He was staying with his mother, father and a younger brother. The businessman’s elder brother too was in this room. In the third room, a 38-year-old man, his wife and three-year-old son tested positive. The businessman’s 12-year-old son was staying with these three positive patients. The man said they are neighbours and friends, so were accommodated with each other’s families in the four-sharing rooms. A 50-year-old man and a 30-year-old woman also tested positive from the B wing. NMC health team officials said that shortage of beds at IGGMCH and GMCH led to the delay in shifting patients to hospital. They also said that when the beds became available, the patients insisted that all be admitted to IGGMCH only. “Relatives confronted us on why we didn’t shift them on May 7 itself,” officials said. IGGMCH officials confirmed that the seven patients were shifted only on Sunday. NMC chief medical officer Dr Yogendra Savai didn’t answer TOI’s calls and SMS. Zonal medical officer Dr Menakshi Singh too didn’t answer TOI’s calls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/7-ve-persons-kept-with-suspects-for-3-days-at-pachpaoli-centre/articleshow/75665910.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
May 12, 2020||Meerut||Spike in encounters as police goes after cow ‘slaughterers’ in 15-day drive||Meerut: Western UP has witnessed a sudden surge in encounters and arrests in the last leg of 15-day crackdown launched against “smugglers and slaughterers” of cow in the state. After a lull, gunshots echoed in several districts and many involved in alleged cow killing were nabbed.Additional director general of police (Meerut zone) Prashant Kumar said, “As part of the drive against cow slaughterers, police are identifying and cracking down on miscreants involved in cow slaughter and its illicit trade.”In Muzaffarnagar, a police team raided an isolated plot and arrested three persons involved in alleged cow slaughtering on Sunday night, but not before an encounter. Police said that they were fired at by the three accused. Police also retaliated in which two accused, Shahzad and Shameem, sustained bullets injuries.Similarly, two encounters took place in Bijnor. In the first, a suspect sustained bullet injury and was arrested. While in the other, a raiding police team was attacked by a mob. Of them 20 were booked later.In Amroha, a criminal carrying a reward of Rs 15,000 on his head got bullet injuries in an encounter with police on Saturday night. “A calf and knives were recovered from his car. The criminal has over 12 cases registered against him,” Amroha SP Vipin Tada had said. Ever since the lockdown from March 22, there has been a sharp drop in police encounters in the state. In April, crime-infested Meerut zone registered a 38% fall in encounters in the region as compared to the same period last year. As many as 36 encounters were reported in Meerut zone in April of 2019, which plummeted to 22 in 2020. The ongoing lockdown, restriction on movement and heightened police presence at the state and district borders is being attributed to the decline in the numbers, senior police officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/spike-in-encounters-as-police-goes-after-cow-slaughterers-in-15-day-drive/articleshow/75683252.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Nagpur||Extend devp board terms, 30 prominent citizens write to CM||Nagpur: After Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government failed to extend tenure of three statutory boards in state, about 30 noted personalities from the region rushed a letter to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray requesting him to take immediate steps in this regard. Prominent citizens, including Vikas Amte, MP Vikas Mahatme, Dr Vedprakash Mishra, VED chief Shivkumar Rao, former VSDB members Sanjay Khadakkar and Kapil Chandrayan, economist Vinayak Deshpande and others have told the CM they were not interested in any politics over the issue but just want tenure of statutory boards extended with a view to continue development of backwards regions of the state. The five-year tenure of these three boards meant for backward regions of Vidarbha and Marathwada and rest of Maharashtra (ROM) came to an end on April 30. Despite two regular meetings in April, the state cabinet led by the CM failed to make any recommendation for extending the tenure citing Covid-19 crisis. This was reported by TOI on May 1. According to these citizens, the boards were constituted for removal of massive backlog in the backward regions and from time to time, they had suggested measures to do so. “The boards acted as watchdog and infomred the government whenever these regions were meted out injustice in terms of funds allocation all these years. The members on these boards had submitted important reports after conducting thorough studies to the governor through which actual figures of the backlog came to fore in the backward areas,” the letter mentioned. The letter added that if tenure of these boards were not extended, it would send wrong signal to the people of these regions that the government was suppressing their voice. “It would also mean the government is trying to close a statutory medium through which the grievances of citizens from these areas used to reach the government. Even in future, if any injustice is done with Vidarbha and Marathwada, there would no medium to raise the voice. It will ultimately lead to increase in their backlog,” the letter stated. All about statutory boards * President accepted resolution of Maharashtra legislature on March 9, 1994 * He entrusted responsibility to governor to form three boards for 5 years * Governor issued orders on April 30, 1994, to form Vid, Marathwada & ROM boards * Rules & Guidelines issued for boards’ composition on August 5, 1994 * Duties of chairman and members, their functions and funds allocation for devp finalized * It also included arrangements for education, training and employment services * Governor’s orders took care of points raised in Nagpur pact||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/extend-devp-board-terms-30-prominent-citizens-write-to-cm/articleshow/75684971.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
May 12, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: Operations halted after objections||PUNE: State transport minister Anil Parab said on Monday that the decision to suspend the services of the Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) for transporting stranded people from one district to another within the state was spurred by objections from various quarters. Parab told TOI, "Soon after we started the service, there were issues related to transporting people from red zones to orange or green zones. He said, "Though, we were carrying only those people residing in non-containment zones to their home districts, the idea of people being transported from a red zone to a green/orange zone was not liked and the general consensus was that people should be where they were at present." A source in the state government told TOI that the collectors of some districts had raised objections on the same. "The order in connection with inter-district transportation came last week. However, some collectors of green/orange zone districts said they did not want people from red zone districts to enter their districts. The government reviewed and later passed an order for stopping the service." An officer said, "A fresh policy on ways to re-start inter-district transport will be chalked out. The MSRTC has been asked to concentrate on transporting migrant workers who are seen walking along the highways up to the borders of their home state."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/operations-halted-after-objections/articleshow/75684965.cms||Joy Sengupta
May 12, 2020||Meerut||Spread of Covid-19 among those involved in supply of essentials worries residents & admin alike||Meerut: In a worry for the residents of Meerut, those involved in the supply of essentials, especially vegetables, form a large chunk of patients who have tested positive in the last 11 days. The sudden surge in the Covid-19 patients has also worried the Meerut administration which is struggling to keep a pace with the spread of the highly contagious disease. In case of those involved in supply of essentials, the contact chain is much larger and wide.The first case in Meerut was reported on March 27. In the next 35 days, 106 cases were reported. However, in the last just 11 days the number of cases has jumped by 149, taking the tally to 255. So, 58.4% cases in Meerut were reported in just 11 days.The number of cases started increasing after those involved in supply chain in the district started testing positive, which health authorities believe have a major role in spreading the infection in the city. According to the statistics maintained by the health department, as many as 64 people involved in the supply chain have tested positive in Meerut so far.Dr Raj Kumar, Meerut’s chief medical officer (CMO), said, “The major reason in the spike of cases in May is that vegetable vendors and others in the supply chain have tested positive for coronavirus. When their contacts were tested, they too were found to be suffering from the disease.”Among those found Covid-19 positive are milkmen, food and vegetable vendors. According to the health department, it all started with the death of a 62-year-old fruit seller-- a Covid-19 positive patient-- of Naveen Sabzi Mandi. It is the biggest wholesale vegetable market in the city.“After the death of 62-year-old man, who belonged to Shri Ram Palace area, we conducted sampling in the sabzi mandi and the cases started coming positive thereafter. So far, as many as 64 people from the supply chain, related to essentials, have tested positive in Meerut. As these people come in contact with locals on a regular basis, the number of cases increased suddenly. We are tracking all contacts and continuously getting testing done,” said Dr Vishwas Chaudhary, Meerut district surveillance officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/spread-of-covid-19-among-those-involved-in-supply-of-essentials-worries-residents-admin-alike/articleshow/75683269.cms||Ishita Bhatia
May 12, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Wake up to plight of stranded: Oppn||Thiruvananthapuram: Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala here on Monday demanded the state government to wake up to the plight of thousands of Malayalis stranded elsewhere in the country and emulate the steps taken by other states in evacuating people stranded outside their native places during the lockdown. Conditions set by the state government for the entry of Malayalis to their home state were highly unrealistic and unacceptable, he said. “Despite spending hours, many could not obtain a pass. The online system is mostly down. Above all, the state government’s insistence that other states issue passes to leave for Kerala only if the applicant produces the entry pass issued by Kerala makes the whole exercise excessively cumbersome. One can’t even apply for a pass unless he owns a vehicle to travel to his home. But it is surprising to note that such conditions are insisted despite the government issuing no such specific orders covering such points,” Chennithala said. “I shall read out an extract of an order notified by the chief secretary on May 6. The third para of the G.O. (Rt) no.1452/2020/GAD says that ‘Persons arriving at six designated state borders without entry pass issued from Kerala shall be put under mandatory institutional quarantine irrespective of their district of origin’. But later the officials said only those with pass would be given entry. But no orders substantiating the new conditions have been notified,” Chennithala claimed. Calling the government for a more just approach toward Malayalis stranded in other states, he demanded the government to operate KSRTC buses for the evacuation and urged the Union government to resume regular train service so that stranded Malayalis could reach home.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/wake-up-to-plight-of-stranded-oppn/articleshow/75682070.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Nagpur||Doc held for hate message on social media||Nagpur: Since the outbreak of Covid-19, the use of social media has increased drastically with police and administration continuously asking citizens to refrain from spreading rumours and hate messages. However, the appeal does not seem to have much effect as two recent cases of misuse of social media in city showed.While in one case police arrested a doctor for posting hate messages against one community on Twitter while in second case of fake news, no offence was registered. Even earlier, city police had registered several cases for spreading rumours and misusing em social media.In the first incident, Gittikhadan police on Sunday night arrested an orthopaedic surgeon Dr Satish Sonar for allegedly posting hate messages on his Twitter handle. Sonar was booked for hurting religious sentiments under sections of Indian Penal Code (IPC).Senior PI of Gittikhadan police station Sunil Gangurde stated the accused was produced before a court on Monday and released on bail. The offence was registered following a complaint from Shahbaz Siddiqui.Along with another tweet targeting a woman activist from Delhi. Several such tweets and posts were spotted by Siddiqui who approached Gittikhadan police and filed a complaint. The complainant also claimed that such hate posts were against the orders of government and must be dealt with strictly.In another incident, Mankapur police launched an investigation when a video emerged claiming five patients had died at a private hospital in Mankapur area. The video showed people saying patients were killed due to negligence of the hospital. The message raised alarm among the citizens of Mankapur who suspected several bad scenarios, including Covid-19 outbreak in their area. However, the video turned out to be of Indore.Senior PI of Mankapur police station Ganesh Thakre said, “We are trying to see if a case under sections of IT Act can be filed in this matter. Otherwise, we will file an NC (non-cognizable offence) in the matter.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/doc-held-for-hate-message-on-social-media/articleshow/75684324.cms||Viraj Deshpande
May 12, 2020||Jaipur||Guards penalised for punishing women||Jaipur: The suspension of forest guards in Bhilwara district, who made women do sit-ups after they were caught chopping trees for wood from forest area by the Divisional Forest Officer (DFO) drew sharp criticism from environmentalists and forest staff. After the issue was brought up by the local politicians, two forest guards Ladu Ram Sharma and Chandamal Regar posted in Bijolia range were suspended by DFO on Sunday. A video of the women doing sit-ups and holding ears got viral, nearly a month after it happened. Green activist, Babu Lal Jaju said, “The local villagers who were given punishment were regular offenders as they are poor. Since these guards do not want to burden them further with penalty, they let them go after giving mild punishment. The move will discourage the forest staff in future and incidents of cutting trees will increase inside the forest.” A forest guard on the condition of anonymity added, “The situation on ground should be analysed before making the issue political. The guards have to prevent wood cutters from entering the forest and also keep their situation in mind once they are caught. Imposing penalty or sending them to jail as per the rule book is not possible all the time.” Forest sources said that after the video went viral, the opposition targeted police for the move as guards were seen in Khaki uniform. The action was taken against the forests guard after the incident was verified. Forest department officials as a justification also said, Rajasthan, which ranks 15 in terms of recorded forest area (RFA) in the country, is a forest deficient state according to India State of Forest Report (ISFR) 2019.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/guards-penalised-for-punishing-women/articleshow/75684967.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Jaipur||Labourers should be allowed to go home: Khachariyawas||Times News Network Jaipur: Transport minister Pratap Singh Khachariyawas said no state should stop migrant labourers from going to their homes and villages. Khachariyawas said for the past several days, migrant laborers have travelled across the country on foot to reach their homes due to the negligence and short-sightedness of the central government. In such a situation, many state governments put obstructions on the movement of labourers, which is an insult to the Constitution, he said. Khachariyawas said when the central government had made it clear that workers could visit their homes, they started heading to their villages in buses, trains, bicycles and rickshaws enduring the pain and hunger under the scorching sun. He said the UP government stopped workers on way to Bihar and Uttarakhand from going beyond Bharatpur on the Rajasthan border. Similarly, Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar did not agree to take students and labourers. He said it was amazing that crores of labourers had been fleeing from cities, but workers affected by corona have been negligible. He said the reason was workers’ immunity as they sweat it out in difficult climatic conditions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/labourers-should-be-allowed-to-go-home-khachariyawas/articleshow/75684969.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Tallest Ganesh to take shape from May 18||HYDERABAD: Preparations to build a 66-foot idol of Khairatabad Ganesh will begin from May 18, said the area’s Ganesh Utsav committee on Monday. “The work for installation of the Ganesh idol will begin with ‘Karra Pooja’ on Monday at Khairatabad Ganesh pandal,” S Sudarshan, president of the committee told TOI. “Speculations were raised regarding the installation of the idol this year because of the Covid-19 crisis. However, after several rounds of meetings with the committee, a decision to hold the function was taken, with preventive measures against the virus given priority,” he said. Regarding controlling the crowd, Sudarshan said, “We have discussed measures to maintain social distancing during the 11 days of celebrations. Apart from this, special arrangements for sanitising the area have also been planned. We will also try to arrange sanitisation chambers at the pandal.” This will be the 66th year of the installation of Ganesh idol in the area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/tallest-ganesh-to-take-shape-from-may-18/articleshow/75684294.cms||Sunil Mungara
May 12, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘Barricades to be put up on roads from cities to villages’||Ahmedabad: Gujarat DGP Shivanand Jha while briefing media on Monday said nobody will be allowed to venture out of their homes from 7pm to 7am even to buy essentials. He also said that it has come to their notice shops other than those permitted are functioning. “Strict action will be taken those who carry out such activities,” he added.Jha said nobody will allowed to travel from one district to another without a valid permit and checking will be made more strict. “Roads leading to villages from cities will also be barricaded to keep the infection from spreading to the rural areas of the state,” said Jha. He said more forces will be deployed in containment areas.“Ahmedabad other cities have also been allotted paramilitary forces to be deployed in containment areas. The containment areas will be cordoned off to keep people from coming out and going in,” he said.Jha said they are in contact with local leaders in containment zones to try to persuade people to not leave their homes.Jha said that the fight against the virus is going to be a long one and one should make masks, sanitizers and social distancing a way of life.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/barricades-to-be-put-up-on-roads-from-cities-to-villages/articleshow/75684296.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Pune||Haze on rail, plane services from Pune||PUNE: The airport authorities are still in the dark about when the domestic flight services would resume from the city. “We are awaiting the instruction of the government,” Pune airport director Kuldeep Singh told TOI. A senior Airports Authority of India official said it was unlikely that the permission of the defence would be required to start the flight operations from the city. Sources claimed that limited domestic flight operations could start immediately after the third phase of lockdown ended. The regular train services from the city is also unlikely to resume soon. “We don’t have any information on when trains will start from Pune. The railways might include the city in its second list. Pune is among the worst-affected cities by Covid-19. Even if the countrywide lockdown ends after May 17, trains might not run from Pune until the situation came under control,” a railway official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/haze-on-rail-plane-services-from-pune/articleshow/75684979.cms||Joy Sengupta
May 12, 2020||Meerut||UP labourer stranded in Hyderabad 'kills self'||BIJNOR: In yet another distressing incident, a 22-year-old migrant labourer from Uttar Pradesh, who was stranded and left without money during the prolonged Covid-19 lockdown, allegedly took his own life after his poor family could not gather enough resource to bring him back. The native of Amroha district died in Hyderabad. He used to work as a labourer at a local factory there. Family members also claim to have received no support from the local administration. Since the lockdown, the man identified as Mohammad Shariq of Lakada mohalla used to make distress calls to his family. His cousin, Mohammad Alam alleged, "Shariq used to work as a labourer at a cotton-based unit in Hyderabad for a year. After the nationwide lockdown came into effect, Shariq began calling us over the phone and pleaded for his return to Amroha. He didn't have money and was facing a lot of hardship at Mailardevpally Oram Gada." "Local administration did not pay any heed to his appeals. He was depressed, and so he committed suicide on May 9. We have now received permission to bring his body back," Alam added on Monday. When contacted, Amroha district magistrate Umesh Mishra confirmed the 22-year-old's death in Hyderabad, and said the cause is yet to be ascertained. "The man's family had sought permission to bring back the body. We have issued a pass to them. They are on their way to Hyderabad," Mishra said. Meanwhile, Amroha MP Kunwar Danish Ali said, "I have already written to commissioner of police of Hyderabad about the matter and urged him that the deceased man's family get the body for final rituals at his native place in Uttar Pradesh."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/up-labourer-stranded-in-hyderabad-kills-self/articleshow/75683279.cms||Harveer Dabas
May 12, 2020||Chennai||From China to Chennai: Get ready for fresh investments||CHENNAI: As global corporations, struck by the coronavirus threat and their dependence on China, look to de-risk investments and spread their portfolios, captains of Tamil Nadu Inc have urged the state to get ready, which includes creating plug-and-play industrial parks along with living quarters for large workforce closer to these facilities. On Monday, at the session on manufacturing in The Times of India’s virtual conclave, Sasikumar Gendham, MD of Electronics Manufacturing Services (EMS) company Salcomp, said, the state must create plug-and-play industrial townships, which will make it attractive for investors. "Today, TN is home to the second largest cluster for electronics manufacturing services (EMS) in India and has the potential to grow significantly." At present, Salcomp employs 7,500 people and plans to recruit 10,000 more in the next three years. Read our coronavirus live blog for all the latest news and updatesCoronavirus outbreak: Complete coverage Stressing on the role of the government, vice-chairman and MD of The India Cements N Srinivasan said it is the responsibility of the state to dispel the myths about the virus. "We have a peculiar situation. The trucks with cement are not being allowed to ply by villagers fearing spread of the virus. The government must communicate better. Production of cement is not a problem for us, it’s only the movement of cement as most trucks have been abandoned," he said. The bigger issue, Srinivasan said, is unpredictability of demand. "It is like flying in the dark. We don’t know how much demand is there for cement. Most businesses have not earned any revenue for two months," he said. "We expect sales of 50%-70%, but cannot assure anything after June. It is also possible that pent-up demand is illusionary and may vanish quickly." More on Covid-19 Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage Lockdown 3.0: What's allowed and what's not in the three zones It's time to mask up and stay safe: Join TOI's #MaskIndia campaign MHA's guidelines for home isolation Trust the newspaper for your daily verified news  Focusing on safety, Daimler India Commercial Vehicles (DICV) is introducing a wearable device on the shop floor which will help employees maintain social distancing. "Our digital teams have come out with an app which will help employees know dangerous zones. We have sought the API from the Aarogya Sethu team to incorporate them in the app. It shall be made available to all our employees, vendors and any other company which needs it. We need to work together to overcome the present situation," said Satyakam Arya, MD & CEO. He said the DICV factory in Oragadam is implementing ‘physical distancing but social intimacy’, adding that it is important to bring back guest workers who have left for their hometowns. There is also an urgent need to upgrade the skills of workmen, said Srinivasan. "We need large upskilling initiatives. The government can take up some of this work as the requirements in the post-Covid-19 world will be different. Very few staff have managed our 10 factories from our corporate office. The entire work process is set to change," he said. Watch Covid-19 effect: Get ready for fresh investments from China to Chennai||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/from-china-to-chennai-get-ready-for-fresh-investments/articleshow/75684977.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Nagpur||Doctors express gratitude towards Hotel Centre Point||Nagpur: Maharashtra Association of Resident Doctors (MARD) expressed their gratitude towards Hotel Centre Point, Ramdaspeth, for providing free accommodation and meals to medical health professionals who are fighting on the front-line against Covid-19. Directors Jasbir Singh (Micky), Angad and Arjun Arora opened their hotel to doctors and nurses from government hospitals in March itself, so that they do not risk exposing their families to the virus, after going home daily. Arora said, “My view was simple. These doctors are putting their lives at risk for us so why can’t we do a small gesture for them.” Currently 126 doctors and nurses are staying at the hotel and are treated to a luxurious buffet spread three times a day. MARD president Dr Mukul Deshpande along with other members handed over a letter of gratitude to Arora on Monday evening. “The letter today is just a symbol of the gratitude we feel towards Hotel Centre Point. They have been hosting our colleagues since March and even today their staff shows the same level of courtesy and treats everyone royally,” said Dr Deshpande. Dr Shreya Tiwari, who has been put up at the hotel said, “I am a Nagpurian but because we are on the front-line it’s better that we stay away and reduce the risk of infection spreading to our families. The hotel staff has made us feel very comfortable.” From MARD, Dr Arpit, Dr Shubham Ingle, Dr Ajay P and Dr Dharam Prasad were present.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/doctors-express-gratitude-towards-hotel-centre-point/articleshow/75683264.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
May 12, 2020||Jaipur||NREGA: 23 lakh jump in 25 days takes Raj to No 1 in labour engagement||Jaipur: From 62,000 labourers on April 17 to 24.31 lakh labourers working under MGNREGA on May 11, a jump of 23.69 lakh labourers in 25 days, has taken Rajasthan back to top position in the country in labour engagement under the scheme. Rajasthan is followed by Uttar Pradesh having engaged 22.64 lakh labourers, Chhattisgarh at 21.32 lakh labourers, Madhya Pradesh at 16.82 lakh and West Bengal at 13.42 lakh labourers (on May 11). Officials say this has been possible by engaging large number of migrant labourers who returned from other states and due to “rigid monitoring”. “But this is not enough. Still, there is a gap of 10 lakh labourers on the ground. Under normal circumstances, there would be 30 lakh labourers working on any given day during this period of the year,” said MGNREGA commissioner P C Kishan. “This is an extraordinary situation (due to Covid-19 crisis). Many more migrant labourers would be coming to the state now. There will be extra demand for work now, apart from the normal demand, because of the unprecedented rural crisis. So, we have to prepare ourselves to meet the demand of maybe another 10 lakh workers, who must be demanding work. So, the supply mechanism has to be properly managed to take care of the extraordinary demand for NREGA work.” he added. He further said this has been possible based on daily monitoring of labour engagement in the state. “Whichever district performed badly, I called up the respective CEOs and the collectors and instructed them to take necessary action. If they failed to do so, I even called the BDOs (block development officers). We also engaged about 25 NGOs for necessary feedback from the ground,” he said. “Sometimes, the labourers directly complained to me when muster rolls were not issued, or works were not sanctioned in a gram panchayat. In that case, I used to engage a person to call the BDO or the CEO. Else, I called them directly and instructed to take appropriate action. Moreover, a report on labour engagement was sent to the deputy chief minister (Sachin Pilot) and ACS rural development (Rajeshwar Singh) daily.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/nrega-23-lakh-jump-in-25-days-takes-raj-to-no-1-in-labour-engagement/articleshow/75684983.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Hubballi||Karkala- origin doc receives ‘Drive of Honour’ in US||Udupi/Hubballi: It has been a challenging situation for healthcare workers across the world . A US-based doctor, who hails from Karkala in Udupi district, Dr Avinash Adiga, 36, was given a drive of honour. His proud parents, Govinda Adiga, a retired English lecturer at Morarji PU College, Karkala, and Shakunthala Adiga said, "We are happy for our son’s dedicated service. The Indian community, Brindavana Kannada Koota, with patients who had recovered after Covid-19 at New Jersey had organized the ‘Drive of Honour’. ‘’ Avinash went to the US eight years ago years back, to pursue his MD in internal medicine at Texas Tech University Health Sciences Center, Lubbock, Texas. Avinash is an alumnus of the Vijayanagara Institute of Medical Sciences in Ballari and is a critical care fellow at three hospitals that treat Covid patients. He has treated more than 1,500 patients so far and his service to humanity is appreciable". Dr Avinash would treat at least 100 to 150 patients every day in the ICU His ‘Drive of Honour’ video has gone viral on social media. In the video, cars drive past Dr Avinash's residence with the passengers holding ‘Thank You’ placards. He posted the video on his Facebook page and wrote "Overwhelmed with the huge appreciation event by the Indian community for my services during the pandemic… Thank you so much each and every one of you for this lifetime memory. #CoronaWarriors #soundon". Dr Avinash has a one-year-old daughter. His wife Dr Disha, is an ophthalmologist.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/karkala-origin-doc-receives-drive-of-honour-in-us/articleshow/75684319.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Jaipur||Special op reclaims forest land in Ajmer||Ajmer: With lockdown in cities and villages, a special clean forest drive started in Ajmer to protect forest and wildlife. In the last 40 days, illegal mines in forest areas were closed and seized. Encroachments from forest land were removed. A leopard was saved from a water well in Sarwar and revenue was earned by penalizing tractor trolleys carrying illegal stones from mines.The forest department had planned and prepared for a special operation to clean forest which was kept under wraps. Deputy conservator of forest, Sudeep Kaur, who led the drive, said, “We found there were encroachments in Datta Nagar forest land and started an operation to clear the forest land from every type of encroachment.” Similarly, there was illegal mining of stones at Jatia hills where tractors with trolley were seized. The department in the first week of May came to know about a leopard that fell in the water well and the special team brought out the leopard alive and rehabilitated it in the jungle. “There were peacocks and other animals that were rescued from villagers,” added Kaur. During lockdown there were incidents when villagers went inside the forest to kill wild animals.The team also located water holes in the forest regions and managed drinking water for wildlife. “During inspection we also seized stone-laden tractors involved in illegal mining and imposed penalties,” added Kaur. Sources said that the control room was established in the office of divisional forest officer and every region was directed to inspect their area twice a day to confirm that there is no hunting of wildlife.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/special-op-reclaims-forest-land-in-ajmer/articleshow/75684975.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: Industries struggle with skeletal staff||PUNE: Industries are still facing a lot of operational issues even in the zones where industrial activities have been allowed. In a call organised by the Mahratta Chamber of Commerce, Industries and Agriculture (MCCIA) on Monday, state industries minister Subhash Desai said about 6 lakh people got back to work in about 25,000 factories across the state in the past 15 days. Even as the minister was giving out the numbers, an MCCIA member quickly calculated that less than 30 employees per factory had resumed work. When this fact was put on the chat messenger and asked how could the industries work with such less workforce, the question remained unanswered. The industry representatives asked the minister and officials to open up more meaningfully, else Maharashtra might lose out to other states that are opening up faster. Many of the parts’ suppliers are in the MIDC areas of Bhosari and Talewade, which are not allowed to function yet for being in the red zone. Desai said CM Uddhav Thackeray aimed at making the state coronavirus-free by May end, but stopped short of assuring the industry about opening up fast. The members then said even where they were allowed to resume work, they were facing a slew of issues, including bureaucratic hurdles. “Some gram panchayats are telling our employees staying in villages that if you go out, do not come back home. Every panchayat now has a district collector,” a member wrote, while urging the state government to intervene. As per businessmen in zones where operation has begun at some scale, only 5-7% of employees are attending work. “We cannot even run a fourth of a shift with these numbers,” the senior manager at an auto-parts manufacturing facility in Chakan said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/industries-struggle-with-skeletal-staff/articleshow/75684973.cms||Satyanarayan Iyer
May 12, 2020||Nagpur||‘Kashe aahat tumhi’, DCP asks cops on lockdown duty||Nagpur: ‘Hello, Mi DCP HQ boltoy. Kashe aahat tumhi?’ (Hello, I am DCP Headquarters speaking. How are you?) This is how DCP Vikram Sali greets after calling constables deployed across the city to enquire about their well-being and their needs on duty. The initiative ‘DCP-to-constable call’ is a high priority for the police department. Several cops across the state are getting exposed to coronavirus infection while on duty. The state police department has seen a spurt in cases, including few deaths in the last few weeks. Sali, in-charge of headquarters and traffic, is making random calls at least 20 constables per day after getting their numbers from the office list. He aims to take the number to 100 constables per day to ensure their needs do not get ignored. The DCP said that following the guidelines of CP BK Upadhyay and Joint CP Ravindra Kadam several welfare measures are being undertaken to help police personnel on the field. Sali said that around 700 cops from headquarters and another 300 from traffic are on duty across city at different checkpoints, quarantine centres, containment zones and toll nakas. “I just pick up any mobile phone number and speak to the constable to ask him whether he is wearing mask, having sanitizers, face shield or other precautionary kit as per his duty requirements,” he said. Sali, an M Tech in irrigation engineering, said he immediately contacts the officer in-charge concerned if any constable shares any problem or requirement with him for redressal. “Around 10 constables have so far shared their requirements in the last couple of days. We have ensured that his or her issue is resolved. We have rushed masks, sanitizers, face shields and such things whenever needed,” said Sali. The DCP also said that he has also been asking constables about their health issues and inquiring about any help required. “Our men are working round the clock under strenuous duty hours. Hence, there is need to boost their morale and also look after their health issues,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/kashe-aahat-tumhi-dcp-asks-cops-on-lockdown-duty/articleshow/75684997.cms||Soumitra Bose
May 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Chemicals choke tank, locals fault officials||HYDERABAD: Residents of Boduppal area were in for a scare when reddish-contaminated water began seeping into Raa Cheruvu, also known as Rama Cheruvu, located near the Mallapur industrial belt. Mallapur houses dozens of pharma firms that have been operating during lockdown. Telangana Pollution Control Board officials visited the site over the weekend. “We went to the site and collected samples which have been sent to the lab for testing,” confirmed M Venkanna, environmental engineer, TSPCB, Ranga Reddy. Residents feel these inspections, however, are not enough. Prashant Mamidala, a local, said “Raa Cheruvu is being dumped with chemical water on a regular basis and the officials have turned a blind eye to this. In spite of the Central Pollution Control board responding to the matter on Twitter, its local branch has not generated an Action Taken Report yet.” Mamidala also said that politicians, who had made a fuss about the lake ahead of last year’s municipal polls, have completely forgotten about it now . For Saini Naveen Kumar, another resident of the area, the danger of the chemicals seeping in is a threat to their lives. “Bore water in the area too is chemical-ridden because of leachate. The chemicals must be diverted from the lake,” he said. Referring to better times, resident Dasari Mahesh said, “I remember the lake when it was not contaminated. About 10 years ago, one could fish and swim at the lake. Now the stench is so bad that we can’t even stand nearby.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/chemicals-choke-tank-locals-fault-officials/articleshow/75684322.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: Industries department sets up e-portal to lure buyers||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Aiming national and international markets for the products from the state, the government has launched a business-to-business web portal titled ‘Kerala e-market’. The Kerala Bureau of Industrial Promotion (K-BIP) under the department of industries and commerce developed the portal www.keralaemarket.com/ www.keralaemarket.org to help and facilitate micro, small and medium enterprises, and public sector undertakings to expand their business in the national and international markets. The portal will serve as a connection point for national and international buyers to interact with the MSMEs and PSUs in the state. Each MSME and PSU can list their industry and their products, along with pictures, prices, etc. The products or industries are classified in various sectors such as food processing, handloom and textiles, rubber, coir, ayurveda, electrical and electronics, handicrafts, and agriculture. The K-BIP coordinates the portal development, hosting, operation, maintenance including search engine optimization (SEO), and publicising the portal. The companies trying to market their products can enter the details, profile, product catalogues, etc in the portal. A user ID and password will be given to the registered MSMEs and PSUs. A searchable business directory (sector or product-wise) will be created. The MSMEs and PSUs will be provided the option to upload their business enquiry for buying or selling. Information regarding the domestic and international trade enquiries also will be made available in the portal. Information regarding the events, exhibitions, trade fairs in different products and sectors in the country and abroad will also be made available in the portal. Direct business inquiries from the domestic and international buyers will be received through the portal. Not only for existing MSMEs and PSUs of the state, but the prospective entrepreneurs and other stakeholders of MSMEs also can take advantage of this platform and use it for their benefit. The portal was launched by industries minister E P Jayarajan here on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/industries-dept-sets-up-e-portal-to-lure-buyers/articleshow/75682121.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Kozhikode||SEC initiates steps for LSG polls in Oct||Kozhikode: Amid the Covid-19 lockdown, the state election commission (SEC) has initiated steps for the conduct of local body elections as scheduled in October. Setting the ball rolling, SEC has asked district collectors to prepare and submit list of returning officers and assistant returning officers within one week. State  commissioner V Bhaskaran said that the commission was moving ahead with preparations to conduct elections in October as it was a constitutional obligation, and failure to have newly-elected bodies before November 12 would result in a crisis. He said that the commission will publish the electoral rolls within one week after the lockdown is lifted. “We are moving ahead with the hope that Covid-19 situation would normalize by July. The newly-appointed returning officers would be provided training,” he added. The election commission has asked district electoral officers and district collectors to submit separate lists for grama panchayat, block panchayat, district panchayat, municipalities and corporations, except Mattannur, within one week. The commission has also directed that care should be taken to retain existing returning officers in respective local bodies and if some retaining officers have to be changed, reasons for that should be cited. A gazetted rank official should be included in the list of returning officers for grama panchayat and taluk/district-level officials for block panchayat. District collectors will be the returning officers for district panchayats. Kerala has a total of 1,200 local self-government institutions, including 941 grama panchayats, 152 block panchayats and 14 district panchayats. In the urban areas, there are 87 municipalities and six corporations. The government had shelved the delimitation of local body wards in the wake of the Covid-19 situation. The ordinance to amend the Kerala Panchayat Raj Act and the Kerala Municipalities Act to do away with delimitation of wards before the local body election was recently promulgated by the government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/sec-initiates-steps-for-lsg-polls-in-oct/articleshow/75682106.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Jaipur||Locals deny burial of +ve patient, allow after dargah steps in||Jaipur: In a gross violation of government order, the graveyard committee and the locals of Ajmer refused to bury a 16-year-old Covid-19 deceased fearing spread of the coronavirus in the community.The local administration had to approach Dargah Nazim who for hours convinced the locals for burial. This is the second death of a Muslim due to the virus in Ajmer. The first deceased was a beggar who was buried in a jungle. “The grave belongs to the Waqf board and not even the committee can stop the burial of any deceased. The drama by some committee members and locals has delayed the burial of a little girl,” said Shakil Ahmed, CEO, Dargah, Ajmer.The deceased is from a migrant family who had been living in Ajmer Dargah area from the last few years. The hospital administration and relatives approached the Gore Gariba graveyard committee informing them to prepare the grave for a Covid-19 patient. They, in turn, directed the hospital staff to approach another graveyard.The administration approached Dargah Nazim. The protesters threatened violence but were convinced by nazim and health workers that the virus doesn’t spread if covered properly. Finally, a grave was prepared at a secluded place. “I am reiterating that administration should book under relevant sections those who oppose the burial in graveyards affiliated to the Waqf board,” said Khanu Khan Budhwali, chairman of Rajasthan Waqf Board.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/locals-deny-burial-of-ve-patient-allow-after-dargah-steps-in/articleshow/75684989.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Kochi||Forensic team visits convent||Kottayam: A team of doctors from the forensic department of the government medical college hospital here visited the convent at Paliakkara on Monday where a novice was found dead in a well. The team examined the spot, including the depth of the well and the level of water. According to a team member, they had visited the spot upon the request from the investigating officers. The autopsy report had found drowning as the cause of death. The body of Divya P John (21) was fished out of the well by police and fire and rescue personnel on Thursday. The deceased had been undergoing training to be a nun in the convent for the past five years. Meanwhile, human rights activist Jomon Puthenpurackal said that the crucial information is the time of death of the novice. One needs to know at what time she had lost her life, whether it was during night or during day. “Either the deceased had slipped into the well or committed suicide. The church has the responsibility to bring out the truth,” said Puthenpurackal, who has been waging a legal battle seeking justice for Sr Abhaya, who was also found dead in a well in a convent in Kottayam 28 years ago. Sr Lucy Kalappura, a nun belonging to the order of Franciscan Clarist Congregation in Kerala, who was expelled from the congregation after she took part in a protest seeking the arrest of rape accused Bishop Franco Mulakkal, said nobody cares for the death of nuns in convents. “Despite repeated incidents of human rights violations inside the convents there has been no action,” she said. Meanwhile, the Thiruvalla diocese has come up with a statement extending all support to the police probe.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/forensic-team-visits-convent/articleshow/75682124.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Nagpur||Wardha Covid deceased had bootlegging links||Wardha: The 35-year-old woman from Hiwara (Tanda) village in Arvi tehsil, who became the first Covid-19 casualty in the district on May 8, and her husband were allegedly involved in illicit country liquor business in the dry district and hence may have come in contact with someone who was already infected, sources said.Relying on the call detail record, superintendent of police Basavaraj Teli had claimed that the woman had not travelled beyond 10km from her village in the last three months. However, sources said the woman used to travel to other districts like Nagpur, Yavatmal and Amravati for smuggling liquor into the district.Arvi police inspector Sampat Chavan said cases have been registered against her husband for illicit liquor business. Sources also said the woman was famous in the tehsil because of her liquor connection. Hundreds of people from more than 10 villages had attended her funeral on May 8 midnight.Sub-divisional officer Harish Dharmik said, “Though it was known that the woman was engaged in illicit liquor business, but according to our findings she had not gone out of district since the lockdown.” The deceased woman belonged to nomadic tribe and her village is in remote area. Her relatives claimed she did not die due to coronavirus and there may be some mistake in the swab test report. District collector Vivek Bhimanwar said we have to wait for test reports of her relatives and neighbours. Swab samples of 28 of her close contacts have been sent for testing.Sources from Hiwara village and Arvi claimed that the administration was hiding information about the woman’s travel. Liquor is prohibited in Wardha district. “As the district was sealed after the lockdown was imposed, admitting to the woman’s travel will bare the administration’s failure and hence facts are being suppressed,” claimed a source from Arvi.After the woman tested Covid positive after her death, the administration has now sealed Garpit, Tokan, Brahmanwada and Khairwada villages of Karanja tehsil apart from Hiwara (Tanda) and a few other villages as several residents from there had attended the deceased’s funeral. The woman was suffering with asthma and visited a private hospital in Arvi twice last week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/wardha-covid-deceased-had-bootlegging-links/articleshow/75684328.cms||Balwant Dhage
May 12, 2020||Vadodara||Yellow watermelon helps this farmer mint money||Vadodara: At a time when the farmers are forced to sell their produce at lower prices due to the coronavirus pandemic, a farmer in Chhota Udepur district has been minting money by growing two new breeds of watermelons.Prakash Rathwa, a watermelon farmer in Segvasimli village in Pavi Jetpur taluka, harvested around 80 tons of these new fruits when the lockdown was implemented. But he has sold around 90% of his produce by the time the extended lockdown is coming to an end and has also tripled his income. What helped Rathwa was also the curiosity amongst buyers about the fruit. One type of fruit is yellow inside instead of red and the other type retains the red colour inside but is yellow outside. “The yellow pulped watermelon is 16 to 18% sweeter than the watermelons which are currently available in the market and the yellow skinned watermelons are 14 to 15% sweeter,” said Rathwa. He has grown the fruit on eight bighas of his land. As the quality of this fruit is different, Rathwa has been able to sell them at Rs 20 to Rs 30 per kilogram instead of Rs 15 which the other watermelon would fetch him. He had spent Rs 2 lakh during the sowing season, but he has already earned an income of Rs 6 lakh, he claims.“The fruits had fully grown just when the lockdown had started, but I could manage,” Rathwa said. He received an order of 50 tons from his regular fruit trader from Surat. “I have been selling the remaining produce in the APMC market in Bodeli,” he added. With Ramzaan month around, the demand for Rathwa’s fruit has shot-up. “The skin of these new watermelons are very thin and the pulp is more so it is good value for money,” Rathwa told TOI.“These are hybrid watermelons and we have been guiding farmers to grow these as their incomes would multiply. Seeing Rathwa, another farmer in Jabugam village has also started its farming,” said Krunal Patel, deputy director of horticulture department in Chhota Udepur. He added that until a decade ago, watermelons grown in the dry riverbed of Orsang River in Chhota Udepur had high demands in as far as Delhi and Mumbai. However, sand mining in the river affected watermelon farming in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/yellow-watermelon-helps-this-farmer-mint-money/articleshow/75683329.cms||Jay Pachchigar
May 12, 2020||Jaipur||Launch job guarantee scheme for urban poor: Rajasthan CM to PM Narendra Modi||JAIPUR: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Monday proposed an employment guarantee scheme for the urban poor on the lines of NREGA in rural areas. The chief minister during his video conference with the Prime Minister said a 200-day guaranteed employment scheme for urban poor is needed as livelihood in the urban areas was badly hit by the lockdown. The chief minister said the Centre and the state are fighting a dual battle — one against corona, while another to revive economic activity and livelihood. He said the state’s finances were in bad shape due to the lockdown and without the Centre’s liberal assistance it could not bring it back on track. He asked the centre to announce the much anticipated economic package to the states at the earliest. He said MSMEs, manufacturing, service, tourism, real estate and all other sectors need support. He pointed out that the businesses which were shut for nearly two months now need support to restart operations. Gehlot suggested that both the Centre and states should focus on social security. He asked the Centre to come up with a scheme which would encompass a large section of the unemployed. The unemployment rate has reached 37.8%. The chief minister also suggested that the states be given freedom to decide on earmarking zones and revival of economic activity according to the prevailing local conditions. The chief minister again put forward the demand of increasing the crops procurement at MSP to 50% from 25% and also help from the Centre in locust control and management. He said last year crops in 11 districts were affected by locust attack and this year also from April 11 locust attacks have been reported in the border districts, which has now reached Ajmer. He repeated the demand to increase net credit limit from 3% of the GDP to 5% and GST revenue compensation to the states be extended to 10 years from the present 5 years. The chief minister also demanded to release the first installment of the centrally supported schemes in advance. The chief minister informed the PM that the state government has taken strengthening the health infrastructure as a challenge. Currently it has capacity to test 12,000 corona samples daily, which the government plans to increase to 25,000 by the end of May. He said the doubling rate of corona has increased to 18 days, which is 12 at the national level, while recovery rate is 57 as against 30 at national level.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/launch-job-guarantee-scheme-for-urban-poor-gehlot-to-pm/articleshow/75684990.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Vadodara||Covid +ive from A’bad booked for travelling without permission||Vadodara: An employee of Ahmedabad-based Cadila Pharmaceuticals, who tested positive for coronavirus in the city on Sunday, was booked at Fatehgunj police station for travelling to the city in lockdown without any permission. He also hid his travel history until his test reports arrived.Police said that the man, who lives in Saraswatinagar Society on New Sama Road, got himself tested at SSG Hospital on May 9 when he learnt that one of his colleagues in Ahmedabad had tested positive. He had travelled from Ahmedabad to his home in Vadodara on May 2. On Sunday, as his reports arrived positive, he was questioned by the health officials of Vadodara Municipal Corporation about his travel and contact details. According to police they could establish his epidemiological link after he revealed that he had come from Ahmedabad and works at the pharma major. “There are instructions from senior officials to book any person who travels in lockdown without any permission and in this case, the person travelled and stayed at his home for a week without revealing his travel history,” said a police official. An offence of violation of public notification, committing a negligent and malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life and under Disaster Management Act was filed against him, cops added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/covid-ive-from-abad-booked-for-travelling-without-permission/articleshow/75683309.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Nashik||Cantt residents upset with poor water supply||NASHIK: The residents of Kahan Nagar Housing Society in the Cantonment Board area in Deolali are upset with the poor supply of water in their houses for a month. The residents had written letters to the water department on April 15 and sent it through Whatsapp. Ajay Kumar, the chief executive officer of Canontment Board Deolali (CBD), has assured them of action over the issue. “The residents have forwarded the letters to me and I will look into the matter. The board wants to ensure that all the residents of Deolali area receive adequate drinking water,” he told said. “We wanted to go and submit the letters ourselves but when the lockdown was not lifted on April 14, we decided to send the complaints through Whatsapp. We did not make any fuss about not getting adequate water from the board and managed with less water supply. But we had to take a step when we did not get water for about 10 days,” said Bharat Shah, an aggrieved resident. The residents of 74 bungalows and several flats of the housing society said that they are receiving very less water every day. According to Shah, they have got new electric meters which have not defaulted yet. “I am 78 years old and I have to get up at 3.45 am to fill water. I have kept the pictures of meter readings of the water supply in my house. There is minimal or no water since April first week. The board should ensure supply of water in our taps.” Sameer Shah, another resident, said “In our housing society, water comes at 3.45am and we have to get up everyday to see whether water supply has started. We have to wait till 5am for one bucket of water as there is very less water, and sometimes no water in our taps.” He said that all those staying in that area have to fill water from the nearby housing society in the morning. “90% of the people staying in the society are elderly. They have to fill water from nearby society in the dark where many of us gather and form a queue. It is risky and dangerous at that time of thee morning,” he said. He also said that they had made a verbal complaint in the first week of April after which the linemen had come and said that the residents should get their meters checked. “If our meter is choked, how do we get water on one day and no water on the other. They had also told us that we should get our mainline washed out if we are getting dirty water. We request the board to look into the matter,” said Dilip Shah, another aggrieved resident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/cantt-residents-upset-with-poor-water-supply/articleshow/75683332.cms||pragya jain
May 12, 2020||Nagpur||New caterer too delays food to MLA Hostel inmates||Nagpur: MLA Hostel quarantine centre, which has catered to hundreds of people since March 11 amid the Covid-19 outbreak — witnessed tension for the second consecutive day on Monday over food issues.The new contractor, roped in after the first service provider failed to provide enough food on time to over 400 inmates from Satranjipura, Mominpura and Parvati Nagar, also faltered in providing food to he inmates.Just like Sunday, inmates went without breakfast and lunch till 3.30pm. Unable to bear the hunger, many quarantined people came outside Wing II and animatedly confronted the officials. The inmates alleged that they didn’t get water even to drink till noon as it is also being provided by the contractor.The centre had been smoothly run till last week when PWD’s contractor was providing food and water to the inmates. However, differences over rates led to the PWD contractor pulling out. The replacement contractor too was shunted after he failed to provide food on Sunday. The second contractor did provide dinner on Sunday, but was unable to cater to the huge demand on Monday.SDO Shekhar Gadge said delay and food quality were the reasons for the fracas. He also said similar complaints have been reported from other quarantine centre, but they were not at such a large scale as MLA Hostel. Another factor for the outburst among MLA Hostel inmates was that they had been used to being served in rooms. “The original caterer at MLA Hostel had been serving food at the doorstep. At other centres, the food is kept at a particular place from where the inmates take the packets to their rooms. The new caterer at MLA Hostel is also placing packets on a table. Some are not sure when to pick them up and the food gets stale,” Gadge said. He said we are trying to find a solution.Additional municipal commissioner Ram Joshi said the food was delivered around 3.30pm on Monday. “We have warned the new operator and directed him to provide food on time. Though breakfast and lunch were delayed, the dinner was served around 8.30pm,” he said. DCP Vanita S too had to rush to the spot as the crowd of agitated inmates swelled.Officials said those handling the matter are from revenue department and PWD engineers who are not well–versed in dealing with such issues..||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/new-caterer-too-delays-food-to-mla-hostel-inmates/articleshow/75684332.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
May 12, 2020||Hubballi||People should be encouraged to donate to govt hospitals: Docs||HUBBALLI: Covid-19 pandemic has brought to fore the lacuna in the healthcare infrastructure in the country and highlighted the need to strengthen government hospitals to handle such emergencies more efficiently. In view of this, some senior doctors in Hubballi have started a campaign to urge the government to encourage private donors to donate to state-run hospitals and declare tax rebates on such donations. The campaign spearheaded by Dr GB Sattur, past chairman of the Karnataka Chapter of Association of Physicians of India, has demanded an ethical non-governmental body to be set up by the PMO involving people like business tycoons Ratan Tata and Azim Premji and spiritual leaders like Sri Sri Ravi Shankar, to verify the amount spent on healthcare by the government. Speaking to TOI Dr Sattur said, “The pandemic has shown us that a lot needs to be changed in our country with respect to healthcare. Firstly, we have to upgrade the government hospitals. We must stop politicizing everything and give a serious thought to revamping the medical infrastructure in India. It is high time the state and central governments prioritized healthcare sector.” Dr Kothiwale VA, chairman, Association of Physicians, Karnataka Chapter, said the Covid-19 pandemic crisis is a reminder of the importance of investing in the healthcare sector. India’s economy needs big dose of health spending. At 1.5% of GDP, the country’s public expenditure on health continues to remain one of the lowest globally. This should be increased to a minimum of 3%. “Public participation is also very important. Private companies, philanthropists and the public should come forwards and join hands with the government to strengthen the healthcare system from the grassroots,” he added. Ravi Keerthy M, governing body member, Association of Physicians of India, Bengaluru, said, “We have circulated the message among WhatsApp groups and other social media platforms. People donate huge amounts to places of worship. Even if 50% of that amount is given to the health sector, government hospitals can be upgraded to combat any kind of situation. The government should constitute committees involving NGOs and others to keep watch on the usage of the funds so collected,” he added. The doctors have decided to continue this drive till the government frames the law and announces tax exemption on donations to hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/people-should-be-encouraged-to-donate-to-govt-hospitals-docs/articleshow/75684348.cms||J Abbas Mulla
May 12, 2020||Udaipur||‘Hello Mommies’: Udaipur cops’ drive for pregnant women during lockdown||UDAIPUR: Cops generally invoke fear among people, specially amid the strict lockdown in the wake of the pandemic, when videos of policemen exerting force to keep people indoors are going viral. In Udaipur, however, pregnant women are getting to see a compassionate side of them, wherein cops, especially the lady police officers, are directly interacting with them to find out if the expecting moms are facing any discomfort. The latest initiative of Udaipur police — ‘Hello Mommies’, wherein deputy SP level lady officers have been assigned the task of building a communication link with expecting women in curfew areas like dense colonies inside the Walled City. The idea has been mooted by additional SP (city) Gopal Swaroop Mewara and three deputy rank officers Chetna Bhati, Sudha Palawat and Prem Dhande, who are the administrators of the ‘Hello Mommies’ group. “We are identifying expecting women in various colonies of the curfew-bound areas mainly under Surajpole, Ghantaghar, Ambamata and other police stations of the city. Beat constables and jawans on each checkpost have been asked to prepare a list of their respective areas so that we have a database of pregnant women who might be in need of medical or other assistance even in the odd hours. We are feeding their numbers in the group so that they may reach us directly in case they require any kind of assistance during the curfew period,” Bhati told TOI. The patrolling jeeps are also publicising the numbers so that more women are informed about the initiative. Active women volunteers from different colonies too would be added in the group so that they can keep the lady officers updated on any issues in the areas. Dy SP Prem Dhande said, “In some homes, where men have been taken to quarantine facilities, ladies and children are left with no help for getting essential items or medicines and in such situations, they can reach us.” The officer said that there have been situations when women required sanitary napkins, which were supplied to them through lady constables.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/hello-mommies-udaipur-cops-drive-for-pregnant-women-during-lockdown/articleshow/75684993.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Road work on track despite high court stay||HYDERABAD: Despite a high court stay, road work has picked up pace in HUDA Enclave, alleged residents on Monday. Rock blasting and felling of trees at a park at HUDA Enclave has angered residents who are against the loss of green space and damage to property due to the blasting. “The work is a blatant violation of the first stay order given by HC on Friday. Lorries are dumping mud which will later allow them to level the road and this is happening on the park area. We have exhausted all our options,” said Dr Nabeel Qadri, a resident.  Another resident Kavita said, “It is disappointing that officials are not stopping the work and don’t seem to care about the HC order.” The Nandagiri Hills Huda Layouts Residents’ Association had petitioned the HC on Friday and got the stay order against any work including the felling of trees in an area that they say is a designated park space. Authorities have maintained that they have all requisite permissions for work.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/road-work-on-track-despite-high-court-stay/articleshow/75684344.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Jaipur||Woman dies after reaching home, cops stop cremation||Jaisalmer: A mother-son duo, who had gone to Surat from Ramdeora in Jaisalmer and were stuck there for two months, managed to return home on Sunday. However, on arrival, the mother died and the family tried to cremate her secretly. On getting information, the health department team reached the spot, stopped the cremation and collected samples of the deceased. Samples of 34 family members and relatives who had gone in the funeral procession were also taken. The test reports are yet to come. According to information, one Suresh Kumar and his 55-year-old mother, residents of Ramdeora, went to Surat around two months back and got stuck there due to the lockdown. They finally returned to Ramdeora with permission on Sunday, but the mother died shortly after their arrival here. Before the cremation started, Ramdeora police and medical team reached the spot and asked the family about the time and reason of death. Ramdeora hospital in-charge Dr Dungar Singh had informed the officers for corona investigation and stopped the cremation. Later, the team took samples and people who had come for the funeral were put under home quarantine by the police and administration. The health department team has been asked to collect samples of all the people. CMHO Dr BK Barupal confirming the incident said that Surat is a hotspot for Covid-19 and the woman died after returning from Surat, looking to which the samples of the deceased woman have been taken. As a preventive measure, samples of all the people who had come for the funeral are being taken. After Ramdeora gram panchayat election on March 16, Suresh and his mother had gone to Surat for treatment and due to lockdown, they stayed with their relatives there, until they finally obtained the permission to return.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/woman-dies-after-reaching-home-cops-stop-cremation/articleshow/75685000.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Kochi||KMRL announces safety measures||Kochi: Kochi Metro Rail Ltd (KMRL) has announced a slew of safety measures to tackle Covid-19 pandemic, which include disinfecting the trains after every trip and deploying digital thermal scanning cameras. KMRL suspended Metro operations since the lockdown was announced on March 24. “We have taken all possible measures to ensure safety of the commuters. The state-of-the-art digital thermal cameras will help us track symptomatic persons. During the lockdown period we focused on periodical cleaning and upkeep of the trains and stations,” said KMRL managing director Alkesh Kumar Sharma. Wearing face mask is mandatory in all Kochi Metro premises and Metro stations. The air-condition ducts of the trains will be cleaned before inducting the train in service. All public contact points like AFC gates, ticket counters, handrails of staircase, escalators, lift buttons, platform chairs are to be cleaned with disinfectant every day. The temperature of the AC will be set between 24-26 degrees celsius. Train-grab pole, grab handle and seats will be cleaned every night with disinfectant before inducting for revenue service. For metallic surfaces 70% alcohol-based cleaner will be used to wipe down surfaces. All trains in revenue service will be sprayed using hypochlorite-based disinfectant. After each round trip, trains will be cleaned and sanitized. KMRL will encourage passengers to use hand sanitizer at the entrance of stations and liquid soaps will be provided at all stations. If a person is found to be symptomatic, he/she will be referred to district corona control centre. There will be announcements to maintain social distancing while sitting in the train, queuing at the ticket counter and at entry/exit of AFC gates. The Metro will also identify the area where passenger movement or contact within the stations are frequent. More frequent cleaning of such areas using disinfectants will be carried out. Station controllers at each station will supervise the cleaning. Extra precautions will be taken for the protection of staff also. All the persons working at stations will undergo thermal screening available at stations. The train operator will also wear masks and gloves while on duty.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/kmrl-announces-safety-measures/articleshow/75682135.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Chennai||Demand-driven ideas to be seeds of agri revival, growth||Chennai: The Covid-19 outbreak and Koyambedu cluster formed due to it may have permanently transformed agriculture in the state. Taking a leaf from Mahatma Gandhi’s Gram Swaraj, the state government has already embarked on a mission to make all villages self-sufficient in vegetable production. On the supply-chain side, the vegetable and fruit business is wriggling out of the clutches of centralised markets. Produce is being converted into products that are reaching the doorstep of consumers directly from the farms.The lockdown, in its initial days, had completely thrown the sector out of gear. Vegetables and fruits started rotting in farms, while consumers in cities and towns struggled without vegetable and fruit supply. The pandemic wreaked havoc in the lives of many farmers. Crops ready to be harvested, were left standing without workers, poultry farmers were forced to bury birds alive when broiler chicken prices fell to Rs40 per kg and egg prices in Namakkal fell to Rs1.95 per piece, said R V Bhavani, director, agriculture nutrition health programme at M S Swaminathan Research Foundation.It is at this time that the Tamil Nadu agriculture department stepped in to fill the gap left behind by traders by sourcing vegetables from farms and selling them to consumers at their doorstep. Today, more than 10,000 vehicles deployed by the state are selling around 6,000 tonnes of vegetables and fruits per day, said agriculture principal secretary Gagandeep Singh Bedi. He said 570 farmer producer organisations are directly involved in the sale of vegetables and fruits. The Union government has asked other states to follow TN’s model.But there is no denying that the primary sector had been ignored for long. Its share in the GSDP shrunk from 23% to less than 8% over the past three decades and a holistic approach is required to revive the farming sector and make it profitable. To do this, agriculture must shift from being production-driven to demand-driven activity. Youth and corporates need to be attracted to agriculture, horticulture, food processing and supply-chain management, said Danfoss India president Ravichandran Purushothaman. "With the right focus on agriculture and by linking it to nutrition and food security, Tamil Nadu’s human development index could be matched with that of some of the most developed Scandinavian countries by 2030," he said.Bhavani said focus should be on cultivation of crops, fruits and vegetables with nutritional value. Nutrition status of the population needs to be improved to build immunity to withstand pandemics, she said.It is necessary to mould business models to market realities with steady focus on introducing pre-harvest technologies, enhancing post-harvest management practices, improving market linkages, investing in food processing and branding to drive profitability. The change should start from the farmers. Their job does not end with production. Farms should grade, sort, clean and pack the produce. Apart from giving value addition to the produce, it would also save cities from the scourge of mounting vegetable waste generated by wholesale and retail markets, said Purushothaman.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/demand-driven-ideas-to-be-seeds-of-agri-revival-growth/articleshow/75685003.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Startup provides PPE to dealers||HYDERABAD: Electric Vehicles Startup, PURE EV, is providing personal protective equipment (PPE) for its dealers to protect them from COVID-19. The startup has also taken initiatives to help the dealers financially in light of the pandemic. The startup is giving hand sanitisers, protective gloves, masks, protective suits and face shields. PURE EV, which raised funding at a valuation of $35 million some months ago, was incubated by IIT Hyderabad and launched its high-speed electric scooter ‘EPluto 7G’ in February .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/startup-provides-ppe-to-dealers/articleshow/75684334.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Nashik||Asha workers sport black badges to mark protest||AURANGABAD/NASHIK: The Accredited Social Health Activists (Ashas) and their supervisors in the state sported black badges to work on Monday to demand an increase in honorarium and fixed pay. The health workers are also seeking provision of proper protective gear as they carry out door-to-door screening in containment zones. The work done by the Asha workers has proven extremely helpful in the containment of the Covid-19 pandemic. They also spread awareness about how to maintain hygiene, wash hands, wear masks etc. According to Sachin Andhale, the Beed district president of Ashas and Gatpravartaj Mahasangh, as many as 72,000 Ashas and 5,000 supervisors in the state have decided to mark their protest by donning black badges from May 11 to 13 during work, as they cannot go on a strike during the pandemic. In Nashik, Raju Desle, member of the action committee of Asha workers, said, “We had tried to make our demands heard through emails to the CM, but since we did not received an assurance, we had to carry out our protest.” According to Desle, the monthly remuneration given to Asha workers is about Rs 3,000, which too is not fixed and puts them below the poverty line. “While the state government hires them and pays them remuneration, Asha workers are still not considered government employees. During these testing times, these workers are working selflessly,” he added. The authorities working on Covid-19 containment have all repeatedly agreed that the work of Asha workers has been outstanding in door-to-door screening in containment zones. Aparna Thete, head of task force of Aurangabad Municipal Corporation said the efficiency, knowledge, pace and availability is proving to be a boon in the containment efforts. According to Mangala Thombre, treasurer of the Aurangabad district Asha workers and health workers’ union, the Ashas are required to survey a minimum of 50 houses every day and carry out 14day follow-ups in the houses in containment zones. They are paid a meagre Rs 33 a day for all this work. “The Mumbai, Pune, Yavatmal, Kolhapur and Nagpur municipal corporations have agreed to pay Rs 200 a day to the Asha workers during a pandemic. We have made a similar demand to the Aurangabad Municipal Corporation,” she said. She added that provision of safety gear in adequate numbers is also sought.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/asha-workers-sport-black-badges-to-mark-protest/articleshow/75683378.cms||pragya jain
May 12, 2020||Rajkot||WR warns migrants not to walk on rail tracks||Rajkot: Looking at the recent tragedies on rail tracks, the Western Railway (WR) has cautioned all migrant labourers to avoid walking on the tracks for their personal safety. It has urged the migrants to have patience and not to walk or rest on the tracks, as it is extremely dangerous and also strictly prohibited under the Railways Act. A release issued by the WR says that though regular passenger train services remain suspended due to the lockdown, goods and parcel special trains continue to run regularly to maintain supply of essential commodities across the country. Apart from freight trains, shramik speacial trains have also been introduced for stranded migrants which the WR has been operating across its jurisdiction along with other zonal railways.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/wr-warns-migrants-not-to-walk-on-rail-tracks/articleshow/75683374.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Jodhpur||Stuck in Jodhpur for months, migrants run out of food||Jodhpur: About 100 migrants, who had come to Jodhpur in the hope of eking out a living in the famous fair of Sheetla Mata in March, had no idea that they were in for big trouble. Due to cancellation of the fair in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, they were not only left deprived of business, but also ran out of whatever meagre amount they had. Today, stuck in Jodhpur for past 2 months, they have been desperately running from pillar to post to obtain permission to return home despite online registration for travel. Though, charitable organisations and philanthropists have been providing them with food, but infants, children and pregnant women require more food, which is difficult to provide. “I had helped them with their online registration. But it has been 10 days and no reply has been received by any of them yet,” said SHO (Nagori Gate) Jabbar Singh. Singh said that transportation had also been arranged for them by police to their destination, but in the absence of permission, they could not be allowed to travel. “We are 50 persons from Gujarat. We come every year in this fair to earn money by selling toys and other items. But we are completely devastated now. Forget earning something, we have finished whatever we had,” said one Jayanti bhai from Ahmedabad. They have been living under the open sky near the fair site and are being provided with food packets. “But there are other needs as well apart from just food, and we have children and pregnant women also,” said Jayanti adding that even basic things like milk or tea were beyond their reach. Mohammad Ismail from Jaipur also comes to the fair every year with sets of swings. This year also, he won a contract and deposited Rs 10.65 lakh security sum with the municipal corporation in the hope of making it big out of it. “Our labourers from Bihar and UP are now dependent on us. We had been managing the kitchen as long as we had money but now, everything is finished,” said Ismail pleading for the return of deposit with municipal corporation and permission to go home. What’s adding insult to injury is the hatred of locals, due to which they are not even able to observe roza as they are not entertained in areas meant for buying fruits. The food packets provided by municipal corporation are just enough to keep them off hunger somehow.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/stuck-in-jodhpur-for-months-migrants-run-out-of-food/articleshow/75685013.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Nagpur||Improper management of samples increasing quarantine centres’ load||Nagpur: Covid19 sampling of quarantined families is done together. But their test results don’t come together. This is increasing load at quarantine centres that are running full and seeing daily quarrels between health officials and quarantined persons.Many suspect cases including children have completed 14-day isolation and tested negative. Yet, they are not being released as reports of other family members are pending.Civil Surgeon Dr Devendra Paturkar told TOI overall Covid testing capacity of all VRDLs in Nagpur was 900 per day. The city has five labs at IGGMCH, GMCH, Aiims, Mafsu and Neeri. IGGMCH is the nodal agency to allocate samples to all labs.Besides city, these labs are conducting tests from places as far as Malegoan. This has created a backlog of city samples, say health officials.“Tracing a sample is very difficult. Many samples go through all the labs and become unfit. Then, the report comes inconclusive, requiring repeat sampling which again takes time,” said a health official. IGGMCH deputy medical superintendent Dr Sagar Pandey, who is incharge of corona patient care, said most samples of the day are kept with IGGMCH lab as it has the highest testing capacity. “Next highest lot is sent to Aiims, followed by GMCH and smaller numbers to Mafsu and Neeri. As soon as the reports come, IGGMCH mails them to the respective departments,” Dr Pandey said.Health officials said IGGMCH lab gives instructions over phone to distribute the samples which are not as per relation of suspects. “Entries are done online as per ICMR format sample referral SRF 10. It doesn’t have relation column,” they said.Officials at quarantine centres said a team from a particular lab collects the samples. “Later, we are told to check status with another lab. Finally, the reports come with a different lab name. Many times some members qualify for discharge but they are forced to stay back as reports of their family members remain pending,” they said.IGMMCH lab sources said the results are mailed to public health and NMC health department but not downloaded and maintained properly. “Password is given and they must constantly keep checking for status of those completing 14 days,” they said.Quarantine centre officials said there was lack of coordination as multiple agencies are involved. “State health department, NMC health department, medical education department are not in sync, though an app has been developed for it,” they said.InfoVRDLs | IGGMCH, Aiims, GMCH, Neeri and MafsuTesting Capacity | 900 per daySuspects Quarantined | 2400 (approx)What’s the problemIf say 400 samples are collected in a day, IGGMCH keeps 150, sends 100 to AIIMS, and even fewer to GMCH. Rest are divided into smaller lots among Neeri and Mafsu* The distribution is done over phone and not as per family connection of samples* As per quarantine officials, samples are collected by some lab teams* This leads to misplacing of samples and at times making swabs unfit* Even if one person qualifies for discharge he is forced to stay back as test results of others in his family remain pending||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/improper-management-of-samples-increasing-quarantine-centres-load/articleshow/75684360.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
May 12, 2020||Jaipur||Sharp fall in +ve cases in Jodhpur in past four days||Jodhpur: The district has shown a remarkable decline in Covid-19 positive cases in past four days. The city reported 210 positive cases in four days from May 4 to 7 but in 4 days after that, from May 8 to 11, just 46 positive case emerged from 5,454 samples.With this, the recovery rate of the positive patients has also shot up. In the same period a large number of patients have been discharged after they recovered. Deputy director (Medical and Health) Sunil Kumar Bist attributed this decline to constant focus on hotspots.“Now these areas have been almost covered fully and the entire contract tracing of the positive cases from these areas has been scanned. This has resulted in decline in numbers,” said Bist, adding that now the focus is on outer and rural areas, due to influx of migrants. He said that this did not mean that sampling would be reduced with the hotspot areas nearly covered. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/sharp-fall-in-ve-cases-in-jodhpur-in-past-four-days/articleshow/75685006.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Nagpur||Power demand in state rises only marginally||Nagpur: Even though the central and state governments have allowed industries to function, power consumption of the state has not increased much in the last few days, indicating that not many units are operating.The state’s power consumption was 388.55 million units (MU) on April 20, which increased to 408.76 MU on April 29 and 428.62 MU on May 8. The peak demand at 4pm has increased from 17,949 MW on April 20 to 18,392 MW on April 29 to 19,514 MW on May 8. The maximum demand in 2019 was over 23,000 MW in October. In February this year, the maximum demand had crossed 22,000 MW. This shows how much power consumption has reduced due to the lockdown.MSEDCL officials said that the demand for power had not increased much despite relaxation in lockdown because Mumbai and Pune, where most of the factories were located, were still under complete lockdown.“In other places, industries are functioning at far less than 50% capacity. As a result, power consumption has not increased much. The increase on May 8 as compared to April 29 is also due to increase in use of air-conditioners as ambient temperature has increased. Further, some offices and shops have opened in green and orange zones,” said an official.According to the official, a significant difference in power consumption will be seen when lockdown in eased in Greater Mumbai and Pune, the two power guzzling regions.“At this time, agricultural load is not much because most farmers don’t have water for the summer crop. Agricultural load will increase from October,” the official further said.A look at the daily reports of Maharashtra State Load Despatch Centre (MSLDC) shows that the average grid frequency is over 50 Hz, which indicates that overall supply is more than demand.Demand & supplyDate------Peak Demand--------Energy UsedApril 20 -------17,949 MW –--- 388.55 MUApril 29 ------18,392 MW –--- 408.76 MUMay 8---------19,514 MW –--- 428.62 MU||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/power-demand-in-state-rises-only-marginally/articleshow/75684384.cms||Ashish Roy
May 12, 2020||Jaipur||Shifting of Covid-19 patients from SMS Hosp to take 15 days||Jaipur: Sawai Man Singh (SMS) medical college will take important decision on shifting of Covid-19 patients from SMS hospital in a meeting on Tuesday. SMS hospital was converted into dedicated Covid-19 treatment hospital ever since Covid-19 patients started reaching the hospital in increased numbers in last week of March and first week of April. Since the first case was reported on March 3, the hospital has provided treatment to more than 600 Covid-19 patients. As the state government has decided to normalise the situation at SMS hospital to cater to patients suffering from other diseases, the SMS medical college was directed to free SMS hospital from Covid-19 patients. “It will take at least two more weeks to shift the Covid-19 patients to other place and to develop the facility for treatment at that place,” said Dr Sudhir Bhandari, principal and controller, SMS medical college. In Tuesday’s meeting, decisions will be taken on shifting of medicine unit (team of doctors), nursing staff and other facilities to RUHS hospital, where it is likely the patients will be shifted. The state government has realized that the patients suffering from other ailments apart from Covid-19 were reluctant to go to SMS hospital. The government has decided to disinfect the hospital and to create fearless atmosphere for other patients suffering from other diseases. Over the past two months, the number of registration at out-patient department has decreased significantly. Jaipuria Hospital, which was one of the Covid-19 treatment hospitals, has also shifted the Covid-19 patients to RUHS hospital to start the OPD just like it was doing before Covid-19 outbreak.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/shifting-of-covid-19-patients-from-sms-hosp-to-take-15-days/articleshow/75685017.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Seeking to return home, migrant workers protest||HYDERABAD: Migrant workers working at TS Genco Yadadri Thermal Power Plant at Damarecharla in Nalgonda and Ramco Cement Corporation in Jaggaiahpet of Krishna district staged protests on Monday. The workers from Bihar, Jharkhand, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal demanded that they be sent back to their respective states, following which several police personnel were deployed to disperse the protesters. The workers alleged that despite the Centre giving them permission to return to their native places, the local authorities were not arranging transportation. District officials said that they have facilitated the transport of a group of migrants and are trying to help the remaining workers who are stuck in the state. Around 250 migrant workers on Monday began walking towards their native places. Nalgonda Superintendent of Police A V Ranganath said, “We have sent around 170 workers from Yadadri Thermal Power Plant on Saturday. The rest of the workers are yet to be sent home. We are booking train tickets for them. Some of them wanted to go by foot. There are 10 lakh migrant workers in the state and it is difficult to send them all together.” He added that several states were not accepting the migrant workers and that all 1,800 migrant workers want to go home. “Only 200 workers have been left behind,” he said. Meanwhile, around 1,300 migrant workers protesting at Ramco Cements Limited in Jayantipuram of Jaggaiahpet of Krishna district in Andhra Pradesh raised slogans against the police and demanded the authorities to send them home. The workers gheraoed a local inspector of police who tried to pacify them. The inspector was released after the mandal revenue officer intervened.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/seeking-to-return-home-migrant-workers-protest/articleshow/75684364.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
May 12, 2020||Goa||Goa: With no transportation, fish abandoned on Hollant beach||VASCO: On Monday afternoon, a large amount of small fish was abandoned at Hollant beach, which comes under the jurisdiction of Velsao-Pale panchayat. Local fishermen said they had put out ramponn (traditional fishing nets) at around 9am and by 3.30pm they caught a huge amount of small fish. It would have filled 20 trucks, they said. Although the fishermen tried to release the fish back into the water, they were unsuccessful. The tide was low causing most of the fish to die. “We could not even take the fish to Margao as we feared that the police would beat us. We had no option but to abandon the fish on the beach,” a fishermen told TOI. General secretary of Goenchea Ramponkarancho Ekvott, Olencio Simoes, said, “The local fishermen are badly affected due to the lockdown. Tonnes of fish had to be abandoned due to the market in Margao being closed. The government should at least open the wholesale market.” Fearing that the fish would start rotting, villagers complained to the panchayat, who immediately alerted the Verna police. Later, the fishermen and their workers cleared the fish from the beach.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/with-no-transportation-fish-abandoned-on-hollant-beach/articleshow/75685459.cms||Ruvina Khan
May 12, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala government for pooled tests as NRK influx continues||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: With more positive cases likely following heavy influx of people from other states to Kerala, the state government has decided to go for pooled tests of random samples on those who are on home quarantine after arriving from other states. The random samples will be collected from asymptomatic people under home quarantine and RT-PCR tests will be conducted through pooled sampling. The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has given the go-ahead for the states to perform pooled sampling since there are limited resources for testing. “A pooled testing algorithm involves the PCR screening of a specimen pool comprising multiple individual patient specimens, followed by individual testing only if a pool screens positive. As all individual samples in a negative pool are regarded as negative, it results in substantial cost savings when a large proportion of pools tests negative,’’ said Dr Amar Fettle, state nodal officer for infectious diseases. The state government has decided to go ahead with the pooled sampling since it has limited stock of testing kits. It has decided to go ahead with the pooled sampling tests with RT-PCR kits until the adequate stock of rapid antibody kits are made available by the ICMR. “This is the first time the state is going to have pooled sampling tests. But it is an internationally proven method and the ICMR has also recommended it when we have a large section of people to be tested,” said Dr Fettle. The ICMR had conducted a feasibility study and has proved that performing real-time PCR for Covid-19 by pooling five samples is feasible. As per the ICMR guidelines, all individual samples in a negative pool has to be regarded as negative. Individual testing of samples testing is recommended only if any of the pool is positive. Pooling of more than five samples is not recommended to avoid the effect of dilution leading to false negatives. Considering the higher possibility of missing positive samples with low viral load, the ICMR has strongly discouraged to pool more than five samples. “There are chances of getting false negative cases in these pooled sampling too. But such tests are universally accepted. The best part of it is at least we are doing tests among those who are coming from other states,” said Dr A Althaf, associate professor of community medicine, medical college hospital, Manjeri.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/govt-for-pooled-tests-as-nrk-influx-continues/articleshow/75682170.cms||Rajiv G
May 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Balanagar flyover completion by Aug||Hyderabad: The Balanagar flyover will be completed by August, according to Municipal Administration and Urban Development (MA&UD) department officials. The flyover, which is being built at a cost of Rs 387 crore under the Strategic Road Development Plan (SRDP), is 1.13-km long and 24mt wide. The cost of construction is Rs 122 core and land acquisition cost is Rs 265 crore. “The works, which are generally executed in two months, will be executed in one month,” read a statement by MAUD.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/balanagar-flyover-completion-by-aug/articleshow/75684374.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Kozhikode||People give a thumbs up to ‘Lock Down’||Kannur: Lock Down – a short film made with the participation of prison staff at Kannur sub-jail during the pandemic – covers a lot of ground in its seven-minute story. It reflects the loneliness of prison life while highlighting the precautions against Covid-19 and the caring side of those donning the khaki. It was shot in an hour, maintaining social distancing and all actors – except the two women characters – are prison department staff. It was released via Facebook pages of actors Mohanlal and Jayaram on May 9 apart from YouTube. It went viral soon. The story begins with Hari, who is arrested for trying to kill a person who tried to molest his daughter. Lockdown is introduced using the soundtrack of PM’s televised address and Hari thinks of his wife and daughter who are alone at home. His wife visits him in jail and shares a concern that the supermarket in the neighbourhood would be shut. But, prison officials ensure their welfare by providing essential items though Hari didn’t ask their help. The importance of social distancing and washing hands are part of interactions between characters and there is a comparison between lockdown in society and the ‘permanent lockdown’ in prison. Director Gautham Pradeep, who wrote the script and acted in the short film said the aim was to focus on the loneliness of the prisoners and hence he developed the lead character as the one who landed in prison for trying to save his daughter. "My idea was to establish the concept of lockdown from life behind the bars while conveying the idea that the men in khaki and government are there to help you in such a situation," he said. The response is amazing and over three lakh people have already viewed it, said regional welfare officer of the department, KV Mukesh, who also acted in the film. "Within hours of the release on social media, it got an immense response and was appreciated by many, including CM Pinarayi Vijayan, health minister KK Shailaja and DGP (prisons) Rishi Raj Singh," he said, adding that Singh had thought about sensitizing people about Covid-19 and necessary precautions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/people-give-a-thumbs-up-to-lock-down/articleshow/75682171.cms||P Sudhakaran
May 12, 2020||Hyderabad||GHMC seals four outlets for violating guidelines||HYDERABAD: Four outlets falling under non-essentail category were sealed on Monday during inspections by the directorate of Enforcement, Vigilance and Disaster Management (EVDM), GHMC. The four stores sealed were an outlet selling electronic products, a mobile phone store, an emporium and a store selling handicrafts. “Random inspections will continue and all the outlets violating social distancing guidelines will also be sealed,” warned EVDM director Viswajit Kampati. Since the lockdown was announced, EVDM had sealed 150 establishments for violating the lockdown rules. The establishments include gyms, supermarkets, eateries and coaching centres. The stores sealed on Monday should submit an affidavit only after which they can reopen. For first-time violation, GHMC is allowing stores to reopen after they submit the affidavit. “If any store violates the rules for the second time, we will shut it indefinitely and also file a criminal case,” said Kampati.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ghmc-seals-four-outlets-for-violating-guidelines/articleshow/75684369.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Hubballi||HDBRTS control room turns Covid war room||HUBBALLI: Hubballi-Dharwad Bus Rapid Transit System (HDBRTS) control room, meant to keep an eye on unauthorised movement of vehicles on the dedicated corridor, and keep vigil on passenger movement at all its stations, has now turned into a war room to contain the spread of coronavirus. Hubballi-Dharwad Municipal Corporation commissioner Suresh Itnal, in charge of the control room, told TOI that its work has been effective during the lockdown hours. “We have managed to keep an eye on sealed down areas. People movement was monitored continuously, especially in Mulla Oni and Karadi Oni, which had maximum cases,” he said. The control room was connected to CCTV cameras put up at the seven police station limits. In essence, areas coming under the surveillance of 380 cameras are “visible” from the control room. A separate team monitors the areas round the clock, and alerts field staff on spotting people’s movement. “Such monitoring made us to increase patrolling where people repeatedly stepped out of their houses. Effective monitoring has made people to stay indoors,” Itnal added. This apart, other teams at the control room are involved in the generation of reports on primary and secondary contacts of Covid-19 patients. Analytical reports on their age group and other factors are being generated as part of a data base for future references. A team at the DC’s office is also involved in chalking out strategies to contain the pandemic, the commissioner said. Itnal added that the 24x7 operations at the control room was helpful even when the lockdown was eased. “We can easily monitor people and see if they are crowding or are not maintaining social distance. In case of violations, police are alerted,” he said. Another officer who is involved with the operation said many more cameras are being installed in the wards, and they will also be connected. “Such a network will help keep track of new cases in different areas,” the officer added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/hdbrts-control-room-turns-covid-war-room/articleshow/75684477.cms||Kishan Singh Bhorde
May 12, 2020||Jaipur||Jodhpur receives 5,907 migrants from other states||Jodhpur: As many as 5,907 migrants from various states reached Jodhpur in the past few days with the opening of the state borders. With the influx of such a large number of migrants, mostly in villages, the administration has now shifted its focus from urban areas to rural ones and the health department has begun taking samples of migrants with high-risk quotient. “The focus of taking samples has shifted to rural areas with special attention to those who have come from hotspot areas of their respective states of origin and are having symptoms,” said a health official. Health department officials have taken over 500 samples in two days. Given this huge influx of migrants, the administration has also been reviewing the preparations and steps taken by the sub-divisional administration on regular basis In a video conference with the SDMs of all the sub-divisions of the district on Monday, directions were issued for taking every measure to keep these migrants under 28 days’ home quarantine and shift them to state quarantine if found violating the home quarantine protocol. District magistrate emphasised need of drawing out a permanent mechanism citing uncertainty of Covid-19 threat. He said the threat was here to stay and a mechanism would have to be developed at village-level by sensitising the villagers. “A village-level committee will have to visit these quarantined persons every day. The community will have to take this responsibility and gradually it would become a habit for them for their own safety,” said the district magistrate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jodhpur-receives-5907-migrants-from-other-states/articleshow/75685019.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad played a key role in eradication of smallpox||HYDERABAD: Scientists and doctors silently celebrated amid Covid-19 lockdown the 40th anniversary of eradication of smallpox last week. Not many know that it took almost 200 years of medical and social effort to wipe out smallpox in Hyderabad. It all began in 1802 CE when smallpox vaccination was given to Hyderabadis for the first time, during the regime of Nizam II, Nizam Ali Khan. The recipients of the first-ever smallpox inoculation in the princely state of Hyderabad or perhaps in British India was a mixed group of local people and British officials. Smallpox vaccine, the first-ever vaccine against any infection, was developed in 1796 and it was in use in Hyderabad within the next six years. Those days, cowpox was used as vaccination against smallpox. Though the fight against smallpox began in Hyderabad in 1802, a century later in 1910 during the regime of Nizam VI, Mir Mahbub Ali Khan, a vaccine depot to make smallpox vaccine locally was opened at the premises where the modern-day Institute of Preventive Medicine (IPM) is located. “Hyderabad was the only princely state to manufacture vaccine for smallpox,” said INTACH city convener P Anuradha Reddy. And about 70 years after the vaccine depot was set up, smallpox was eradicated from India. Hyderabad had played such a major role in the fight against smallpox that even the office of the chief chemical examiner located in Madras (now Chennai) was shifted to the princely state in 1913. The IPM premises at Narayanaguda was also witness to the manufacture of the vaccines for plague with the setting up of a plague depot in 1870, and cholera and TAB (typhoid, paratyphoid A and B) in 1941. Smallpox was the first-ever disease to have been eradicated in human history. Incidentally, Hyderabad had also played a crucial role in the eradication of another disease, dracunculiasis. Archival records reveal how the smallpox vaccine was introduced in Hyderabad at the British Residency in 1802, and British Resident Lieutenant Colonel James Achilles Kirkpatrick and his children from his Indian wife had received the shots. Anuradha Reddy said the Nizam government had provided training to indigenous ‘dais’ (midwives) in modern methods of delivery.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hyd-played-a-key-role-in-eradication-of-smallpox/articleshow/75684682.cms||Syed Akbar
May 12, 2020||Bengaluru||Will we return to work? Domestic helps fear being forgotten||BENGALURU: A sense of insecurity is creeping in among many domestic helps, cooks, gardeners and nannies who have been asked by their employers not to resume work for a few months in view of Covid-19 concerns. Lakshmi G, a domestic help for over 17 years, works in over seven households as a cook and cleaner. “Though I’m getting my salary on time during this lockdown, I’m still scared,” she said. “My employers say they’ve got used to doing domestic chores themselves. Some even say since sweeping and mopping the floor require them to bend and stretch, they feel it’s a form of exercise. I’m happy for them yet I can see my livelihood is at stake.” With most people getting paid during these difficult times and workplaces allowing one third of their employees to return, even domestic helps want to go back to houses where they’re employed. Geeta Menon, a women rights activist, recently said on a virtual discussion, “When a section of people is being allowed to go to work, why’s there an uproar on whether maids should do so? This is about the cultural virus of caste. It is natural for them to feel insecure because they can see people going to stores or workplaces. They wonder why aren’t they allowed at their place of work.” A domestic help works in an informal set-up, which is still not recognised as a workplace. Prabhavathi S from KR Puram who works in eight households as a help and nanny, said, “Everyone has paid my salary on time except one household, which has not paid me for two months. It’s very difficult to ask for money that we haven’t rightfully earned. But we can’t help them sitting in our homes.” “At the same time, they (employers) have to understand that we depend on them to feed our families. They say they are managing on their own, which is worrying,” she added. Anita D from Hoysala Nagar said, “I cook in four houses and so far, only one employer has paid me. It is humiliating for us to ask for our salary as we haven’t worked, but we have many commitments too. It is best they realise this and pay us considering we don’t earn a big salary and don’t even have an annual bonus or other benefits like pension or PF.” Activists hope people understand how difficult it is to do household chores and start giving helps more fair wages. THE PAYMENT CONUNDRUM Some families have made the payment while some haven’t. I have completely exhausted my savings and don’t know how I will manage from next month. I’m the lone earning member and have a feed a family of five. My landlord says I will have to pay the month’s rent right away. What do I do? Geeta T, a cook in five households “No one has paid my salary yet. I know I haven’t worked, but had they paid even half the amount I would have found it easier to run my house. I still have faith they will want me back once the situation improves, as they will start getting back to their lifestyle and will require assistance Shanti A, a domestic help in eight households||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/will-we-return-to-work-domestic-helps-fear-being-forgotten/articleshow/75683938.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra sees over 1,000 cases sixth day in a row, count crosses 23,000||MUMBAI: For the sixth day in a row, Maharashtra recorded over 1,000 Covid-19 cases in a 24-hour duration. On Monday, the state added 1,230 cases to breach the 23,000 mark. The state’s caseload now is 23,401. Mumbai added 782 cases, its second highest single-day jump, and breached the 14,000 mark with its tally climbing to 14,521. Maharashtra recorded 36 deaths, of which 20 were in Mumbai. The total deaths in the state are now 868, of which Mumbai has recorded 528. In a positive development though, a day after the state government adopted the new discharge policy as per ICMR guidelines, the state recorded that 587 people had been discharged on Monday, almost double the average number discharged every day. As on Monday, a total of 4,786 patients have been discharged and sent home, taking the state’s recovery rate to 20%. The case fatality rate of the state as well as the city continued to decrease and stood at 3.70% and 3.63% respectively. Commenting on the unabated rise in cases in the city, additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani said that most were coming from people who have been quarantined and who were contacts of positive patients. “Cases are not coming from the community. If we look at the positivity from fever clinics, it’s somewhere around 0.4%. Had it been in the community, that number would have been bigger,” he said. He added that in the past few days, a big cluster of positive cases has come from Arthur Road jail. As on Sunday, 184 inmates had tested positive. “We are tightening containment measures and taking more high-risk contacts and shifting them to quarantine centres from the dense pockets,” Kakani added. Of the 782 positive cases in Mumbai, 163 tested positive between May 8 and 9. Both state as well as civic officials said that deaths remain a cause for concern. A peon with the BMC’s Development Plan (DP) department who tested positive for Covid-19 passed away on Sunday. The 52-year-old woman, who lived in Govandi, would travel daily to the civic headquarters in Fort via a state transport bus. Among the deceased from the Mumbai Metropolitan Region was also a 51-year-old man who worked as a driver with an MLA. “The driver had comorbid conditions. He had shown symptoms last month and was admitted to Vedant hospital. He suffered a cardiac arrest on Monday and died,” said Dr Ram Kendre of Thane. Across the state, 5 deaths were recorded in Solapur city, 3 in Pune, 2 in Thane city and one each from Amravati, Aurangabad, Nanded, Ratnagiri and Wardha. Additionally, one death of an Uttar Pradesh resident was recorded in Mumbai. Of the 36 dead in Maharashtra, 23 were men and 13 women. 17 of them were aged over 60 years, 16 were from the age-group 40-59 and 3 were aged less than 40 years. 27 of the remaining 36 patients (75%) had co-morbidities. Of the 20 dead in Mumbai, 14 had co-morbidities. The state also said 2.48lakh people are in home quarantine and 15,192 in institutional quarantine. The BEST got a ray of hope on Monday as its recovery rate rose to 26% while 60% of patients are now asymptomatic or with very mild symptoms. While 23 fresh cases were reported in Kalyan-Dombivli, 39 patients were discharged there. KDMC health department officials said it was the first time the number of discharged patients was greater than that of the fresh cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maha-sees-over-1000-cases-6th-day-in-a-row-count-crosses-23k/articleshow/75685457.cms||Sumitra Debroy
May 12, 2020||Rajkot||Gujarat: Woman gives birth to triplets amid lions’ roar in thick forest||RAJKOT: The tiny roars of newborn voices brought joy amid the gloom of lockdown to Dedan village, a quaint little hamlet nestled in the thick Gir forest of Khambha taluka in Amreli district. But this news on Sunday, particularly on International Mother’s Day, was a matter of pride for the new parents as the woman gave birth to triplets — all boys — which made even the village immensely happy. However, for Daya Baraiya, the delivery was fraught with extreme dangers. At topping the list was the lions who answered each of her cries from labour pains, with a loud roar. Interestingly, the village is also home to a pride of 18 lions. “When we received a call from Narshi Baraiya that his wife Daya was having severe labour pains, we rushed to Dedan village,” said Govind Bambhania, an emergency medical technician, in a 108 ambulance. When they reached the village, Bambhania was flummoxed seeing that he had no time to take the pregnant woman to the hospital. Holding on to hope and his experience, Bhambaniya decided to help the woman deliver in the 108 ambulance itself! “I connected with a gynaecologist through the 108 call centre. Over the phone, I did as I was being told, and following all instructions, I managed to help the woman deliver her triplets, all sons, one after the other. I salute the woman’s tenacity who had a normal delivery. The health of the new mother and her newborns are fine,” Bambhania added. However, the ambulance pilot, Raju Borisagar, is still adjusting to all the drama on Sunday night. “This is one incident that will live with me all my life,” said the man who claims he probably was never so frightened or overwhelmed with any other medical emergency. “Our ambulance was placed in the midst of the jungle in Gir forest. It was dark and every time the woman would cry out in pain, it would be promptly answered by a blood-curdling roar of a lion close by. I saw how Bhambania worked on to help the woman in her pain and did my best to help in whatever manner I could. The joy of seeing the three little infants came as a big gift for our tenacity,” Borisagar added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/triplets-born-amid-lion-roars-near-khambha-forest/articleshow/75683411.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Close to 300 stranded in US and Abu Dhabi return home||HYDERABAD: Close to 300 Indians, stranded in the United States and Abu Dhabi, returned to Hyderabad on Monday with two more Air India flights touching down at the city’s Rajiv Gandhi International Airport (RGIA), as part of the ongoing Vande Bharat Mission. The first flight, AI 1617 from San Francisco to Hyderabad via Mumbai, landed at RGIA at 9.22 am with 118 passengers on board. As many as 225 passengers boarded the flight from San Francisco that took off late on Saturday night (around 11 pm local time). Of them, 107 passengers de-planed the aircraft in Mumbai. “All passengers and airline crew were brought out of the aircraft in batches of 20 to 25 people to maintain social distancing,” an airport source said. “The entire stretch, right from the aerobridge to the arrivals ramp, was fully sanitised and fumigated — including washrooms, chairs, counters, trolleys, railings, doors, lifts, escalators etc,” the source added. The second flight, under the mission, reached Hyderabad on Monday night — around 8.50pm — from Abu Dhabi, with 170 passengers. The flight, AI 1920 took off from its destination at 12.30 pm (local time). Apart from stranded employees, it also ferried people requiring immediate medical attention. Following a thermal screening, supervised by the airport health officials, all passengers from the two flights were sent to hotels, identified as quarantine centres by the government. About 600 rooms across seven hotels in the city — some of them star facilities located in Gachibowli, Hi-Tec City, Banjara Hills — have been reserved by state authorities to house returning passengers. The average cost: anywhere between Rs 2,200 to Rs 3,500 per day. “This cost includes stay and breakfast. Guests have to pay separately for lunch and dinner,” said a source from the hospitality sector adding, “So far, most guests have been opting for the three and four star facilities. The five star hotels have limited takers.” All passengers will stay at these facilities for 14 days before being allowed to return home. Another flight that took off from London’s Stansted Airport on Monday, will arrive in Hyderabad via Delhi in the wee hours of Tuesday. The flight is expected to bring back at least 280 Indians stranded in the United Kingdom.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/close-to-300-stranded-in-us-and-abu-dhabi-return-home/articleshow/75684379.cms||Sudipta Sengupta
May 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana students fly back to Hyderabad from UK||HYDERABAD: Students from Telangana, who had sought help from the government to be repatriated, were accommodated on the special flight that took off from London on Monday for Hyderabad. Telugu students from neighbouring AP will have to wait for the second phase of evacuation. The students were tense as their travel back to Hyderabad was not confirmed. However, they got a call from Air India, asking them to book their tickets, which all of them did. Late on Sunday night, social worker Gampa Venugopal checked with the students if they had the confirmation to be on the flight, which took off from London at 9.45 am. “All of us from Telangana who were in the HCI for two days are on the flight,” Mirza, one of the students, told TOI. Another student Mahesh, who had also tested positive for Covid-19 and was hospitalised in London, is also returning after recovery.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-students-fly-back-to-hyd-from-uk/articleshow/75684449.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
May 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Man pelts stone at building, booked||HYDERABAD: A man was arrested by Jubilee Hills police on Monday for pelting a stone at a building that houses a local media organization. Officials said that T Chiranjeevi, a welder was in a drunken state on Saturday when he hurled a stone and broke the glass pane of the building.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-pelts-stone-at-bldg-booked/articleshow/75684432.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Dehradun||U’khand CM seeks PM nod to start limited tourism activities in green zones||Dehradun: In a video conferencing session with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday, chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat sought permission to start limited tourism activities in green zones of the Himalayan state citing heavy financial losses due to the ongoing Covid-19 lockdown. The CM also urged the PM for allowing more economic activities outside containment zones while seeking approval for including homestays under Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA). While requesting the PM to permit limited tourism activities within green zone districts, CM Rawat said that tourism is the major source of earning in the hilly regions of the state and all hill districts are presently under the green category. ‘This, he said, will financially help the state government and the locals. He added that the people involved in tourism business, restaurant owners, transporters, and MSMEs have been impacted due to the ongoing crisis suggesting that a project should be started to employ workers from urban areas on the lines of MGNREGA. The CM also asked for permission to open residential schools in the state and suggested that due to financial constraints and reduction in tax collection, the borrowing limit for states should be raised from 3% to 4% of Gross State Domestic Product. He further said that more than 45,000 state locals, who were stuck in other states, have been brought back to Uttarakhand and it is being ensured that “no one in the state goes to sleep hungry.” He also requested the PM for allowing making of ration cards as many workers who are coming back to the state do not have it. Rawat said that these people, around three lakh in number, come from financially weak background and do not have any source of living at present. Notably, the Centre had prohibited state governments from making ration cards after April 1. Meanwhile, the CM also informed PM Modi that accounts of around 2 lakh workers in the state have so far been credited with Rs 2,000 by the state government and around 3,500 businesses have started operations with 45% of their capacity. Earlier in the day, CM Rawat held a meeting with his council of ministers to seek their feedback regarding the Covid-19 situation, and whether lockdown should be extended. The ministers gave a mixed response to the CM over the issue as some were in favour of lifting the ongoing lockdown but others cited the ongoing time as a “crucial phase” and favoured the extension of lockdown period beyond May 17. Tourism minister Satpal Maharaj raised the issue of opening Char Dham Yatra for the pilgrims. Following the meeting, the state government is expected to take some major decisions in its next cabinet meeting which may be held within the next two days. Meanwhile, agriculture minister Subodh Uniyal told TOI, “I have urged CM Trivendra Singh Rawat to request the PM for subsidy on organic fertilisers. We are heading towards becoming an organic state in the field of agriculture as we have been able to save Rs 158 crore due to lesser use of chemicals and fertilisers. However, there is a need to provide subsidy to farmers on organic fertilisers.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-cm-seeks-pm-nod-to-start-limited-tourism-activities-in-green-zones/articleshow/75683415.cms||Kautilya Singh
May 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Corporate colleges to downsize staff in Telangana||HYDERABAD: Corporate schools and junior colleges in the state are said to have come up with guidelines to remove ‘excess’ teachers before the start of academic year 2020-21. “Residential campuses of these colleges and schools have thousands of students. However, because of the coronavirus, institutes are expecting that admissions would go down by 30 to 40%,” said an ex-employee of a corporate institute, who left the institute during the lockdown adding that about 40% staff of these institutes may lose their jobs before the coming academic year. Likewise, managements have also asked principals to cut the entire month’s salary if teachers are not doing their assigned duties such as making calls for admissions, online classes among others. Principals have also been asked not to include names of part-time teachers in the salary statement. “Expect for heads of department and faculty with high salaries, April’s salary has not been paid to anyone. However, they have already announced 50% salary cuts,” said a non-teaching staff working at a corporate institute. The management of one of the institutes confirmed they are considering salary cuts starting from April, but denied cutting staff. “Fee is our only source of income and we did not receive any since March. We might have to sustain without any income for the next six months and the only way to do it by imposing salary cuts. However, we are yet to make a final decision,” said Sushma Boppana, academic director, Sri Chaitanya. Meanwhile, TSBIE secretary Syed Omer Jaleel, said the board did not receive any complaint against corporate colleges regarding pay cuts or terminations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/corporate-colleges-to-downsize-staff/articleshow/75684632.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
May 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Campus recruits in the dark over joining date||HYDERABAD: The extended lockdown due to coronavirus has deferred joining dates of many students who had secured campus placements in March this year. It has also led to major changes in the way recruitments are being conducted in colleges. Most colleges had completed their placement process before the nationwide lockdown was declared on March 21. While students were set to complete their final exams by mid-June and join respective organisations by mid-July, the same has been deferred as colleges are yet to conduct final semester exams in Telangana. “Almost 90% of our final year students were placed by mid-March. The joining date, which was initially mid-July, has been deferred by most companies as of now. New dates will be communicated by them once we conclude the final semester exams,” said NLN Reddy, head of placements at Chaitanya Bharathi Institute of Technology. While companies have not withdrawn job offers rolled out in March, colleges that were scheduled to commence placements by June are now anticipating virtual hiring. Companies are set to conduct interviews using proctored online tests. “In proctored online tests, eye movements of the interviewee, whether he/she is switching windows to find answers and overall appearance will be judged. The camera will capture images in every three to four seconds. We are waiting for companies to share their recruitment models with us,” said K Kishore, director of training and placements at Vasavi College of Engineering. Although placement officers do not foresee a drop in the salary packages being offered to students, many are anticipating a slight drop in number of job offers, especially by product and service-based companies. Absence of face-to-face interaction is also emerging as a major challenge for many institutions. “We conduct a 100-hour programme ahead of placements to prepare students for the companies that are coming in. However, due to the lockdown, we are unable to prepare some students due to technical errors such as lack of internet access,” said GVR Murthy, dean of training and placement department at SRKR Engineering College, Bheemavaram in Andhra Pradesh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/campus-recruits-in-the-dark-over-joining-date/articleshow/75684602.cms||Preeti Biswas
May 12, 2020||Bengaluru||Two more CCB cops suspended for extortion; Rs 23 lakh seized||BENGALURU: The alleged extortion scandal in Central Crime Branch targeting cigarette dealers is getting bigger by the day. A CCB team that busted the scam perpetrated by their colleagues on Monday recovered Rs 23 lakh from two inspectors. On Friday, Rs 25 lakh was seized from ACP Prabhushankar, who was suspended immediately. Now, his accomplices — inspectors RM Ajay from Fraud and Misappropriation Wing and C Niranjan Kumar from Economic Offences Wing — have been kept under suspension. A detailed report by deputy commissioner of police (CCB) Ravikumar has been submitted to the government, seeking disciplinary action against the trio. “Bengaluru has about 50 big wholesale cigarette traders, whose daily turnover would be around Rs 10 crore on any regular day. In the initial days of the lockdown, retail sellers emptied their stocks. In the second week, they approached the big traders, seeking supply. Anticipating this, senior CCB officers had cast a net of informants. Soon, cigarettes were being sold at double the price. There were instances of men selling cigarettes on two-wheelers across the city late in the evening or post midnight,” said an investigating officer. Investigations revealed Niranjan had booked a cigarette dealer from KR Puram, A Ramesh, on April 30 this year, after seizing cigarettes worth around Rs 12 lakh from him. Ramesh revealed the names of other traders selling cigarettes in the black market. Niranjan and Ajay detained another dealer, Santosh, who was taken to the CCB office in Chamarajpet. The duo reported the matter to ACP Prabhushankar. During questioning, Santosh is said to have revealed names of the other traders. “The ACP and two inspectors approached the other traders and demanded money for not registering cases against them. Meanwhile, the trio reported to DCP Ravikumar, saying Santosh and the others, whom they had caught for illegal trade in cigarettes, were making allegations against CCB and it’s better to close the case against them. Ravikumar grew suspicious over the sudden change in the version of his men and brought the matter to the notice of joint commissioner of police, Sandeep Patil, who ordered an inquiry,” a senior officer told TOI. Niranjan was part of Special Investigation Team (SIT) that probed the murder of journalist Gauri Lankesh, while Ajay, who had worked in the Anti-Naxal Force, had won the President’s gold medal for his role in gunning down Naxal leader Saket Rajan at Menasinahadya of Chikkamagaluru in February 2005. ABC of the scam * Inspector duo detains traders selling cigarettes in black market * Informs ACP; trio approaches other traders seeking money * Three cops report to DCP, who suspects something amiss * JCP orders inquiry; trio suspended||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/2-more-ccb-cops-suspended-for-extortion-rs-23l-seized/articleshow/75683955.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana had sought clarity from ICMR on mild cases||HYDERABAD: Even as a debate on increasing the testing capacity and implementing the new guidelines of Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) to discharge very mild, mild and moderate cases without the RT-PCR test is raging, it has come to light that Telangana had raised this issue with ICMR two weeks ago. The state authorities had sought clarity on what to do with many patients displaying no symptoms but testing positive many days after the 14-day incubation period is over. According to highly-placed sources, the health authorities are perplexed as even asymptomatic patients, who did not display any symptoms and were healthy, tested positive even after repeated tests. Interestingly, many patients did not even need symptomatic treatment and were given vitamin tablets. As per earlier protocol, all the patients will be tested after 14 days and this cycle will repeat after one week. “If the patient tests negative, one more test will be conducted and if he or she tests negative in the third test, they will be released then,” officials said. Intrestingly, ICMR had released the guidelines saying that mild patients need not be tested before discharging them. Health minister Eatala Rajender said a decision to discharge mild patients without testing would be taken after a review meeting with the chief minister. ICMR had sent 25,000 anti-bodies kits to Telangana, which were not used.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/telangana-had-sought-clarity-from-icmr-on-mild-cases/articleshow/75684665.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
May 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana to review prime property lease to private companies||HYDERABAD: To manage emptying coffers of the state, the government has turned its attention towards generating incomes from several prime properties, which were earlier leased at throw away prices. Some leases have already expired, but properties continue to remain with private agencies. A few are also entangled in court cases. Most of the properties belong to tourism department. Official sources said there are nine prime properties belonging to tourism department, including Imax, Jal Vihar, Golconda resorts, Yatri Nivas, Expotel Hotel, old Gandhi Medical College (Basheerbagh), Golf Course in Shamirpet and Daspalla hotel. “Government sought report on each property. Detailed review will be held after a week,” tourism minister Srinivas Goud told TOI. The ministers decided to initiate action if land leases extended illegally. In cases, where the private firms approached court, legal procedures will be followed to vacate the stay orders on each property. Detailed review to be held after a week||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-to-review-prime-property-lease-to-private-companies/articleshow/75684447.cms||Koride Mahesh
May 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Schools gear up for virtual teaching in Telangana||HYDERABAD: With no clarity on whether schools in Telangana will be allowed to start the new academic year (2020-21) in June, many institutions have started preparations to replicate classroom teaching through live classes and video lessons. Most of them said they would start the academic year in June virtually and would wait for government’s guidelines before taking a call on physical classes. “We have procured required hardware and trained our teachers. We are geared up to start online classes for pre-school to class 12 students from June 1,” said Delhi Public School, Nacharam, principal Sunitha Rao.She said the school has already conducted an orientation programme for students and their parents. The DPS head said the school is not currently investing in procuring buses or re-designing classrooms to meet social distancing norms owing to uncertainty on when the academic year might begin. The school, however, has decided to install disinfection tunnels at entry/exit points.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/schools-gear-up-for-virtual-teaching/articleshow/75684647.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
May 12, 2020||Dehradun||After spell of rain, mercury set to rise in Uttarakhand||Dehradun: After witnessing a prolonged spell of below-normal temperatures following continuous rainfall and thunder activity, the mercury is all set to gradually rise in Uttarakhand in the next few days. On Monday, the maximum temperature in Dehradun increased slightly and settled at 32.6 degrees Celsius, still two notches below normal. The minimum temperature was recorded at 16.2 degrees Celsius, four notches below normal level. According to the regional meteorological centre, dry weather will prevail as rain and thunder activity are going to subside in the state. The temperature will rise in both the plains and the hills. “The maximum temperature was settling below 30 degrees Celsius in Dehradun and other cities till May 10. However, the mercury has started soaring and will continue to, in the days to come, as dry weather prevails across Uttarakhand in next one week,” said Bikram Singh, director, regional meteorological centre. Singh added that mercury is likely to breach the 35 degrees Celsius mark in the plains and foothills by May 16 and might continue to soar further as dry weather is expected till at least May 20. The maximum and minimum temperatures in both hills and plains of Uttarakhand remained below the normal level. Roorkee in Haridwar district remained the hottest place, where the maximum temperature was recorded at 36 degrees Celsius, while Mukteshwar remained the coldest place, with 9.4 degrees Celsius.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/after-spell-of-rain-mercury-set-to-rise-in-uttarakhand/articleshow/75683437.cms||Gaurav Talwar
May 12, 2020||Jaipur||Enraged over love marriage, girl’s family attacks youth and kin||Jaisalmer: Annoyed with a love marriage, family members of a girl attacked the youth and his family under Chauhatan police station area of Barmer district on Sunday evening. Around 30-40 people armed with weapons, stick, axes came in seven vehicles and attacked the youth’s house and set fire to two cars and two motorcycles. The attackers were annoyed with the youth who ran away with the girl and married her. The clash went on for around 20-25 minutes. By the time the Chauhatan police reached the spot, the culprits had fled. Three persons were injured who are undergoing treatment at a hospital in Barmer. In this case the boy is a minor while the girl is an adult. The girl refused to go with her family members on which police sent her to Nari Niketan. Police have lodged a case against 30-40 people, including 12 identified persons. Chauhatan deputy SP Ajit Singh said that a person from Chauhatan came to the police station to report about the attack on Sunday evening. He said his brother had married a girl from Barmer on April 23 in Jodhpur. After this, the girl’s father and other relatives had been after the youth’s family. On Sunday the girl’s family attacked the youth’s family and injured his mother and sister. The attackers also took away 25 tolas of gold from the sister and set on fire two cars and two motorcycles.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/enraged-over-love-marriage-girls-family-attacks-youth-and-kin/articleshow/75685040.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Chennai||Opening places of worship: Decision on May 15, HC told||CHENNAI: A decision on reopening of places of worship in Tamil Nadu will be taken by the government on May 15. A submission to this effect was made by the state government to the Madras high court on Monday, when a public interest writ petition seeking reopening of the places of worship came up for hearing. The PIL petitioner, R K Jaleel of Chennai, contended that since most of the shops and offices were already allowed to function in non-containment zones across the state, temples and other religious places also could be reopened. Recording the submissions of the state government, a division bench of Justice Vineet Kothari and Justice Pushpa Sathyanarayana adjourned the hearing to May 18. “Except the containment areas, most of the establishments and shops have been allowed to reopen. Industries, standalone shops, IT companies and MSMEs have been allowed to open and conduct business, with a few conditions,” the petitioner said. The petitioner said that besides the financial burden caused by the Covid-19 outbreak and nationwide lockdown, the situation has caused mental distress to many. Opening temples and other religious places would help such people get peace of mind by offering prayers. This apart, this being the month of Ramadan, a holiest month for Muslims, it would be proper to allow them reopen the mosques and permit prayers, he added. The petitioner wanted the court to intervene in the matter and direct the state government to allow reopening of religious places and permit the public to offer prayers, following all Covid-19 guidelines and lockdown protocols.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/opening-places-of-worship-decision-on-may-15-hc-told/articleshow/75684452.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Kozhikode||Welfare Party to fund travel of expats in Gulf||Kozhikode: Welfare Party of India has decided to foot the travel fare of 300 Keralites stranded in the Gulf counties in the backdrop of the spread of Covid-19. Welfare Party state president Hameed Vaniyambalam said passengers who need financial assistance will be selected from a list prepared by the embassies concerned. “We have already started preparing the list. The workers of organizations affiliated to the party have been asked to find out the needy,” Hameed said. Organizations working in the Gulf countries such as Cultural Forum Qatar, Pravasi India UAE, Pravasi Saudi, Welfare Kerala Kuwait, Welfare Forum Salalah and Social Welfare Forum Bahrain are actively involved in the project. “Passengers will be picked up from the list prepared by the embassies and priority would be given to those who have lost jobs, low-income groups, women household workers and the like,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/welfare-party-to-fund-travel-of-expats-in-gulf/articleshow/75682198.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||KSDP to launch Sanitizer wrist bands||Thiruvananthapuram: State-run Kerala State Drugs and Pharmaceuticals Limited (KSDP) is set to manufacture ‘Sanitizer Bands’ that can be worn on the wrist. Approval is awaited from Sree Chitra Tirunal Institute for Medical Sciences and Technology (SCTIMST), which has developed this innovative technology for fighting the Covid-19 pandemic. Developed as a designer dispenser, which could come handy, especially at workplaces, the novel product is expected to be in the market by this month's end. “A memorandum of understanding (MoU) needs to be signed with SCTIMST, and we are awaiting approval from them. We also need to establish the required infrastructure for manufacturing the device,” KSDP chairman C B Chandrababu said. The sanitizer band, to be priced at around Rs 200 for a piece, has been designed as a reusable dispenser, which could be refilled every time it gets empty. If one wears it on the left wrist, sanitizer could be sprayed on to the left palm using the right hand. The bands in the shape of a watch will be made with a special PVC (polyvinyl chloride) used to manufacture blood bags (currently in use at SCTIMST). Once manufactured, the KSDP will be marketing the product through its existing networks like Kerala Medical Services Corporation Limited (KMSCL), Consumerfed, and Kerala Civil Supplies Corporation. “We will get to know about the sanitizer band’s acceptability and demand only when it is made available in the market,” Chandrababu said. The sanitizer band, however, has the potential to become an immediate hit among the employed, who find it difficult to carry sanitizer bottles in their pockets, he pointed out. “There are dispensers in the form of pen available in the market. While small spray bottles which could be carried in purse/small bags are the ones preferred by women,” he said. With the capacity to manufacture one lakh bottles of sanitizers per day, a major issue the KSDP faces now is a shortage of dispensers, which are usually imported, mainly from China. After manufacturing 7.5 lakh bottles of sanitizer in the first phase (which are being supplied to government hospitals, health organizations and local bodies), the company is awaiting supply of dispenser bottles to achieve its immediate target of producing 15 lakh bottles. “However, the public demand is to make the product available in supermarkets and medical shops, for which we have invited application for an all-Kerala distributor. But the process is getting delayed owing to the lockdown,” the KSDP chairman said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/ksdp-to-launch-sanitizer-wrist-bands/articleshow/75682202.cms||Salim Joseph
May 12, 2020||Rajkot||Woman ends life as lover refuses to marry her||Rajkot: A Dalit woman hanged herself to death in the women’s shelter home of Rajkot after her boyfriend from upper caste refused to marry her.Daksha Chauhan (22) had eloped with her boyfriend Pradeepsih Jadeja (24) on February 27. On March 24, Daksha produced herself before Pradyumannagar police station where her father Ramji Chauhan had lodged a missing persons complaint.Police said Daksha, a resident of Tankara village, had made friends with Jadeja on Facebook. He lives in Devadia village of Devbhoomi Dwarka districtOn February 27, Daksha came to a Rajkot court with her sister who wanted to file a case of alimony against her husband. Daksha had already spoken to Jadeja about her scheduled visit, and Jadeja was waiting for her at the court’s premises. Both eloped from there. “However, after Daksha came to know that the cops were looking for her, she produced herself before us,” said V F Vanzara, inspector with Pradyumannagar police station.“When we asked her whether she wanted to return to her house, she prefered to stay in the women’s shelter home. But when contacted Jadeja he flatly refused to marry her saying she was a Dalit. This aggrieved her so much that she ended her life by hanging herself from the ceiling of her room using dupatta,” said Vanzara.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/woman-ends-life-as-lover-refuses-to-marry-her/articleshow/75683444.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Follow distancing in markets, says Cops||HYDERABAD: Chaitanayapuri police officials on Monday issued notice to Gaddiannaram market committee chairman and other members, instructing them to ensure precautionary guidelines like physical distancing and sanitisation activities in the market yard.  The direction came as it was observed that the market area was crowded and guidelines to control the spread of Covid-19 were not being followed, which is of utmost importance at this crucial time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/follow-distancing-in-markets-cops/articleshow/75684445.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Cylinder explodes in Zamistanpur||HYDERABAD: Panic gripped residents of Zamistanpur on Monday morning after a mini gas cylinder exploded at a house in the area. According to police, the incident occurred at the house of Swamy, employee of a private company, when he lit the burner fixed to a mini cylinder. “The mini cylinder probably exploded due to gas leak from it. Luckily, no resident suffered injuries as they ran away from the spot identifying the leak,” said Musheerabad inspector T Murali Krishna. A police verification team visited the scene.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cylinder-explodes-in-zamistanpur/articleshow/75684439.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Goa||Unhappy with mgmt, JNV parents seek Shripad’s help||Panaji: The Parent Teacher Council (PTC) of Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya in Valpoi has asked for North Goa MP and Union minister Shripad Naik’s intervention in holding a dialogue with the school’s management to address many shortfalls, including repairs within the complex and non-appointment of teachers to vacant posts. The PTC said that even the return of the school’s stranded students was made possible only after Naik intervened. They have now asked Naik to help them hold a meeting between them and the education secretary, North Goa collector, director of education and commissioner of Navodaya Vidyalaya Samiti. The council has said that nine posts of regular teachers are lying vacant for more than a year now. “The failure in appointment of the teachers was adversely affecting performance of the students, which will have a long lasting effect,” the PTC members have said. The JNV schools, affiliated to CBSE, were set up by the central government. One school was allotted to each district in the country. The institutes provide residential facility to students and are meant to impart quality education to children living in rural areas. But parents of JNV, Valpoi, have been fighting over the years, even approaching the high court, for better infrastructure at the institute. The PTC has now alleged shortcomings in services provided by the staff nurse, lack of a second warden for the girls hostel, problem with food served to students, among other issues. They have also claimed non-compliance of the high court order with regards to upgradation of the school’s infrastructure. Repairs of internal roads, electrical wiring and drainage and sewage are lying incomplete, the PTC has told the MP. “Despite permission from the MHRD, granted in February 2008, the school is yet to start a science stream,” the parents and teachers have said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/unhappy-with-mgmt-jnv-parents-seek-shripads-help/articleshow/75685039.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Goa||Govt rejects recommendations by Lokayukta in mining graft case||Panaji: The state government has rejected the Goa Lokayukta’s report that recommended than an FIR be registered by the directorate of vigilance’s anti-corruption branch (ACB) against former chief minister Laxmikant Parsekar, former mines secretary Pawan Kumar Sain and former mines director Prasanna Acharya, in connection with the alleged ‘corruption and criminal conspiracy’ regarding the renewal of 88 mining leases between November 2014 and January 2015. The state government had taken a written explanation on the subject from Parsekar, and chief minister Pramod Sawant had conducted personal hearings with Sain and Acharya. Speaking to TOI, chief minister Pramod Sawant said, “We have rejected the Lokayukta report on mining and have communicated the same to him.” The Lokayukta, Justice P K Misra, in his recommendation had also said that Sain and Acharya shouldn’t hold the offices they presently hold. “This institution is satisfied that the public functionaries concerned have committed a criminal offence punishable under the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988, as well as the offence of criminal conspiracy as defined in Section 120A and 120B of the IPC,” Misra had observed. “They should be prosecuted in a court of law for these offences. It goes without saying that prior sanction shall be obtained from the appropriate authority before the chargesheet is filed.” The respondents — Parsekar, Sain and Acharya — had said that the lease renewal order was passed in view of a Bombay high court judgment as well as a policy decision by the government and approved by the cabinet relating to the mining and mineral policy. They had also said that they cannot be held responsible for implementing the HC judgment and a policy decision. Misra had said that further investigations should be made in accordance with law, by an independent agency. “The state government is directed to entrust the investigation to the CBI,” he had said. The Lokayukta had said that it is satisfied that the complaint against Parsekar, Sain and Acharya has been substantiated, and keeping in view the magnitude and seriousness of the ‘dereliction of duty’, a declaration (under Section 16A(1) of the Lokayukta Act) is required to be made that the public functionaries concerned should not continue to hold office. “Since Parsekar has ceased to be chief minister/minister, no such declaration is made with respect to him,” Misra had said. “Sain and Acharya are still continuing in office. It is declared that both officers should not continue to hold the offices held by them.” The Lokayukta had said that the state of Goa would take all necessary steps to expedite the recovery of money said to be due from mining leaseholders pursuant to the showcause noticed issued to them, as well as other reports available with the state of Goa, including reports by the Special Investigation Team and a team of chartered accountants.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/govt-rejects-recommendations-by-lokayukta-in-mining-graft-case/articleshow/75685466.cms||Murari Shetye
May 12, 2020||Rajkot||Councillor giving onions booked||Rajkot: A Congress corporator was detained for allegedly not maintaining social distancing in Shrinathji Society on Mavdi Road in Rajkot on Monday. The police, however, did not book Vijay Vank, the corporator from ward number 12 of Rajkot Municipal Corporation. Sources in the police said Vank was holding a free distribution of onions in his ward, which the workers of BJP did not like, and they lodged a complaint against him, accusing him of not maintaining social distancing. “When the police rounded up Vank, workers from the city Congress organized a demonstration outside Malaviyanagar police station against the police. The police released Vank and registered an offence against unidentified persons,” said a source from Malaviyanagar police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/councillor-giving-onions-booked/articleshow/75683468.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Dehradun||With more veggie traders in mandi, distancing hit||Dehradun: Following reports of violation of social distancing norms in city’s Niranjanpur vegetable market, the mandi timings have now been extended. Mandi inspector Ajay Dabral told TOI, “The market will be operating between 2 am and 9 am now. The decision has been taken by the Mandi Samiti office bearers to allow more time for trade and to ensure that the norms of social distancing are maintained.” During the meet of all office bearers of the Mandi Samiti, it was decided that the new passes to the mandi will now be issued to only old traders. It was decided that only 2,000 passes will be issued and entry to just 1,000 traders will be allowed on a particular day. Further, the passes will be issued only to whole sellers, retailers, vehicle drivers, and loaders. Notably, the old passes issued to traders in the past have been cancelled. The officials said that many people employed in other jobs earlier have also started selling vegetables now due to the rise in vegetable demand and this is making it even more challenging to manage the crowd in the vegetable market. Meanwhile, the Mandi Samiti is mulling over introducing the odd-even system for entry of vehicles inside the market. If the system gets implemented, odd-numbered and even-numbered vehicles will be allowed entry to the Mandi on alternate days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/with-more-veggie-traders-in-mandi-distancing-hit/articleshow/75683499.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Hyderabad||40-year-old drunk mason electrocuted in Korutla||HYDERABAD: A 40-year-old mason died after he accidentally came in contact with an electric transformer in an inebriated condition in Korutla in Jagtial district on Sunday afternoon. The deceased Subbba Rayudu was a native of Ongole in Prakasam district of AP. Subba Rayudu along with some relatives landed in Korutla town to eke out a living a few months ago, police said. “Construction contractors brought them to Korutla. After the lockdown, Subba Rayudu and others continued to stay in rented accommodation at Adarsh Nagar in Korutla town,” Korutla police said. On Sunday, Subba Rayudu consumed alcohol and started misbehaving with people on the road. He started abusing people and even tried hurling stones at them. He suddenly held a road-side electric transformer and got electrocuted on the spot, Jagtial superintendent of police (SP) Ch Sindhu Sharma said. Police registered a case under Section 174 of the CrPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/40-year-old-drunk-mason-electrocuted-in-korutla/articleshow/75684465.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Ajmer||Migrant thought he was infected, kills self in Ajmer hospital||AJMER: A 30-year-old labourer who thought he was Covid-19 positive committed suicide on Monday, though test reports later showed he was not infected. The man, who was walking all the way from Ahmedabad to Raebareli in UP, was stopped by Ajmer police and sent to JLN Hospital here for a test. But before the report came, the man killed himself and left a note stating that he committed suicide because he was in depression. After the lockdown, the Raibareli resident waited for a long time to get back to his village. When he was left with no option, he started walking. Two days ago, he was caught by Ajmer police brought him to Covid-19 hospital for screening. Doctors took his sample and admitted him. On Monday morning when he did not come out of the bathroom, patients informed hospital staff. When they barged in, they found the suspect hanging from a rod on ceiling. Police recovered a suicide note in which he wrote that he was suffering from depression.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/migrant-thought-he-was-infected-kills-self-in-ajmer-hosp/articleshow/75685044.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Dehradun||District admin releases new list allotting days for shops to operate||Dehradun: The Dehradun district administration has released an amended list stating the allotted days for specific types of shops to function. According to the new order, hardware stores, sanitary and glassware stores, jewellery shops, sewing machine stores, carpet and flooring shops, automobile shops, electronic stores, welding stores, timber merchants and a few others have been allowed to remain open on Tuesday, Thursday, and Saturday. Similarly, clothing stores, computer shops, cycle shops, mobile shops, ready-made garment stores, car accessories stores, and a few others can remain open on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday. The district administration has specified that only small shopping complexes, the ones which do not have centralised air conditioner facility, have been allowed to operate. Pankaj Masson, president of the Doon Udyog Vyapar Mandal, told TOI, “There is a risk of spread of the virus through centralised AC. Thus, the small businesses which operate in facilities that do not have centralised AC have been given relaxations.” Notably, departmental stores, petrol pump stations, ration stores, confectioneries, transport office, photocopy shops, chemist shops, dairies, meat shops and a few others have been allowed to remain open daily.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/district-admin-releases-new-list-allotting-days-for-shops-to-operate/articleshow/75683472.cms||Mohammad Anab
May 12, 2020||Rajkot||Seven held for ‘pav bhaji’ party on terrace||Rajkot: Seven men were arrested for holding a ‘pav bhaji’ party on the terrace of their apartment on Aminmarg Road in Rajkot on Sunday night.All those arrested are well-to-do traders. They were booked for violation of the lockdown order. “When we came to know that the accused had organized a ‘pau bhaji’ party on the terrace of Kankavati Apartment in Suryadev Society, we raided the place and arrested them for the alleged violation of the lockdown order,” said N N Chudasma, inspector with Malaviyanagar police station. The accused were identified as Kishor Kaneria (45), Deepak Vachhani (49), Prashant Patel (40), Nikunj Kalaria (38), Atul Godhani (56), Atul Kalaria (35) and Sirish Rathod (60).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/seven-held-for-pav-bhaji-party-on-terrace/articleshow/75683493.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Goa||12 years on, South Goa district hospital opens its doors||MARGAO: Nearly 12 years after the foundation stone for the South Goa district hospital was laid, the health facility was partly thrown open to the public on Monday with 26 OPDs becoming operational in the first phase. Deputy director, health services, Dr Ira Almeida told TOI that everything worked as per plan though there were some teething problems, which were overcome. A swab sample collection facility and swab testing centre have already been set up at the new premises, operations at which were kicked off on Sunday. Patients were examined as per the token system set in place. Though a digital token system has been set up, internet connectivity issues has led to the hospital authorities setting up a manual mode as a standby arrangement. The digital token system has an inbuilt capping on the number of patients to be seen at each OPD, designed to facilitate “careful and elaborate examination” of each patient while also ensuring the safety of the examining doctor. Two patient examination booths have also been installed at the new district hospital, which can be used for swab collection as well as examining patients. In a press statement, opposition leader Digambar Kamat expressed his happiness over the opening of the OPDs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/12-yrs-on-south-goa-district-hospital-opens-its-doors/articleshow/75685059.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Body of Telangana worker flown to Hyderabad from Dubai||HYDERABAD: The body of a Telangana worker who died in Dubai was flown to Hyderabad on Monday, after a delay due to Covid-19 lockdown. The 40-year-old man Pothu Gangarajam of Pasunuru village in Medipally mandal of Jagtial district died of a heart attack. His body could not be sent due to restrictions imposed as part of lockdown. With restrictions relaxed in sending bodies of non-Covid-19 deaths, Pothu Gangarajam’s body could be flown back to India. The General Administration (NRI) Department of the state government provided a vehicle from RGIA to transport the body to the village of the deceased for the last rites. Meanwhile, social worker Amula Ramesh informed that the last rites of a Telangana worker Gosam Babu of Armoor who died of Covid-19 in Dubai were performed there itself.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/body-of-t-worker-flown-to-hyd-from-dubai/articleshow/75684472.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
May 12, 2020||Udaipur||Covid-19 cases spike in Udaipur, five sanitation staff infected||UDAIPUR: Tension continued to grip the city as 49 new positive cases were reported on Monday, taking the total tally of corona-infected patients in the district to 182. Five of the 49 tested positive on Monday are sanitation workers. “Total samples tested so far is 4,386. of which 4,206 have been found negative. So the total positive remains 182 till 7pm on Monday,” CMHO Dinesh Kharadi said in a medical bulletin. The medical and health department collected samples of the close contacts of the positive cases, while the district administration strove hard to ensure supply of essential items, milk and vegetables in the curfew-bound areas in and around the city. Among the new positive people reported on Monday, five are sanitation workers of the Udaipur Municipal Corporation (UMC), which is a cause of concern for the authorities. Taking precautionary measures to contain the virus spread, UMC has decided to do away with the two-time sweeping schedule of the city streets. The cleaning will be done just once a day now for the entire lockdown period. The UMC has appealed to the people to cooperate and not dump trash in public places or in the neighborhood. Twenty-six sanitation workers reported positive on Friday as they had come in contact with the home guard’s family in Kanji ka Hata area. Two ladies of the family were sanitation workers. The UMC had sent all the 1,750 workers on two days’ leave. Five of the sample reports of the sanitation workers were found positive on Monday thus triggering fear of further community spread. On Saturday and Sunday the garbage collection remained disturbed due to the workers having remained away from work. On Monday, the authorities decided to modify the cleaning system. “We have decided to change the cleaning strategy looking at the present lockdown condition. Since most of the shops, commercial establishments and institutions are shut, hence sweeping during evening time will remain suspended for some days,” Paras Singhvi, deputy mayor said. He also said that since the entire municipal area has been declared a containment zone for two weeks, public movement too would remain restricted. There would be not much garbage or litter in the street and hence sanitation workers too would get some relief working once a day, he said. Of the total 182 cases in Udaipur, 131 are from Kanji ka Hata alone and Helawadi colony here is inhabited mostly by the sanitation workers. Many of the residents are employees of the UMC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/covid-cases-spike-in-udaipur-five-sanitation-staff-infected/articleshow/75685058.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Udaipur||Rajasthan: Maharashtra returnees sleep in fields to check coronavirus spread||UDAIPUR: In a bid to prevent the spread of coronavirus in rural areas, people from Maharashtra heading to their villages are isolating themselves in fields. People are putting up tents in open fields, sleeping on charpoys while they are cooking their food themselves in the open. A large number of people from urban areas of Maharashtra and Gujarat heading towards their hometowns have quarantined themselves outside villages for 14 days in this way. “People have been trying to reach their villages by walking through fields or climbing over hillocks and hence the risk of the pandemic reaching rural areas has increased. To keep their loved ones and villagers free of the virus, this approach has been adopted,” Bhavesh Jat, a local told TOI. In Menar village, six men from Kandiwali (Mumbai) reached on May 7. Laxmanlal, Ambalal, Hukmichand, Deeplal Joshi were among the group that decided not to enter their homes before the quarantine period and hence chose an open field some 3 kilometres away from their village. “We met our families from a distance and informed them about our well-being. To keep our area safe from virus contamination we chose a place near a well and now we are staying here,” Ambalal Menaria said. A big tent has been put up and they have parked their car there. They have arranged the grocery and vegetables for 14 days and are cooking for themselves. In Chargadiya village of Bhinder, Jitesh Choubisa who arrived from Mumbai has taken refuge in a corner of a cowshed, situated a safe distance from his home. He has separated his utensils which he washes himself after having the food brought by his family every day. Kamlesh Das Vaishnav who too returned to this village, worked in Rajkot and had to take a lift in a tanker to reach home. He walked some 150 kilometres from Kherwada to get back home and fearing that he might have contracted the virus, decided to stay outside the village limits for two weeks. Prakash Meena in Kundai panchayat of Bhinder block who reached Rajasthan border in a tanker had walked two days to reach his home and is now spending his quarantine period near a well outside his house compound.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/maha-returnees-sleep-in-fields-to-check-virus-spread/articleshow/75685052.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Bahrain, Maldivian nationals evacuated in three flights||Thiruvananthapuram: Trivandrum International Airport handled three international passenger flights on Monday. Two flights to Maldives and a flight to Bahrain were operated from the airport. A Maldivian airlines repatriation flight with 49 passengers left from the airport at 12.10pm to Male. The special fight was arranged by Male ministry of foreign affairs to fly home the Maldivian nationals stranded in foreign countries. A medical team of six doctors and eight health inspectors conducted health screening of the passengers before they boarded flight. Another Maldivian airlines flight, arrived from New Delhi, departed from the airport on Monday night with 129 stranded Maldives nationals. It is the third flight operated to Thiruvananthapuram to evacuate Maldives nationals. On March 11, more than 200 people travelled in rescue flight to Maldives from Thiruvananthapuram. Meanwhile, a repatriation flight of Air India Express to evacuate stranded Keralites in Bahrain, which was operated from Trivandrum airport, left with 96 Bahrain residents at 2.15pm. “We have handled cargo and medical equipment flights during the lockdown. It is the first time after lockdown that three passenger flights were operated from the airport. The passengers were handled following the Covid-19 protocol and disinfection is conducted after every flight,” said airport director C V Ravindran. Meanwhile, the cancelled Doha-Thiruvananthapuram flight will be operated on Tuesday. The flight IX 374 will leave from Doha at 4.30pm local time on Tuesday and reach Thiruvananthapuram at 12.40am on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/bahrain-maldivian-nationals-evacuated-in-three-flights/articleshow/75682222.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Goa||Goa: Aided school teachers wait for DA, bonus||PANAJI: Teachers of government-aided schools said that they felt discriminated against because, while their services are used for carrying out various government works, their arrears are not paid on time. They said that while dearness allowance arrears for the period July to December 2019 are yet to be paid to them, government teachers and government servants have received it. “Bonus too has not been paid to teachers, which was paid to government teachers and government servants before Diwali. We have already paid income tax on both as on March 31. Teachers are working in the month of May for the first time, which is otherwise meant to be school vacations. But there is no clarity on whether we will be paid the travel allowance for this period,” an aided-school teacher from North Goa said. A teacher from South Goa, Farell Furtado, said that teachers have also not been paid VII pay arrears due to them from 2016 onwards. “The government is collecting taxes under so many heads and teachers are not being paid what is due to them,” Furtado said. They said that their services are being utilised this year during what is otherwise school vacations. Besides being posted outside fair price shops from April 27 to May 12, they have supervision duty from May 21 for the Class X and XII state board exams. Teachers are also set to be summoned when the postponed Zilla Panchayat polls are held. Aided schools have also not received the maintenance grants due to them, a school head said. “We have received the first instalment and the second was due in January, but the government is yet to pay it. Schools are anxiously waiting the grants, which have been delayed by over four months now,” a school head said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/aided-school-teachers-wait-for-da-bonus/articleshow/75685055.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Bareilly||Finally, insecticidal mosquito nets getting distributed in malaria-hit villages||BAREILLY: The Bareilly health department has finally started distributing long-lasting insecticidal nets (LLINs) in malaria-affected villages. The distribution of LLINs was delayed as the staff were occupied with Covid-19. Chief medical officer Dr Vineet Shukla said, “The LLINs are mosquito nets with coating of insecticides. It kills mosquitoes when they sit on such nets. In the first phase, we have started distributing 16,000 LLINs to families where the ‘killer’ strain of malaria – plasmodium falciparum – was reported in 2018 and 2019. Two sets of LLINs are being given to each family. We have asked the state government to provide us more nets so that we can contain breeding of mosquitoes in the region.” According to officials, LLINs are being distributed in the villages situated in six blocks of Bareilly district – Majhgavan, Bhamora, Ramnagar, Faridpur, Kyara and Meerganj. According to data provided by the health department, as many as 636 people were tested positive for malaria between January and April this year, after the health department screened 32,306 suspected people in the district. In 2018, Bareilly district reported 37,482 malaria cases, which increased to 46,717 in 2019.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/finally-insecticidal-mosquito-nets-getting-distributed-in-malaria-hit-villages/articleshow/75813719.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Old-age home gets essential supplies||HYDERABAD: Veerabrahmendra Orphans Old-Age Home (VB Home) in Karimnagar received stocks of rice, oil, soaps, wheat flour, etc, sufficient for two months, thanks to the intiatives of Anupama Chakravarthy, principal district judge and also chairperson of district legal services authority (DLSA) at Karimnagar. District collector K Shashank and police commissioner VB Kamalasan Reddy assisted her in this task. When Anupama verified with them about stranded migrants, they told her that a separate facility was created at a function hall near the bypass road to feed the workers every day. She also organised a camp for poor advocates where packs of rice and groceries were handed over to them. Jayapal Reddy of a local channel, Sudhakar Rao from a private school and a few others also came forward to assist her.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/old-age-home-gets-essential-supplies/articleshow/75684475.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Goa||Goa: Congress slams move to hold exams||PANAJI: The Goa Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education’s decision to go ahead with the SSC and HSSC exams prompted Congress and Goencho Avaaz to question the wisdom behind such a move. Goencho Avaaz, an umbrella organisation of activists, and Congress have warned that they would pursue legal action against the education department if a student or faculty member contracts the novel corona virus. The education department announced that HSSC and SSC examinations will start from May 20 and 21, which Goencho Avaaz described as “irresponsible” since the threat posed by Covid-19 remains. “This sudden step is highly questionable and should be held in abeyance and a more safer and considerate manner may be adopted to complete the pending examination,” said co-convenor of Goencho Avaaz Viriato Fernandes. Goencho Avaaz has suggested that Goa Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education should adopt an online examination system while the Congress has called for the exams to be postponed till the corona virus threat subsides. “How is the board going to ensure that students and staff are not carrying the highly contagious virus? Students appearing for the board exams have returned from neighbouring states either from the red zone or orange zone and could still be carriers of the virus,” said Congress media cell convener Trajano D’Mello. Both the Congress and Goencho Avaaz have appealed to the state government to put on hold such a “misadventure” and instead consult educationists, school authorities, teachers and parents before taking a decision, said Goencho Avaaz co-convenor Swapnesh Sherlekar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cong-slams-move-to-hold-exams/articleshow/75685061.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Rajkot||Woman’s husband, kin held for her murder||Rajkot: A woman’s husband and her brother-in-law were arrested for her murder in Mota Gundala village of Jetpur taluka in Rajkot district on Sunday night. Police said the accused, identified as Vinod Hamipara (44) and his elder brother Lalji Hamipara (47), had allegedly strangled Vinod’s wife Lakshmi Hamipara (42) in the morning of May 5. The accused first tried to mislead the police by claiming that Lakshmi had died of a cardiac arrest. However, after her postmortem revealed death by strangulation as the reason, the Hamipara brothers were arrested. When Lakshmi’s friend Vandana Patel called up Lakshmi’s brother Eknath to inform him about his sister’s death, Eknath asked her to ensure that Lakshmi’s postmortem was conducted. “Lakshmi’s postmortem report revealed that she had died of strangulation. When we interrogated her husband, he confessed to the crime. Vinod said as he and his brother Lalji were sick and tired of Lakshmi’s cantankerous nature, they decided to murder her,” said S V Godhiya, sub-inspector with Jetpur taluka police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/womans-husband-kin-held-for-her-murder/articleshow/75683538.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Kolhapur||3 deceased patients among 11 new +ve cases in Solapur||Kolhapur: Eight new confirmed Covid-19 cases were reported from Solapur district on Monday, taking the number of positive cases to 275 in the district. Apart from the eight new cases, the throat swab reports of three patients, who died between Saturday and Sunday, returned positive for Covid-19 on Monday. The death toll due to Covid-19 in Solapur district stands at 17. Of the 275 positive cases reported from the district, 217 are active cases and as many as 41 patients have recovered from the infection. Menwhile, frontline workers involved in the management of Covid-19 infection, like police and state health workers, are among the new positive cases emerging from Solapur district. On Sunday, as many as nine police personnel and three state health workers from Solapur tested positive for the contagion. Solapur police have decided to grant leaves to the personnel having comorbid conditions and who are above 55-years-old.Superintendent of Solapur rural police Manoj Patil told TOI that they were aware of the situation and were devising various strategies to ease the burden on the staff.“Around 14 frontline workers, especially police, have tested positive for the contagion. Of the total cases, 12 are asymptomatic and 2 symptomatic. The contact tracing exercise is underway and various measures are being taken,” said Patil. Around 210 police personnel having comorbid conditions and/or above 55-years-old have been granted paid leaves to avoid chances on infection spread.According to Patil, granting leaves to the existing staff members has put some pressure on them. However, they have absorbed some of the staff members from the home guard to ease the burden of the police department.The SP said that the personnel would have to learn and adapt to new hygiene practices to avoid getting infected. Meanwhile, healthcare workers too are facing the risk of contracting the infection. Until Monday, 23 healthcare staff, including four doctors, have been reportedly contracted Covid-19.District health officer Bhimashankar Jamadar could not be reached for comments on the health workers’ condition despite repeated attempts of communication.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/3-deceased-patients-among-11-new-ve-cases-in-solapur/articleshow/75683521.cms||Piyush Bhusari
May 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Cong to KCR: Explain the Pothireddypadu deal||Hyderabad: The Congress on Monday charged chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao of compromising the interests of Telangana by striking a deal with his AP counterpart YS Janganmohan Reddy. “Why is KCR silent even as AP government has started the process to enhance the water drawing capacity of Pothireddypadu,” questioned former minister Marri Shashidhar Reddy. He demanded KCR to explain the deal between him and Jagan. He said that the districts of Viqarabad, Rangareddy, Mahbubnagar and Nalgonda will face water shortage if the water drawal capacity is increased by AP. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cong-to-kcr-explain-the-pothireddypadu-deal/articleshow/75684486.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Dehradun||IIT-R develops sterilisation system||Roorkee: To reduce transmission risk of Covid-19, IIT-Roorkee has developed a sterilisation system. The researchers involved in the project say that the machine can be used for disinfecting mobiles, watches, wallets, keys, spectacles, bags, and other items of daily use. The institute has handed over a prototype of the sterlisation system to Haridwar Municipal Corporation. The machine has an ultra-violet chamber equipped with a moving system like a conveyor belt which helps in carrying the object in and out of the sterilisation system. The size of the whole system is approximately 8X2 feet. IIT-R spent over Rs 50,000 on manufacturing of the device but the institute officials say that if the machine is commercially manufactured, its cost would come down to around Rs 30,000. "Our machine sterilises the daily-use items within seven minutes whereas other market-available machines take a longer time. Besides, you can sterilise things one after another continuously unlike other such machines which work on only one item at a time. Thus, our machine is one-of-its-kind in the country. We have applied for its patent,” said Vimal Chandra Srivastava, professor of chemical engineering at IIT-R, who designed the system. The system can be used in offices, airports, educational institutes, shopping malls, and other such places to disinfect daily-use items. “Our machine is safe for use as it has been designed in line with the international standards and scientific literature on the use of UV (light) radiation,” added the professor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/iit-r-develops-sterilisation-system/articleshow/75683529.cms||Tapan Susheel
May 12, 2020||Kozhikode||Border woes, new +ve cases trouble K’god||Kannur: A week after relaxing border restrictions, Kasaragod district authorities are under pressure to address the lack of public transport for people coming from other states. Moreover, new positive cases being reported among those coming from other states are also a cause of concern. There was demand for bus service to enable people coming from other states reach home after crossing border at Thalappady in Manjeshwaram; they now have to depend on private vehicles that they arrange on their own. BJP and Congress had demanded transportation for the returnees. BJP district unit, which staged a dharna at KSRTC deport in Kasaragod on Monday, alleged that the state government was considering Keralites returning from other states as refugees. The government should introduce bus service and also address the inordinate delay at the counters set up at the border, said BJP district president K Shreekanth. Recently, Congress leader and Kasaragod MP Rajmohan Unnithan, who visited the border, had also raised the demand for transportation. With new cases being reported, surveillance will have to be strengthened. All four new cases reported on Monday reached the district from Mumbai via Thalappady on May 4 and 8. The new cases were a day after the last of the 178 patients was discharged from hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/border-woes-new-ve-cases-trouble-kgod/articleshow/75682274.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Rajkot||Asked to keep safe distance, mob attacks policemen||Palanpur: Seven persons were arrested on Monday for assaulting cops who were on patrolling duty in Savagadh village of Himmatnagar taluka of Sabarkantha district on Sunday late night. Two persons, including a woman, are yet to be arrested.According to complaint lodged by head constable Rakesh Jayantibhai of rural police station, Himmatnagar, the incident took place when he along with another constable were patrolling in Savagadh village some 3 km from Himmatnagar. A large crowd had gathered in the village to purchase fruits, particularly watermelons. The cops asked the villagers to keep safe distance as per the lockdown’s norms. This led to heated exchanges between the people and cops. While the argument was on, some people from crowd pelted stones that hit a constable on the head. The attacked cops called for backup and a team led by ASP Dr Lavina Sinha reached the village and took control of the situation, said J M Parmar, sub-inspector Himmatnagar rural police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/asked-to-keep-safe-distance-mob-attacks-policemen/articleshow/75683562.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Goa||No April salary, MMC workers go on strike||Vasco: About 300 workers of the Mormugao Municipal Council (MMC) went on a strike on Monday over non-payment of their April salary. The workers said that they had not only been receiving salaries late for a few months now, but that their other allowances had also been not been disbursed for a couple of months. “Even during the lockdown we have been travelling from distant places for work,” they said. Chief officer of MMC Gourish Sankhwalkar and chairperson Nandadeep Raut met with the striking workers and gave them written assurance that their salaries would be paid by Friday. “As the MMC did not collect revenue during the lockdown it had no money to release salaries. It is during the months of March, April and May that people come to pay their annual taxes. Now that we have started collecting the taxes, revenue will be generated,” Raut said. On receiving the assurance, the workers resumed work.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/no-apr-salary-mmc-workers-go-on-strike/articleshow/75685065.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Dehradun||Lockdown impact? Dogs in Nainital catching fish from Naini lake||Nainital/Mussoorie: With the nationwide lockdown leading to closure of all the hotels and restaurants in Nainital, dogs in the lake town, who subsisted largely on leftovers from these establishments, have reportedly resorted to killing fishes from Naini lake for food. A video shot by a local resident went viral on Sunday where a dog can be seen catching a live fish from the lake and eating it along with other dogs. Ashish Shah, the resident who shot the video, told TOI, “I was walking near the lake on Sunday morning when I saw three dogs near the lake. One of them jumped in and caught a big fish near the shore. It was later devoured by the pack.” He added that this isn’t the only incident when he saw a dog catching a fish from Naini lake. “A couple of weeks back, too, I had spotted a bunch of dogs catching fishes from the lake. Many others have also seen several dogs jumping into the lake and trying to catch fish.” Naini lake is home to thousands of different fishes including Mahseer, Grass Carp and Silver Carp. Nainital-based environmentalist Ajay Singh Rawat told TOI that “this behaviour being displayed by dogs is very unusual.” “We have rarely seen such sights in Nainital. But then, recent changes in behaviour have been witnessed in many other animals as well. The instances of leopards, tigers and elephants roaming on streets in some places have also occured since the lockdown began." Government veterinary officials in Nainital acknowledged that instances of dogs trying to catch fish from the lake had not been reported earlier, adding that it may be possible that due to the closure of restaurants and hotels, dogs have resorted to feeding on fishes. Hema Rathore, senior veterinary officer, Nainital, told TOI, “I have not seen the video yet but we will make sure that if dogs are not getting food, they are provided for. We are feeding around 500 dogs each day and our aim is that no animal should remain hungry.” According to estimates, there are around 1000 dogs in the hill station. Most of them survive on leftovers from eateries and hotels. Tourists also feed many dogs while taking strolls on the Mall Road or places like Bhutia Market and Pant Park. The state government had also released an amount of Rs 15 lakh for Nainital district to be used to feed stray animals. Meanwhile, in Mussoorie, too, aggressive behaviour of strays has been reported. Even though citizen groups in the town are making efforts to feed the strays, there have been instances of stray dogs attacking a deer and a calf and killing a monkey and cat in the town. About two week ago, an instance of dogs attacking and severely injuring a child has also been reported. In fact, the child received severe bites on his leg before locals managed to scare the dogs away. According to Dr Monika Tamta, a veterinarian, non-availability of leftovers due to closure of hotels, restaurants and schools in the town may be a major factor responsible for the aggressive behaviour being displayed by the canines. (with inputs from Anmol Jain)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/lockdown-impact-dogs-in-nainital-catching-fish-from-naini-lake/articleshow/75683551.cms||Prashant Jha
May 12, 2020||Dehradun||Vendors ask CAU for pending payments||Dehradun: Several vendors who helped in holding cricket matches by giving their services to the Cricket Association of Uttarakhand (CAU) are upset with the delay in their payments by the board. The vendors have reported the matter to Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI), country’s apex cricket body. Following the complaint, BCCI sought a report from the state association regarding the matter. The vendors helped the state cricket body in holding matches during the last domestic season by allowing CAU to use their grounds, by providing food catering services, among other assistance. The disgruntled vendors claim that their payments are stalled for months now and in times of lockdown, having some money in hand has become more important than ever. Meanwhile, the CAU officials say that there was some confusion regarding the handling of the payments and the vendors will be paid very soon. “The payment got a little bit delayed due to some confusion but I assure that the vendors will be paid very soon. We have completed our procedure to send the payments and the money will be released to the concerned contractor very soon,” said Jot Singh Gunsola, CAU president.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/vendors-ask-cau-for-pending-payments/articleshow/75683560.cms||Mohammad Anab
May 12, 2020||Indore||20k outsiders stuck in Indore seek administration help to go home||Indore: Around 20,000 outsiders including migrant workers ‘officially’ stuck in Indore are still awaiting permission and assistance from district administration to go to their hometown as virus spread is unlikely to provide any respite amid lockdown, which may extend at least till June. “There are around 1,000 migrant labourers, who got stuck at brickyards in Bhangarh. The employer are also working very hard to provide us food and drinking water for a day and now, it has become very difficult for us to stay as the work has also not started,” Kusum Bai, wife of Arjun, a native of Lalipur in Uttar Pradesh said. About 2,500 migrant workers, who had come to work at different brickyards in Magliya and Sirpur, are demanding to return to their hometown and waiting for help including transportation arrangements from departments concerned. “Many migrant workers have returned to their native place by walking but we could not muster courage due to our small children and after hearing hardships they faced during the journey,” Chandra Singh, a labourer at a brickyard in Mangliya said. According to ADM Dinesh Jain, the labour department and janpad CEO of Sanwer, Depalpur, Mhow and Indore block have provided a list of about 7,100 migrant workers, majorly from Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal, Chhattisgarh, Rajasthan, Maharashtra and other states and administration is coordinating with their counterparts in these states to prepare a plan to send the labourers home. “In last 4-5 days, around 500 migrant workers have been sent to Uttar Pradesh through buses while four and two buses of migrant workers will be sent to Rajasthan and Maharashtra respectively on May 13. Besides, 222 labourers of Chhattisgarh will be sent to Bhopal as state government has arranged a train for them to reach the neighbouring state,” he said. He added that to have talked to employers at different brickyards and they have offered to share some expenses to send their labourers back home. “We are talking to concerned states and required arrangements and permission will soon be granted,” the ADM said. District administration has a pendency of over 7,000 applications, where people, who belongs to other districts are stuck here, have demanded permission to move out. According to IDA CEO and nodal officer Vivek Shotriya, they have so far given permission to around 29,765 out of about 37,215 applicants by issuing them e-pass to move to their respective districts, including that in other states. “We are examining all the remaining applications and the same is likely to be disposed in next 24-hours,” he said. Meanwhile, water resource minister Tulsiram Silawat said that two trains, carrying around 3,500 people of Satna and Rewa district, will leave from Indore railway station on May 13 and 14 respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/20k-outsiders-stuck-in-indore-seek-administration-help-to-go-home/articleshow/75684499.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Rajkot||Man murdered by his cousin, uncle in Una||Rajkot: A man was murdered allegedly by his cousin and uncle in Mandhgam village of Una taluka in Gir Somnath district on Sunday night. The accused attacked the deceased with a spear and bats, said police.Police said the accused, Bharat Dodhiya and his father Vira Dodhiya, allegedly killed Manu Dodhiya (30) over trivial issue. Bharat and Vira attacked Manu and his father Kana Dodhiya with spear and bats. On Sunday night, while Manu and his wife Manisha Dodhiya (27) were seated on a tree house, Bharat and Vira flashed a torch light on them. Angry at this, Manu entered into an altercation with them. Following this, Bharat ran into his house and returned with a spear with which he allegedly pierced Manu’s chest. “When Kana rushed to his son’s rescue he, too, was attacked with the spear. Manisha was also beaten up with bats allegedly by the accused when she tried to intervene,” said V M Chaudhari, inspector with Una police station. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/man-murdered-by-his-cousin-uncle-in-una/articleshow/75683574.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: In oldies, young musicians find the strength for today||ALAPPUZHA: Determined not to let the lockdown get the better of them, a bunch of young musicians have been releasing covers of popular hits from the confines of their homes and making waves on social media. They are led by Alappuzha-native Goutham Vincent, who is popular for having organized music shows at relief camps in the district during the floods of 2018. He also composed the signature music for the Nehru Trophy Boat Race. The 23-year-old, who made it home from Chennai two days before the lockdown was announced, wants his music to shine through the gloom and pain that has engulfed the world. And in the internet he and his fellow musicians found the perfect ally to take their talents far and wide. “During the initial days of the lockdown, I released a poster online inviting singers to audition by sending us audio recordings of popular songs. I received numerous entries. The selected singers could select the song for which I would provide background score. After recording them, we are releasing the songs through social media channels such as Facebook, YouTube and Instagram. Our productions have been very well received. Famous personalities including lyricist Vayalar Sarath Chandra Varma, vocalist P Unnikrishnan, MPs A M Ariff, and Jose K Mani have shared our covers,” said Goutham, a student of popular musician Hentry Kuruvila, who has worked with A R Rahman. “The songs have been mixed and mastered by my friends Job Abraham and Alan Joseph at our Space Hub Productions studio in Chennai,” said Goutham. “We have released 20 covers till date. I also do Instagram and Facebook Live Performance for various media pages,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/in-oldies-young-musicians-find-the-strength-for-today/articleshow/75682320.cms||Sajimon P S
May 12, 2020||Chennai||Covid-19 cases surge past 8,000 in Tamil Nadu; six deaths recorded in a day||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu’s Covid-19 tally rose to 8,002 on Monday with 798 more people testing positive, 538 of them in Chennai, which continues to be the hotspot. The city, which registered more than 500 cases for the second consecutive day, now has a total of 4,371. Six deaths – the highest in a day so far — were recorded on Monday, pushing the TN toll to 53. While one of these deaths happened on Friday, four occurred over the weekend and one was registered on Monday morning. The doubling time for cases in Tamil Nadu was six days compared to five days in Chennai on Monday. In the past one week, the city has recorded an average of 377 cases, sometimes nearly three-fourths of the state’s daily spike. “The swift decline in case doubling time indicates rapidly increasing rate of infection,” a senior epidemiologist said. “A large number of cases were being reported from the southern parts of the city, including Perungudi, Thoraipakkam, Meenambakkam, Adambakkam, Nanganallur and Madipakkam. While some of them are a part of the Koyambedu cluster, many of them were outside the cluster,” said a senior official. The positivity rate – the percentage of those turning positive among those tested – is now at least 6%. On Sunday, of the 7,204 cases registered in TN, 1,350 were from the Tablighi Jamaat cluster and 2,296 were from the emerging Koyambedu cluster. On Monday, the neighbouring districts of Chennai also reported high increase in cases.  A senior official at the Covid-19 control room said, “There were still 3,558 people outside these two clusters. This group includes people who had travel history, contacts of people who tested positive, frontline workers such as doctors, healthcare workers, journalists, sanitary workers and conservancy staff. This group is growing steadily. And it is a cause for concern.” On Monday, when Chennai recorded 538 cases, it bordering districts also reported high spike in cases. While Tiruvallur recorded 97 cases, Chengalpet registered 90 and Kancheepuram recorded eight. Most of the 33 cases recorded in Ariyalur were a part of the Koyambedu cluster. Tiruvanamalai recorded 10 cases, while Madurai and Ramnad recorded four each. Nine other districts had three or fewer cases. A 32- year-old woman from Cuddalore, who had hypertension, bronchial asthma and enlargement of a blood vessel in the brain, died in Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital in Chennai on Friday. Two patients, who passed away hours after admission on Saturday, were also added to the toll on Monday. They included a 36-year-old woman with diabetes and bronchial asthma admitted to the GH on Saturday. A 65-year-old man with advanced stages of pancreatic cancer died in Kanyakumari Medical College Hospital on Saturday. A 50-year-old man with systemic hypertension and diabetes mellitus admitted to Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital four days ago died on Sunday. Less than two hours later, a 67-year-old woman with systemic hypertension, diabetes mellitus and hypothyroidism, died in the same hospital. A 66-year- old woman with hypertension and heart disease admitted to a private hospital in Chennai died on Monday. On Monday, 92 people were discharged, taking the total number of people cured to 2,051. At the end of the day, 5,895 people were undergoing treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/cases-surge-past-8000-in-tn-six-deaths-recorded-in-a-day/articleshow/75685069.cms||Pushpa Narayan
May 12, 2020||Dehradun||Opp Cong attacks CM Rawat for remark that cases in U’khand may rise to 25k||Dehradun: Reacting to CM Trivendra Singh Rawat’s recent statement during a webinar that “with over 2.5 lakh stranded people returning from across the country, there is a possibility that the state may have to deal with over 25,000 Covid-19-positive cases", former chief minister and senior Congress leader Harish Rawat termed the comment as “an immature one which can spread panic among people.” The CM had made the statement last week in response to a question during the webinar that was attended by several members of the Uttarakhand diaspora. He had said, "If around 2.5 lakh stranded people return to Uttarakhand, we can assume that around 25,000 of these would be infected. Of these, 5,000 people would require hospitalisation and 500 might also need ventilators." However, former CM Harish Rawat termed the public projection of these numbers as “unnecessary and bound to create panic.” "The CM’s statement and its timing, both are very immature. Instead of encouraging people to be safe, he is scaring them by quoting such numbers." He also accused the BJP government of being ill-prepared to handle the migrant influx. “People who are returning from other states are just being made to undergo a basic health check up and then they are being sent to their villages for panchayat quarantine where gram pradhan and ASHA workers, who are least equipped to deal with this outbreak, are being given the duty to enforce their quarantine." Doon-based Activist Anoop Nautiyal also questioned the state government’s preparedness regarding the health infrastructure to tackle 25,000 positive cases. Meanwhile, Darshan Singh Rawat, CM’s media OSD, said that the CM’s statement was misconstrued and clarified that he was replying to a question about the state’s preparedness to handle the influx of over 2 lakh migrants. "The CM meant that even if over 2 lakh migrants return and 25,000 are found Covid-19-positive, then the state has made sufficient arrangements to take care of them," he said, adding that the CM’s remarks have been blown out of proportion by those having a "negative mindset.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/opp-cong-attacks-cm-rawat-for-remark-that-cases-in-ukhand-may-rise-to-25k/articleshow/75683575.cms||Yogesh Kumar
May 12, 2020||Kolhapur||Shramik spl train leaves for MP with 1,066 migrants||Kolhapur: Nilu Raj, accompanied by her four-year-old son, was among the 1,066 passengers who left for Satna in Madhya Pradesh in the first Shramik special train arranged for transporting migrant workers from Kolhapur. Her husband, who works in a pipeline industry, stayed back at Jaisingpur. “He has been told by his employer to stay back as work has resumed. I will come back once all this is over. My son will miss his school,” said Nilu Raj as she stepped into the train which left from platform number 2 at 5pm on Monday. Most of the the migrant workers were youths working in some industry or shops in various parts of the district and pledged to return when the situation normalises. Dara Singh was among the 67 employees working at a textile mill in Wathar, a town along the national highway, who came to the terminus. “My employer paid part of the salary in advance to return home. He has asked me and others to come back once the lockdown ends. I have left my belongings here as I am sure I will return,” said Singh. Mahadev Chougule, a staff working at the mill in Wathar, brought the workers to the station. “My employer arranged for the transportation of the workers to the station. We have distributed water bottles and food packets among the workers. Upon reaching, the group leader has been asked to dial up my employer and inform that everyone has reached safely,” said Chougule.  As per district authorities, the state government expended Rs 9 lakh to arrange for the train tickets. There were some workers who were not registered and were asked to wait. Eventually, even they got tickets and were allowed to board the train after they produced documents like Aadhar card. Chief city engineer Netradip Sarnobat, who was assigned the responsibility of making the arrangements, said, “After we got the confirmation late Sunday night, we chalked out the markings, prepared food packets and arranged for water bottles..” There are over 20,000 migrant labourers who have applied to go back home. The next train that will leave from Kolhapur will be for Rajasthan for which around 1,700 workers have registered. District disaster management officer Prasad Sankpal said that they have received the approval from the Rajasthan government and have told the railways to arrange for a train. “We are hopeful that the next special train will be made available by Tuesday,” said Sankpal. Trains will also be arranged for Karnataka and Tamil Nadu as a large number of migrant workers have registered with the district administration to travel back to their hometown in these states.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/shramik-spl-train-leaves-for-mp-with-1066-migrants/articleshow/75683568.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Dehradun||US Nagar liquor vendors to strike if govt doesn’t reduce minimum sales quota||Rudrapur: Retail liquor vendors in Udham Singh Nagar are putting pressure on the district administration to reduce the monthly minimum sales quotas on their shops, based on which the tax they pay is calculated, threatening to go on a district-wide shut down from May 15 otherwise. The decision was taken in light of loss in business due to the lockdown, which has prevented allotees from opening their shops at the start of the current financial year. The district liquor vendors’ association submitted a memorandum to this effect with district magistrate (DM) Neeraj Kharwal on Monday evening. In the memorandum, the association has stated its members could not open their shops, allotment for which they received on March 19, at the start of the new financial year, because lockdown was announced on March 22 and lifted only on May 4. And now, with borders sealed and most industries, businesses, malls, theatres and tourist spots closed, they anticipate sales to be hit badly. They further stated that earlier, they were allowed to keep their shops open from 10am to 11pm, which has now been reduced to between 7am and 4pm. The association has further claimed that the state government, while allotting the licenses, had promised not to levy new taxes, but has now implemented a Covid-19 cess which they were finding difficult to pay, as they weren’t even managing to sell the quota they had bid for. They also threatened to down shutters in protest from May 15 if their quotas were not reduced, and demanded that as per agreement, the government should return their security deposits and first installments if their demands are not met. Association member Dharam Pal Singh told TOI that the retail dealer is facing a sales deficit of around 70% till now, due to several reasons, which have been tabulated in their memorandum. “We don’t see any chance of weddings and other big functions, which boost their sales, getting organised due to social distancing. The state government should therefore reduce the mandatory quota and bail us out, as they have done in Punjab and Uttar Pradesh.” An excise department officer, wishing anonymity, said the real cause of heartburn among vendors is the reduced time for opening shop after the two phases of lockdown. “The department and senior administrative officials should take a final call on the demand by association members, because if they go on strike, it will hurt state revenues,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/us-nagar-liquor-vendors-to-strike-if-govt-doesnt-reduce-minimum-sales-quota/articleshow/75683579.cms||Aakash Ahuja
May 12, 2020||Indore||Zero deaths in Malwa-Nimar, but 15 +ve cases in Neemuch||Indore: Malwa-Nimar region reported no death on Monday while laboratory reports only came positive in some cases. It gave some relief to locals as well as authorities in bringing the situation under control. According to Indore region joint director Dr JS Awasya, a report compiled on Monday shows no death in all eight districts. “Indore district late on Sunday night had reported one death and 77 new cases,” he said, adding that the figure rose here to total 1935 cases including 90 deaths. Dr Awasya said that one new case was reported in Jhabua and total number of cases has rose to two. “Besides, eight, seven, five and three new cases have respectively reported in Khargone, Dhar, Burhanpur and Khandwa district,” he said, adding that a rise in number of cases in Burhanpur is reported after sample collection and testing have increased. Meanwhile, reporting 15 cases in Neemuch, which had reported no case during lockdown phase-I and phase-II, has increased worries. “Neemuch has reported total 27 cases. Of this, 21 patients are either members or primary contacts of two families. We have launched contact tracing of them to put them in quarantine facilities,” collector Jitendra Singh Raje told TOI. He added that efforts are on to increase sample collection and testing to trace suspected cases. “We are also contemplating to start random sampling for reasons that most of the positive patients reported here are asymptomatic positive,” collector said. As per Ujjain division’s report of the day, four new cases each were reported in Ujjain and Dewas district. Of total 410 cases reported in seven districts of Ujjain division, total 58 deaths, maximum 45 in Ujjain district, have reported. Currently, total 170 patients are under treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/zero-deaths-in-malwa-nimar-but-15-ve-cases-in-neemuch/articleshow/75684495.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Indore||Industries seek relaxations in banking norms to survive||Indore: Industrialists have sought relaxations in banking norms to aid ailing industries baffled by nation-wide lockdown. Industrialists representing over 45 associations from across the state held a video conferencing session to discuss issues faced by units and revival plans. Industrialists said lockdown has killed the efficiency of industries and to facilitate firms resume operations post lockdown, credit limit should be enhanced and EMIs of bank loans should be deferred by six months. Mahesh Gupta, president, Laghu Udyog bharti, Madhya Pradesh said, “Bank interest rates should be reduced and norms needs to be relaxed so that industries get some breathing space.” Industrialists had gathered under the umbrella of Global Forum for Industrial Development (GFID) and suggested revival plan to Madhya Pradesh Bharatiya Janata Party President VD Sharma. Industrialists also addressed a letter to chief minister with 10 points demand seeking immediate actions to help industries survive the slump. Deepak Bhandari, president, GFID said, “Salary of employees has become a major issue for industrialists. There should not be any restrictions from government but industries and employees should mutually decide on salary. We have suggested 50 per cent salary for employees earning below Rs 15,000 a month and 25 per cent for employees earning more than Rs 15,000 a month.” Industrialists also raised concerns over plight of small scale industries and urgent need to support smaller businesses before they vanish. Laghu Udyog bharti demanded that representatives from industries should be involved in drafting industrial policy for better results. RS Goswami, president, Federation of Madhya Pradesh Chambers of Commerce and Industry said, “Import of all such products and services should be banned that are abundantly produced within the country. AKVN and DIC land should me made free hold while rebate should be given on lease rent.” Industrialists demanded waiver of penalty and interest while disputed all tax related matters should be disposed under Samadhan scheme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/industries-seek-relaxations-in-banking-norms-to-survive/articleshow/75684507.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Dehradun||Covid-19 positive Punjab trucker quarantined in US Nagar||DEHRDUN: A trucker from Punjab, who drove 400km from Fatehgarh, UP, to Udham Singh Nagar, was found to be Covid-19 positive on Monday. US Nagar chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Shailja Bhatt said that the patient had spent seven days in quarantine in Punjab but being asymptomatic, he was let go before his test results arrived. “The Local Intelligence Unit (LIU) received a report from Punjab Police that the trucker had reached US Nagar and that he had tested positive for Covid-19. The patient was immediately isolated and sent to Susheela Tiwari Medical College. His helper was sent for institutional quarantine and three other people who had helped him load the truck were also sent for quarantine after a primary check-up,” said Bhatt. Meanwhile, reports of all of the 160 samples the health department had sent for testing turned out to be negative. A total of 9,915 tests have been done across Uttarakhand so far, among which 68 have been positive. The state has 21 active cases, with 67.65 per cent recovery. Meanwhile, the Government Doon Medical College (GDMC) has formed a team to conduct research on patients, medical staff and treatment procedure. The results will be shared with the with Indian Council of Medical research (ICMR). “The aim of the research is to find out various factors of treatment, strains of the virus and how effective our modus operandi has been,” said Dr Ashutosh Sayana, the principal of GDMC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/covid-19-positive-punjab-trucker-quarantined-in-us-nagar/articleshow/75683601.cms||Ishita Mishra
May 12, 2020||Bareilly||1 dead, another injured in road accident||Pilibhit: A 25-year-old youth identified as Aleem of Naugma Pakadia village under Sungarhi police station was killed in a head-on collision of his bike with a speeding car on Sunday evening. The youth, along with injured pillion rider Faheem of the same village, was shifted to the district government hospital at Pilibhit where he succumbed to his injuries around 12am. His body has been sent for autopsy. An FIR has been lodged in the matter. According to Badrul Hassan, maternal uncle of the deceased, who filed a written complaint in the matter, “The two of them worked at the Bajaj Hindusthan Sugar Mill at Barkhera as contractual labourers. They were returning home on a bike when they were hit by an uncontrolled car on Bhind-Lipulekh highway near Jyoraha Kalyanpur village. The unidentified car driver fled the spot.” Station house officer (SHO) Umesh Solanki said that an FIR has been filed against the anonymous car driver under sections 279 (rash driving on a public way), 337 (causing hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others), 338 (causing grievous hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others) and 427 (mischief causing damage to the amount of fifty rupees or over) of the IPC. “Additionally, section 304 A (causing the death of any person by doing any rash or negligent act not amounting to culpable homicide) was added to the FIR after Aleem passed away in the hospital. The pillion rider is undergoing medical treatment,” Solanki said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/1-dead-another-injured-in-road-accident/articleshow/75682285.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Kolhapur||Satara: Dist admin plans young medical staff for Covid centres||Kolhapur: Young staff and alternate duty arrangements are being planed by the Satara district administration for health professionals in order to avoid the spread of Covid-19 among them.According to district health officer Aniruddha Athalye, 10 out of the 256 staff members of Satara health department have so far tested positive for Covid-19. "Reports of throat swab samples of many close contact patients are still pending. Hence, the number may vary," he added.Satara district collector Shekhar Singh told TOI that they are working on the 7-7-7 duty pattern of the medical staff under which the members working at the isolation ward for seven days will have to work in other wards for next 14 days in order to minimise the chance of getting infected."We will incorporate younger staff members for Covid duty as their core immunity is stronger compared to the older people with the co-morbid conditions. We are taking extra precautions in making sure that no staff member, especially those above 55-year-old, is appointed in the Covid ward," he said, adding Personal Protection Equipment (PPE) kits are being provided and all other safety measures are being followed."The frontline workers are working very hard and we have to appreciate their dedication," Singh said.According to a report from the health department, no police personnel has tested positive so far from the Satara police department.15 recover from Covid-19Meanwhile, the district administration heaved a major sigh of relief on Monday when as many as 15 patients recovered from the contagion and were discharged.With this the total number of recovery in Satara has reached to 35. The district has so far reported as many as 119 Covid-19 positive cases of which 82 are active. Two deaths have also been reported due to coronavirus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/satara-dist-admin-plans-young-medical-staff-for-covid-centres/articleshow/75683591.cms||Piyush Bhusari
May 12, 2020||Goa||Goa, Maha for streamlining cross border movement||Panaji: Goa police and their Maharashtra counterparts have agreed to set up additional screening and data entry counters at the border checkposts to reduce the waiting period for goods vehicles entering the state. Goa police have also sealed off all internal and non-motorable roads to prevent the illegal entry of people. A joint inspection was carried out on Monday by Goa police SP Utkrisht Prasoon along with north district collector, Sindhudurg collector and senior police officials from Maharashtra. Speaking to TOI, Prasoon said that they want to reduce the waiting time for goods vehicles at the border checkposts from the present four minutes to two minutes. “At the joint inspection, it was decided to install more screening and data entry counters to streamline the movement of goods vehicles.” North Goa police will coordinate with Maharashtra checkpost at Banda to ensure better synergy among both the police forces. Chief minister Pramod Sawant said that there are locals who help people from across the border enter the state through internal roads. He appealed to Goans not to do this as it could lead to the spread of Covid-19 in Goa, and warned of strict action. Prasoon said that police have been deployed on village roads so that no one can illegally enter the state, while some routes have been temporary closed. In addition, a slew of measures have been taken to strengthen the border checkposts. Incident commanders as well as senior secretaries also visit the checkposts Goa police have also educating villagers along the border to remain vigilant and report any attempts by persons to enter via unauthorised points. The inter-state border cannot be manned by police due to the vast territory, while certain parts are mountainous and forested. Hence, the Special Branch and Local Intelligence Branch (LIB) staff have also been activated to detect any case of illegal entry.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-maha-for-streamlining-cross-border-movement/articleshow/75685072.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Goa||CM: Don’t play with students’ future||Panaji: With the opposition criticizing the state government over conducting SSC examination, chief minister Pramod Sawant on Monday said that people should not create misunderstanding among public. Sawant said that people should not make SSC exams about politics. Reacting to rumours spread on social media that exams have been cancelled, Sawant said, “People should not spread such rumours and play with the future of the students.” Speaking to mediapersons, Sawant said the Goa board and department of education have decided to conduct exam after discussing all the aspects involved and without taking any risks. He also said that around 256 student who are supposed to appear for SSC exam from Karnataka and Maharashtra will not be mixed with Goan students during the exams. Sawant said that even now some people are trying to politicise the exams. Sawant said there was pressure on the government from parents to hold the exams because students are tensed and because of which the government took a decision to conduct exam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cm-dont-play-with-students-future/articleshow/75685067.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Delhi||Construction workers to be given Rs 5,000 again in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Construction workers in the capital will get another round of financial assistance as most of them have been without work since the lockdown began in March end. “Delhi government will again give Rs 5,000 to construction labourers,” chief minister Arvind Kejriwal tweeted on Monday. दिल्ली में कंस्ट्रक्शन का काम करनेवाले मजदूरों को इस महीने एक बार फिर दिल्ली सरकार ₹5000 की सहायता राशि देगी।— Arvind Kejriwal (@ArvindKejriwal) 1589189144000The government has also decided to launch an online portal where construction workers can get themselves registered between May 15 and 25. In the first round in April, around 40,000 workers registered with the Construction Workers’ Welfare Board of Delhi got the aid. “As the lockdown has been extended, we have decided to give Rs 5,000 again to construction workers,” labour minister Gopal Rai said after a board meeting in which the decisions were taken. As part of the lockdown relaxations, in situ construction activities have been allowed in the capital but only major infrastructure development projects have enough space to house labourers on the site. Hence, small projects are yet to resume. Many construction workers didn’t get any aid in April as they are not registered with the welfare board. Hence, the government has decided to change the procedure for new registration. “We have decided that from May 15 to 25, we will open online registration. The website link will be announced soon and labourers can register through it by uploading photocopies of their documents,” Rai said. After May 25, the government will verify the applications and then call the applicants to the labour department — 50 per day — to submit their original documents, the minister added. The government has also clarified that workers such as carpenters, grinders, construction site guards, people dealing with concrete mixers, crane operators, electricians, masons, tile/stone fitters, welders and coolies will also be allowed to register with the welfare board.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/construction-workers-to-be-given-rs-5k-again/articleshow/75684533.cms||AlokKNMishra
May 12, 2020||Goa||Goa: Facility quarantine for 280 travellers||PANAJI: The bulletin issued by the directorate of health services on Monday stated that 167 inter-state domestic travellers were home quarantined and 280 travellers were placed in facility quarantine.  It also stated that 459 samples tested negative while six suspects were admitted to isolation ward. In addition to the virology laboratory at Goa Medical College , Covid-19 tests are also being conducted in the two district hospitals and at the sub-district hospital, Chicalim. Besides GMC, a suspect has been admitted to the isolation ward of the sub-district hospital, Chicalim. All district and sub districts hospitals have created isolation wards.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/facility-quarantine-for-280-travellers/articleshow/75685073.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Bareilly||1,600 migrant labourers arrive from Gujarat on special train||Bareilly: A train carrying 1,616 migrant labourers from Ahmedabad, belonging to 38 districts of UP, arrived at Shahjahanpur on Monday evening. District administration provided 66 buses to send them to their home districts, after medical screening. The area around the railway station was sealed before the train arrived, and will be sanitised twice overnight before being opened to public on Tuesday. Shahjahanpur is currently marked a Green Zone as it doesn’t have any active Covid-19 case. Only four migrant labourers out of the 1,616 who arrived belong to the district, while the rest are from other districts. After the train arrived, the labourers from neighbouring districts like Pilibhit, Hardoi and Bareilly were screened and sent to their respective districts on buses, while residents of far-off districts like Jalon, Gorakhpur etc were taken to the Ramlila ground, where they were screened and given food packets and water. The largest number of labourers in the train — 293 — were from Pilibhit, while around 250 were from Bareilly. So far, six symptomatic cases were identified among them. The health department is expected to quarantine them in Shahjahanpur. Mohammed Firoz of Bareilly said, “I was stuck in Jamnagar during the lockdown. I’m happy I’ll finally reach home, meet my family and celebrate Eid with them. We only had to spend Rs 620 to buy tickets. Food was free.” DM Indra Vikram Singh said, “We have provided food and water to the migrants returning from Ahmedabad on shramik special trains. From here, we’ll send them home, where local administrations will conduct further medical check-ups and quarantine them.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/1600-migrant-labourers-arrive-from-gujarat-on-special-train/articleshow/75682305.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
May 12, 2020||Kolhapur||Rs 100 fine for not wearing mask||Kolhapur: Chief executive officer of Kolhapur zilla parishad Aman Mittal has issued orders to impose Rs 100 fine for not wearing face masks and Rs 200 fine for spitting in public places. According to the order, shop owners will also have to wear masks and hand gloves in their establishments, failing to which will lead to a fine of Rs 500. Fruit and vegetable vendors have also been asked to wear the same protective gears or face a penalty of Rs 200. "Those violating the said order twice, will have to pay twice the penalty amount and/or face criminal case. All officials concerned should ensure that the said instructions are followed across the rural areas of the district." Mittal has also appealed to the citizens from the rural areas to follow the social-distancing norm and practice all safety precautions in public places. Those who fail to comply with the said order can face action under the Disaster Management Act, 2005, and other relevant sections. Over 83,000 complete their home quarantine period Over 83,000 people, who have returned to Kolhapur from Mumbai, Pune and other places, have completed their 14-day quarantine period, a report released by the district administration said. From Pune, Mumbai and other cities as many as 86,548 citizens have been reported to have returned in the last few weeks, of which 83,888 have completed their home quarantine period, while 2,660 people still have to complete their 14-day isolation. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/rs-100-fine-for-not-wearing-mask/articleshow/75683603.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Dehradun||Parents’ body registers fee plaint against pvt schools||DEHRADUN: The National Association for Parents and Students Rights (NAPSR) has lodged a complaint with the Union ministry of human resource and development and the State Commission for Protection of Child Rights (Uttarakhand) against some private schools of Uttarakhand for “conducting online classes for lower primary school (up to KG classes) children.” The association claims that the schools are conducting online classes even when there is no need for it in order to be eligible to ask for the fees during the lockdown as the state education department has given instructions that schools which don’t hold online classes can’t claim fees. Arif Khan, president of NAPSR, alleged, “Students of KG classes don’t require any sort of urgent online classes during the lockdown. But despite that, some private schools have started taking the online classes of even KG and other junior classes just to make sure that they can ask for fees from their parents.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/parents-body-registers-fee-plaint-against-pvt-schools/articleshow/75683606.cms||Mohammad Anab
May 12, 2020||Indore||58 small cos set to resume ops||Indore: Fifty eight small scale industries located in rural areas of Indore region on Monday received nod to resume production. District administration in consultation with industries department allowed production in 58 industries located in Bardari, Bhawrasla, Rangwasa and Kumedi among other rural areas. Association of Industries Madhya Pradesh (AIMP) said most industries that are likely to resume operations are engaged in production of engineering goods, plastic materials, food processing and agricultural produce. Pramod Dafaria, president, AIMP said, “Selected manufacturing units have been allowed to function first time since lockdown was announced. All these units are based in rural areas and have made arrangements for workers within the campus.” According to the industry association, this is the first set of permission to manufacturing units while 602 small and medium seize industries have been allowed to dispatch finished goods across the country. As dispatch of goods from factories has started, monitoring committee constituted by association has started visiting facility to check safety norms and other practical issues faced by units. Harish Nagar, secretary, Plada Ayogiki Sanghtan and member of the monitoring committee said, “We have visited a few units dispatching goods and found satisfactory arrangements. No as manufacturing units have received permission, it is going to be crucial to watch how they maintain and sustain.” The association has constituted monitoring cell for different sectors with four members in each cell to look after operations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/58-small-cos-set-to-resume-ops/articleshow/75684515.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Bareilly||1,600 migrant labourers arrive from Gujarat on special train||Bareilly: A train carrying 1,616 migrant labourers from Ahmedabad, belonging to 38 districts of UP, arrived at Shahjahanpur on Monday evening. District administration provided 66 buses to send them to their home districts, after medical screening. The area around the railway station was sealed before the train arrived, and will be sanitised twice overnight before being opened to public on Tuesday. Shahjahanpur is currently marked a Green Zone as it doesn’t have any active Covid-19 case. Only four migrant labourers out of the 1,616 who arrived belong to the district, while the rest are from other districts. After the train arrived, the labourers from neighbouring districts like Pilibhit, Hardoi and Bareilly were screened and sent to their respective districts on buses, while residents of far-off districts like Jalon, Gorakhpur etc were taken to the Ramlila ground, where they were screened and given food packets and water. The largest number of labourers in the train — 293 — were from Pilibhit, while around 250 were from Bareilly. So far, six symptomatic cases were identified among them. The health department is expected to quarantine them in Shahjahanpur. Mohammed Firoz of Bareilly said, “I was stuck in Jamnagar during the lockdown. I’m happy I’ll finally reach home, meet my family and celebrate Eid with them. We only had to spend Rs 620 to buy tickets. Food was free.” DM Indra Vikram Singh said, “We have provided food and water to the migrants returning from Ahmedabad on shramik special trains. From here, we’ll send them home, where local administrations will conduct further medical check-ups and quarantine them.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/1600-migrant-labourers-arrive-from-gujarat-on-special-train/articleshow/75682334.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
May 12, 2020||Puducherry||Property row: Two AIADMK men set girl, 15, afire in Tamil Nadu||VILLUPURAM: A 15-year-old girl, who was set on fire by two men over a property dispute on Sunday, died while undergoing treatment in the Villupuram Government Medical College and Hospital on Monday. Two AIADMK members were arrested in connection with the incident. They were later expelled from the primary membership of the party. The deceased was identified as J Jayashree, daughter of K Jayabal, 42, of Sirumadurai in Villupuram district. She suffered more than 95% burns. Jayabal and his brother, K Kumar, 38, owned an acre of ancestral land, according to a senior police officer. There was a dispute over a piece of the land between them and G Murugan, 57, AIADMK’s Sirumadurai colony organizing committee representative. CM announces Rs 5 lakh for family of girl burnt aliveVillupuram superintendent S Jayakumar said the victim sustained more than 95% burns. Based on a complaint by Jayabal, the Tiruvennainallur police registered a murder case against Murugan and his associate K Kaliyaperumal and arrested them. A 15-second video of Jayashree giving her dying declaration was widely shared on social media. CM Edappadi K Palaniswami announced a solatium of Rs 5 lakh to the aggrieved family. On Sunday, Murugan’s associate visited Jayabal’s petty shop to buy cigarettes. A quarrel broke out between Jayabal’s son, Jayaraj, 17, and Murugan’s friend over the disputed land. Jayaraj suffered injuries during the quarrel. Following this, Jayabal lodged a police complaint against Murugan’s friend. Furious over the complaint, Murugan and Kaliyaperumal, the AIADMK’s Sirumadurai dalit colony branch secretary, set Jayabal’s daughter on fire in the shop and fled. In 2013, Murugan along with seven others chopped off Kumar’s hand over the same property dispute. The case is under trial. Dr R G Anand, member, child psychology and sociology, National Commission for Protection of Child Rights, New Delhi, sent a letter to the Villupuram collector requesting him to inquire into the matter and take strict action against the culprits under relevant sections of the Juvenile Justice Act, 2015, and the Indian Penal Code. An action-taken report should be shared with the commission within seven days of receipt of the letter. Political leaders, including DMK president M K Stalin, MDMK leader Vaiko, AMMK leader T T V Dhinakaran, PMK’s S Ramadoss and VCK’s Villupuram MP D Ravikumar, condemned the incident and demanded stringent action against the accused for their inhuman act after a transparent probe to ensure justice for the girl’s family.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/puducherry/property-row-two-aiadmk-men-set-girl-15-afire-in-tn/articleshow/75685077.cms||Karal Marx
May 12, 2020||Goa||Mapusa hospital OPDs resume, pandal mooted for patients||PANAJI: North Goa district hospital, which resumed its outpatient department (OPD) service last week, has since successfully followed social distancing norms while attending to patients. The hospital, which usually sees about 500 to 600 patients in its OPDs, has reduced its load to 50% on government directions. The hospital’s medical superintendent Dr Mohan Pednekar said they have put in place a system to prevent crowding by patients. At the flu OPD set up outside the hospital, guards have been posted at entry points to allow only a certain number of patients in at a time. “We know patients are inconvenienced and those who are not allowed entry have to stand in the sun. We are trying out a solution to help them,” he said. Goa State Infrastructure Development Corporation as been approached to set-up a pandal outside the hospital building where patients can comfortably await their turn, he said. A security guard posted in the hospital said that initially they had a difficult time as people would crowd and not listen to them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mapusa-hosp-opds-resume-pandal-mooted-for-patients/articleshow/75685076.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Indore||7 migrants from Gujarat test +ve||Khargone: As many as seven migrant workers of Khargone district among those who returned from Gujarat have been found to be coronavirus positive along with a constable. Khargone SDO (revenue) Abhishek Gehlot told TOI that 40 labourers of Kanapur in Sanavad were brought back from Ahmedabad and quarantined. Their samples were sent for testing and as per the report received on Sunday night, seven of them have tested Covid-19 positive. They have now been shifted to the isolation ward of the district hospital. He said that all the workers coming from outside are quarantined for 14 days and sampling is arranged in case of symptoms. A 45-year-old constable (barber) posted in the DRP line of Khargone has been found to be Covid-19 positive. Since the lockdown, he was constantly engaged in hairdressing of police personnel and officers including ASP Khargone. His contact history is being currently ascertained, according to which samples are being sent for testing. The constable’s house has been sealed and police officials and other cops, who came in contact with him, have quarantined themselves. DIG Nimar Range Tilak Singh said that the constable had gone to Indore in connection with a bank guard duty and during this, he had visited the house of an acquaintance. Although he used to wear PPE while cutting and shaving. He is a general duty constable, said DIG while talking to TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/7-migrants-from-gujarat-test-ve/articleshow/75684526.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Rajkot||Mumbai lady doctor booked in Bhuj for hiding Covid||RAJKOT: A 22-year-old Mumbai-based lady doctor was booked by the Bhuj police on Monday for allegedly concealing that she had tested positive for coronavirus in Mumbai on May 4. The doctor, who came to Bhuj on May 5, approached the district health officials on May 8 saying that she had received her report done in Mumbai which confirmed that she was infected. The health officials took her to GK General Hospital where doctors got suspicious about her claim that she had tested positive on May 8. They informed the police which investigated and found her Mumbai medical report which confirmed that she had tested positive on May 4 and not May 8 as claimed by her. “She is a doctor and was well aware about her condition. Despite knowing that she was a Covid patient, she travelled to Bhuj and even went around the town for three days,” Sourabh Tolumbia, superintendent of police, Kutch (west) told TOI. Surprisingly, there were contradictions about her Covid status in the versions of the district administration and GK General Hospital. Prabhav Joshi, district development officer, Kutch said, “She had tested negative on admission on May 8, but as per guidelines for mild symptoms she is required to remain in hospital for 10 days.” However, Dr Kashyap Buch, civil surgeon, GK General Hospital told TOI, “On May 8, we had received her report from JJ Hospital that she was Covid positive. We took her sample again but that was discarded because of some technical reasons, so she still remains a Covid positive patient. As per guidelines, we need to treat her for 10 to 14 days and thereafter we will again take her sample.” Tolumbia added that the woman, who is a trainee doctor at JJ Hospital, had also entered Kutch without valid permission. A pass was issued by Gandhinagar collector in the name of one Rabari Khengarbhai Vashrambhai to transport two persons including from Mumbai to Bhuj. However, there was a condition in the pass that before starting their journey, the travellers must take from the district magistrate of the destination place. The FIR states that she neither had valid documents from Mumbai authorities to travel to other districts or states nor the permission from Kutch district magistrate. She has been booked under sections of Disaster Management Act, 2005 in Bhuj B-division police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/mum-lady-doctor-booked-in-bhuj-for-hiding-covid/articleshow/75683635.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Kochi||What IQ? It’s mostly HQ in Kerala||Kochi: By a May 10 directive, the state health department said all asymptomatic persons who return from other states will be home quarantined for 14 days. But a reality check reveals that this was the case even before the order was issued, with those returning even from red zones being advised home quarantine (HQ). This despite chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan announcing on May 5 that all persons travelling from red zones would be placed in institutional quarantine (IQ) for 14 days, as per central government guidelines. When T C Padmanabhan reached home in Thrissur by car on May 6, along with his wife, child and younger brother, from Bengaluru, a red-zone district, they were asked to move to home quarantine by authorities. “Even before we arrived, my father had made all arrangements at home and ensured that the second floor of the house was vacated for us. Being a senior citizen, he shifted to a relative’s house. Health officials checked out the arrangements and on finding them to their satisfaction said that we could home quarantine. There was no mention of IQ,” said Padmanabhan. At border checkposts people are asked if they have adequate facilities for home quarantine. Even if someone requests institutional quarantine, they are asked to contact health authorities in their local districts. Sabin T S, who rode down on his motorcycle from Bengaluru to Ernakulam via Walayar border on May 5, sought IQ as he couldn’t go home to elderly parents and a child. “But I was asked to home quarantine myself as IQ facility was not available. So I rented a place in Kanjoor. Two days later I got a call informing that government IQ is ready and they sent a vehicle to transport me to the facility,” he said. Government sources said a decision was taken to home quarantine Malayalis coming from red zones as several district administrations were having trouble identifying IQ facilities to house large number of people. There was a growing consensus among government officials that Kerala’s strength has been its decentralised system of home quarantine and that needs to be strictly implemented. Also, officials were not in favour of housing people coming from different states together fearing increased risk of infection. “We have a capacity stress and to ensure that there is no system overload the decision to send asymptomatic persons returning from other states to home quarantine is important,” said Dr B Mohammed Asheel, executive director of Kerala Social Security Mission. Interestingly, the majority of returnees admit that they prefer home quarantine to IQ. “We are in familiar surroundings and are being monitored continuously by the health department and local panchayat officials. The health facilities are much better in Kerala than anywhere else in the country,” said Surendran Nair, who along with four of his friends are home quarantined at Koyilandy after they drove down in a rented Tempo Traveller from Gandhinagar in Gujarat. However, there are complaints of lack of coordination between Kerala and other states on issuance of passes and this needs to be sorted out to ensure that Malayalis are not stuck at state borders. “Kerala government gave us a pass to enter the state on May 11 but Chhattisgarh government gave us the pass to leave the state before May 7. We arrived at Muthanga checkpost on the Kerala-Karnataka border on May 8 afternoon and were stuck there for a day. Though we had a valid pass, we were told that we had arrived early. We tried to make our case and after much insistence we were allowed in and asked to go for home quarantine,” said Jacob T J from Sulthan Bathery.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/what-iq-its-mostly-hq-in-kerala/articleshow/75682400.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Kozhikode||Kerala: Wayanad in a spot as active Covid-19 cases climb to eight||KOZHIKODE: The sudden spurt in Covid-19 patients, linked to Koyambedu market in Tamil Nadu, has emerged as a concern for Wayanad. The district–which was a green zone just nine days ago –now has eight active cases, the highest among the districts. All cases here are linked to the truck driver and cleaner who returned from Koyambedu market. The latest to test positive is a 11-month-old child who is the grandson of the 52-year-old truck driver who tested positive on May 2 after his return from Koyambedu market. Collector Adeela Abdulla said that the mother of the child had tested negative. Seven of the eight cases reported this month are primary or secondary contacts of the truck driver. The driver had tested positive with his wife, mother, grandson and another secondary contact. While the cleaner tested negative, his son along with a friend tested positive. Also, another person who had been working in Koyambedu market tested positive on Sunday. The spurt of Covid- 19 cases has led to more areas in the district being declared as hotspots, the latest being Nenmeni panchayat on Monday. District medical officer Dr R Renuka said that after the truck driver from Koyambedu tested positive, the district administration had tested samples of other truck drivers who returned from Koyambedu and had also asked them to stay at home and not socialise. "Also, we will be retesting the samples of primary contacts of the truck driver who tested negative in the wake of some secondary contacts testing positive," she added. Transport minister A K Saseendran — who chaired a review meeting at the collectorate on Monday — said that steps to curb the spread of the disease would be intensified in the wake of new cases over the past few days. The first Koyambedu positive case had ended Wayanad’s Covid-19 free spell for 32 days on May 2 and had turned its status from green zone to orange zone. With the new case on Monday, the total number of persons who tested positive for Covid-19 in Wayanad rose to 11. Three positive cases reported earlier were discharged from hospital after recovery.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/wayanad-in-a-spot-as-active-covid-19-cases-climb-to-8/articleshow/75682371.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Kolhapur||Asha workers sport black badges to mark protest||KOLHAPUR/AURANGABAD/NASHIK: The Accredited Social Health Activists (Ashas) and their supervisors in the state sported black badges to work on Monday to demand an increase in honorarium and fixed pay. The workers are also seeking provision of proper protective gear as they carry out door-to-door screening in containment zones. The work done by the Asha workers has proven extremely helpful in the containment of the Covid-19 pandemic. They also spread awareness about how to maintain hygiene, wash hands, wear masks etc during the pandemic. According to Sachin Andhale, the Beed district president of Ashas and Gatpravartaj Mahasangh, as many as 72,000 Ashas and 5,000 supervisors in the state have decided to mark their protest by donning black badges from May 11 to 13 during work, as they cannot go on a strike during the pandemic. “We are are involved in over 80 types of health-related works in addition to the Covid surveys. We are applauded by the media and people for our works. This gives us mental satisfaction. But the meagre pay and minimal incentives cannot feed us and our children,” said an Asha workers doing the survey in Kolhapur’s Tarabai Park area. Netradipa Patil, the district head of Asha workers’ committee, said, “The Asha workers are paid between Rs 2,500 to Rs 3,000 per month. They have spend for travel on their own. Since the lockdown, all Asha workers are overworked. No other health employees are ready to take up -related survey tasks. We think the Asha workers deserve a decent salary and incentives. The daily incentive charges were fixed long ago and have not changed. We demand the daily incentive to be raised to Rs 300.” In Nashik, Raju Desle, member of the action committee of Asha workers, said, “We had tried to make our demands heard through emails to the CM, but since we have not received any assurance, we had to carry out our protest.” According to Desle, the monthly remuneration given to Asha workers is about Rs 3,000, which too is not fixed and puts them below the poverty line. “While the state government hires them and pays them remuneration, Asha workers are still not considered government employees. During these testing times, these health workers are working selflessly,” he added. According to Mangala Thombre, treasurer of the Aurangabad district Asha workers and health workers’ union, the Ashas are required to survey a minimum of 50 houses every day and carry out 14day follow-ups in the houses in containment zones. They are paid a meagre Rs 33 a day for all this work. With inputs from Kolhapur, Nashik & Aurangabad||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/asha-workers-sport-black-badges-to-mark-protest/articleshow/75683623.cms||pragya jain
May 12, 2020||Bareilly||Govt doc tests positive in Kheri, pvt hosp where he used to visit evacuated||Bareilly: A contractual government psychiatrist deployed in Lakhimpur Kheri district tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday. After getting information, five doctors and several other people, including his wife, who is a gynaecologist in Sitapur district, have been quarantined and their samples were sent for testing. The district administration has, meanwhile, evacuated a private hospital where he was a visiting doctor. Kheri chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Manoj Agarwal told TOI, “A contractual doctor has tested positive for Covid-19. He lives in Khairabad area of Sitapur, which is a hotspot. He was on leave for a few days. He returned to Lakhimpur city nearly six days ago for some paperwork and had stayed here for nearly half an hour. All his contacts have been quarantined. We have also evacuated a private hospital, where he had visited recently.” Kheri designated as an ‘Orange Zone’ after the positive case was reported on Monday and restrictions were imposed on travelling in cars or on bikes without a valid pass. Kheri senior superintendent of police (SSP) Poonam shared the information about the restrictions through the social media team and instructed the SHOs and circle officers to increase vigil in the urban area. Last month, four people had tested positive for Covid-19, but when all of them recovered, local residents were allowed to travel within the district while maintaining social distancing and wearing the mask.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/govt-doc-tests-positive-in-kheri-pvt-hosp-where-he-used-to-visit-evacuated/articleshow/75682366.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
May 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Karnataka: Odisha workers seek government help||HYDERABAD: Over 6,000 migrant workers from Odisha working at brick kilns in Rangareddy district have urged the state government to help them travel to their native places. As the production season of bricks has ended, the migrants have urged the government to arrange transportation for them to help them return to Odisha. According to Telangana State Labour Department, the migrant workers mainly hail from Balangir, Bargarh and Kalahandi in Odisha. “These migrant workers work for six months, between January and June. Once monsoon season begins, they go back to Odisha,” Deputy Commissioner of Labour, Rangareddy district, M Pramod Reddy told TOI. Rajendra Reddy, president, Telangana Brick Owners Welfare Association, said, “We are ready to send the migrant workers back to Odisha, but due to the lockdown, we are unable to arange the transportation.” He further stated that the brick industry suffered a huge loss due to the lockdown. “The workers normally produce 3 lakh bricks in a span of six months, but this year, only 1.20 lakh bricks were produced. At present, we are helping the migrant workers purchase groceries and the Department of Labour is monitoring the situation,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/odisha-workers-seek-govt-help/articleshow/75684530.cms||Sunil Mungara
May 12, 2020||Kolhapur||Admin exercises caution while issuing e-passes||KOLHAPUR: The digital tool started by the district administration for travellers stranded in the district to obtain e-passes has evoked mixed reactions. While some received the e-passes within two hours of forwarding their application, some are yet to obtain the document required for travelling out of the district. Around 4,000 of the 20,000 people who have applied for the travel pass have received the document. Shekhar Patil, a student at a city-based college, was stranded in Kolhapur since the lockdown was implemented. “I had already started my journey back home but had thankfully received the e-pass within an hour. The security personnel at the district borders allowed me to travel after seeing the application, which was still under process. I forwarded the e-pass to the personnel after reaching home,” said Patil. However, there are a few others who rang the district disaster helpline multiple times after their applications were rejected. One of such applicant said, “I had applied three days ago. Now, they are saying that I have to get a medical certificate and apply again.” The officials managing the system said that it the passes were immediately issued if the applicant resided in a particular locality that was Covid-19 free and the destination he wanted to travel to was in the green zone. “If a person wishes to travel from a containment zone in the city, he will have to procure a medical certificate which states that he does not have any Covid-19 symptoms,” said an official. The official further said that those who were in need of emergency health services were given passes in five minutes. “There is an option available in the digital form where applicants can submit the reason for travel and also the nature of emergency, medical or otherwise,” he said. Meanwhile, district collector Daulat Desai has appealed to the MLA to fill up the form to get the e-pass for travelling to Mumbai. The MLAs elect the members of the legislative council, the election of which is slated to take place by May end. The election commission had ordered the district administrations to make the e-passes available through the existing process.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/admin-exercises-caution-while-issuing-e-passes/articleshow/75683645.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Cyclone-weary residents move out of coastal villages||KENDRAPADA: Hundreds of villagers began to stream out of the seaside village of Kendrapada and Jagatsinghpur districts, as Cyclone Amphan intensified into a ‘super cyclone’ on Monday. Kendrapada collector Samarth Verma said villages under the Mahakalapada and Rajnagar blocks were being evacuated of people and the exercise would be completed by Tuesday afternoon. “We are working with the sarpanches and other panchayat body members to help people prepare for the cyclone. The coastal areas of the district are regularly hit by cyclones and everyone is taking this threat extremely seriously. A total of 117 cyclone shelters, apart from other structures, are ready. Two teams of NDRF and ODRAF have been deployed in the district,” Verma added. Fishermen have been asked not to enter the waters. “We have deployed power boats for relief and evacuation. We are using mikes to warn people of the danger. The authorities have also stocked up on dry food and rice and kept medical teams and ambulances on standby,” Verma added. In Jagatsinghpur, the gram panchayats of Satabhaya, Gupti, Talachua, Rangani, Pentha, Jamboo, Kharinashi, Kansarabadadandua and Suninti are on high alert. “We know the ferocity and the brute force of the sea. Nobody here is taking any chances,” said Basant Rout of Pentha village.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/cyclone-weary-residents-move-out-of-coastal-villages/articleshow/75813809.cms||Ashis Senapati
May 12, 2020||Surat||Nagging mother throws out couple from bizman’s family||Surat: On an eerily silent Sunday night, a police team on routine patrol duty were surprised to see a couple sitting at the Surat’s main bus depot When cops asked them the reason for coming out during lockdown, they got even more puzzled as the man and his wife readily agreed to get arrested for violation of public notification. There was more shock in store for the police when the man revealed that he was the son of a multimillionaire diamond trader, but expressed utter disgust at his mother who had thrown them out of the house. The 60-year-old mother’s nagging got even more pronounced due to lockdown and things came to a pass on Sunday night when she asked her daughter-in-law Mitali (name changed) to leave the house. Her son Tarun (name changed) too decided to walk out of the sprawling house on Ghod Dod Road with along with his wife The couple then walked around 15 km away from their home and reached the bus depot to chance upon a vehicle going to Ahmedabad where Mitali’s parents live. “It was then that the police called me to find some way to solve this extremely fragile matter,” said Piyush Shah, coordinator of Friends for Woman and Child, an initiative of CID crime. “After I understood their predicament, I talked to the man’s father and asked him to support his son in this hour of crisis," said Shah, who also sought community leaders’ help to find an amicable solution to the domestic issue. Finally, the man’s father agreed to let the couple live in his old home. The community leaders and cops arranged for some groceries too. Interestingly, the couple, unbeknownst to each other, had accepted monkhood separately while in their teens. But both chose to return to normal life two years ago. The duo got married in April 2019 in an arranged relationship. However, soon after their marriage, the wife became a target for domestic harassment for the mother-in-law who found every reason to berate her.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/nagging-mother-throws-out-couple-from-bizmans-family/articleshow/75683649.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
May 12, 2020||Bareilly||BJP MLA’s Facebook account hacked, FIR lodged||Bareilly: Budaun police has lodged an FIR against an unidentified person for hacking the Facebook account of a BJP MLA and demanding money from his friends. RK Sharma, BJP MLA from Bilsi, has alleged that his Facebook account was hacked and the hacker demanded Rs 5,000 to Rs 20,000 from a few of his Facebook friends through messenger. Sharma said, “I got calls on Sunday morning that someone was using my Facebook account for demanding money from people. The impersonator asked them to transfer the money through online mode of payment. I changed my password and informed police.” Pankaj Lavania, SHO, Bisauli police station, said, “An FIR has been lodged against unidentified accused under IPC section 384 (extortion) and sections of the IT Act.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/bjp-mlas-facebook-account-hacked-fir-lodged/articleshow/75682348.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
May 12, 2020||Dehradun||Migrant labourers of Chhattisgarh stuck in Mussoorie claim they are unable to go home due to high fares||MUSSOORIE: Migrant workers from Chhattisgarh who are stranded in Mussoorie due to lockdown are unable to return to their native villages due to “exorbitant” bus fares. “We need to return immediately for sowing rice crop and although government is giving us passes but the bus operators are demanding exorbitant fares which we cannot afford,” said Brij Lal, a construction worker who hails from Sitapur block in Chattisgarh. Other migrants from Chhattisgarh voiced similar concerns as they explain that due to norms of social distancing a 52-seater bus would accommodate half the number of passengers which has resulted in escalation of fares. “The normal fare is around Rs 2,000 per person but we are being asked to pay Rs 5,000 per person which we cannot afford,” laments Vikrant Khes, another migrant. They told TOI that they have asked their families and relatives to arrange some money so that they are able to pay for the fare. “We have appealed to our families to arrange some money but things seem difficult. If we do not return now we would not be able to sow rice and that would be disastrous for us,” says Mukesh, another migrant. Notably, there are 53 people from Chhattisgarh who were working as construction workers in the hill town and are keen to return to their native villages now. These migrants have appealed to the state government to subsidise the bus fares. “We appeal to the government to provide us some relief in fare so that we may return. We can bear up to Rs 2,000 but the government must come forward and bear the rest of the fare,” Brij Lal, said. Rakesh Gupta, a bus operator from Dehradun, said, “The cost for hiring a 52-seater bus to Chhattisgarh, including fare for return journey, comes to more than a lakh and we can accommodate only 26 people in one vehicle. We are also helpless in such a situation.” Meanwhile, even after repeated attempts, secretary transport Shailesh Bagauli and government spokesperson Madan Kaushik were not available for comments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/migrant-labourers-of-chhattisgarh-stuck-in-mussoorie-claim-they-are-unable-to-go-home-due-to-high-fares/articleshow/75683638.cms||Anmol Jain
May 12, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Visakhapatnam may see surge in Covid-19 cases, fear doctors||VISAKHAPATNAM: Worried about a possible rise in Covid-19 cases after mid-May, doctors involved in treating positive patients say that the city as well as the country will have to gear up to handle an increased number of cases. According to medical experts, the three reasons for the rise in Covid-19 cases in Vizag are opening of liquor shops, the gas leak at LG Polymers which led to people moving out in large numbers as well as protests. Social distancing and safety aspects were not followed and the after-effects may be visible within a week. They also pointed out that stranded Indians who are being brought back to the country may also carry the virus. Flights and ships carrying some of them will arrive in Vizag and Tirupati airports soon and a few may test positive during their quarantine. Speaking to TOI, director of Visakha Institute of Medical Sciences Dr K Satyavaraprasad said, “The first peak in Covid-19 cases will be after the middle of May and the second wave may hit us in June-July. From next week, Vizag is likely to see a spate of Covid-19 cases. Between May 4 and May 9 social distancing norms and safety measures were not adhered to by thousands of people during liquor sale and due to the industrial mishap at Venkatapuram. The effects may be seen after 5-7 days.” Doctors warn that if several thousands or lakhs of cases surface by June-July, it will be difficult to accommodate so many patients in hospitals. “It may so happen that even if all the hospitals are opened up for Covid-19 patients, space may still be inadequate to house say 20,000 or 50,000 patients. Therefore, the treatment will have to change depending on the situation and the number of cases in the coming days. The mild cases will have to be contained at home and only critical and co-morbid patients would be treated in hospitals,” said Dr Satyavaraprasad. Dr Devi Madhavi, head of the department of community medicine at King George Hospital said, “Even if the lockdown ends, people should continue to wear masks, maintain social distancing, hygiene, avoid social gatherings, and also avoid eating or ordering outside food as those cooking, packaging or handling the food can be coronavirus carriers. Protect the vulnerable, especially the elderly and children through self-isolation at home.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/vapour-leak-opening-of-liquor-shops-to-blame/articleshow/75683646.cms||Sulogna Mehta
May 12, 2020||Bhopal||Board ambiguity keeps students on tenterhooks||Bhopal: Anxiety and stress levels are running high among class 12 students, who are still waiting for their remaining board exams to take place. Keeping up with the revision and college interviews based on class 11 result, students are trying hard to make the best of the lockdown, without losing hope. Ojaswi Sharma, a student of class 12, said that she is getting bored sitting at home because of which her revision for the remaining exams is getting affected. “I was hoping to be done with my exams after the first phase of the lockdown, but now it is May and we still have no clue exactly when the exams will be held. There is no tentative time-table in sight, and that does stress me out at times. But then I calm down thinking that everyone is sailing in the same boat. I will now study just a few days before the exam as I can’t take this kind of pressure any more,” she said. Aditya Khare, a private school student, was taking CLAT coaching. But along with board exams, competitive exams has also been postponed. Obviously, it has disappointed many, including Aditya. “The Business exam was scheduled on March 24, but till now we have no clue when it will be held. There is no new date for CLAT exam too. This is causing me a lot of stress, as it is about my entire career and so much time is being wasted. My coaching has also been shifted to online mode, but it is not the same as actual class. It's taking a toll on my mental health,” lamented Aditya. Some students are already using the lockdown period to apply for colleges that are selecting students on the basis of class 10 and 11 results, but the delay in exams is still a matter of concern for many. Ananya Verma, another student of class 12, shared, “While I am prepared for the exams and done with the revision, I am stressed about the fact that the results will also be delayed now. My percentage depends upon the remaining subjects, and will ultimately affect my college admission. This is very scary; there is nothing we can do about it.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/board-ambiguity-keeps-students-on-tenterhooks/articleshow/75542377.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Goa||Entire Hospicio to shift soon: Sawant||Panaji: Chief minister Pramod Sawant said that within a few days, Hospicio hospital would be shifted to the new South Goa district hospital. The chief minister said that he along with health minister Vishwajit Rane will visit the hospital. “First, we will shift the wards, followed by the operation theaters, and then we will start the hospital full-fledged,” he said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/entire-hospicio-to-shift-soon-sawant/articleshow/75685091.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Nagpur||Surgery with city doctor’s safety box saves 6-year-old||Nagpur: Emergency surgery performed with the help of city-made medical innovation — ‘Bronchoscopy Safety Box’ — has saved life of a 6-year-old boy in the city last week. The boy, who was brought in a critical condition to KRIMS Hospital on May 5, went home with full recovery on Monday after interventional pulmonologist Dr Sameer Arbat, who has developed this safety box, performed the rare surgery. As the boy was having severe difficulty in breathing, it could have been a case of Covid-19 and swab test was a must. But, his condition was very critical and it was not possible to wait for 24 hours to get his samples tested. So, Dr Arbat decided to perform the surgery. “It was an emergency. Had we waited for the swab test results, it was difficult for him to survive,” said Dr Arbat. Patient’s swab sample was sent to IGGMCH and Dr Arbat performed surgery using his safety box and wearing all protective gear. Eventually, the boy tested negative for Covid-19 next day and all doctors and other staff heaved a sigh of relief. Dr Arbat said the process was rare not only because of the Covid-19 risk, but also because such processes are not performed on children in general. The boy, who resides in a nearby village, had an accidental strangulation almost a month ago while he was playing on a swing. Being entangled in rope swing, his neck had got choked and he lost consciousness. He was on ventilator support at a hospital near his village for a few days. He recovered and was eventually discharged. After three weeks of discharge, he started facing severe breathing difficulty. Considering his failure to breathe, he was brought to KRIMS. Here, it was revealed that his wind pipe had narrowed. “This internal narrowing of the wind pipe generally happens when patients remain on ventilator for long time. But, it’s rare in children. This surgery on such a young boy was a first for me,” said Dr Arbat. The procedure known as tracheal dilatation was performed taking all precautions for Covid-19. The narrowed segment was dilated with endoscopic balloons of different sizes. After 2 hours of surgery, the wind pipe was brought to its normal size.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/surgery-with-city-doctors-safety-box-saves-6-year-old/articleshow/75683350.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
May 12, 2020||Bareilly||Hajiyapur and Brahmapura taken off Covid hotspot list||Bareilly: In a huge relief for locals, Bareilly district administration on Monday allowed relaxation to residents of Hajiyapur and Brahmapura - declared as Covid-19 hotspots earlier in the aftermath of positive cases reported from the areas. Guidelines of lockdown, however, will need to be followed by residents and social distancing must be maintained. Inspections were also conducted by Bareilly district magistrate (DM) Nitish Kumar in the hotspots to take stock of the ground situation. “After some residents of Brahmapura and Hajiyapur localities were found to be Covid-19 positive, the two areas were declared as hotspots and were sealed by the district administration. Movements were also completely restricted. However, recent reports of the patients were found negative, and therefore, the two areas are no longer a hotspot. Now, some relaxation will be granted for locals," the Bareilly DM said. However, the DM cautioned that though the areas are no longer hotspots, police administration and civic authorities have been directed to make people adhere to the lockdown guidelines like before and ensure that social distancing is being followed. "Relief measures will be provided in the areas and some shops may be allowed to open, but people should not gather at public places or violate lockdown norms,” the DM added. Earlier in the month, the local administration had declared Bareilly as "red zone" after two persons were tested Covid-19 positive from Brahmapura. The infected persons were later identified as relatives of a quack, resident of Hajiyapur, who had later succumbed to the infection. Frequent flag marches were then held by Bareilly police across the city and in containment zones to ensure that local residents adhere to the lockdown guidelines. Legal actions were also being taken by civil as well as traffic police against commuters for flouting rules.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/hajiyapur-and-brahmapura-taken-off-covid-hotspot-list/articleshow/75682392.cms||Maria Khan
May 12, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Seven new cases reported in state, 4 in Kasaragod||Thiruvananthapuram: Seven positive cases were reported in Kerala on Monday, of which five came from other states and one from Kuwait. As many as 519 persons tested positive in state since the outbreak began in January and 27 patients are currently under treatment.Of the seven positive cases, four are from Kasaragod which had become Covid-free on Sunday; they came from Maharashtra. The other cases are in Palakkad, Malappuram and Wayanad.One positive case in Malappuram came from Chennai and the other from Kuwait. In Wayanad, the positive case was due to direct contact. At present, 27,986 persons are placed under surveillance, of which 27,545 are in home isolation and 441 are admitted at designated isolation facilities. Till date, 37,858 samples (including augmented samples) were sent for testing and 37,098 tested negative. Also, 3,842 samples were taken from priority groups like healthcare workers, persons with high social exposure and workers as part of sentinel surveillance and 3,791 of them tested negative.Now, Wayanad has eight active cases, followed by Kasaragod (4), Kollam (3), Ernakulam (3) and Kannur (3), Thrissur (2), Malappuram (2), Palakkad (1) and Kozhikode (1).Till date, 1,307 expatriates have come home, of which 650 are under home quarantine and 641 are at Covid care centres. Among this 1,307 NRKs, 229 are pregnant women. Also, 16 persons have been admitted to hospitals with suspected symptoms. Now, Palakkad has more people under observation (5,914), followed by Thiruvananthapuram (4,111) and Kozhikode (3,163). Kannur has the least number of people under observation at 556.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/seven-new-cases-reported-in-state-4-in-kasaragod/articleshow/75682422.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: Large-scale testing begins in Covid hotspot||LUCKNOW: A day after five persons were diagnosed with Covid-19 at Nazarbagh vegetable market in Kaiserbagh, health department on Monday launched a massive containment and testing drive in the locality, which is threatening to become the second big hotspot in the city after Sadar. Swab samples of about 300 people, including 25 children and nearly 130 women, were taken and sent for testing. Total 15 people have so far tested positive from the locality, which was declared a hotspot on May 5. The highest number of 105 cases in the city have been reported from five localities declared hotspots in Sadar area. The infection was detected in Nazarbagh after a shopkeeper and two vegetable vendors were found positive earlier this month. They had come in contact with a vegetable vendor in Lalbagh who tested positive on April 28. In charge of district infectious disease control unit Dr KP Tripathi said, “Like Sadar, Nazarbagh is densely populated and people live in clusters. Therefore, we decided to declare it a hotspot and collect swab samples of every person who had come in contact with the patients.” Meanwhile, a 69-year-old man from Sadar tested positive for novel coronavirus infection on Monday, taking the city’s tally to 253. The patient had come to KGMU’s fever clinic with breathing difficulty and flu-like symptoms on Sunday. “Nine members of his family are also being tested,” chief medical officer Dr Narendra Agarwal said. Meanwhile, six patients were discharged on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/large-scale-testing-begins-in-covid-spot/articleshow/75685097.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Kolhapur||People bypass screening centres, irk residents||KOLHAPUR: Many residents have complained to the local authorities stating that people coming from outside the city limits are bypassing the screening centres and directly arriving at their residences. Locals fear that such travellers may have been infected and by not screening themselves, they are risking the lives of other people, who have been putting up at home. It is mandatory for everyone to get screened at the entry points, where the details of such travellers are recorded in the software. The body temperature is checked with the help of a thermal gun and if found arriving from red zone districts, hotspots, or containments zone, they are directed to go to Covid care centre at Chhatrapati Pramila Raje civil hospital. They are handed a receipt, which they have to produce at the hospital, post which the doctors would check them and declare them fit. If found any suspicious, they are asked to stay in quarantine facilities. Mayor Nilofer Ajrekar said that she spoke to the municipal commissioner about such cases, who assured her that timely measures would be taken to stop such instances. “We suggested to him that those returning from the red zone areas should be taken to the hospital directly by civic transport buses and get their swabs tested. We have asked the local committee to step-up the vigilance of such people as there are chances that they can infect locals who have stayed at home throughout the lockdown,” she said. Civic authorities at Shiye entry point said that they record the details of the travellers coming from outstation. The details gathered are sent to the local ward level committees, who have to ensure that the travellers are screened. However, this system is not working properly as the travellers can influence the committee members in some way or the other. Ajrekar said that some of the activists have suggested getting the driving license of travellers and return it after screening.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/people-bypass-screening-centres-irk-residents/articleshow/75683654.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Business||Dishwasher, vacuum cleaner sales looking up due to lockdown||NEW DELHI: They are the new domestic helps, and you don’t run the risk of contracting Covid-19 from them. Dishwashers, vacuum cleaners, air purifiers and washing machines have suddenly captured the imagination of Indian households, emerging as the new helping hand as wary families restrict the entry of kaamwalis. Increasing enquiries are being made about these gadgets and orders rapidly placed even during the lockdown as families struggle with household chores, officials at sellers such as LG, Voltas, Dyson, and Samsung tell TOI. The officials say with social distancing remaining the norm even as the country gradually opens up, there would be fear in the minds of people to allowing household helpers inside. Coronavirus outbreak: Live updatesThough the concept of dishwashers and air purifiers is relatively new in the country and these gadgets are in the premium category, buyers are interested, officials say. Dyson, a premium maker of vacuum cleaners and air purifiers, is understood to have now witnessed 5-6 times more enquiries at its sales partners compared with the pre-corona days. The company’s cord-free vacuum cleaners cost between Rs 30,000 and Rs 60,000. Vijay Babu VP (Home Appliances) at LG Electronics India, said their dishwashers have the capability to even clean utensils stained with oily food, something that was always considered a problem in India. “There were valid doubts about the viability of the dish-washer in India, considering we use a lot of oil in cooking and have steel utensils. However, we have tried to address these concerns with our products.” Gadgets new concept, but buyers still interestedThe high cost, as well as limited space in most Indian kitchens, however, is an area of concern. For example, LG’s dishwasher in India costs upwards of Rs 50,000, a steep cost for most of the middle-class households. However, officials say that with social distancing remaining the norm even as the country opens up, there would be fear in the minds of people in allowing household helps inside. More on Covid-19 Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage Lockdown 3.0: What's allowed and what's not in the three zones It's time to mask up and stay safe: Join TOI's #MaskIndia campaign MHA's guidelines for home isolation Trust the newspaper for your daily verified news “Thus, the need for such products goes up manifold, especially as people need to focus more on safety and protection of their family members while they attend to their official work,” Babu says. Raju Pullan, Senior VP (Consumer Electronics Business) at Samsung India, says even products such as smart televisions are receiving a very strong response as people are home and consuming entertainment, news and content from platforms such as Netflix, and Amazon Prime. “In the past one month, we have received thousands of queries from consumers across the country as to how they can buy TVs or digital appliances as they stay home and work from home,” Pullan says, adding that even refrigerators and washing machines are in good demand. Pradeep Bakshi, managing director of Voltas, said households will be looking to increase the number of durables and appliances as the market opens up. “Products like refrigerators, washing machines, and dishwashers will witness demand, since more and more consumers are taking care of household chores, without the support of domestic help… Apart from household durables, many general trade, kirana stores, hypermarkets and modern trade department stores require chest freezers, chest coolers and other commercial refrigeration products for storing food, beverage and dairy products.” Watch Dishwasher, vacuum cleaner sales looking up due to lockdown||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/dishwasher-vacuum-cleaner-sales-looking-up-due-to-lockdown/articleshow/75685998.cms||Pankaj Doval
May 12, 2020||Kozhikode||Kerala: 1,162 guest workers in Malappuram return to UP||MALAPPURAM: A total of 1,162 guest workers from Uttar Pradesh returned to their home state in a special train from Tirur railway station on Monday evening. Last week, guest workers from the district had returned to Bihar and Madhya Pradesh in three trains operated from Tirur and Kozhikode. On Monday, 303 workers from Tirur taluk, 150 from Perinthalmanna, 301 from Kondotty and 408 from Tirurangadi returned in the train which left for Lucknow around 7pm. Earlier, police had prepared a list of the guest workers who wanted to return to UP and district administration granted approval for the list. On Monday morning, the workers were shifted from their labour camps to the health centres set up in each taluk. In Tirur taluk, health screening was held in Puthanathani and Tirur bus stands. In Perinthalmanna and Kondotty, the examination was held in Central GMLP School and Melangadi VHS School, respectively. Those who completed the health check-up were shifted to railway stations in 30 KSRTC buses. Meanwhile, district administration distributed more than 2.14 lakh food kits to guest workers staying at labour camps across the district. There were a total of 65,255 guest workers, including 76 people from Nepal, residing in the district. Among them, 26,997 people were from West Bengal, which is highest. A total of 5,438 persons were from Bihar, 4,633 from Uttar Pradesh, 5,421 from Odisha, 10,680 from Assam and 6,540 from Tamil Nadu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/1162-guest-workers-in-malappuram-return-to-up/articleshow/75682432.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Visakhapatnam: Gas leak probe panel seeks public opinion||VISAKHAPATNAM: The high power committee constituted by the state government to probe the styrene leak at LG Polymers plant has requested interested parties to send their inputs to convenorhpc@gmail.com. The committee was set up on May 8 to investigate and take stock of recovery steps taken in response to the incident. The committee visited the plant site on Sunday to inspect the premises , accompanied by experts, and will continue to gather expert opinion and views of relevant departments and organisations. A detailed interaction with affected groups will be held in a few days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/gas-leak-probe-panel-seeks-public-opinion/articleshow/75683661.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Kochi||178 passengers from Dubai reach Kochi||KOCHI: The repatriation flight from Dubai carrying 178 passengers reached Kochi on Monday night. The Air India Express flight (IX 434) touched down at 8:05pm at Cochin International Airport Limited (Cial). It is the first evacuation flight from Dubai after the Vande Bharat Mission started on Thursday. The passengers included 172 adults, five children aged below 10 and one infant. Of the 172 passengers, 86 are males. 54 passengers belong to Thrissur and 35 to Kottayam. There are 24 passengers belonging to Ernakulam and 20 to Alappuzha. One passenger belongs to Goa. Of the 178 passengers, two were shifted to Ernakulam Medical College after health screening. One of them had Covid-19 symptoms while the other person was shifted due to medical emergency. The remaining passengers left the airport after completing the procedures as per Covid-19 protocol. On Tuesday, there would be two repatriation flights to Kochi, one from Dammam and the other a connection flight from Singapore. The Dammam-Kochi Air India flight (AI 1924) is scheduled to reach at 8:30pm. The connection flight (IX 485) operated by Air India Express from Singapore via Bangalore is expected to reach Kochi by 10:50pm. It is the second repatriation flight from South East Asia to Kochi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/178-passengers-from-dubai-reach-kochi/articleshow/75682445.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: 5,000 million litres water saved in lockdown||LUCKNOW: The 47-day lockdown has saved drinking water equivalent to a week’s supply to all 5.48 lakh households in the city. The estimate comes from Jal Sansthan officials and experts. Around 5,000 million litres of water have been saved in the city since the lockdown was imposed. Closure of construction activities, restaurants, hotels and vehicles service centres among other activities, had caused the dip in consumption. Jal Sansthan supplies around 700 million litres per day (MLD) of drinking water to all houses in the city. In addition, it supplies 50 MLD to around 4,500 commercial units. Further, an estimated 60 MLD water is withdrawn independently by thousands of small commercial units through submersible pumps. As a result, 110 million litres water is being saved daily, said officers. Jal Sansthan general manager SK Verma said, “Complaints related to erratic and low pressure water supply have come down during the period.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/5000-mn-ltrs-water-saved-in-lockdown/articleshow/75685105.cms||Pranchal Srivastava
May 12, 2020||Bareilly||Three fresh Covid-19 cases reported in Rampur district||Rampur: Three fresh Covid-19 cases were reported in Rampur on Sunday, taking the total in the district to nine. All new cases were labourers who were working in Ahmedabad. Two of them are residents of Chamrawa tehsil, while the third hails from Pipalsana village in Milak tehsil. Authorities have quarantined all three, and all those who were in their contact since they arrived from Gujarat. Speaking with TOI Rampur district magistrate (DM) Aunjaneya Kumar Singh said 1,200 labourers reached Rampur from Ahmedabad on a special train on Monday, 30% of whom were from other districts and 70% from Rampur. All of them were taken to shelter homes to be screened and quarantined, before being sent home. District authorities were worried about the influx of outsiders in the district. The DM appealed to residents that they should follow all Covid-19 pandemic protocols. Aunjaney Kumar Singh said, “We continued to appeal to people of the district to wear masks and follow social distancing norms to break the chain of spread of infection.”Rampur chief medical officer (CMO) Subodh Sharma said, “At present, there are around 115 people quarantined in the designated ward of a building in Jauhar Institute of Medical Sciences.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/three-fresh-covid-19-cases-reported-in-rampur-district/articleshow/75682425.cms||Nazar Abbas
May 12, 2020||Amaravati||YS Jaganmohan Reddy calls for free movement of cargo and public transport||AMARAVATI: Chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy has urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to ensure movement of cargo vehicles to revive the economy. During a video-conference held on Monday, the chief minister said that freight movement has been facing many hurdles at inter-state checkposts even after the lockdown norms were eased. The chief minister said that it would be extremely difficult to revive the economy without allowing unrestricted movement of cargo vehicles, without providing employment to migrant workers and allowing workers back in factories. The chief minister also asked the PM to remove restrictions on public transport after the lockdown. “We can’t expect factories to be back in business without public transport. Public transport is essential for workers to reach work places,” said the CM. The CM expressed anguish about migrant workers who were leaving for their home states. He said they would not return to work places from their native places without public transport. He, however, said that following social distancing, provision for sanitisers and masks could be made mandatory in public transport. The CM batted for reopening of shopping malls by putting Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) in line. “Social discrimination of Covid-19 patients and relatives has been a big hurdle in containing the virus. People are not coming forward for testing and treatment due to social stigma and discrimination. We need to create awareness among the public that coronavirus is near treatable,” said the chief minister. Explaining the measures taken for strengthening of the health infrastructure in the state, the chief minister requested the PM to provide interest-free or low interest loans for building medical colleges, hospitals and other health infrastructure. He said that they have planned to construct one medical college in each of the 25 Lok Sabha constituencies in the state and another 16 teaching hospitals to take advanced healthcare facilities to grassroots. The chief minister said that the state would require Rs 16,000 crore to complete the projects and sought the Centre’s support for funds. He requested the PM to remove all the loans secured for healthcare institutions from the ambit of Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management (FRBM) Act. The CM also requested the PM to take proactive measures including waiver of interests on loans and deferment of loans for six months for MSME units. The chief minister also asked the PM to increase the cap on procurement of agriculture produces under MSP operations to 50% from 30%. He had also pushed for reopening of wholesale markets across the country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/jagan-calls-for-free-movement-of-cargo-and-public-transport/articleshow/75683673.cms||Samdani MN
May 12, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Municipal teachers at PDS centres face heat||NEW DELHI: Municipal teachers posted at ration distribution centres in primary schools have complained of frequent fights and arguments with beneficiaries. Two such incidents took place on Monday in south and east Delhi. On Monday, a large crowd gathered at a school in Ambedkar Nagar and the ration beneficiaries started arguing with the teachers. The teachers’ unions later wrote to chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, the three municipal commissioners and other senior officials for deployment of security forces to ensure that such incidents don’t recur. In the second incident that took place at the school in Bhikam Singh Colony in east Delhi, the beneficiaries started arguing with the teachers after the rations stock finished. They also accused the teachers of stealing the rations. Also, the Covid-related death of a teacher deputed at a food distribution centre in Civil Lines zone and failure of the government to announce ex gratia of Rs one crore has miffed the unions and they have threatened to go on mass leave on Wednesday. They have also demanded check-up of staff after many teachers tested positive for novel coronavirus in the past few days. Sumitra, the principal of the SDMC primary school in Sector 1 of Ambedkar Nagar, said on Monday they prepared the records and placed four counters for distribution of rations. “As soon as the door opened, many people rushed in without maintaining social distancing. They were not even wearing masks. They started arguing with us as they were unwilling to wait in queue. We had to shut the counters and call senior officials as it had become difficult for us to handle the situation,” the principal added. Ram Dayal Meena, the school inspector, said the teachers had to call police as no one was there for maintaining security. “We had distributed 100 coupons, but scores turned up at the centre. We are not going to open the centre on Tuesday unless proper safety measures are taken or paramilitary forces are deployed,” he added. A senior government official said he would look into the matter. “But it is the responsibility of the teachers to assess the situation, call police or staff from other departments before starting the distribution,” he added. Kuldeep Khatri of Shikshak Nyay Manch Nagar Nigam said, “We have not been paid salaries for two months. Why should we suffer unnecessarily while performing Covid-19 duties? All unions have planned to go on mass leave if our demands are not met.” Meanwhile, north corporation standing committee chairman Jai Prakash wrote to the CM for releasing Rs one crore compensation to the family of the teacher who died on May 4 due to Covid-19. The teacher was posted at the food distribution centre in Bhadola. Her husband also died of coronavirus on May 3. “I have requested the CM for setting up separate testing centres for municipal workers, including sanitation staff, teachers and health workers,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/teachers-at-pds-centres-face-heat/articleshow/75684547.cms||Vibha Sharma
May 12, 2020||Indore||Targetted or random? No clarity on sampling||Indore: District health department is clueless about type of sampling being undertaken in the city to find out new positive COVID-19 cases. Chief medical and health officer Dr Pravin Jadia claimed in the first week of May that random sampling was carried out in the city to detect community spread but they found ‘family transmission’. A week later, he denied having carried out random sampling and said targeted sampling model was being followed. The health department sampling teams have been collecting over 600 samples per day since May 4. Before that, they were collecting around 250 samples per day. In random sampling method, proportion of population in respect to the ones affected with disease is sampled. Areas apart from affected cluster are also covered and the person is tested without a symptom or reason like contact history with infected individual, MGM Medical College community medicine associate professor Dr Salil Sakalle said. It helps in identifying and preventing spread of community transmission, he said. Targeted sampling is used for finding out hidden population affected with a disease. The test subjects’ selection has a basis – contact history or symptoms. In general, population in clusters affected by the infection are covered in target sampling, Dr Sakalle said. Every sample collected in Indore has a cause associated with it. It can’t be used to determine community transmission, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/targetted-or-random-no-clarity-on-sampling/articleshow/75684545.cms||Antriksh Singh
May 12, 2020||Vadodara||After 18 days, Narmada reports one case||Vadodara: A resident of Garudeshwar taluka in Narmada district tested positive for Coronavirus on Monday. This is the 13th positive case registered in the district that is home to world’s tallest statue – Statue of Unity. The positive case was registered after a gap of 18 days. The authorities are now trying to ascertain if the young man got infected with the virus due to community spread or travel. The administration is regularly testing people and has done door to door survey of over 81,000 persons in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/after-18-days-narmada-reports-one-case/articleshow/75683674.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Agra||60 Jamaat followers in 'quarantine' at Agra centre for 42 days, 24 of them ill, all have tested negative twice||AGRA: At least 60 people, including 24 facing health issues ranging from diabetes to heart-related ailments, are lodged at a quarantine centre in Agra for the last 42 days in spite of clearing the Covid-19 tests twice, first on April 3 and then on April 20. They have said conditions are "prison-like" and that there is "ill-treatment by staff" at the centre in Agra’s Sikandra area. Mostly residents of Delhi, Andhra Pradesh and parts of Uttar Pradesh, all of them had contacted the administration after it came to the fore that government wanted all those who had attended the Tablighi Jamaat event in Delhi’s Nizamuddin should come forward. Of the 60, 12 are women. When contacted, additional district magistrate (ADM) Prabhakant Awasthi said, “These Tablighi Jamaat people are involved in criminal offence. They will be released only after the approval of police.” But police said that there was no case filed against them. Station house officer (SHO) of Sikandra police station, Arvind Kumar, said, “No FIR has been registered against them. After the lockdown, they were not allowed to move out of the district. State government and administration will decide on their release.” Those suffering from health issues claimed that they were not getting medicines. Some went on to say that they are being “unnecessarily targeted” by the authorities. A businessman from Ghazipur lodged at the centre told TOI, “Local leaders of Tablighi Jamaat had themselves informed the police about us. We were shifted here on March 31. Local authorities had told us that after testing of samples, all those who reported Covid-19 negative will be released. Our samples were collected on April 1 and all of us were confirmed Covid-19 negative on April 3.” He added, “On the next day, we were informed about the compulsory quarantine period of 14 days. After 14 days in quarantine, we were told that resampling will be done. Samples were collected on April 18 and all of us were again confirmed Covid-19 negative on April 20. Since then, we have been pleading with officials to allow us to go home. But they often misbehave when we ask them about the date of our release”. Another inmate from Delhi said, “It feels like we are serving a jail term. Authorities must understand that we have not done any crime. Our family members are also in deep distress. We request chief minister Yogi Adityanath to take cognizance of our problem and order our release”. An elderly man at the centre said, “I am a heart patient. Besides, more than 20 people have high blood pressure, diabetes and other health issues. We are not getting the required medicines even after repeated requests. Quality of food being served here is poor too. Soon, some of us will die if not released.” A video of the quarantine centre shows filthy toilets with no water supply. The centre has two toilets for 60 people. Chief medical officer of Agra Dr RC Pandey said, “We will be releasing all those tested negative.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/60-jamaat-followers-in-quarantine-at-agra-centre-for-42-days-24-of-them-ill-all-have-tested-negative-twice/articleshow/75682454.cms||Deepak Lavania
May 12, 2020||Lucknow||A first in 300 years: No Bada Mangal fair this time||LUCKNOW: Over three centuries old tradition of organising Bada Mangal fair at New Hanuman temple in Aliganj will be broken this year. In fact, there will be no celebration in temples on four auspicious Tuesdays falling on May 12, 19, 26 and June 2. Over 50,000 devotees from various parts of the state visit the temple to celebrate Bada Mangal. “The tradition of fair on Bada Mangal began after the city was hit by a plague long ago. Those who were inside the temple at that time remained safe. Since then the fair is being organised every year. We have been receiving calls from devotees to open the temple gates for a day on Tuesday, but considering safety of everyone, the temple will remain closed,” said Anil Tiwari, of Aliganj Shri Mahaveer ji Trust (Naya Hanuman Mandir). “The day is not only dedicated to the lord, but also becomes a reflection of Hindu-Muslim bonhomie when members of both the communities come forward to celebrate the auspicious day,” he added. Lucknow chronicler Yogesh Praveen says the temple was built by Janab-e-Alia, Hindu wife of Nawab Shuja-ud-Daulah, nearly 350-years ago, after her wish for a child was fulfilled. “The Begum was blessed with a son and she dreamt of a divine presence commanding her to build a shrine in honour of Hanuman. After the temple was built, the tradition of celebrating Bada Mangal and organising a fair started around that time which continues till date,” he added. Hanuman Setu temple, Dakshin Mukhi Hanuman temple, Panchmukhi Hanuman temple and other temples will also remain closed on Bada Mangal due to the lockdown. Hanuman Setu temple will only be opened for priests to perform the traditional ‘aarti’ to mark the day. “All the programmes have been cancelled. There will be no live ‘aarti' on social media handles. Whoever wishes to offer prayers will only be able to do so from outside the temple,” said Divakar Tripathi, secretary, Shri Sankat Mochan Hanuman Ji Trust. Aliganj’s Purana Hanuman Mandir, said to be the oldest Hanuman temple in the city, will not hold any grand programme this year. Ramesh Yadav, a resident of Alambagh, said that he will miss preparing variety of ‘prasad’ at his Bada Mangal pandal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/a-first-in-300-years-no-bada-mangal-fair-this-time/articleshow/75685119.cms||Aditi Singh
May 12, 2020||Patna||Bihar CM Nitish Kumar wants lockdown extension till May-end||PATNA: Bihar CM Nitish Kumar on Monday suggested to PM Narendra Modi to extend the lockdown till the end of this month, so that the state government can take make arrangements for large inflow of migrant workers and other stranded persons returning from across the country. A significant number of migrant workers returning home have tested positive for Covid-19 so far. “Though we will accept whatever decision is taken by the Centre, but we would suggest extension of lockdown till this month end. This will allow us to identify the infected persons and safeguard others from the infection,” Nitish said in the videoconferencing session of the CMs of all states with the PM. He said relaxations have already been given for certain activities and steps are being taken for employment generation. Nitish said 179 special trains are slated to come to Bihar in the next seven days. “Arrangements of buses should also be made to bring migrant workers from nearby places. The process of sending back migrant workers willing to return from Bihar should be completed within next 7-8 days,” he said. A minister in the Nitish government told TOI on condition of anonymity that the inflow of migrant workers is likely to continue for another 10-12 days and lifting the lockdown may worsen the situation. “While 102 special trains have come to Bihar so far, more such trains are expected in the coming days, including the 19 trains reaching the state on Tuesday. A substantial number of migrant workers, who returned from other states, have tested positive for Covid-19 so far. Thus, lifting the lockdown completely at this stage will not be a wise step,” the minister said. He added: “We would like to extend the lockdown till all registered migrant workers and other stranded persons return to the state and are put in the quarantine centres.” Sources in the health department said more than 180 migrant workers have tested positive for Covid-19 virus so far, including 30 out of 85 fresh cases on Sunday and around 40 of 50 cases on Monday. As per the railway records, total 1.2 lakh stranded migrant workers, students and other persons have returned to Bihar since May 2. Though Bihar government is for extending the lockdown, it may allow certain relaxations based on colour-coded zones. “We may allow relaxations as per the guidelines of Ministry of Home Affairs to allow some economic activities in the areas where minimal or no cases have been reported,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nitish-wants-lockdown-extension-till-may-end/articleshow/75682467.cms||Madan Kumar
May 12, 2020||Indore||25 cases in 3 days, Nehru Nagar new Covid hotspot||Indore: Nehru Nagar has become a new Covid-19 hotspot in the city and it was sealed on Monday to prevent the virus spread. The area reported 25 new positive cases in last three days and over 50 in total. The district administration authorities including police officials inspected the area and sealed it. The administration is trying to ascertain the source of transmission in some pockets of Nehru Nagar area. Lalbagh area also reported first positive case. A 35-year-old woman tested positive in the area. As Lalbagh is one of the densely populated areas of the city, officials have intensified the contact tracing. Eight positive cases were found in single complex in Malharganj area and they belong to same family. Dr Anil Dongre said, “We have screened 209 people during contact tracing of 38 positive patients. 78 people were found positive on Sunday but contact tracing of 40 couldn’t be done.” Among those 209, 150 were among the high-risk group and were home quarantined as they were asymptomatic. There are 32 low-risk group people and rest were asymptomatic, said Dongre. The district sampling team has collected 1420 samples on Monday taking the total sampling to 13,000 from CMHO team till date. There were flu hospitals also, which collects sample, added Dongre. Chemists to keep records of customers seeking flu meds: District administration has ordered all medical shop owners to note down name, age, address and contact detail of all persons asking for cough and cold medicines. Collector Manish Singh warned of strict action if the order is not followed. The decision was taken to break the virus chain.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/25-cases-in-3-days-nehru-nagar-new-covid-hotspot/articleshow/75684550.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Jaipur||2,000 workers demand transport, protest at Jaipur’s Painter Colony||JAIPUR: At least 2,000 migrant workers hailing from West Bengal, Bihar and Uttar Pradesh came out on the road at Painter Colony at Nahari Ka Naaka area of Shastri Nagar on Monday afternoon, demanding that the state government arrange for their return home immediately. They said they were without food, money and other basic necessities. They shouted slogans and tried to got to the district collector’s office in protest. A large number of policemen, including from the Rajasthan Armed Constabulary(RAC) and Rapid Action Force(RAF), reached at the spot and stopped them. They were dispersed by the police after an hour with the assurance that their demands would be conveyed to the state government. ‘Just 300 food packets being distributed for 12,000 workers’ Police were in a tizzy after the control room was informed by local residents that nearly 1,000 migrant workers were walking on the roads going towards the district collectorate. Soon, the Shastri Nagar police team reached at the spot with extra men. TOI spoke to migrant workers to find out about their problems. “Everyday, they distribute merely 300 food packets. But, we are almost 12,000 migrant workers from Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and West Bengal. We have no food to eat, no money and no employment. Why can’t the government send us home,” asked Nizam Ul Haq, a daily-wage labourer from West bengal who was part of the agitation at Painter Colony. Protesting workers added that they were also living in rented accommodations, with 50 to 60 tenants in one house. “Initially, we thought the lockdown would be over in a fortnight or a month. But the government keeps extending it. We have no food or money,” said Amin Ali, who too lives in the Painter Colony. “Makan malik kiraaya mangta hai, khane ka gaadi poora khaana nahin laata, ab kya Karen (The landlord is asking for rent, the vehicles supplying food does not bring adequate food, so what to do),” asked Naseem Akhtar, a native of Katiar in Bihar. Many also said that they were illiterate and had no idea of how and where to apply to get a transport home. According to police, the protest started after labourers in a WhatsApp group planned to visit the district collector’s office to narrate their plight. “However, this message was forwarded to more people within the community of migrant labourers. We saw almost 2,000 labourers who were adamant of going to the collectorate,” said Ajay Pal Lamba, additional commissioner of police (law and order), while speaking to TOI. Some of the labourers in the group became angry and violent. However, the police managed to maintain law and order by urging them through loudspeakers. “They were sent back to their accommodation, we will convey their problems to the government,” Lamba said. Watch Jaipur: Chaos at city's painter colony after thousands of migrant workers stage protest||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/2k-workers-demand-transportprotest-at-citys-painter-colony/articleshow/75685111.cms||Ashish Mehta
May 12, 2020||Indore||Yoga & meditation: Healing mantras for Covid beaters||Indore: Yoga and breathing exercises have proved to be major sources of healing for mild and asymptomatic patients of Covid-19 in health facilities across the city. These breathing exercises along with meditation are helping them also during the 14 days of the post-discharge quarantine period.“Yoga, breathing exercises and meditation have helped me to remain calm and relaxed during my 14-day quarantine post-discharge from SAIMS,” said a 48-year-old chartered accountant, resident of Vidya Palace, who recovered from Covid-19.“I did yoga for ten minutes and breathing exercises like pranayam, anulom vilom and kapalbhati daily in the morning after discharge,” he said. “I also meditated but there is no fixed time for it. It can be done any time in the day,” he said.“After doing it, I feel positive energy flowing through my body. These exercises were also performed during the hospital stay,” he said. He tested positive on April 6 and was discharged on April 26 from SAIMS.MRTB hospital superintendent Dr Salil Bhargava said, “Yoga and breathing exercises are non-pharmacological interventions, which helps in improving condition of lungs in Covid-19 patients. Because of it, we have begun it in the hospital on a daily basis.”The patients were asked to continue these breathing exercises even after their discharge. These breathing exercises also help in improving damaged lungs, said Bhargava.“I have been following the instructions given by the doctors after being discharged from the hospital and I feel improvement. I am more relaxed, calm and full of positive energy because of regularly performing yoga, breathing exercises and meditation,” said a 61 year-old male resident of Banganga.He was discharged from the MRTB Hospital on April 27. “During our course of treatment in MRTB, the doctors were instructing us to perform yoga and breathing exercises. This continued even after the discharge,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/yoga-meditation-healing-mantras-for-covid-beaters/articleshow/75684555.cms||Antriksh Singh
May 12, 2020||Vijayawada||Rayalaseema continues to top charts, reports 26 cases||TIRUPATI: The Rayalaseema districts accounted for 26 of the 38 Covid-19 cases reported in the state on Monday, even as the total number of cases in the state rose to 2,018. Chittoor and Kurnool districts reported nine cases each, the highest in the state on Monday, while eight cases were reported from Anantapur district. Three patients were discharged in Anantapur district, while two were discharged in Kurnool district and one in Chittoor district. Meanwhile, officials of the central public health team comprising Dr Madhumita Dubey, director of the All India Institute of Hygiene and Public Health and Dr Sanjay Sadhukhan, accompanied by Kurnool district collector G Veerapandian and superintendent of police (SP) Kaginelli Fakeerappa inspected red zones and containment zones in Kurnool city. Central team officials viewed lockdown measures initiated by the district police wing with the help of drone cameras and Hawk and Falcon vehicles. The SP briefed the central team on how district police ensured a strict lockdown through optimal use of technology. Earlier in the day, the two-member team reviewed measures in place in Kurnool district and the Kurnool government general hospital on Monday. The team also interacted with doctors and paramedic staff at the Kurnool GGH. In Anantapur, district collector Gandham Chandrudu inspected red zones at Hindupur and Madakasira on Monday. The collector, along with Hindupur MP Gorantla Madhav, held a meeting with leaders of the Muslim community and appealed to them to strengthen the efforts of the administration in containing the virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/rseema-continues-to-top-charts-reports-26-cases/articleshow/75683688.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
May 12, 2020||Jaipur||Doubling rate of Covid-19 cases in Rajasthan now 18 days, longest in country||JAIPUR: The doubling rate of Covid-19 cases in Rajasthan is now 18 days, the longest in the country. It was three to four days in the first week of April. While the infection doubling rate in India is 12, it is 16 days in Uttar Pradesh, 12 days in Delhi and 11 days in Gujarat. “At 18 days, the doubling rate in Rajasthan is the longest. This also indicates that the curve is flattening. Hence, we will be able to manage the overall situation better by the optimal utilisation of resources,” said Rohit Kumar Singh, additional chief secretary (health). Till April 23, the state had reported 1,964 cases and it doubled on May 11. Number of discharged people surpasses active cases in RajasthanThe effective containment of hotspots has brought fruitful results for health authorities. The areas which were reporting cases in clusters such as Ramganj and MD Road in Jaipur, Muslim Mocchi Mohalla in Ajmer, Kasai Pada in Bharatpur, Nagori Gate in Jodhpur, Chandra Ghata in Kota, Bambore Gate in Tonk and Nimbahera in Chittorgarh are now reporting only sporadic cases. In Ramganj, the infection cases are doubling in 26 days in comparison to two-three days in the first week of April. With only 38 cases reported from May 1-10, the situation has significantly improved here. The first case was reported on March 26, when a 45-year-old person from Oman was found infected with the virus. Since then, 635 residents have tested positive. The recovery rate in the state is also the highest in the country. “In Rajasthan, the recovery rate has increased to 58%, which means that 58 out of 100 persons have been cured of Covid-19. It is 49% in UP, 48% in MP, 33% in Gujarat, 32% in Delhi and 19% in Maharashtra,” said a health department official. Health minister Raghu Sharma said the state’s mortality rate is just 2.83, which is even below the national mortality rate at 3.3%. He said the national recovery rate is 30%, but it is 58% in the state. The number of cured people discharged from the hospitals has surpassed the number of active Covid-19 cases in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/doubling-rate-of-cases-in-state-now-18-days-longest-in-country/articleshow/75685114.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Bareilly||Widespread lockdown violation by public, a challenge for Pilibhit cops||Pilibhit: District police is struggling to enforce lockdown rules in Pilibhit due to largescale violations by public. The situation has worsened due to the dilution of restrictions imposed on markets and public movement for buying goods. According to official records, police have so far booked as many as 2,324 people for various lockdown violation rules. They have taken action against against 10,000 motorcycles and cars since March 23. Of these, 306 vehicles were seized while challans were issued against 9,755 vehicles. A sum totalling Rs 15.47 lakh has been realized as fines from violaters during the lockdown period.. “The police have lodged as many as 386 FIRs for infringement of lockdown rules and involvement of people in acts deemed to spread the coronavirus. In addition, 18 FIRs have been registered under the Essential Commodities Act against traders for black marketing of different food items," said Abhishek Dixit, superintendent of police. Taking stringent action against criminals, police have booked 56 people under the Gangster Act while seven have been booked under UP Control of Goondas Act, said Dixit “What we can do is to give widespread publicity to lockdown related norms among the masses and make repeated appeals to people to follow the rules. At the sametime, we are bound to enforce effective punitive action in cases of serious violation of law," SP Dixit added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/widespread-lockdown-violation-by-public-a-challenge-for-pilibhit-cops/articleshow/75682483.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Surat||Four harass a frontline warrior nurse, arrested||Surat: Four persons were arrested by Limbayat police on Monday for allegedly harassing a woman nurse of a private hospital. The accused were pressurising the nurse, who lives in the same residential society as that of the accused in Godadara, not to go to job.Police arrested Mahendra Anumandal, Dipak Dudhwala, Swamanna Dhasri and Bharti Navsariwala for allegedly harassing Pinky Sharma. The accused were booked for wrongful confinement, negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life, violation of order issued under public notification and other sections of Indian Penal Code and Epidemic Diseases Act. Sharma, who is nurse in a private hospital at Varachha, had returned from work on Sunday morning when Anumandal stopped her at the entry gate of their residential society. The accused started shouting at Sharma, saying, "You don't understand. You have corona and you will infect all of us here." Soon the other accused joined Anumandal. "They fought with my family multiple times in my absence and used to pressurise them not to allow me to go to job. They had stopped me from entering the society many times in the past two months. I had informed police twice and they had warned the accused but they still continued to harass me. Even in the presence of police today, they threatened me,” Sharma said.On April 5, an offence was registered at Adajan police station against a couple for allegedly harassing a doctor of New Civil Hospital. On April 26, a businessman was arrested by Pune police for harassing his neighbour, a police constable and his wife saying they will spread infection in the area.On May 9, six people were arrested by Puna police for attempting to kill a team of health surveyors of Surat Municipal Corporation when they went to their house.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/four-harass-a-frontline-warrior-nurse-arrested/articleshow/75683724.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Madurai||Veterinarians appointed by TN govt yet to get salaries||Madurai: Around 500 out of the 818 veterinary doctors appointed by the Tamil Nadu government in August 2018 have not received their pay for three months in few districts and for six months in Krishnagiri. Coordinator, Tamil Nadu veterinary graduates federation, M Balaji, in a petition to the principal secretary, department of animal husbandry, dairy and fisheries, Tamil Nadu, has urged that the pending dues be disbursed at the earliest. He said that the assistant directors for animal husbandry department were the officers in charge of disbursing the salaries to these temporary doctors. The government had fixed a salary of Rs 40,000 for these doctors, but many who are living away from their native places have not received the pay for the past three months from February to April and for six months in Krishnagiri. While some of them working in Kanyakumari, Ranipet, Thirupathur, Kallakurichi and Tirunelveli city have received their pay till March this year, those in the districts of Krishnagiri, Dindigul, Pudukottai, Nilgiris, Cuddalore, Trichy, Madurai, Sivaganga, Thiruvarur and Thanjavur have not received the pay. He said that they had been working in the check-posts across the state from March when there was a bird flu outbreak in a neighbouring state. As the doctors are suffering from lack of funds, the salaries should be disbursed at the earliest, Balaji added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/veterinarians-appointed-by-tn-govt-yet-to-get-salaries/articleshow/75665313.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Agra||10 of a family test +ve in Hathras, all kin of infected cancer patient||Agra: Ten members of a family, including four children, tested positive for novel coronavirus in Hathras on Monday. With this, the total tally of Covid-19 patients has risen to 19 in Hathras district. In neighbouring Aligarh district, a private hospital was issued a show-cause notice by the administration for admitting a suspected Covid-19 patient in the general ward. Chief medical officer, Hathras, Brijesh Rathore said all the new infected patients are relatives of a cancer patient who had earlier tested positive for the infection after he returned to the city from a Noida hospital. Earlier, the cancer patient's family members had alleged that they were not quarantined for over 24 hours even after they had informed the health department about the former's positive status. Rathore said, “Around 27 people were quarantined after one family member tested positive for Covid-19 and of these, 10 were also found to be infected.” Meanwhile in Aligarh, chief development officer Anunay Jha said, “A 38-year-old woman was admitted with respiratory distress in a private hospital’s ICU after her sample was taken for Covid testing. The patient was then shifted to the general ward after her condition improved. But this was done without waiting for her Covid test report. On Monday morning, the report revealed her positive status, forcing quarantine of its staff and patients and closure of the hospital. Aligarh district magistrate CB Singh said, “Action will be taken against the hospital after receiving their reply." He said the hospital has been shut for 72 hours for sanitisation and six patients, who were admitted in the general ward, have been shifted to Harduaganj L1 ward for treatment. Their samples have been taken for Covid testing, the DM said, adding that the hospital staff members have been home quarantined. After this fresh case, the total tally of Covid-19 patients has gone up to 59, including three deaths, in Aligarh district. Of these, 22 have recovered and two others -- a 40-year-old chemist and a 46-year-old woman -- are undergoing treatment in Delhi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/10-of-a-family-test-ve-in-hathras-all-kin-of-infected-cancer-patient/articleshow/75682478.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Aurangabad||Jalna rail accident: Panel arrives for probe||Aurangabad: A panel led by Commissioner of Railway Safety (Southern circle) Ram Kripal arrived in Aurangabad on Monday to investigate into the train mishap that saw deaths of 16 migrants on May 8. The authorities concerned summoned railway officials from different departments to arrive at the actual reasons behind the mishap. The panel was also expected to suggest measures to avoid such incidents in future. "The panel works under the aegis of the ministry of civil aviation. It sort of carries out third-party audit of every major train accident that involves casualties," a South Central Railway (SCR) official said. The SCR, earlier, had said that the loco pilot of the goods train concerned had blew the horn as soon as he noticed a group of people ion the rail tracks and made all possible efforts to stop the train, but to no avail. The accident had occurred between Badnapur and Karmad stations on Parbhani-Manmad section of Nanded division of SCR. Jalna district administration has said that the steel plant where workers were employed is operational. "The plant had sought permission for reopening on April 23 and employed workers including those who died in train accident. We checked our entire records and found that neither the workers nor the employer concerned had made any official approach for a travel pass. No arrangement for bus or any other conveyance was sought," district collector Ravindra Binwade said. Meanwhile, Jalna district administration has planned another Shramik special train to Unnao in Uttar Pradesh on Tuesday. The train is expected to carry around 1,400 passengers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/jalna-rail-accident-panel-arrives-for-probe/articleshow/75682494.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Agra||No more social distancing, Shramik Spls to run on full passenger capacity||New Delhi/ Agra: Lifting the restricted accommodation norm for Shramik Special trains, the Indian Railways will now run these trains with full capacity forgoing the social distancing norms. Currently, the middle berths in these trains have been left vacant and one coach only ferries 54 passengers in order to ensure social distancing norms. The railway ministry has decided to increase allowing passengers in these special trains, particularly with LHB coaches, from the existing 1,200 to around 1,600. The modified guidelines said the capacity of these trains should be equal to the number of sleeper berths. The ministry has asked railway zones to provide three stoppages in the destination state other than the final stop at the request of the state government concerned. In a letter written by Railway Board joint director Ajay Pratap Singh to all general managers and chief secretaries of states, he has said, “Al berths will now be allotted to passengers.” Sources said now all eight berths in each section of a coach will be allotted. Earlier, railways had issued guidelines saying these trains should have at least 90% occupancy to operate and to ensure social distancing middle berth should not be allotted. Justifying the move, an official said that so far almost all the stranded migrant workers, students and tourists who travelled were the asymptomatic and most of them have followed the norms. Secondly, officials said the passengers have been sensitized during the past 50 days’ lockdown and they strict health protocol are followed at stations before they are allowed to go home. The third justification is there is huge demand to ferry the stranded migrants and to take steps that will discourage people to walk down to their native places. Meanwhile, the railway ministry claimed that over 5.6 lakh stranded migrants have boarded these trains. Union minister Piyush Goyal tweeted that till Monday morning, 468 Shramik Special trains had departed. He specially mentioned how Gujarat has sent a maximum of more than 215 trains to different states and Uttar Pradesh government had given approval for over 250 trains. Similarly, Bihar had given approval for more than 140 trains. “We have allocated over 1,200 trains with which we can easily run 300 Shramik Special trains every day, so that all migrants can reach their destinations safely, quickly and comfortably,” Goyal tweeted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/no-more-social-distancing-shramik-spls-to-run-on-full-passenger-capacity/articleshow/75682489.cms||Dipak K Dash
May 12, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Visakhapatnam: 1,200 migrants leave for home on special train||VISAKHAPATNAM: Around 1,200 migrant workers from Jharkhand left the city on Monday on a special train to Daltonganj (Medininagar) after district authorities screened the migrants for Covid-19. This is the second train for migrants to have left the city within 48 hours. The first left for Bihar on Saturday, with 700 migrant workers. Most migrant workers leaving the city had been housed in quarantine centres whiles others were stranded at work sites. A majority of them are employed at hotels, construction sector and as carpenters. Monday’s train departed at around 9.30 am with personnel of Government Railway Police (GRP). “The state government arranged this facility. We conducted tests for migrant labour and brought them in buses to the railway station. We started this process by Sunday night,” district joint collector and in-charge of the process of shifting migrant workers M Venugopal Reddy told TOI. The train is expected to arrive at its destination on Tuesday morning, he added. Over the course of its 23-hour-long journey, the train will make operational halts for serving food to the passengers, a senior Railways employee said. Food will be arranged by the Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC). The joint collector said each bogey will have only 70% occupation. “If the bogey has 72 berths then only 56 people would be allowed, and if it is 40 berths then only 26 persons would be allowed, making room for social distance and other safety precautions. The authorities at the railway station had also conducted thermal screening before boarding the train,” he said. All bogeys will be locked and the escort team would attend to any inconvenience or emergency faced by the passengers, a Railways employee said. Two more trains carrying migrant workers are scheduled to leave this week for Bihar or Jharkhand, West Bengal and Uttar Pradesh, sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/1200-migrants-leave-for-home-on-spl-train/articleshow/75683714.cms||Siva G
May 12, 2020||Agra||No more social distancing, Shramik Spls to run on full passenger capacity||New Delhi/ Agra: Lifting the restricted accommodation norm for Shramik Special trains, the Indian Railways will now run these trains with full capacity forgoing the social distancing norms. Currently, the middle berths in these trains have been left vacant and one coach only ferries 54 passengers in order to ensure social distancing norms. The railway ministry has decided to increase allowing passengers in these special trains, particularly with LHB coaches, from the existing 1,200 to around 1,600. The modified guidelines said the capacity of these trains should be equal to the number of sleeper berths. The ministry has asked railway zones to provide three stoppages in the destination state other than the final stop at the request of the state government concerned. In a letter written by Railway Board joint director Ajay Pratap Singh to all general managers and chief secretaries of states, he has said, “Al berths will now be allotted to passengers.” Sources said now all eight berths in each section of a coach will be allotted. Earlier, railways had issued guidelines saying these trains should have at least 90% occupancy to operate and to ensure social distancing middle berth should not be allotted. Justifying the move, an official said that so far almost all the stranded migrant workers, students and tourists who travelled were the asymptomatic and most of them have followed the norms. Secondly, officials said the passengers have been sensitized during the past 50 days’ lockdown and they strict health protocol are followed at stations before they are allowed to go home. The third justification is there is huge demand to ferry the stranded migrants and to take steps that will discourage people to walk down to their native places. Meanwhile, the railway ministry claimed that over 5.6 lakh stranded migrants have boarded these trains. Union minister Piyush Goyal tweeted that till Monday morning, 468 Shramik Special trains had departed. He specially mentioned how Gujarat has sent a maximum of more than 215 trains to different states and Uttar Pradesh government had given approval for over 250 trains. Similarly, Bihar had given approval for more than 140 trains. “We have allocated over 1,200 trains with which we can easily run 300 Shramik Special trains every day, so that all migrants can reach their destinations safely, quickly and comfortably,” Goyal tweeted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/no-more-social-distancing-shramik-spls-to-run-on-full-passenger-capacity/articleshow/75682496.cms||Dipak K Dash
May 12, 2020||Trichy||Robots donated to help health workers in Covid-19 wards||TRICHY: Sastra University in Thanjavur has donated two more advanced robots to the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital (MGMGH) in Trichy to aid frontline health workers at the Covid-19 isolation wards. Officials from Sastra University handed over the two Zafi Go robots to Trichy collector S Sivarasu in the presence of dean Dr K Vanitha here on Monday. Designed by New Propeller Technologies of Trichy, an incubatee of Sastra University, Zafi Go was meant for carrying food, medicines and clothes to Covid-19 patients in the isolation wards at MGMGH. Aimed at reducing the contact between health workers and patients, the 4.5ft robots 4.5 foot were equipped with the capacity to carry 15kg. The robot can be loaded with the things to serve 10 patients to 15 patients at one go. The battery backup will last for four hours. “Zafi Go is different from our previous two models in terms of features. Changes have been made to suit the specific needs of the health workers in the isolation ward,” said the chief executive officer (CEO) S Mohammed Ashik Rahman on Monday. Zafi and Zafi Medic released by the company nearly a month back had actually been designed for educational purpose. They had tweaked them to fit the bill at the isolation ward. One robot had already been donated by New Propeller Technologies to MGMGH. Zafi Go had some more advancements compared to the previous models. It can be operated through remote control from a distance of 1,500 metres (1.5 km) distance. Medical superintendent of MGMGH Dr R Yeganathan expressed satisfaction over the use of robots in treating Covid-19 patients. “We have three robots to reduce the close contact of the health workers with the patients,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/robots-donated-to-help-health-workers-in-covid-19-wards/articleshow/75684565.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Aurangabad||MLC polls: Rajkishor drops out||Aurangabad: Rajkishor Modi — one of the two leaders from Marathwada whose names were declared by Congress for upcoming MLC election — withdrew from the race on Monday after instructions from the party top-brass. The move has paved way for unopposed elections for the Upper House of the State Legislature. Congress had declared names of Modi, a party loyalist from Ambejogai in Beed district, and Jalna’s Rajesh Rathod for the polls to be held on May 21. This had caused unrest among the ruling parties. While Rathod filed his nomination papers on Monday, Modi was asked to wait by the party top-brass. Chief Minister Udhaav Thackeray is also among the aspirants and has filed his nomination. A senior Congress functionary said declaring two candidates for MLC polls was assertion that the party cannot be taken for granted while leading a coalition government. “A section of party leaders still believe that Congress did not get proper share during the allocation of portfolios after formation of government in Maharashtra. Now, allotment of top posts for some key government and semi-government bodies is on the card. The Congress should not be taken for granted in ruling combine and nominating two members for MLC polls was a clear message that the party can explore its own options,” he said. Senior leaders from Shiv Sena and NCP requested the Congress top-brass for withdrawing one of the two candidates for MLC poll in order to avoid strained political situation. “The national level leaders decided to choose Rathod over Modi considering the current political equations,” party sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/mlc-polls-rajkishor-drops-out/articleshow/75682509.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Bengaluru||PG medicos in Covid-hit D’gere not paid stipend for 15 months||BENGALURU: Arun (name changed), 26, is a first year PG student at JJM Medical College in Davanagere. While he should be earning Rs 30,000 every month as stipend, he’s not got a single penny in the last 15 months. Arun knows how difficult it’s to keep asking his father, a ragi farmer in Hassan, for money. He is among the 233 PG medicos who are working in the district government hospital and have not been paid for months. PG medicos are the frontline staff in the Covid-19 ward of the Davanagere district hospital. Currently, Davanagere is the fifth worst-hit district in Karnataka with 68 cases as on May 10. Their stipend payment is in a limbo as they are studying in a private medical college under the government quota seats. The department of medical education (DME) had paid stipend till 2018 when an audit objection was raised and it was stopped since then. While the college says the stipend has to be paid by the government, director of medical education Dr PG Girish said: “It’s the district hospital (under the health and welfare department) that has to pay the students.” The health department, however, said it’s the responsibility of the college. Stuck between these three authorities, the medicos are threatening to protest. “We’ve student loans to pay off and bills to pay on a monthly basis and it has become difficult to live. If a final decision is not taken before May 17, we’ll go on an indefinite strike,” the Junior Doctors’ Association has said. Dr SB Murugesh, principal, JJM Medical college, said the stipend must be given by the government considering the college has paid clinical fees to the Chigateri district hospital and the Women & Children’s health hospital. “The matter has been discussed and communicated to the DME,” he said. As per the data shared by the medical college, Rs 2 crore was paid by the college to the two hospitals as clinical fee. The same problem was earlier faced by a private medical college in Mangaluru whose medicos work in the district government hospital. “The issue was resolved with the private hospital agreeing to pay the medicos on the government’s directions. The same has to be followed by the private hospital in Davanagere also. The health and family welfare department has got nothing to do with this issue and the matter should be sorted by the college,” said officials in the health department. “We’ve an annual fee of Rs 4.4 lakh and monthly hostel fee of Rs 5,000. I’m 26 and it’s embarrassing to keep asking parents when your counterparts have already started earning,” said Arun. “They call us the Corona warriors. But it doesn’t translate into food on our plate,” said another resident doctor. PG students get a compensation of Rs 30,000-Rs 40,000 monthly and MBBS interns Rs 20,000.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/pg-medicos-in-covid-hit-dgere-not-paid-stipend-for-15-months/articleshow/75683735.cms||Sruthy Susan Ullas
May 12, 2020||Bareilly||Uttar Pradesh: Youth arrested for killing grandfather over petty issue||BAREILLY: A 19-year-old youth was arrested on Monday for allegedly stabbing to death his grandfather over a petty issue at Dhauhara Khurd village under Gola police station in Lakhimpur Kheri district. The youth stabbed his grandfather with a knife. The man was taken to hospital, where doctor declared him dead on arrival. According to police, Beche Lal asked his grandson, Ajay, 19, to tie a buffalo calf in the house. Ajay refused to carry out the task. As a result, he had an argument with Lal. In a fit of rage, the youth stabbed his grandfather with a knife. DP Tiwari, SHO, Gola police station, said, “The accused’s father, Vishram Lal, is physically handicapped and the youth often beat him up, family members claimed." Tiwari added, "On the complaint of Vishram Lal, we have lodged an FIR against the accused under IPC section 304 (culpable homicide, not amounting to murder). He has been arrested and sent to jail."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/youth-arrested-for-killing-grandfather-over-petty-issue/articleshow/75682499.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
May 12, 2020||India||SC explains move on Sabarimala petition||NEW DELHI: Providing detailed reasons for its February 10 decision to entertain petitions seeking review of its verdict on Sabarimala temple entry, the Supreme Court on Monday said given the confusion over exercise of right to religion, it was of “utmost importance” to define the scope and ambit of this fundamental right. A five-judge bench by four to one majority had quashed the traditional ban on entry of women in the 10-50 year age group into Sabarimala Ayyappa temple. Deciding petitions seeking review of this judgment, another five-judge bench by three to two majority referred the issue of right to religion to a seven-judge bench saying the controversy involved not only entry of women to Sabarimala temple but also to mosques as well as right of Parsi women to enter agiyaris and validity of the custom of female genital mutilation among the Dawoodi Bohra community. However, CJI S A Bobde decided to entrust the issue to a nine-judge bench, a move which was opposed by activists. A bench of CJI Bobde, R Banumathi,Ashok Bhushan, L Nageswara Rao, M M Shantanagoudar, S Abdul Nazeer, R Subhash Reddy, B R Gavai and Surya Kant had rejected pleas questioning the SC’s power to refer the right to religion issue to a nine-judge bench. On Monday, it provided a 29-page explanation for its decision. Writing the judgment for the bench, Justice Bobde said, “The reference of questions of law pertaining to the scope of Articles 25 and 26 of the Constitution are of utmost importance requiring an authoritative pronouncement by a larger bench.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sc-explains-move-on-sabarimala-petition/articleshow/75686023.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
May 12, 2020||Lucknow||No procession for Imam Ali’s martyrdom this year||LUCKNOW: For the first time in its 150-year-old history, the iconic Hasan Mirza taboot, commemorating the martyrdom of Imam Ali (the first Shia Imam and fourth Islamic Caliph), will not be decorated for a three-day tribute-paying ritual starting 19th Ramzan, falling on May 13 this year. The taboot will also not be taken out in a procession on 21st Ramzan. Every year since the wee hours of 19th Ramzan until the morning of 21st Ramzan mourners used to throng the Old City’s Rustam Nagar area to pay tributes to Imam Ali on his martyrdom. However, this year no procession will be taken out and a notice declaring that the ritual has been postponed would be pasted at the imambara. The family which has been responsible for the three-day mourning ritual since 1870 has prepared notices to be pasted outside the premises of ‘Najaf’ in Rustam Nagar on Tuesday, telling people not to gather since the taboot will not be readied for public participation. Imam Ali was struck with a poisoned sword while offering morning prayers on the 19th of Ramzan and he attained martyrdom on the 21st day of the Islamic month. “Juloos of any kind have been disallowed by the government due to novel coronavirus pandemic. Thus the 21st Ramzan procession has been postponed until next year,” said S Zafar Husain, great grandson of Hasan Mirza, who had started the tradition in 1870 after witnessing it in Iraq. “We will not even assemble the taboot because if we do so people will start coming to pay tributes and this in turn will break the lockdown,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/no-procession-for-imam-alis-martyrdom-this-year/articleshow/75685142.cms||Yusra Husain
May 12, 2020||Jaipur||RBSE class 10, 12 exams to be held by June-end||JAIPUR: The Rajasthan government is all set to hold examinations for the pending papers of class 10 and 12. Last week, CBSE had declared not to conduct class 10 board exams, except in North-East states. Due to the pandemic, it has become a challenge to conduct the exam while maintaining social distancing at exam centres. School education minister Govind Singh Dotasra said, “We need to understand the importance of board exams. Passing class 10 students by grace marks is an option, but it is not justified for students who have studied hard. It will be demotivating for such students. We are waiting till May 17 for the lockdown to be over and will look into the ways through which we can conduct exams while maintaining social distancing.” Time table of the exams will be released in June and exams are expected to be conducted in June-end or July.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rbse-plans-to-hold-class-10-12-exams-by-june-end/articleshow/75688226.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Visakhapatnam: District gears up for returning expats||VISAKHAPATNAM: With the Centre bringing home Indian nationals stranded abroad as part of its Vande Bharat mission, the Visakhapatnam district administration is putting in place measures to receive people from Andhra Pradesh. Special officer in charge of the issue, M Tirumala Krishna Babu said the state government is trying to get permission from the Centre to utilise airports at Vizag, Vijayawada and Tirupati for receiving stranded Andhraites. “We are focusing on the issue and chalking plans towards that end. We have to receive people and also send a few stranded people who land here. We are waiting for the instructions from the government and also the schedule of flights,” said district joint collector M Venugopal Reddy said, adding that all foreign returnees in the district would be sent to quarantine. Sources said over 12,000 people from the state have been identified by the government and are seeking help for their return, for various reasons, such as expiry of visa. Around 8,000 are stranded in the Gulf countries. The state government had announced bringing back stranded migrant workers, tourists, students and pilgrims as its priority. “There are chances to connect Hyderabad to Vijayawada and also Vizag,” said president of AP Tours and Travels Association K Vijaya Mohan. Sources at Vizag airport said they have not received any information as yet. According to sources, at least seven flights from Malaysia, Dubai, UK, and the US, besides other countries, are expected to land in various cities across the country on Monday. Some passengers belonging to AP are also expected on those flights.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/dist-gears-up-for-returning-expats/articleshow/75683737.cms||Siva G
May 12, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur civic body speeds up testing of its staff and street vendors||JAIPUR: The Jaipur Municipal Corporation (JMC) has speeded up the testing of its employees and street vendors. On Monday, test samples of 361 people were taken that includes JMC workers and vegetable sellers in the city. The reports will be released by the health department on Tuesday. On last Friday, two civil defence workers tested positive for coronavirus after which Jaipur Municipal Corporation headquarters at Lal Kothi were sealed for the weekend. Office was sanitized properly in two days before opening on Monday. At first workers of JMC were tested for the virus. Special camps were set up in zonal offices for testing. Later, a dozen vegetable sellers were found positive in the city. Alongwith 100 JMC workers, 250 vegetable sellers were tested on Sunday for Covid-19. JMC had already issued 684 passes to various vegetable sellers in the city. Anyone found selling vegetables without a pass will be penalized.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/civic-body-speeds-up-testing-of-its-staff-and-street-vendors/articleshow/75684595.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata’s party zone latest to figure on containment map||KOLKATA: Seven weeks into the lockdown, central Kolkata’s landmark zone and a booming business centre — Park Street, Loudon Street, Rawdon Street, Short Street and Lord Sinha Road — is now part of the city’s containment map. According to Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC) and Kolkata Police sources, several Covid-positive cases have been reported from Lord Sinha Road and Short Street, prompting the civic administration to announce all major areas in this belt as containment zone. This zone houses multiple government and private offices, eateries, multiple shop chains besides some reputable academic and healthcare institutes. Sources in the KMC health department indicated that they had decided to introduce lockdown norms in this zone (about 1 sqkm from the main containment areas), given that it has begun witnessing heavy traffic ever since the rules were eased in the third phase. At least 10-12 offices and a few major shops have already restarted operation, albeit with much lesser staff strength. “This is the first time that we wanted to create a buffer zone. Given that there are multiple cases reported from Taltala and Mullickbazar areas, we thought it wise to cover the entire stretch right up to Belle Vue Clinic as a comprehensive containment zone. Several major offices here have asked its staff to resume work. Only a few shops, particularly those selling sweets and confectionery, are yet to open. Hence, if we can keep a check on unnecessary movement, we might be successful in ensuring that this area enters the green zone at the earliest,” explained a senior police officer. However, managing the entire prime commercial areas poses several challenges. Former KMC Ward 63 councillor Susmita Bhattacharya wondered why there was a need to extend the zone beyond Short Street. “I have received several calls since morning. I want to assure everyone that there are merely two spots from Lord Sinha Road and Short Street from where Covid-19 cases were reported. There has been no case from Camac Street or Rawdon Street and business had resumed partially. I took up the matter with the appropriate authorities. Even by the 1km-radius standard set by KMC, some of the areas should not have been part of the containment zone,” said Bhattacharya. Police said they would be making some exceptions. “No one will be allowed to open shop or come out except for emergency on Lord Sinha Road, Short Street and at Beckbagan crossing. At other spots, since most shops and chains are in clusters, they have been asked not to open. A few standalone shops selling essentials will be allowed to operate. Vehicular movement will face restriction but no offices need to shut right now unless they are very close to the main containment area. We are using drones across Camac Street and Loudon Street for the first time. The new zone falls under KMC Borough VII, the one that now has the maximum number of containment zones — 49 — in the city. The borough also added four zones on Sunday. This addition pushed up the total number of containment zones by 14, taking the total to 340. The new zones added to the list were Panditya Road, Dover Lane, Lake Gardens and Thakurpukur in south Kolkata. Borough X now has an additional two containment zones; boroughs II, III, XII and XV added one each. Boroughs IV and VI have 37 zones each and boroughs V and XV have 30 containment zones each.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kolkatas-party-zone-latest-to-figure-on-containment-map/articleshow/75683751.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
May 12, 2020||Aurangabad||We are okay with no hike, but can’t reduce fees, says pvt schools assn||Aurangabad: Responding to the latest Government Resolution (GR) to private schools directing not to hike fees for next academic year, Maharashtra English Schools Trustees Association (MESTA) said they are okay with not increasing the fees due to Covid-19 outbreak, but cannot entertain an appeal of reducing the fees. Stating that the school managements are not ‘heartless’, MESTA has accused the Maharashtra education minister Varsha Gaikwad of portraying an image, where she is the ‘only’ one caring for parents. “The government need not tell us anything as we have already decided not to increase the fees for the next academic year. However, we are not ready to reduce the fees, as we have a set of pressing problems at our end,” said MESTA president Sanjay Tayde Patil. The GR issued on May 8 also directed the schools to consider the proposal for fees reduction by involving Executive Parent-Teacher Association (EPTA). “We trustees also want to help parents. But what about teachers, drivers, and helpers employed by schools. We have to pay their salaries and manage other overheads also,” Patil said. MESTA also criticised the government for its earlier decision prohibiting any recovery of fees from parents towards the current academic year. “Several parents were ready to pay the feed before the end of the second term, but the government put a blanket stay on fee recovery. Those parents who were capable to pay the feed also chose not to pay money during the current lockdown. The government paid no heed to our demand for financial help to pay salaries of teachers and staff,” he said. MESTA has also raked up the issue of pending dues from the government towards the private schools for giving admission to students under the RTE Act. “The government has not cleared dues and released only partial amount so far. While on one hand, the schools were asked not to recovery the fees, on the other hand, the government is not releasing legitimate dues,” Patil said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/we-are-okay-with-no-hike-but-cant-reduce-fees-says-pvt-schools-assn/articleshow/75682527.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Jaipur||After digital classes, schools begin online admission tests in Jaipur||JAIPUR: After online classes, schools in Jaipur have started conducting online tests for admissions. Lockdown had forced schools to make several changes in the pattern of their functioning. From filling forms, uploading mark sheets and tests, all the procedures are being conducted online. Cambridge Court High School, Jaipur has started taking written exam online where students are given question papers to solve. Lata Rawat, principal of the school explains, “We have written exam for higher sections and multiple-choice question paper is given to them. Students now have to upload their answer sheet online in a given time period. After which a small interaction is conducted.” This year parents have to upload forms online and all the enquiries are resolved over phone. Some parents are finding it difficult. Karuna Yadav, principal Kapil Gyanpeeth School, Jaipur says that parents who are not technically advanced are taking time to get used to this system. “Earlier parents used to walk into the school, fill up forms and get answers on the spot. Now with technology it is getting problematic for some. Due to lockdown, we are not conducting any written tests this year and will be giving admissions on the basis of final exam results,” said Yadav. Some parents, however, claimed to find this method more convenient as it does not involve standing in queues for hours to get the forms or to take tests. Students also tend to be more relaxed in online session than personal interaction in school. Parents are being counselled online by school administration to let them know about the procedure of school and fee structure. Sanjay Parashar, media coordinator at Subodh Public School, Jaipur says, “We are conducting online test on Zoom app where students have to take written exam streaming live. After the test is cleared, we have interactive session, where parents and students are counselled. They are told about the functioning of school, fee structure and expectations in school.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/after-digital-classes-schools-begin-online-admission-tests/articleshow/75684601.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Mechhua market to be shifted to Kona truck terminal||KOLKATA: In the first major step towards relocating the Mechhua fruit market to the Kona truck terminal near Santragachhi, a joint team of fruit merchants, top police officers and KMDA officials on Monday visited the spot for an on-the-ground inspection. According to sources, the necessary go-ahead has been given for the shift “at the earliest”. Its success will determine if a portion of the Posta market can be relocated as well. “Minister Firhad Hakim, who heads KMDA, has asked the agency to complete some necessary work at the truck terminal. This will include levelling the ground and setting up a few temporary food stalls,” said a senior police officer at Lalbazar. On Monday, traders from Mechua along with cops visited the Santragachhi spot and suggested a few arrangements for the convenience of all stakeholders. “We are going to extend all co-operation to the state government to fight the novel coronavirus. We have been told it is a temporary arrangement. There will be selling points at Mechhua though,” said Shahid Ahmed Khan, general secretary of the Mechhua Fruits Merchants’ Association. “But the trucks come from different states. The drivers and their helpers mingle with local traders and labourers. So we had to decide to shift the market,” said an officer. Police sources said the attempt to shift the fruit market was first made much before the former mayor announced government plans to shift markets of Burrabazar and Posta. “We had failed to convince the merchants even during the first lockdown period. We could only stop unloading during the day and push the trucks on to the main roads (MG Road-CR Avenue) by stopping their entry inside the market. As the region of Bowbazar, Amherst street, Rajabazar and Narkeldanga started to witness a surge in Covid cases, even the merchants had a rethink,” said a police officer from Jorabagan traffic guard. Cops were hoping for the shift to be completed within a week. The Santragachhi spot was chosen from a total of four places, including the Dhulagarh truck terminal. While Dhulagarh was rejected as it was located too far away, it has to be used once it is decided that a portion of the Posta-Burrabazar market will be shifted as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/mechhua-mkt-to-be-shifted-to-kona-truck-terminal/articleshow/75683776.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
May 12, 2020||Goa||Spooked by Covid-19 cases in other states, Goans in UAE want direct flights home||PANAJI: A group of expats stranded across the UAE has written to chief minister Pramod Sawant and urged him to convince the Centre to have direct repatriation flights to Goa. The Goans are concerned that flying to other parts of the country and then travelling to Goa would expose them to the novel coronavirus (Covid-19). Over 200 Goans in UAE have come together to form a WhatsApp group to share information and provide moral support to each other. “We have been campaigning and requesting (the government) to get a direct flight to Goa as with the lockdown in India flying to other states will make it difficult for us to get back home ,” said Sweta Narvenkar, one of the persons stranded in UAE. The expats are also worried that with neighbouring states reporting a high number of positive covid-19 cases, travelling through these states remains “very risky”. “Chances of people getting infected are high. We can avoid all these situations by taking direct flights to Goa,” said Narvenkar. She said that many Indians in UAE, including Goan-origin expats, are in a desperate situation. Most of them are senior citizens with health issues while some people’s visas have expired. The group also includes pregnant women, and those who have lost their jobs. “The official number of stranded Goans registered with the Indian embassy to exit the UAE is much higher,” said Narvenkar. The Centre has already announced its repatriation plan but the seven-day schedule has repatriation flights flying to some of the most infected cities in the country. “Nowhere is Goa included as a destination airport even though it falls under Green Zone and almost 3,000 Goans have been registered with the Goa government portal to return to their homeland,” said Narvenkar. She pointed out that the Centre allowed repatriation flights for international tourists and the same courtesy should be extended to overseas Goans who wish to return home.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/spooked-by-covid-cases-in-other-states-goans-in-uae-want-direct-flights-home/articleshow/75685135.cms||Newton Sequeira
May 12, 2020||Surat||Man kills toddler as her crying disturbed his sleep||Surat: Salabatpura police arrested a 25-year-old man on Monday for allegedly killing his eight-month-old daughter. Police said that the accused Uvesh Shaikh first punched the baby and them threw her on the floor as her crying disturbed his sleep.Shaikh irons cloths for a living and lives in Reshamwad. The incident took place on Monday morning when the accused was asleep. When the baby started crying, Uvesh’s wife, Amrin tried to pacify her, but she continued to cry. Meanwhile, Shaikh got up from his cot and started hitting the baby.Amrin tried to rescue the girl but Shaikh snatched the baby from her and allegedly threw her on the floor. The baby became unconscious. The couple took her to SMIMER hospital where she was declared dead on admission.“Primarily it appears that he did this in fit of anger,” said a police officer at Salabatpura police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/man-kills-toddler-as-her-crying-disturbed-his-sleep/articleshow/75683755.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka looks to draw companies exiting China, forms taskforce||BENGALURU: The state government, which is hoping to attract tens of Japanese, US and South Korean firms wanting to get out of China, has formed a special taskforce headed by the chief secretary, which will work exclusively to attract investments from such companies. The Special Investment Promotion Task Force has a mandate to draw such companies leaving China, to Karnataka. It will also have representatives from Japanese, American, Korean, Taiwanese, Singapore, French and German companies operating in Karnataka to help liaison with the firms getting out of China, especially MNCs. Industries minister Jagadish Shettar told TOI: “As a leading industrial state in the country with ease of doing business, we wanted to have the early mover advantage in attracting firms that want to leave China as India will be a major destination for them. This is just the first step. As we begin talking to individual companies, we will also be open to special incentives and packages to get them to invest here.” Industrial activity has plunged since February, major import markets like the US and European Union have been under uncertain lockdowns and there’s a push back against China by several countries, the government argued. “...With rising labour costs, shortage of workforce, a trade war with the US, rise of manufacturing hubs in Southeast Asia and now a pandemic that originated on its mainland, China may not be able to retain its position as the world’s largest factory,” an order issued on Monday reads. “This is an opportunity for India to attract them here, bringing with their investments both jobs as well as a transfer of technologies. India stands a good chance to emerge as a reliable substitute, given its congenial landscape for manufacturing and vast consumer market,” the order added. Pointing out that the Japanese government is paying its companies to shut plants in China, while firms from the US, South Korea, Singapore and Taiwan too are planning to move their plants out, the state feels India, and more specifically Karnataka, has a great opportunity. Among the foreign trade body nominees on the taskforce will be two members from among Japan External Trade Organisation (Jetro), Korea Trade Investment Promotion Agency (KOTRA) and Korean Chamber of Commerce and Taiwan External Trade Development Council (TAITRA). Two more nominees will be from among Indo-American Chamber of Commerce and Industry, US-India Strategic Partnership Forum, US-India Business Council and from Indo-French Chamber of Commerce and Industry and Indo-German Chamber of Commerce.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/ktaka-looks-to-draw-companies-exiting-china-forms-taskforce/articleshow/75683768.cms||Chethan Kumar
May 12, 2020||Delhi||No salary since February, corporation doctors threaten to resign en masse||NEW DELHI: Threatening to resign en masse over pending salaries and arrears, Municipal Corporation Doctors’ Association (MCDA) has sought help from the Centre and the Prime Minister. “Doctors are in dire economic distress and want their salaries and arrears to be paid in the next five days,” said MCDA general secretary Dr Maruti Singh. Dr Singh claimed that the last salary they received was for the month of January. “Doctors are forced to bring to your attention the extremely distressing and sad state of affairs due to non-payment of salaries for the last three months to the doctors of North Delhi Municipal Corporation who have been working tirelessly and selflessly in these highly stressful times of Covid pandemic,” the appeal addressed to the PM reads. “Doctors appreciate clapping, showering of flowers from helicopters and lighting up of Navy ships, but all this is not helping us in sustaining our families financially.” Dr RR Gautam, the association president, said that the doctors have been put under avoidable additional mental stress and distraction. “Without money, we are not able to cope with the adverse situation because just like any other common person we also need money to feed and sustain our families,” he added. “When officials not doing any Covid-19 duty can be paid, then why not the doctors who are on the frontline of the fight,” he asked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/no-salary-since-feb-corpn-docs-threaten-to-resign-en-masse/articleshow/75684607.cms||Paras Singh
May 12, 2020||Nagpur||Surgery with city doctor’s safety box saves 6-year-old||Nagpur: Emergency surgery performed with the help of city-made medical innovation — ‘Bronchoscopy Safety Box’ — has saved life of a 6-year-old boy in the city last week. The boy, who was brought in a critical condition to KRIMS Hospital on May 5, went home with full recovery on Monday after interventional pulmonologist Dr Sameer Arbat, who has developed this safety box, performed the rare surgery. As the boy was having severe difficulty in breathing, it could have been a case of Covid-19 and swab test was a must. But, his condition was very critical and it was not possible to wait for 24 hours to get his samples tested. So, Dr Arbat decided to perform the surgery. “It was an emergency. Had we waited for the swab test results, it was difficult for him to survive,” said Dr Arbat. Patient’s swab sample was sent to IGGMCH and Dr Arbat performed surgery using his safety box and wearing all protective gear. Eventually, the boy tested negative for Covid-19 next day and all doctors and other staff heaved a sigh of relief. Dr Arbat said the process was rare not only because of the Covid-19 risk, but also because such processes are not performed on children in general. The boy, who resides in a nearby village, had an accidental strangulation almost a month ago while he was playing on a swing. Being entangled in rope swing, his neck had got choked and he lost consciousness. He was on ventilator support at a hospital near his village for a few days. He recovered and was eventually discharged. After three weeks of discharge, he started facing severe breathing difficulty. Considering his failure to breathe, he was brought to KRIMS. Here, it was revealed that his wind pipe had narrowed. “This internal narrowing of the wind pipe generally happens when patients remain on ventilator for long time. But, it’s rare in children. This surgery on such a young boy was a first for me,” said Dr Arbat. The procedure known as tracheal dilatation was performed taking all precautions for Covid-19. The narrowed segment was dilated with endoscopic balloons of different sizes. After 2 hours of surgery, the wind pipe was brought to its normal size.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/surgery-with-city-doctors-safety-box-saves-6-year-old/articleshow/75685227.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
May 12, 2020||Agra||Amid rising Covid-19 cases in Agra, UP govt shunts out CMO||Agra: With Agra district witnessing a continuous rise in Covid-19 cases, the Uttar Pradesh government has shunted out Agra chief medical officer (CMO) Mukesh Kumar Vats and additional director (health), Agra division, AK Mittal. A senior official admitted that "there has been a lack of proper coordination, and healthcare services are directly affected, and so the entire Covid-19 containment plan is now being revised". RC Pandey took charge of CMO, while Avinash Kumar Singh joined as AD (health) on Monday. Vats and Mittal have been attached with the offices of the Agra district magistrate and the divisional commissioner, respectively. Also, a five-member team constituted by the state government to review the Covid-19 prevention and management protocols reached Agra on Monday morning. The team included principal secretary (industrial development) Alok Kumar, principal secretary (medical education) Rajneesh Dubey, inspector general of police Vijay Prakash, an officer on special duty Dr Avanish Kumar Singh and professor Alok Nath of Sanjay Gandhi Postgraduate Institute of Medical Sciences, Lucknow. The team held a marathon meeting with officials of the district administration, health department and police at the circuit house. The officials also conducted an inspection at the SN Medical College and Covid-19 hotspot areas in the city. The hospital administration was directed for installation of CCTV cameras at the Covid-19 facility and increase the number of beds at isolation ward. Chief development officer J Reebha was tasked to ensure availability of required staff, oxygen supply and maintenance of sanitation and hygiene at the hospital. Principal secretary Alok Kumar who has been appointed as nodal officer for Agra said, “There is a lack of proper coordination. Healthcare services in Agra remain affected. The contact tracing of people tested with Covid-19 was not taking place properly. All these problems are being sorted out. To better manage the situation, the state government has appointed new CMO and AD health. We have directed for strict enforcement of lockdown. The entire Covid-19 containment plan in Agra is being revised."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/amid-rising-covid-19-cases-in-agra-up-govt-shunts-out-cmo/articleshow/75682556.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Aurangabad||Unseasonal rain, strong winds lash Marathwada||Aurangabad: Unseasonal rain accompanied by strong winds lashed several parts of Marathwada in the last 24 hours ending Monday morning, along with isolated incidents of hailstorm, threatening the harvested crops. Although no standing crops are there in many farms, the farming community had a tough time protecting the produce that they were compelled to store due to the lockdown. Orchard farms and trees bearing nearly ripe mangoes bore the brunt of the unseasonal showers. The weather department has forecast partly cloudy skies with possibility of occasional spells of rain along with thundershowers for Aurangabad and parts of Marathwada in the next 24 hours. While Aurangabad reported over 3mm rain, Jalna district reported the highest of over 6mm in Marathwada. Six other districts also reported considerable rainfall activity. Deepak Lande, a farmer from Beed district, said he has stored around 40 quintal cotton for over one-and-a-half months. “There is a long waiting list for the sale of cotton at authorised purchase centre due to restricted movement of vehicles during lockdown. Adverse weather conditions poses a danger to harvested crops.” The sudden change in the weather has, meanwhile, resulted into a drop in the mercury levels in Aurangabad city and other parts of Marathwada. Aurangabad recorded a maximum of 38.9 degrees celsius and a minimum of 20.1 degrees on Monday. According to official data with the India Meterological Department (IMD), the maximum and minimum temperatures were below normal by 0.9 and 4.1 units respectively in the city. Shriniwas Aundhkar, director of APJ Abdul Kalam Astrospace Science Centre and Club here, said active presence of northerly wind moving towards the south has produced weather systems responsible for the rainfall in Marathwada. “Cloudy conditions and occasional spells of rain were being observed in parts of Marathwada during the last couple of days. The unseasonal showers had widespread occurrence during the past 24 hours. The weather is, however, expected to become normal soon, marking usual summer conditions,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/unseasonal-rain-strong-winds-lash-marathwada/articleshow/75682547.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Delhi||100 alumnae call out sexism, misogyny at law campus||NEW DELHI: One week after misogynistic conversations surfaced on the ‘bois locker room’ and stunned the country, 100 alumnae of the premier National Law Institute University in Bhopal have called out the “rampant sexism, misogyny and objectification of women on the campus of NLIU Bhopal”. In a statement that acknowledges their collective failure in taking a firm stand publicly against such behaviour while they were on campus, the former students have attributed their outrage and statement to “reactions emanating from a current student’s objections to a purported ‘joke’, made publicly available on a social media page which bore the name of ‘NLIU’, and which was run by a couple of students from NLIU Bhopal”. “Unfortunately, it took a female student being incessantly bullied, called out and lashed out at, in the most despicable and reprehensible manner, which finally shook us enough to take a firm stand publicly,” the statement said. The students have referred to sexist social media posts and some offensive pictures about a female student of the prestigious law school by a group of male students. Following her protests, while the offensive posts were taken down and the handle renamed, former students told TOI there has been no further action against the errant students by the university administration. TOI’s email to NLUI administration requesting comment did not receive any response.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/100-alumnae-call-out-sexism-misogyny-at-law-campus/articleshow/75684619.cms||Swati Mathur
May 12, 2020||Ludhiana||Ward boy in isolation tells kin that he is on duty||Ludhiana: A day after a 31-year-old man, who is working as ward boy at Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMCH), had tested positive, he did not inform about his disease to his family and told them that he was still working in the hospital. It was on May 4 that he joined his duty after spending 14 days in isolation at home from April 20 as per the hospital protocol. He had been attending all patients at the isolation centre of the hospital since then. He was serving as ward boy since 2008 when he was a 19-year-old and now its been 12 years since he had been associated with the DMCH. He is living with his wife and two sons, aged 5 plus and 2 plus, at Street No 2, Haqikat Nagar, Haibowal Kalan. Ever since Covid-19 pandemic , he used to stay in the isolation ward of the hospital. Narrating his schedule, he said, “Covid-29 is just like swine flu, but it is highly contagious. However, I have taken all precautions while performing duty. After duty hours, I used to video call my family and talk to them as I used to stay back in hospital. Whenever my family asked me about when I was coming back home, I kept on convincing my sons by telling them that I will come tomorrow or a day after. I have not even shared the news that I have tested positive, to avoid them getting de-motivated.” “Now, I am avoiding video calls as I am on my isolation bed with the oxygen panel and a monitor in the background. If I will video call them, they will get to know about it, so I am dodging their calls and praying to God for early recovery,” he said. Talking to TOI, the 31-year-old said,”‘I have been serving in the isolation ward of the hospital since March and was sent for home quarantine from April 20. It was after 15 days that I joined back on May 4. I was the first one to receive a 65-year-old male patient from Jammu, who was admitted in the hospital on May 4 and took him to the emergency of the isolation centre, where he tested positive later.” “He died on May 9 and for all those days I was serving in isolation ward and was staying in the isolation ward. It was on May 9 that I had cough, cold and fever and tested myself on May 10 in the virology lab of the DMCH and tested positive in evening,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/ward-boy-in-isolation-tells-kin-that-he-is-on-duty/articleshow/75683802.cms||Mehak Jain
May 12, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: After seven weeks, relief engine under stress||KOLKATA: Good Samaritans who have been providing support to the needy during the lockdown for the last 50 days have started facing funds and resource shortage. They are looking forward to fellow citizens for help and cooperation. JU Commune, a community kitchen being run by Jadavpur University students to feed the poor, pavement-dwellers and migrant workers since March, has started to feel the pressure. JU research scholar Indol Majumdar said, “Sustaining an effort like this is a huge task. We are constantly appealing for funds through social media so that we can carry on this initiative for long. Challenges have been overcome because of everyone’s help and involvement.” TimesViewThe city has poured its heart out over the past few weeks to help those in distress. That has included government agencies like our police force as well. But this immense volunteer network may now be collapsing under pressure and it is time for others to pick up the baton. Kolkata, we know, will not disappoint.Satnam Singh Ahluwalia and his team of volunteers at Gurdwara Behala have been serving 6,000 needy people for the last 45 days. He started this initiative with whatever funds he had and later help poured in from friends and well-wishers. Apart from cooked meals, his volunteers are also distributing milk, biscuits, fruits, babyfood and medicines. Till date, the drive has catered to 5 lakh meals. “We Sikhs believe in Sarbat Da Bhalla (Welfare for All) and it is our moral duty to ensure that we look after those who are in need and provide help whenever necessary,” said Ahluwalia, chairman of IHA Foundation and general secretary of Gurdwara Behala, adding, “Everyday is a new challenge but our spirits are high and we will continue this drive with support from fellow citizens.” A student-and-youth-led initiative — Quarantined Student-Youth Network (QSYN) — has so far catered to over 1,500 individuals with rations and cooked meals across Bengal. From ‘People’s Kitchen’, they are serving 450 people daily, including pavement dwellers and daily wagers . ISI student Manmatha Roy said, “After a couple of days, it will be impossible to carry forward our initiative as there is a huge fund crisis. People have limited resource so crowd-funding may not give a positive response as many people have already contributed more than once. The districts will be badly affected, so we are trying our best to raise funds to sustain it.” Urging people to contribute, Umar Awais, who, along with other individuals, are serving cooked meals and rations to the needy in and around Rajabazar and Sealdah, also felt generating funds during lockdown had been a major challenge. Noor Mahvish of The Metiabruz Youth, which has served 2,000 families till date, added, “Situation of fund is in a bad state. We are in the last leg and are not being able to provide rations to innumerable people who are calling us everyday.” She urged for funds to help the needy families. A group of citizens in Kidderpore and Garden Reach are serving 3,000 people daily from the first phase of lockdown. They have set up a community kitchen and are distributing cooked meals not only among poor and migrant workers in the Port area but also catering to red-light areas in the neighbourhood. Md. Imtiaz Khan said, “My friend R P Singh has taken up the task of feeding all the needy people and in such crisis, it is a humanitarian gesture, we are appealing individuals to come forward and help.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/after-7-weeks-relief-engine-under-stress/articleshow/75683797.cms||Dipawali Mitra
May 12, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Discom chief refutes overcharging claims||GUNTUR: Strongly denouncing allegations about clubbing of electricity bills for March and April, CMD of Central Power Distribution Co Ltd (CPDCL) J Padma Janardhana Reddy said the bills were raised after segregation of total reading for the last two months. “There is no truth in the allegations that we have raised electricity charges. Our field officers have been told to clear the apprehensions of consumers. People can call them on their mobiles,” Reddy said after launching a dedicated helpline counter in Guntur on Monday. “Officials have been instructed to address the grievances and complaints of each and every consumer. Bill amounts have gone up in the last two months as people are confined to their homes due to the lockdown which led to increase in consumption,” he added. “We want to assure consumers that only the balance amount is being collected. If the meter reading is 300 units for March and April combines, the charges for March was computed for 150 units on the basis of the old tariff (2019-20) while the bill for April was raised for the remaining 150 units as per the new tariff (2020-21). We are also deducting the assumptive charges paid for March,” Reddy explained. Consumers can call helpline numbers 0863-2236300/2236500/2242402 or message their complaints to 8498890946 on WhatsApp.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/discom-chief-refutes-overcharging-claims/articleshow/75683792.cms||Samdani MN
May 12, 2020||Aurangabad||69 new cases in city takes dist’s Covid-19 tally to 627||Aurangabad: As many 69 people tested positive for Covid-19 in Aurangabad on Monday, taking the tally of the people who have contracted the infection to 627 in the district. Most of the confirmed Covid-19 positive cases were reported from Ram Nagar, Qile Ark, Datt Nagar and Juna Bazaar. Meanwhile, two people succumbed to the infection while undergoing treatment at the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) on Monday, taking the tally of Covid-19 casualties in the district to 15. An 80-year-old man from Ram Nagar, admitted to the GMCH on May 8 with complaints of fever, cough and breathlessness, tested positive for Covid-19 on May 9. “He was under treatment at the ICU since May 8 and was placed on ventilator on May 10. He was suffering from pneumonia and respiratory illness and died while undergoing treatment around 1.10am on Monday. The cause of death is bilateral pneumonia with acute respiratory distress syndrome due to Covid-19,” said Arvind Gaikwad, nodal officer for media interaction at GMCH A 58-year-old man from Pundalik Nagar was referred to GMCH by the district civil hospital on May 9 and tested positive for Covid-19 the same day. “He was shifted to the ICU as a portion of his lungs was removed earlier due to tuberculosis. He was also suffering with brain TB, hydrocephalus and epilepsy. He was placed on ventilator after the oxygen levels in his blood dropped to 64. He died on 4.30pm on Monday due to a known case of epilepsy with hydrocephalus secondary to tuberculous meningitis lobectomy lungs with known case of psychiatric illness and Covid-19,” said Gaikwad. 40 patients discharged As many as 40 Covid-19 patients were discharged from different health facilities in Aurangabad on Monday. District civil surgeon Sundar Kulkarni said that two patients each from Noor Colony and Sanjay Nagar-Mukundwadi were discharged from the district civil hospital after they tested negative for the two consecutive tests. The remaining 36 people were discharged from Aurangabad Municipal Corporation’s Covid care centre at Qile Ark. Of the 627 confirmed Covid-19 cases in Aurangabad district, as many as 113 patients have recovered and 15 have died. The remaining patients are undergoing treatment at GMCH, district civil hospital, the AMC's Covid care centres and private hospitals.. 5 test positive in Latur Five people tested positive for Covid-19 in Latur’s Udgir, taking the tally of positive cases in the district to 36. Meanwhile, 11 persons were discharged from the sub-district hospital in Udgir on Monday. Of the total cases, 19 have recovered, one has died and the remaining patients are under treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/69-new-cases-in-city-takes-dists-covid-19-tally-to-627/articleshow/75682565.cms||Arpita Sharad
May 12, 2020||Jaipur||BJP MLA complains to collector about bias in ration distribution||Jaipur: BJP MLA from Sanganer, Ashok Lahoti on Monday met collector Joga Ram and registered a complaint over bias in distribution of dry ration kits in his constituency and those held by other BJP MLAs. He alleged that only 11,500 ration kits were distributed in Sanganer area, whereas most of the distribution is taking place in constituencies held by Congress MLAs. Lahoti said he will raise the issue with chief minister Ashok Gehlot during the video-conference with Jaipur MLAs and MPs. JMC commissioner V P Singh, who is in-charge of distribution of dry ration kits, was also present in the meeting. “Yesterday (Sunday) dry ration kits were distributed to people by parking the vehicle in front of some Congress leaders. Of the total ration kits, which was required in the last 50 days, only 10 per cent of it has been distributed in the constituencies held by BJP MLAs,” said Lahoti. “Sanganer is the largest constituency in Rajasthan in terms of voters,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bjp-mla-complains-to-collector-about-bias-in-ration-distribution/articleshow/75684608.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Goa||Angriya crew lodged in resort at Goa border||Panaji: After an excruciatingly long wait, the 16 Goan crew members aboard cruise vessel Angriya were brought to the state by road from Mumbai, and have been quarantined at a jungle resort along the Maharashtra-Goa border. The resort is owned and operated by one of the promoters of the Angriya, Captain Nitin Dhond. “All the Goan crew members have arrived and will be quarantined here for 14 days,” said Dhond. The 90 Goan seafarers aboard the Karnika and the Angriya were scheduled to sign off from their respetive vessels over the weekend and travel to Goa by road to be quarantined. However, only the crew of Angriya were allowed to disembark, as the management of the Karnika had yet to comply with all the formalities. There are close to 80 crew members of Goan origin aboard the Karnika. Covid-19 tests were conducted on crew of both vessels and the results are all negative, said sources in the state government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/angriya-crew-lodged-in-resort-at-goa-border/articleshow/75685152.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Aurangabad||Water tanker drivers continue to operate without any protective gear, masks||Aurangabad: As the numbers of cases show no signs of slowing down, the water tanker drivers hired by the Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) continue to deliver water without using any masks or protective gear to many years. Thus risking their and people’s lives. The drivers have been instructed to deliver water to areas, which are not connected to piped water by the civic body. A group of 18 to 20 households contribute and pay in advance to AMC for tanker service for three months. Subsequently, these tankers go to the lanes and fill the drums for each of the household. It is a regular sight, as there is a crowd accumulating with people coming in close contact with each other and also with the driver. There are 48 tanker drivers operating out of Cidco N-5 Elevated Storage Reservoir (ESR), 21 from Cidco N-7 ESR and 16 tanker drivers are supplying water from Kotla Colony ESR. Each of these drivers is doing six trips a day, therefore, coming in direct contact with a minimum of 120 persons in a day. Tankers are also required to supply water in areas where Covid-19 positive cases are emerging. It has been observed that the drivers are left on their own by the AMC or the contractor as they continue to work without masks. Kiran Dhande executive engineer waterworks department said that the drivers are using their masks and instructions have been issued to ensure physical distancing. “We have told drivers to ask residents to keep their drums away from each other and not touch the pipe. The drivers are told to do the handling of pipe and filling of drums themselves so that there is no contact with residents. They are also instructed to tell the residents to wear masks when filling water,” Dhande said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/water-tanker-drivers-continue-to-operate-without-any-protective-gear-masks/articleshow/75682585.cms||Arpita Sharad
May 12, 2020||Patna||With 53 new cases, state Covid tally reaches 749||Patna: The total number of coronavirus cases in Bihar reached 749 with 53 new cases on Monday. There are total 376 active cases while 367 people have recovered from the virus infection and six died due to it. Monday’s cases were reported from 17 districts with the majority coming from state capital Patna where 11 people tested positive for the coronavirus. Of the 11 from Patna, eight are BMP personnel from its 14th battalion in Khajpura, while two others are from Athmalgola and one from Belchi. The first Covid-19 positive case from the BMP campus in Patna was reported on May 7. Next day, five more jawans who lived with the infected person in the same barracks had also tested positive. Patna now ranks second in the state in terms of the total number of coronavirus cases reported so far with 71 people testing positive. However, 24 have recovered and one person died on Sunday. There are 46 active cases in the district. Patna DM Kumar Ravi said, “Though the number has increased, good thing is these are known cases and not random ones. We are able to trace the contacts of positive cases. Also, we have now started testing migrants in quarantine centres with first priority for pregnant women, children and old people. We are also focussing on those who have come from red zones and especially those who came on trucks.” As per information shared by health department principal secretary Sanjay Kumar, six cases were reported from Sheikhpura, five from Khagaria, four each from Begusarai and Nawada, three each from Darbhanga and Muzaffarpur, two each from Bhagalpur, Gopalganj, Madhubani, Supaul and Banka and one each from Saharsa, Sitamarhi, Nalanda, Samastipur and Purnea on Monday. Earlier in the day, Sanjay had tweeted that 36,053 samples have been tested so far and 2,417 were under process.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/with-53-new-cases-state-covid-tally-reaches-749/articleshow/75682764.cms||Sheezan Nezami
May 12, 2020||Lucknow||Result of asst teachers’ recruitment exam today||LUCKNOW: In compliance with chief minister Yogi Adityanath’s orders, UP’s basic education department will announce the results of the recruitment test to fill up 69,000 posts of assistant teachers in primary schools on Tuesday around 2pm. The candidates will, however, be able to see their names on Wednesday on the website atrexam.upsdc.gov.in. According to secretary, examination regulatory authority, Anil Bhushan, the results of Assistant Teachers Recruitment Exam (ATRE) have been prepared. “Soon after a meeting with the government scheduled on Tuesday, the results will be announced and the list of successful candidates will be handed over to NIC. By Wednesday, results will be uploaded on the website,” Bhushan told TOI. On Tuesday, the regulatory committee will also decide the fate of three out-of-syllabus questions asked in the question paper. Candidates will either get full marks against these or they will be put off the marking list. ATRE was held on January 6. The answer key was uploaded on January 18 for objections. About 22,000 candidates had raised objections on 142 questions out of 150 asked in the test. After scrutiny, experts found three out-of syllabus questions asked in the test. The process was stalled as a few candidates approached the court challenging the state government’s decision of raising the cut-off for general and reserved category applicants from 60% and 40% to 65% and 45%, respectively. On May 6 this year, the high court upheld the state government’s decision and set the ball rolling for recruitment of 69,000 teachers. After HC order, the CM had asked officials to declare results in a week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/result-of-asst-teachers-recruitment-exam-today/articleshow/75685170.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Vijayawada||Vijayawada: 1.9 lakh devotees get refunds for cancelled Arjitha seva tickets||TIRUPATI: The TirumalaTirupati Devasthanams administration has refunded money to 1.93 lakh devotees for cancelled Arjitha sevas from March 14 to May 31. TTD EO Anil Kumar Singhal, after a video-conference review with senior officials of the temple administration on Monday, instructed them to speed up the process of refunds. The closing down of Tirumala temple for pilgrim worship from March 20 due to the nationwide lockdown forced thousands of devotees to cancel their pre-booked Arjitha sevas and other darshan tickets. The TTD administration had announced that the booking amounts would be refunded and had asked devotees to apply for refunds. Of the 2,50,503 devotees (45% of total bookings) who applied, refunds for 1,93,588 have been processed. The remaining devotees would be refunded their booking amounts soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/1-9-lakh-devotees-get-refunds-for-cancelled-arjitha-seva-tickets/articleshow/75683825.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Ludhiana||City residents stuck abroad likely to return after 2 more days||Ludhiana: It may take two days more for the people from Ludhiana stuck abroad to reach India as the flights may start arriving from foreign countries after that. More than 300 persons from Ludhiana district stuck abroad had requested the government to bring them back to India but only about 20% have ‘confirmed’ to the administration their willingness to come after it contacted them. After the district administration had announced that the persons stuck abroad could apply for their return and had shared a link for filing an application for the same. The authorities had got 308 requests from people of various parts of the district stuck in many countries of the world due to different reasons but had later ‘refused’ to come on the dates between May 7 and 13. Additional chief administrator, Greater Ludhiana Area Development Authority (Glada), Bhupinder Singh, who heads the team constituted for making arrangements for these persons, said as of now they hadn’t got the schedule for their flights but they will get the same at least 48 hours in advance. He added that they had called every single person and asked them to come but more than 80% refused to come during the window period between May 7 and 13 and cited various reasons. So they are expecting around 60 persons from Ludhiana district to return from abroad. Another officer asking not to be named said the people of Ludhiana district stuck abroad are expected to come in flights with that of Mohali district. He added that the schedule may come by Tuesday morning. Officials said most of the persons stuck abroad might come on such flights to Amritsar and Chandigarh but the remaining persons will come by air to Delhi airport. They added that the administration had already constituted teams to bring the persons arriving from abroad to the district headquarters and either they would send teams to the airports or they would request the authorities to bring these persons to Punjab border (except Amritsar) and from there they could bring them to Ludhiana. The authorities have already booked hotels and made arrangements at Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) for these persons for their institutional quarantine. Box 1: Requests made from many countries As per district administration’s internal document, the requests made by the people from abroad to return are from the countries like Australia, Canada, UAE, USA, Japan, Poland, New Zealand, South Korea, Egypt, Germany, Portugal, Mauritius, Saudi Arabia, Russia, Ukraine, Malaysia, Qatar, UK, Combodia, Nigeria, Nepal, Italy, Tanzania, France, Cyprus, etc. Box 2: Standard operating procedure: 1. Inbound travellers who are willing to pay the hotel charges will be quarantined in the hotel for 14 days as per protocol. For the remaining inbound travellers, who are not willing to pay the hotel charges, district quarantine facilities set up by DCs will be used. 2. A plaque mentioning ‘quarantine facility’ will be placed outside each hotel and these will not be used for other guests other than those quarantined. 3. Adequate number of medical screening teams as well as quarantine facilities should be in place well in advance before the first group of inward nationals arrive. 4. Passengers found symptomatic during screening shall be immediately taken to medical facility as per health protocol. 5. The remaining passengers shall be taken to suitable institutional quarantine facilities (hotel or district quarantine facilities). 6. These passengers shall be kept under institutional quarantine for minimum period of 14 days. 7. If they test negative after 14 days, they will be allowed to go home and will undertake self monitoring of their health for 14 more days as per protocol. The remaining persons will be shifted to the medical facility set up by the district administration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/city-residents-stuck-abroad-likely-to-return-after-2-more-days/articleshow/75683831.cms||Shariq Majeed
May 12, 2020||Goa||Homeward bound: Kashmiris leave Goa with cries of ‘Bharat Mata ki jai’||MARGAO: Torn between their love for Goa and the yearning for their homeland, for the 728 natives of Kashmir and Ladakh who boarded the Shramik Special to Udhampur, it was an emotional moment as the train chugged out of the Margao railway station late Monday evening. While they vented their feelings of national pride with cries of “Bharat mata ki jai, and ” Vande Mataram,” overwhelming voices of “May Allah bless Goa,” and “Dev Borem Korun, Goa,” also emanated from the coaches. South Goa collector Ajit Roy, South Goa SP Arvind Gawas, along with senior officials of the district administration, police department and Konkan Railway, waved back in acknowledgement. “We Kashmiris consider ourselves the best when it comes to mehmanbazi (hospitality), but the kind of treatment accorded to us by the Goa government officials in facilitating our journey home was much beyond our expectations. I am speechless,” said a passenger, Idrees Ali, a native of Srinagar. Ali has made Goa his second home. He has been coming to the tourist state every year for the past 18 years, to trade in jewellery at Mobor, Cavelossim. Most of the passengers were either businessmen or employed in the hospitality industry in the coastal belt. Most like Riaz Ahmed Joo and Imtiyaj Ali Munshi have even assimilated the Goan culture into their own, despite the differences of religion and language. Joo, who has dealt in handicrafts in Benaulim for the last 25 years, even speaks chaste ‘Saxttichi Konkani’. “Inshallah, when everything returns to normalcy, we will come back to Goa for the next season,” he said, his face brimming with anticipation. Among the 728 passengers, eight - most of them students from Kashmir - were brought from Belgaum by a special vehicle to enable them board the train. This was the second Shramik Special train to Udhampur from Goa – the first left Goa with around 1,200 passengers on Sunday. The South Goa district administration ferried the passengers from Jawaharlal Nehru stadium - where they were subjected to health screening – to Margao railway station in 28 KTC buses. Every passenger was provided with a dinner pack and a bottle of water and sources said food will be served to them during meal times throughout the journey. The train which was scheduled to take the Konkan Railway route was diverted along the South Western Railway route as the KR route, that was closed due to the derailment of a goods train in Ratnagiri on Sunday, was yet to be cleared. Sources said that the detour meant an addition of another 8-10 hours to the nearly 32-hour journey.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/homeward-bound-kashmiris-leave-goa-with-cries-of-bharat-mata-ki-jai/articleshow/75685168.cms||Govind Kamat Maad
May 12, 2020||Jaipur||Gag order against Dholpur, Kota ‘scribes’||Jaipur: A gag order by the district administrations of Dholpur and Kota preventing ‘journalistic activities’ aired through social media platforms including Twitter, Instagram, WhatsApp and Facebook until further orders have angered the locals. The order is applicable for those who air news and opinions on unregistered platforms. It also covers those who share unverified and false information in their individual capacity. Defending the order, both the administrations have contended that it was aimed to counter the barrage of misinformation being served by unregistered ‘media outlets’ and unverified information by the commoners leading to chose and anarchy. “It is just an order to bring those disseminating information under the ambit of an institutional accountability. If you claim to be a journalist or running any platform of journalistic activity you should be registered to a competent authority,” said Dholpur collector Rakesh Kumar Jaiswal. The order issued last week has found no violators but many persons have decided to challenge it in the court. Kota-based Kamal Singh Yaduvanshi, who runs a media company, said information on social media has been the primary source of information to established media houses. “These information have been uploaded or posted by commoners or those who have journalistic instincts,” said Yaduvanshi. Several legal luminaries said the order was a kind of prohibitory order which looks at every journalistic activity on social media with a culpable intent.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/gag-order-against-dholpur-kota-scribes/articleshow/75684613.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Goa||‘Restart biz to keep migrant workers within state’||Panaji: The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) core committee on Thursday urged chief minister Pramod Sawant to restart business activities so that migrant workers do not leave the state. “If the migrants leave the state then it would be difficult to put economic activities back on track,” said the core committee in a statemement The core committee met after 40 days; their last meeting was done via video conference. During the meeting, various subjects were discussed, including mining, the measures taken by the state to revive the economy, the Sanjivani sugar factory and the zilla panchayat election, among others. Speaking to mediapersons after the meeting, Sawant said that the state government has made a request to the Centre for permission to open the Dabolim airport to facilitate the return of Goans from abroad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/restart-biz-to-keep-migrant-workers-within-state/articleshow/75685159.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Agra||6 hurt in clash over cricket match in Aligarh||Agra: Around six persons were injured in Aligarh’s Ishanpur Gadana village on Monday following a clash between two groups of youths while playing cricket. The youths belonged to different caste. Thirty people were arrested by the police. According to police, an argument over who would bat first led to the clash. Both the groups allegedly indulged in stone pelting and later gun shots were also fired. However, nobody was injured. Two separate FIRs have been registered on counter complaints filed by the groups. Cases under relevant sections of IPC, including attempt to murder, will be registered at Kawarsi police station. All the injured persons have been sent for medical examination and additional police force has been deployed in the village. Civil Lines circle officer Anil Samaniya said that a similar incident took place on Sunday in which an FIR was registered by the police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/6-hurt-in-clash-over-cricket-match-in-aligarh/articleshow/75682599.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Aurangabad||MSRTC’s 46/km fare keeps Maha migrants walking||AURANGABAD: The assurance of free state transport arrangements for workers to reach their hometowns has turned out to be farce with the Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) seeking Rs 46 per kilometre fare from the migrants looking to go from one district to another within the state. As a result, hundreds of migrant workers are continuing their journeys on foot. District authorities admit that they are continuously getting new directives from the state government, which is causing some confusion. On Saturday, the Maharashtra government had said that it will run the MSRTC buses to transport the migrant workers for free. On Monday, it was clarified that those looking to travel within the state will still have to pay. The MSRTC said that migrants who wish to take buses to travel within the state will, in fact, have to pay two-way fares. The MSRTC officials said the state’s GR had caused some confusion at first, but was clarified later. The decision to charge fares was taken as to prevent crowding in buses, some officials said without wanting to be named. Raju Shinde, who hails from Parbhani, had started walking with a group of 50 — including women and children — from Nashik five days ago. The long walk in the searing heat has been especially taxing on the women and the younger children in the group. “We have been walking for five days and now we are close to our village. We were working as manual workers for Reliance in Nashik, but decided to leave as we had no money or food to sustain ourselves,” Shinde said. Workers from other states can take the MSRTC buses to the state borders for free, but many are still finding it tough to find vehicles. Sonu Shahu, Khemraj Kunjam and 30 others had set off from Pune for their homes in Chattisgarh three days ago on foot. They reached Aurangabad on Monday. “Dekhiye agar koi gadi ka intezam ho sake to (Let us see if we can find a vehicle now),” Kunjam told TOI. Another set of 35 workers set of from Mumbai for Bihar. They had started on foot on May 6 after the local authorities told them that no train will be made available for them until the lockdown is over. According to Aurangabad MSRTC divisional controller Arun Siya, those who want to want to travel to the neighbouring states can benefit from MSRTC’s free service — they will be dropped at their state’s border. “We deployed five buses on Monday including, two for MP and one each for Chattisgarh, Telangana and Karnataka carrying a total of 100 workers. More buses will run from Tuesday,” Siya said. However, the number of buses are too few to cater to the large number of migrants who have decided to walk all the way to their homes hundreds of kilometres away. Aurangabad police commissioner Chiranjeev Prasad said the stranded students or migrant workers looking to go out of the state should register with their local district collector or police station so that they can be accomodated in trains. “We are also arranging for private buses to ferry people within Maharashtra. If you come across any groups of genuinely stranded migrant workers, we can arrange for their transportation within the state” Prasad said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/msrtcs-46/km-fare-keeps-maha-migrants-walking/articleshow/75682611.cms||Arpita Sharad
May 12, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru police scramble to get rations for over 28,000 needy||BENGALURU: Police in Bengaluru, who have so far distributed thousands of ration kits and food packets sourced from donors, are scrambling to feed more than 28,000 poor people in the city amid the extended lockdown. A senior IPS officer said there’s a team of eight nodal officers — all women — led by inspector Kathyayini Alva, which is helping coordinate the department’s efforts. The department has now identified 28,150 people who need ration kits, of whom 20,000 are in Whitefield, but has so far only managed to get donors to sponsor 3,250 kits, the officer said. Kathyayini, told TOI: “Bengalureans and the firms have been overwhelming in their contribution. However, with the lockdown having lasted more than what was anticipated, they are now finding it difficult to donate.” Of the 3,250 kits, defence PSU BEL is funding 1,300, followed by BIAL (500), HPCL (325), IBM (255) Medreich (250), MRPL (250), JJ Consultants (120), Indian Oil (100), Toyota (100), Pixel (50), and customs officials (50). “Since we’ve been on the ground throughout, initially many donors preferred to supply kits through our department. Then we formed a team, which includes one officer at each station to identify needy people and one officer for each division to coordinate with the stations. Now, people who need ration or kits directly approach us and we are doing everything we can to find sponsors,” Kathyayini added. Those willing to contribute can call on 9480801015. Bhaskar Rao, Bangalore police commissioner said, “This is nothing new. Our department has been doing it from day one and both donors and those in need found us to be reliable. In fact, the CAR (city armed reserve), which doesn’t have public contact, managed to mobilise 50,000 kits over the past few weeks. We’ve not only maintained law and order and implemented lockdown norms, but have also gone beyond our immediate duties to help tackle the situation at hand.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengaluru-police-scramble-to-get-rations-for-over-28k-needy/articleshow/75683849.cms||Chethan Kumar
May 12, 2020||Lucknow||24 migrants die in homeward journey||LUCKNOW: As many as 24 migrants lost their lives during Covid-19 lockdown not to the virus, but to road accidents or exhaustion during their grinding journey way back home. Though chief minister Yogi Adityanath has made several appeals to migrants not to travel on foot and promised that they will be transported safely by government, many still embarked on their journey home on foot, bicycles and carts. While many reached home, 18 were crushed to death while six died due to fatigue. Police preserved the viscera of the six who died due to exhaustion. ADG, law and order, P V Ramasastry, told TOI, “We are taking all steps to prevent road accidents. District administration, district police chiefs and two police commissioners have been instructed to stop migrants from heading home on foot. They should be provided food and water, and then sent home by buses.” On Monday, two migrants Rahul (22) and Parasuram (42) of Maharajganj district died in an accident while walking home from Hyderabad. In Prayagraj, two brothers Rajiv Rai (28) and Avanish Rai (30) from Bihar were crushed to death on Sunday. Besides, a Chhattisgarh couple and a man from Bihar travelling on bicycle were crushed to death in Lucknow. On Saturday night, one Prakash Pandey (45) of UP was crushed to death in Jhansi. Six migrants of Madhya Pradesh died in accident at Mathura while three from UP were killed in road accident in Aligarh and one Nitin Kumar (26) was crushed by a bus in Moradabad. Meanwhile, two migrant workers Hiralal Bind (33) and Kanhaiya Lal (29) who reached Lucknow on Shramik Special trains died under mysterious circumstances. Four others died while cycling and walking on foot from Maharashtra, Delhi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/24-migrants-die-in-homeward-journey/articleshow/75685186.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Aurangabad||Police, NGOs join hands to help migrant workers||AURANGABAD: City police have joined hands with some non-government organisations (NGO) to take care of migrant workers resorting to walking back to their native homes in other states. As per the initiative, accommodation facilities for around 1,500 people have been set up at different places where the workers will also be provided with food and water. "It is not the duty of police to feed and arrange camps for migrant workers. However, we believe that it is the responsibility of every capable individual to contribute their bit in helping fellow human beings sustain and come out alive during this pandemic," commissioner of police Chiranjeev Prasad said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/police-ngos-join-hands-to-help-migrant-workers/articleshow/75682623.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Jaipur||Vegetable vendor tests positive for corona in Kardhani area||Jaipur: A vegetable vendor tested positive for Covid-19 in Jhotwara police station area on Monday. As soon as he was tested positive, cops sealed the area and started tracing those who came in contact with the vendor. While the vendor’s residence is in Kardhani, he would set up his trade on Kalwar Road of the city. Later, curfew was imposed in Kardhani. “As soon as we found out about the person, we immediately started looking for those who came in contact with him and identified 30 such people. This includes five of his family members as well as other vendors and paan shop owners,” said a police official. All 30 people were sent to the quarantine centre where they will stay for two weeks and will be tested for the virus. In case any of them tests positive, cops will yet again have to locate more people to be quarantined. There are more than 30 areas in Jaipur which are under complete or partial curfew while the entire city is in red zone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/vegetable-vendor-tests-positive-for-corona-in-kardhani-area/articleshow/75684631.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Goa||Pre-monsoon runway maintenance complete||Panaji: The Indian Navy has completed the maintenance and repairs of the lone runway at the Goa International Airport and the runway is available all day round for operations, said sources. The maintenance was completed on Sunday by Military Engineer Services (MES). The pre-monsoon maintenance of the runway began during the lockdown, on April 25. “Around 1,500 sqm of the runway was re-done. Emergency repairs proposed have been completed, and the airfield is now available for operations,” said an official. Sources said the Navy could not take up more elaborate maintenance activity on the runway, which is used by both civilian and military aircraft, due to lack of workers. “Further repairs, if need be, could be undertaken later during the routine weekly maintenance scheduled every Saturday,” said a source. The pre-monsoon maintenance not only addresses the deterioration of the runway, but also helps in initiating preventive measures which allows aircraft operations to continue unhindered during the monsoon in Goa.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/pre-monsoon-runway-maintenance-complete/articleshow/75685188.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Jaipur||Monsoon to enter state by June 25||Jaipur: South west monsoon is likely to enter in Rajasthan by June 25 while it is likely to arrive in Jaipur on July, 1. As per the forecast on the onset of monsoon released by the Indian Meteorological Department(IMD), Delhi on Monday, the monsoon this year is likely to be delayed by a week while the pre-monsoon activities would start in the state from June 15 onwards.  According to the officials of the Jaipur Met office the south west monsoon would enter from Kota, Jhalwar and Baran from June, 25 onwards.  Meanwhile heavy dust storm, rainfall and hail storm was witnessed across the state on Monday. Jaisalmer remained hottest in the state where a maximum temperature of 42.9 °C. People in Jaipur witnessed woke up to a comparatively pleasant morning as a minimum temperature of 24.5 °C was recorded in the city.  tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/monsoon-to-enter-state-by-june-25/articleshow/75684640.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Chennai||Two coronavirus positive women deliver while in isolation||CHENNAI: “It was a depressing 12 days,” says a Chintadripet resident about testing positive for Covid-19, delivering a girl and the time she spent in an isolation ward. “This was not the way I had planned to deliver my first baby. I wish no woman goes through this.” Another woman, of Perambur, who delivered in an isolation ward, says she was devastated the day she found she contracted the virus, “I was nine months pregnant and already under stress. This made it worse. I was scared something would happen to my baby. I used to get nightmares. It was traumatic.” She delivered a boy. The two young women, nearing delivery, were referred to the Institute of Obstetrics and Gynaecology in Egmore after they tested positive for the infection. They went into labour a day after admission and after spending 12 days in the isolation ward, they were declared virus-free and discharged on Monday. “We took their swabs two days ago and the test results came negative. The babies too are healthy and they are good to go home,” said director Dr S Vijaya. During their days in quarantine, the mothers were allowed to see their babies and nobody else. They both had one attender each to tend to their needs. The Chintadripet resident, who had a terrible time dealing with post-pregnancy trauma all alone, says she was also pining for her mother. “I tested positive for the most dreaded disease in the world and I gave birth to a baby. It took me a while to get over my confusion and fear.” In the beginning, she recalls, she would cry a lot and she later overcame her fears. “I started to sing to my baby, and talk to her. I’d tell her about the beautiful family she’s blessed with and the love she will be showered with once we leave. Self-assurance was the only way to keep going.” The other woman too had similar concerns. “My son is the first grandson in the family. And my mother especially found it heartbreaking to not being able to touch or hold him.” What worried her the most, she says, was the way people would treat her and her son when they went home. “Being born in this time can make people uneasy, they might even take some time to treat us normally. While I can face any challenge, I don’t want any unpleasantness directed to my son. But I hope things don’t get hard,” she adds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/2-ve-women-deliver-while-in-isolation/articleshow/75684644.cms||Aditi R
May 12, 2020||Lucknow||No 2.5% mandi tax on mango this year in UP||LUCKNOW: Mandi Parishad has waived 2.5% tax that it used to charge from mango buyers for every purchase worth Rs 1 lakh. Considering that mango growers have suffered huge losses due to erratic weather that reduced the crop by at least 30% right at the start of the mango season followed by Covid-19 induced lockdown the state government has decided to waive the tax as it would encourage more sale of fruits. Growers said that the Mandi Parishad's decision would benefit them in two ways. Firstly, there might be bulk buying by traders. A fully-packed truck may carry the fruit worth around Rs 3 lakh. Secondly, the transportation would be easier as there might be no checking by the Mandi Parishad. “This definitely would help as buyers may buy extra quantities,” said president, All-India Mango Growers Association Insram Ali. This would also make it easy to transport mangoes to other states. In the mango season, many growers sell the entire orchard to traders for that season. Traders get the mangoes plucked, packed and transported.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/no-2-5-mandi-tax-on-mango-this-yr/articleshow/75685194.cms||Neha Shukla
May 12, 2020||Aurangabad||Old video of SP on lockdown sparks panic||AURANGABAD: An old video of Aurangabad rural superintendent of police Mokshada Patil saying that the lockdown would be further extended created confusion among people, forcing the officer to issue a clarification and quash rumours. The video, the source of which police are investigating, mysteriously appeared online with a false claim that the lockdown 3.0 is going to be extended till May 30. The circulation of the video resulted in the spreading of rumours on social media. This was followed by people adding their personal views and advice, asking people to be ready for more hardships and stock up on essential commodities. Within first few hours of the day, the video was found to have been shared multiple times in innumerable groups, creating panic among people. This also resulted into a series of phone calls and messages seeking confirmation about the lockdown confirmation from the senior authorities in the police and administration department besides journalists. Patil issued directives to find out the source of the video and took to social media to quash the rumours, besides issuing a video message as well as a written statement. “The video, which is freshly being shared and circulated, was the one released on April 13 and it talks about the lockdown till month-end then. But some miscreants forwarded the same by falsely claiming it to have been released today,” she said in her message. Patil said police were trying to find the suspect and appropriate action would be taken for spreading rumours. She also clarified that if any extension in the lockdown is to be announced, it is done either by the government or by the district collector, and not police. Police sources said that depending on the findings, the rural police are likely to register an offence against the suspect for spreading rumours and creating panic among people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/old-video-of-sp-on-lockdown-sparks-panic/articleshow/75682632.cms||Mohammed Akhef
May 12, 2020||Delhi||Man strangles pregnant wife after quarrel in South Delhi’s Dakshinpuri||NEW DELHI: A 30-year-old woman who was five months pregnant was allegedly strangled by her husband in South Delhi’s Dakshinpuri area on Monday morning. Police arrested the accused who allegedly killed his wife as she had gone to a relative’s place without informing him. Police said that around 12.30am, Vijay, the accused, reached the Ambedkar Nagar police station and informed the officers about the murder of his wife. “A team of officers visited Vijay’s house and found the body of the woman lying in the bedroom. A strangulation mark was found on her neck. During interrogation, Vijay confessed that he strangled her following a quarrel,” said Atul Kumar Thakur, DCP, South. “The body was handed over to the family after an autopsy. A case of murder was registered,” Thakur added. The deceased has been identified as Hemlata. Her sister Asha claimed that she was being tortured by her husband who would not allow her to meet anyone. On Sunday evening, Hemlata went to Vijay’s sister’s house in the neighbourhood when the accused was away to buy a few household stuff. Vijay got angry when he did not find her at home on return. Watch Man strangles pregnant wife after quarrel in Delhi’s Dakshinpuri||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/man-strangles-pregnant-wife-after-quarrel-in-south-delhis-dakshinpuri/articleshow/75686044.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Chandigarh||PSPCL backtracks on fixed charges waiver for 2 months||Ludhiana: In a big setback to the industrialists, specially those having furnace units or factories requiring heavy power load, Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) seems to have backtracked from its promise of waiving off the fixed charges on the industrial power connections. Instead, these will be recovered in instalments from the businessmen. The revelation was made in a webinar by the chairman and managing director (CMD) of PSPCL. The webinar was organised by steel industry representatives and many senior functionaries participated in it. The move has the city businessmen up in arms, they are now urging the state government to order PSPCL to implement government’s order, which clearly states that fixed charges have been waived off. K K Garg, president of Induction Furnace Association, said, “During a webinar with B S Saran, CMD of PSPCL and O P Garg, member commercial, PSPCL on May 10, which was attended by prominent businessmen related to steel industry of Punjab, it has been clarified that fixed charges for two months, from March 22 to May 22, are not exempted, but will be recovered in 10 to 24 staggered instalments after the situation comes to normal. The PSPCL has now filed petition with Punjab State Electricity Regulatory Commission (PSERC) that it needs to compensate losses of Rs 330 crore, which should be either paid by the government to department or added in the power tariff. It is really sad that on the one side Punjab government took a very bold decision of bringing single part tariff for two months but it turned out to be only for collection of monthly bills for April and May and fixed charges, which were claimed to be waived off are indeed payable” Taking a dig at PSPCL, Narinder Bhamra president of Fasteners Manufactures Association, India, said, “This development has unmasked the anti industry face of PSPCL, which can go to any extent to harass businessmen. The ball is in the court of the state government now. It must clear its stand whether CM is the higher authority, who issued the orders to waive off the fixed charges or PSPCL, which is now disobeying the orders.” According to Dev Gupta, another prominent businessman associated with furnace industry, “This is very shocking development for the entire industry as everyone was under the impression that fixed charges have been waived off for two months and some of our losses will be compensated for. It seems that PSPCL does not want to spare us even at time of this calamity which has not only destroyed human lives but also caused losses worth several hundred crores for the industry of Punjab. We have decided to take up this matter with chief minister Amarinder Singh and ask for his intervention as orders were issued from his side and we are hopeful he will take appropriate action and not let us down.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pspcl-backtracks-on-fixed-charges-waiver-for-2-months/articleshow/75682656.cms||Mohit Behl
May 12, 2020||Goa||GSAI: Waive MPT dues for ships dropping Goan crew off||Panaji: Goan Seamen Association of India (GSAI) approached Mormugao Port Trust (MPT) on Monday and requested port authorities to waive off port and anchorage dues for cruise vessels that arrive at MPT to disembark Goan crew members. GSAI president Frank Viegas along with Capt Venzy Viegas met MPT’s senior deputy traffic manager Jerome Clement to discuss the issue. Viegas said Clement has agreed to discuss the suggestion with the port management. Meanwhile, former GSAI president Dixon Vaz questioned the sincerity of the state government to rescue and bring back Goan seafarers by direct flights. “There are 118 new flights scheduled to bring back stranded Indians, but none of these are landing in Goa. It is very sad that Goans can’t return home directly,” Vaz said. GSAI has also made a fresh appeal to chief minister Pramod Sawant requesting the state government to reverse its decision of charging shipping companies for quarantine facilities accorded to seafarers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/gsai-waive-mpt-dues-for-ships-dropping-goan-crew-off/articleshow/75685190.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Jaipur||Ahd-Delhi train will stop at Jaipur and Abu Road||Jaipur: As Indian Railways is resuming services to some selected destinations on Tuesday with strict rules and regulations for passengers, the North Western Railway (NWR) has also received a train. The Delhi-Ahmedabad and Ahmedabad-Delhi will pass through Jaipur-Abu Road and will give a direct connectivity of people of Jaipur and Abu Road to Delhi, Gurugram, Palanpur and Ahmedabad. Likewise, gradually there is a possibility of trains for Bandra, Chennai and Kolkata in coming weeks. As per schedule released by Indian Railways, a train from Sabarmati to Delhi will depart everyday at 6.20 pm from Tuesday and will reach Palanpur at 8.32pm, Abu Road at 9.15pm and Jaipur at 3.10am on Wednesday. “From Jaipur, people will be able to board a train to Delhi from Wednesday at 3.10am which will merely have two halts Gurugram and New Delhi. This train will reach at Gurugram at 6.57 am on Wednesday and 8.00 am at New Delhi,” said an officer with the NWR on Monday. Also, the train No 02958 from New Delhi to Sabarmati will depart from Delhi 8.25 pm from Wednesday and will reach Gurugram at 8.11 pm, Jaipur at 12.50 am (Thursday) and Abu Road at 6.33 am (Thursday) and Palanpur at 7.40 am (Thursday) and Sabamati at 10.00am (Thursday). These special trains resumed by Indian Railways will charge a fare equivalent to Rajdhani Express and will have only air-conditioned coaches. “Passengers would be required to reach at station 90 minutes before arrival of train and will have to pass through thermal scanning. Passengers without masks won’t be allowed to board the train. Also onboard passengers won’t be given blankets and linen and there would be no food catering. Passengers are allowed to carry their home cooked food and also water as no catering would be done in these trains,” said an officer. However, till 7 pm on Monday the bookings for these trains which are only through IRCTC website and app could not be started. Officers added that this is a start and soon Jaipur can get connectivity to other cities like Mumbai, Chennai, Kolkata and other destinations. “It appears that for next three months at least only air-conditioned coaches would only run as no general or sleeper would be added in trains to ensure Covid-19 guidelines,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/ahd-delhi-train-will-stop-at-jaipur-and-abu-road/articleshow/75684652.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Agra||Sanitation worker of SNMC tests +ve for Covid-19, Agra dist tally now 770||Agra: At least seven new Covid-19 cases were reported in Agra on Monday evening, taking the district tally to 770. The number of cases doubled in 15 days. On an average, one positive case was reported every hour in the past one week. So far, 25 deaths have been reported in the district. The cases which surfaced on Monday include a sanitation worker of medicine department of SN Medical College (SNMC), a printing press employee, student of 11th standard, and a 60-year-old woman of Mathura district who was under treatment at a private hospital in Agra. The localities in which Covid-19 positive cases were reported include Vjay Nagar colony, Noori Darwaza, Gokul Pura, Gudari Mansoor Khan, Nagla Padi and Badobara village in Shamshabad block. Chief medical officer RC Pandey said, “All the new Covid-19 patients have been shifted to an isolation facility. A team of doctors is attending to them. People are being screened in the area around their houses and the places they had visited. Their contacts are being identified. We will conduct a health check of all these people." According to health department, out of the 770 cases reported in Agra, at least 85 active ones are related to people who had attended the Tablighi Jamaat event in Delhi and their contacts, while 80 are linked to a private hospital on the National Highway-2. Another 22 cases are related to a private hospital in Rakabganj locality and a clinic in Ghatiya Azam Khan locality. Besides, 55 cases are related to healthcare workers and their contacts. These include a senior resident doctor and four junior doctors of SN Medical College. So far, 30 vegetable sellers have also been tested positive in Agra. The CMO added, “Till now, 345 people have recovered and discharged from hospital. All the people who had come in contact with any Covid-19 patients are being screened. We are doing massive sampling in hotspot areas to identify all the infected patients and send them to institutional quarantine.” ReplyReply allForward||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/sanitation-worker-of-snmc-tests-ve-for-covid-19-agra-dist-tally-now-770/articleshow/75682649.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Lucknow||Sweet tidings for common man, bitter blow to millers||LUCKNOW: In what could be termed as a sweet news for the common man in times of coronavirus pandemic, the price of sugar has fallen by around 11% following a dramatic fall in demand, according to the figures compiled by the UP Sugar Mills Association (UPSMA). The price of sugar which was hovering in the range of Rs 3,500 per quintal in early March has now dipped to Rs 3,100 per quintal due to the closure of hotels and restaurants. However, the dip in demand as well as price has left sugar millers in a quandary. According to UPSMA data, the development has severely hampered the paying capacity of sugar millers with cane payment arrears crossing Rs 14,000 crore, which is 55.53% of the total dues. In May last year, cane payment arrears were around Rs 11,000 crores which was over 64% of total dues proposed to be paid to cane growers. In a letter to chief minister Yogi Adityanath on May 8, UPSMA president CB Patodia said the mills were finding it difficult to follow cane payment cycle and demanded a bailout package by way of cash subsidy to augment cash flow of sugar mills. Talking to TOI, principal secretary, sugar development, Sanjay Bhoosreddy said liquidity of sugar mills has been severely affected due to lockdown. “Sale of sugar was expected to pick up after Holi when there is high demand of sugar for manufacture of beverages and ice-creams. But due to coronavirus pandemic, sale has been affected.” The situation has been further aggravated by the fall in demand for ethanol which is mixed with petrol for fuel consumption. Data show that as against the required quantity of over 61 kilo-litres per day, the consumption of ethanol produced by sugar distilleries fell to merely 13 kilolitres per day. This was only 21% of the total contracted supply. Till May 4, only 655 million litres of ethanol was picked by oil manufacturing companies (OMCs) as against the contracted supply of over 1800 million litres. The average blending percentage was only 4.55%. “This problem has been resolved with the supply of ethanol to Madhya Pradesh, Bihar, Odisha and north-eastern states. UP sugar mills produced 116.52 lakh tonnes of sugar as on April 30, 2020, which is 3.72 lakh tonnes higher than the production of 112.80 lakh tonnes last year. Out of 119 mills operating this year, 44 have ended crushing while 75 mills continue operations this year, as compared to 68 which were operating as on April 30 last year. The pace of closure of factories has slowed down a bit during the last fortnight as cane availability has increased for crushing in the current season due to premature closure of gur/khandsari units operating in the state. “About 75% factories have closed in east UP and the remaining are expected to close by next week,” a UPSMA official said. About 30% factories have closed in central UP and the remaining are expected to shut operations in next 15-20 days. In west UP, 3 factories have closed so far, some are expected to start closing by this week, whereas others may continue to operate till month-end.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/sweet-tidings-for-common-man-bitter-blow-to-millers/articleshow/75685208.cms||Pankaj Shah
May 12, 2020||Aurangabad||Locals pelt stones at house of Covid-19 centre nurse in Maharashtra||AURANGABAD: The house of a nurse, working at a Covid-19 treatment centre, was attacked by a group of people who want the healthcare professional and her husband to leave the locality. The suspects, claiming that the nurse may become a source of infection in their area (Mali Galli), abused her husband and kicked at the door before pelting stones in the wee hours of Monday. Shilpa Hivrale, the nurse, said, “Since the Covid-19 cases started emerging in Aurangabad, I am being constantly threatened and troubled by some locals who want us to vacate the rented accommodation. Few days ago, the tyres of our vehicle were also deflated in order to harass us.” During the attack, the woman made a call to the police control room following which, a team was sent to the spot. The family was then taken to the police station to record statements. As per their complaint, the suspects knocked on their door at 12.30am and asked for drinking water. As Hirvale’s husband was getting water, some of them suddenly started showering abuses and kicking the door. Taking cognizance of the complaint, MIDC Cidco police have registered a non-cognizable offence against the suspects. Inspector Vitthale Pote said, “We have registered a non-cognizable offence against the suspects who have been brought to police station and preventive action is being initiated against them.” The officer said that it is being probed if stones were pelted on the house where the couple came to live around six months ago. Sources in the police said the suspects have a history of being at loggerheads with the nurse’s landlord. The friction between them is about using a road in the locality. This friction took another turn when some of them tried to highlight the fact that the woman is employed as a nurse with the Covid regional hospital in Chikalthana and may become a source of infection for others in the locality.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/stone-pelted-on-house-of-covid-care-centre-nurse/articleshow/75682664.cms||Mohammed Akhef
May 12, 2020||Bhopal||Relief material row: Jyotiraditya Scindia's aide hits back at Congress||BHOPAL: The war of words between Congress and the ruling BJP over distribution of relief intensified with the latter making a scathing attack on former chief minister Digvijaya Singh and his son Jaivardhan for targeting former Union minister Jyotiraditya Scindia. BJP leader and former minister in Kamal Nath government Mahendra Singh Sisodia said, “Congress has a poor mentality of accusing Scindia ji. Those who are questioning him for providing relief to the Covid-affected people are in fact upset over his increasing popularity. At this time, when there is a crisis of livelihood for common people, Scindia ji is not only providing relief through Reliance Foundation but is also making personal efforts to provide help to the needy,” said Sisodia, a close confident of Scindia. He also hit out at Digvijaya Singh and said that Scindia not only provided relief in Gwalior-Chambal region but, also in Guna. This is not for the first time Scindia has been active in the region. Earlier too, he had been providing help to the needy in the entire region, Sisodia added. “People like them (Digvijaya) do not come forward to help victims but only believe in absurd talks. They raise questions over people like Scindia ji who really believe in helping people and come forward without any propaganda,” said Sisodia. On Saturday, Congress had claimed that in the relief material that had come to Guna and Ashoknagar last week, the tags of Reliance Foundation were removed and photographs of PM Narendra Modi and Scindia were pasted. Congress leader Digvijaya Singh had tweeted, “Maharaj (Scindia), your ancestors have left so much and you have so many private trusts through which you could have given relief during these critical times. How fair is it that you remove the tag of Reliance Foundation and replace it with the photos of PM Modi and you?” A day later Digvijaya’s son Jaivardhan too attacked Scindia and tweeted, “On this day, the torch of country’s first Independence struggle was lit from Meerut. Had the ambition of a Maharaj not come in the way, then the immortal sacrifices of Mangal Pandey, Bahadur Shah Zafar, Rani Laxmibai, Tatya Tope and our freedom fighters would have written independence history in 1857 itself.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/relief-material-row-scindia-aide-hits-back-at-congress/articleshow/75683871.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Bhopal||Seek Rs 50,000 crore package from PM Modi: Jitu Patwari tells Shivraj Singh Chouhan||BHOPAL: Chief spokesperson of the state Congress, Jitu Patwari said on Monday that chief minister, Shivraj Singh Chouhan, should demand Rs 50,000 crore grant from the Centre to meet the unprecedented crisis arising out of Covid-19 pandemic. Addressing a press conference online, Patwari said that chief minister’s assurance that MP has all the resources to do everything required to be done in the wake of Coronavirus pandemic was ‘fake’ as financial situation of the state is no secret. The CM should muster “courage” to speak to the PM and demand a special Covid package, he said. He said that the chief minister should provide financial help to all sections of the society except for the affluent sections. He demanded cash transfer of Rs 7,500 to construction workers or those engaged in trade like plumbing, electrical works and the like, Rs 10,000 to farmers and agricultural labourers and salaried persons from lower middles classes and middle class also needed help to steady their lives. He said the chief minister won’t be able to do it with his own resources and demanded that he urged the Prime Minister for a special package of Rs 50,000 crore. Patwari accused the chief minister of “mishandling” the Coronavirus situation and said he has been more active in “political management” rather than “Covid management”. He said the chief minister was supposed to expand his cabinet and distribute responsibilities among his cabinet colleagues, but the nomination of BJP district presidents seemed to be more urgent to the ruling party in the wake of impending by-election on 24 assembly seats in the state. The industries may not have started functioning but the “transfer industry” is on in full steam, said Patwari. The Congress chief spokesperson said that he had urged the chief minister to shift his headquarter to Indore till the Coronavirus outbreak in the district is controlled but let alone doing that Chouhan or his health minister didn’t even visit Indore once.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/seek-rs-50000-cr-package-from-pm-patwari-tells-chouhan/articleshow/75683881.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Bengaluru||Over 320 Indians heave a sigh of relief after touchdown in B’luru||Bengaluru: “It was a fairly long trip from the airport to the quarantine facility and I could only wave to my parents from the bus. But it felt like a massive weight was off my shoulders,” Ritika Srivatsan, 18, said on landing in his hometown Bengaluru. The student was stranded in London due to the travel ban amid the Covid-19 outbreak. Ritika was among the 326 Indian passengers, including three infants, who returned from London via an Air India flight (AI 1803) which landed at Kempegowda International Airport around 4.47am on Monday. Flown back under the Vande Bharat mission, they were relieved, hoping the worst was over. Twelve crew members were also on board. “After all the uncertainty, I’m glad to be back home regardless of the quarantine, which I think is necessary. I had booked multiple tickets but the lockdown was constantly extended...My parents were concerned about my safety and return. I’m extremely lucky to have been able to fly back on the repatriation flight,” said Ritika. Bengaluru Air Customs said it facilitated quick clearance of the 326 passengers with due physical distancing. “Preliminary medical tests by the health department showed no suspected Covid-19 cases,” it added. Families and friends of the passengers had been advised not to visit the airport to receive them. Though a few turned up, they had to be content with seeing their loved ones from a distance. The passengers had to wait for nearly an hour before they were allowed to deboard. Only two rows were allowed to exit at a time. They had to fill a self-declaration form detailing their health conditions, after which they underwent thermal screening and pulse oximeter reading in batches of 20 to prevent overcrowding. The flyers were then stamped on the back of their palm with indelible ink showing the number of days they will have to remain under quarantine. They were allowed to choose the quarantine facility (including five-star hotels and resorts). Amid tight security and frequent sanitisation, passengers were escorted into BMTC buses in batches of 20. Nearly 15 buses ferried them to their chosen quarantine centre. Every bus departed to a round of applause from airport, health and police department staff. All asymptomatic passengers will spend 14 days under quarantine. Meghana Manjunath, another student, live-tweeted updates of her journey — right from checking in to London’s Heathrow airport till the time she reached the quarantine facility. “Passengers in the back didn’t get anything — no mask, gloves or face shields. Thankfully, I had 3-4 masks my friend in the UK had given me,” said Meghana. During the stop-over in Delhi, the airline crew was changed, said passengers. Actress and politician Jayamala’s daughter Soundarya was among the returnees. Kin pour out joy on Twitter “Thanks a lot team for all your effort in communicating each and every step to send Indians from UK. It was a good plan executed. Because of which my mom is here back in Bangalore and has been hotel quarantined. Thanks once again (sic),” tweeted Roopa Rajendra. “Today many students returned from abroad to Bengaluru. The govt of Karnataka handled the process very well. The setup at BIA was very professional. Feeling good to have my child back in Blr. Special thanks to @drashwathcn & @DVSadanandGowda for being there for anxious parents (sic),” tweeted Kalyan Mohan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/over-320-indians-heave-a-sigh-of-relief-after-touchdown-in-bluru/articleshow/75683886.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Jaipur||Raje to CM: Mark hotspots as red zones, not the entire city||Jaipur: Former chief minister Vasundhara Raje has told CM Ashok Gehlot that keeping hotspot areas under red zone is fine but keeping the entire city under the same category was not justified. During an interaction with the CM, MLAs and MP over video-conference on Sunday, Raje said, “Jhalawar has six Covid-19 positive cases but the entire city has been kept under red zone.” Raje on a lighter note had told Gehlot that it was her government which had set up the IT network in the state which was being effectively used now. Responding to Raje’s remark, Gehlot said, “Thank you.” During the video-conference, lawmakers from all parties urged Gehlot to resolve the issue of Rajasthan labourers stranded in other states. The video conference was held covering all districts under Udaipur, Jodhpur, Bikaner, Kota and Bharatpur divisions. For remaining Ajmer and Jaipur divisions, a video conference will be held on Tuesday. Most of the MLAs said they were receiving calls right through the day from migrants in their constituencies urging for help. “Migrants have been calling us for help. I would be great if we can bring them as soon as possible to end their misery,” said MLA Chittorgarh Chandrabhan Akya. Leader of opOppositionulab Chand Kataria asked Gehlot to make proper arrangements for the migrants who are on the way to the state from different parts of the country. “The tribal areas have to be looked into aggressively. These areas are highly prone to hunger if aid does not reach on time,” said Kataria. Rajsamand MLA Kiran Maheshwari asked the CM to make a provision for the opposition to inspect the quarantine centres. She also highlighted the issue of water scarcity in several areas. Gehlot acknowledged the problems and asked members to write to him. Congress MLAs including ministers BD Kalla (culture and energy), Saleh Mohammed (minority affairs) and Bhanwar Singh Bhati (technical education) to name a few were all in praise of the efforts taken by Gehlot. Opposition MLAs termed the increase in mandi tax as cruel. Jaisalmer MLA Rooparam Meghwal expressed concern on locust attack in the desert districts. The meeting was attended by deputy CM Sachin Pilot, assembly speaker CP Joshi, former CM Vasundhara Raje and some MPs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/raje-to-cm-mark-hotspots-as-red-zones-not-the-entire-city/articleshow/75684660.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Chandigarh||55-yr-old man sustains bullet injury, cops book couple||Ludhiana: High drama was witnessed at Gurcharan Nagar of Daba area on Sunday late night when some accused opened fire. A 55-year-old man sustained bullet injury. He is admitted in hospital. The police have lodged an FIR against Sunil Kumar and his wife Parminder Kaur of Gurcharan Nagar and their unidentified accomplices under sections 307 (attempt to murder) and 34 (act done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of IPC and Arms Act. The injured is identified as Nirvair Singh, 55, a labourer of Gurcharan Nagar. The firing incident is related to a protest by the residents, against the couple for selling drugs, which was staged on Friday night. Following the protest, Daba police searched the house of the couple but found nothing.  The couple, meanwhile, had allegedly threatened the area residents. A resident Sandeep Shukla alleged that Parminder had threatened to shoot everyone. “We had also informed the police that she might attack us. But they did nothing,” he added. According to him, “On Sunday night at around 11.30pm, six miscreants came on three bikes. They started opening fire in air. The residents came out on hearing the gunshot. Nirvair Singh also came out of the house and told the accused to leave, enraged, they opened fire at him.” But when the crowd gathered, the accused escaped from there, leaving their two bikes behind. Angry residents set the bikes on fire. Inspector Pavittar Singh, station house officer at Daba police station said the police have formed teams to trace the accused and arrest them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/55-yr-old-man-sustains-bullet-injury-cops-book-couple/articleshow/75682677.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Chennai||Transport corporations lose Rs 1,200cr during lockdown||Chennai: Tough days are ahead for government-run transport corporations in Tamil Nadu as they have faced an estimated revenue loss of Rs 1,200 crore in the lockdown so far. Given the loan burden and pending dues, the state transport department has planned to increase borrowings, say officials. According to official data, around 1.6 crore people commute in 21,500 government buses managed by different transport corporations, including Metropolitan Transport Corporation (MTC) in Chennai. The corporations earn about Rs 25 crore through ticket sales a day, which is a major source of revenue. Of the total earnings, nearly 53% (Rs 340 crore per month) goes into paying salaries for employees and monthly pensions for retired staff. “At present, we are managing salary commitments mostly through government reimbursements through students’ subsidy schemes,” said a senior transport department official. Transport unions, however, complain that the government is yet to clear pending terminal benefits (provident fund, gratuity, etc.,) of 3,520 employees who retired last year. This would roughly cost Rs 920 crore. “Though proceedings were initiated and budgetary allocations were made, not a single penny has reached retired employees,” said S Sampath from Tamil Nadu State Transport Staff Federation, Madurai. Another burden faced by corporations is pending road accident settlement dues. On an average, at least 1,000 people die a year in accidents involving government buses. These cases, along with injury cases, will be heard at motor vehicle accident tribunals and on several occasions, hundreds of buses were seized for non-payment of compensations ordered. “Unlike TNSTC Villupuram or Madurai, MTC used to settle compensations soon. But recently, MTC too is also delaying it. Advocates might hesitate to take up such cases in the future as clients will not understand the situation and will blame us,” said advocate V S Suresh Kumar, who handles accident claims. The situation may not get better soon as even after lockdown ends, bus services will not operate at full capacity initially. Buses can operated with up to 50% seating capacity, which means half the revenue. “In the coming months, we might increase our borrowings through government guarantees,” the transport department official said. Sampath added that the department can also seek for Motor Vehicle (MV) tax exemptions during this lockdown phase as it will reduce spending by 2%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/transport-corporations-lose-rs-1200cr-during-lockdown/articleshow/75684657.cms||Ram Sundaram
May 12, 2020||Aurangabad||Balapur GP to stop outsiders from entering village||AURANGABAD: To protect the locals from getting infected, the gram panchayat (GP) of Balapur village has passed a resolution of restricting entry of outsiders in the village premises. The village is in close proximity with Satara and Deolai areas that have recorded Covid-19 positive patients, which forced the panchayat to make the move. For ensuring effective implementation of the resolution, the village gram panchayat has sealed the village from three sides and deployed a team of Gram Suraksha Dal that overlooks the security of the village. As per the resolution, the said team is responsible for the overall safety and security of the villagers. The villagers have been asked to alert them if they come across any individual violating the lockdown or self-distancing norms. If anyone caught violating the resolution, the individual would be warned or reported to the police depending on the gravity of the situation. Mahesh Andhale assistant inspector of Chikalthana police station said that the move by the villagers would not only go a long way in protecting the villagers but also ease out police burden to guard the entry of outsiders. “Villagers showing so much of sensitivity is a welcome move. This will definitely motivate others to take similar decisions,” he said. Gram Sevak DP Shinde maintained that the awareness shown by the village and the gram panchayat is exemplary and will help in preventing the spread of infection in the village. The panchayat is also using Davandi — a traditional way to make an announcement — appealing the villagers to neither give shelter to relatives in their homes nor invite any outsider in the village for any work. “Any villager found violating the resolution would face legal action,” read the resolution. As a precautionary measure, any individual entering the village for delivering milk and essential supplies is compulsorily being sanitized at the village entrance, where a check post has been set up by the villagers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/balapur-gp-to-stop-outsiders-from-entering-village/articleshow/75682679.cms||Mohammed Akhef
May 12, 2020||Chandigarh||Teachers, students not in favour of promotions based on pre-board exams||Ludhiana: The decision by Punjab government to promote Class X students under the Punjab School Education Board (PSEB) on the basis of their performance in the pre-board exams is not welcomed by the teachers and students. On Friday, the state government had decided to promote all students of Classes V to X under the Punjab School Education system to the next class without any examination, in the light of the unprecedented Covid-19 crisis, which has led to prolonged lockdown and curfew. Block mentors claim that they have not received any data from private schools. Thus their might be partiality in the results. A block mentor Jaspal Singh from Mangat I said, “Students generally do not perform well in pre-board exams, as they are less prepared and in fact teachers are quiet strict in checking. However, in boards they are really serious and put their level best,” Another government teacher said, “This will benefit private schools more, as they may vary the data and score of the students. They have not shared the pre-board result with the block mentors.” Teachers also held that many students from open schools will suffer the most. A student Harpreet Kaur appearing from open school from Haibowal Kalan said, “We have never given any pre-boards, we have directly given the exams. The government really need to review the decision, because there is no clarity on how we will be judged.” The private school students said, “We have been working hard and this will be an injustice to us and this will really impact the result in future. All through our lives, everything is depended on Class X result. This order needs to be reviewed by PSEB at the earliest. We are ready to sacrifice few more months than our future.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/teachers-students-not-in-favour-of-promotions-based-on-pre-board-exams/articleshow/75682685.cms||Mehak Jain
May 12, 2020||Delhi||Start all economic activities to save livelihoods: Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal||NEW DELHI: At Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s video conference on Covid-19 with chief ministers, Arvind Kejriwal suggested that all economic activities should be permitted, with the necessary precautions, throughout Delhi except in the containment zones. The Delhi CM said, the impact of the lockdown on livelihoods and economy would otherwise be severe. The lockdown has thrown people out of jobs, shut down businesses and industrial units and triggered unprecedented reverse-migration from Delhi. Kejriwal had earlier stated that the novel coronavirus was here to stay and it was time people learned to live with it, adding that Delhi “is ready for it”. Kejriwal had also recently stated that cessation of economic activities could not be endured for long. He suggested at the PM’s meeting that economic activities were necessary to bring the lockdown-affected lives back on track, while placing restrictions only on the containment zones, of which there are currently 81 in the capital. In the PM’s video meet, Kejriwal sought a share in central taxes for Delhi, pointing out that the city government was only getting grants instead of a share in central taxes, that too at a stagnant rate of Rs 325 crore since 2001-02 when all other states had received enhanced shares of central taxes. With all 11 districts reporting Covid-19 cases, the whole of Delhi is in the red zone. The lockdown was extended on May 4 for a further fortnight, and chief secretary Vijay Dev held a meeting with senior officials on Monday to discuss the implementation of central government orders after May 17. Currently, movement of people for non-essential work is allowed between 7am and 7pm, and private offices can open with 33% staff. Domestic workers, sanitation staff, technicians, mechanics, plumbers and electricians can also work. Standalone shops are now open, while a limited number of liquor stores are retailing alcohol. Factories in industrial areas with access control have also been permitted to open alongside IT and IT-enabled services, data and call centres, warehouses, cold storage, private security and facility management services. A Delhi government official pointed out, however, that since the economic activities were heavily inter-dependent, allowing some and restraining others would only lead to partial meeting of economic and commercial targets. The lockdown has also taken a heavy toll on the state government’s finances. “There is no other way out of this crisis. It is not about government finances, but about the long-term damage to businesses and livelihoods,” an official asserted. In comparison with Rs 3,566 crore collected as taxes in April 2019, Delhi government has barely managed to accumulate Rs 350 crore in April this year. While around 70% of tax revenues consist of GST and VAT, about 14% comes from excise and a little over 10% from stamp duty and registration fee from sale and purchase of properties. No new containment zone has been notified in Delhi since April 30 even when the city has reported nearly 4,000 new cases between then and May 11.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/start-all-economic-activities-to-save-livelihoods-cm/articleshow/75684680.cms||AlokKNMishra
May 12, 2020||Ludhiana||Passengers face glitches on IRCTC site for Delhi-Jammu train||Ludhiana: As the railway ministry took the decision of running the first pair of the 15 special trains from Delhi railway station from Tuesday afternoon after opening online booking through IRCTC website, local travellers had to face a tough time for getting their ticket booked on the website for the train, which will run between New Delhi and Jammu. Apart from that, the local railway authorities are in a dilemma on not receiving any specific guidelines on the issues related to managing passengers rush on city platforms after the railway ministry decision of commencement of limited number of trains on different routes. Besides, they say they have deputed most of their staff in work related to running of special Shramik trains from city the station for ferrying migrant labourers on a daily basis. After hearing the reports about the Railways starting its limited train service for local passengers, several passengers opened the IRCTC website for booking their train tickets from Ludhiana to Delhi from Monday evening hours, but in vain as due to certain technical glitches the bookings could not be made on the portal. A passenger, Jaswinder Singh, who wanted to get a train ticket for Delhi from Ludhiana, said, “I felt quite excited after I heard reports about the Railways resuming its service of special trains but when I opened the IRCTC official website for ticket booking there was technical error and I couldn’t make the booking.” Speaking on the same lines, another passenger, Rajiv Sharma, who also in queue of getting a Jammu ticket, said, “The Railways should have done proper preparation before starting any service for local passengers because it causes lot of inconvenience to those who are waiting for resumption of train services. I have been trying to book the ticket for the past two hours but to no avail because technical error reappeared on the website.” Sources in the railway department said, “After passengers failed to get their ticket booked on the IRCTC website following the reports of resumption of train service, they started making complaints on the railway ministry Twitter handle and started giving suggestions of doing proper planning before starting the railway services.” On other hand, Ludhiana railway station director Tarun Kumar said that, “It’s an online booking site controlled from Delhi headquarters for managing the train ticket booking work. The Railways is considering passengers’ grievances on priority and everything will be resolved at the earliest.” While evading queries on managing passengers on platforms after the start of railway service, the director said, “The higher authorities will soon deliver us specific guideline about how to manage passengers who will reach here on the special trains. We will work as per the guidelines for the betterment of the passengers.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/passengers-face-glitches-on-irctc-site-for-delhi-jammu-train/articleshow/75683909.cms||RAHUL TAWAR
May 12, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Railway workshops flouting norms, say workers||CHENNAI: Southern Railway employees working at the Perambur carriage and locomotive workshops are a worried lot as a Railway Protection Force (RPF) constable tested positive for Covid-19 on Sunday. In addition, workers allege that more workers than the permitted 25% of staff are being asked to report for work and that physical distancing and sanitation norms are being flouted as well. The huge workshops have not been disinfected or cleaned properly after a lockdown of more than three weeks, the workers said. Employees working with the carriage workshop shared photographs of a number of workers standing at the gate on Monday morning. “In offices, desks are placed close to each other. Toilets are unclean, rats run riot and the buildings are not disinfected,” said an employee who worked last week. Apart from the RPF constable, last week, a staff from the stores department at the joint office in Ayanavaram tested positive. Sources said on Monday that the primary contacts of the patient tested negative. “But RPF personnel at the gate frisk all those who enter. This means that he will be in physical contact with everyone. That is worrisome,” said an official. According to the permission given by the state government, only 25% staff are supposed to report for duty and employees aged 57 years and above should not be told to work as they are more vulnerable to pick up infection. However, these regulations are not being followed, said an employee aged over 57 who worked last week. Dakshin Railway Employees Union (DREU), an employees association, in a letter to S Krishnan IAS, additional chief secretary of TN government, stated that the loco workshop was violating rules by making 50% of staff work. “Contact tracing of the RPF staff who tested positive has not been done. Officials are not worried about the welfare of employees,” said A Janakiraman, working president of DREU, in the letter. An official at the loco workshop said they were adhering to the 25% rule and dividing the workforce according to space available at different parts of the shop floor. “In one place, even having 25% staff may feel crowded. In another, more than 25% will be able to work with physical distance,” he said. Responding to the allegations, the chief public relations officer (CPRO) of Southern Railway said all proactive measures are being taken. “We have disinfected the buildings along with Chennai corporation,” he said. As far as basic hygiene was concerned, he said housekeeping staff have returned to work now and that they have started cleaning the premises. As for the RPF staff who tested positive, it was ascertained that not many people were in contact with him and hence there was nothing to worry, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/rly-workshops-flouting-norms-say-workers/articleshow/75684664.cms||Siddharth Prabhakar
May 12, 2020||Lucknow||Rising sugar levels in Lucknow diabetics up Covid-19 risk||LUCKNOW: The blood sugar levels among diabetics in Lucknow has gone up marginally in the first quarter of the 2020, according to the recently released India Diabetes Care index report. The assessment was based on Hb1AC measure of patients enrolled in different cities of India, including Lucknow. The report showed that the average Hb1AC levels among Lucknowites went up from 8.21 to 8.28%.  HbA1c test indicates the average blood glucose level over three months and is considered as one of the best indicators of long-term blood glucose control. The average age of 63% male and 37% female in the city was 55 years. Stating that the rise in HbA1C level comes at a time when medical studies are pointing towards an increased risk for severe complications arising from Covid-19 in people living with diabetes, the report said, “older adults and people with pre-existing medical conditions like hypertension, heart disease, pulmonary disorders and obesity related conditions are also at a higher risk of experiencing serious complications due to Covid-19.” Experts in endocrinology expressed concern over the findings as diabetes has emerged as a risk factor among Covid-19 patients. “Diabetics are at the risk of developing severe complications from Covid-19 and it can lead to more fatalities in people with diabetes. Therefore, people with diabetes should be vigilant about their health and well-being especially because of the lockdown,” said Dr Sharad Kumar, senior consulting endocrinologist here. Health officials have been pointing out that co-morbid conditions such as diabetes and hypertension added to the complications caused by novel coronavirus. “The pandemic virus doesn’t kill. It aggravates pre-existing medical conditions which often turns fatal,” said Dr Vikasendu Agarwal, state surveillance officer, UP. He also stated that even a number of elderly in UP have recovered from Covid-19. “Delay in identifying warning signs has been a contributory factory in a number of deaths in the state,” he said. Doctors recommend monitoring of diabetic condition. “Controlled blood sugar helps in keeping diabetic complications away. In fact, a one percent reduction in HbA1c reduces the risk of diabetes-related complications,” said Dr Sunil Verma, general physician.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/rising-sugar-levels-in-city-diabetics-up-covid-19-risk/articleshow/75685220.cms||Shailvee Sharda
May 12, 2020||Bhopal||30% coronavirus deaths on first day of hospitalisation in Madhya Pradesh||BHOPAL: Thirty per cent of all Covid-19 deaths in Madhya Pradesh took place on the day of hospitalisation, according to a health department report. In Bhopal, 61% of people admitted for Covid-19 treatment died on the same day. In Indore, while only 13% died on the same day, 56% died in the first five days. In Ujjain, 94% people died in the first five days of admission for Covid-19 treatment. More than 70% of Covid-19 deaths occurred in the first five days of the presentation of case, according to the analysis of 185 Covid-19 deaths that have taken place in Madhya Pradesh till the first week of May. Most of these cases that underwent treatment were out of ‘containment zones’. Late presentation of cases is linked to the time interval between the onset of symptoms and date of admission to hospital. Other factors were the level of care at the hospital and pre-existing conditions of the patients. “Patients go into immune reaction, which is not unique to Covid-19, called cytokine storm. It can arise in response to other infections and can be deadly and occur in severely ill Covid19 patients,” said Gandhi Medical College (GMC) pulmonologist, Dr Parag Sharma. Of the cases analysed, 31% of deaths were on the day of admission, 13.74% died on the first day, 12.64% died on the second day and 11% died on the third day in hospital. The percentage of survival increases with a week of hospitalisation. The state government document remarks that the period, ‘between onset of symptoms and admission to hospital is decreasing. At the beginning of outbreak, it was high at 12 days and in the last two weeks, it is around 3-4 days. This indicates that now people are recognising symptoms and reaching the hospital in time’. “There is need for transparency and to immediately conduct a death review. The situation also calls for reviewing the identification isolation, treatment and testing (IITT) strategy to counter Covid-19 spread,” said NGO Jan Swasth Abhiyan representative, Amulya Nidhi. He also stated that the current situation is a fallout of the U-turn on decentralised policy (proposed in March) against a now centralised policy to counter Covid-19. One-fifth of the Covid-19 deaths in MP are of people who were aged 41 to 50. About 58% of people who died due to Covid19 were in the age group of 51 to 70. Those between 71 to 80 were 12% of all Covid19 deaths reported. However, risk of death rises sharply from 50 years onwards and is 3.4 times in age 60-70 years, 4.3 times in 70-80 years and 5.4 times in those over 80 years. Date-wise case fatality rate, a percentage of confirmed Covid-19 cases and deaths, was at a peak at 8.14% on April 13. It dropped to 4.48% around April 23. However, in an alarming sign, the number of deaths per case reported has once again shot up to 5.90%. A week into hospitalisation, recovery from Covid-19 is more likely than earlier in admission. 44% of the deaths were in Indore, 22% in Ujjain and 11% in Bhopal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/30-corona-deaths-on-first-day-of-hospitalisation-in-mp/articleshow/75683897.cms||Jamal Ayub
May 12, 2020||Chandigarh||5 drug peddlers attack reformed addict, booked||Ludhiana: Drug peddlers attacked a 27-year-old addict after he allegedly refused to sell heroin on Sunday night in Satguru Nagar of Daba area. The victim was attacked with sharp-edged weapons, he is now undergoing treatment at Christian Medical College and Hospital. The victim is a resident of Basant Nagar Daba. The police have registered a case against the accused Amanjot Singh, Soni, Kali, Shashi, Pooja. all residents of Satguru Nagar. The father of the victim alleged that his son is a drug addict and used to buy drugs from the accused. He further said his son had decided to give up drugs, but the accused were forcing him to buy and sell it further for them. But his son, according to the father, refused to oblige and was attacked. Investigating officer, sub-inspector Paramjit Singh, said the accused are absconding. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/5-drug-peddlers-attack-reformed-addict-booked/articleshow/75682697.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Business||Airtel dials IBM as battle with Jio heats up||Bengaluru: IBM on Monday announced a major deal with Bharti Airtel to build a new open hybrid cloud network that will be more efficient and flexible than what exists now, will enable new digital services, and be ready for emerging technologies such as 5G and edge computing. IBM also announced that a similar implementation in Vodafone Idea had achieved its first major production milestone. IBM’s cloud capabilities are seen to have improved significantly since its acquisition of Red Hat last year. Sandip Patel, general manager in IBM India, said a major architectural shift is happening in the Indian telcom sector, towards an open horizontal cloud. This, he said, would enable companies to reduce capital expenditures (since the public cloud means you pay for what you use and so is an operational expenditure), it would enable them to respond faster to changes, and bring new services to market faster. Covid-19, for instance, suddenly and dramatically altered network traffic profiles. The new cloud network will enable these companies to reconfigure it to where the demand is more “with just a few clicks.” The new cloud architecture will also enable, for instance, more seamless “network slicing,” to cater to specific customer requirements. Connected cars and robotic surgeries of the future will require very high-performance networks, while many other operations will not require those levels of performance. The new systems will enable telcos to quickly provide the required quality of performance for any new demand that comes in. For Airtel and Vodafone Idea, the new architectures have become particularly important given Reliance Jio’s advances. Sanchit Vir Gogia, founder & CEO of Greyhound Research, notes that the Indian telecom sector has witnessed a seismic shift in investor sentiment over the past month, with Jio receiving three investments from three global majors amounting to a total of $8 billion. This, he says, has a direct bearing on Jio’s major competitors — Bharti Airtel and Vodafone Idea.  “For all three, the battle has shifted to consumer data, apps and enterprise services where there is a lot more money to be made compared to traditional voice services. But in this new turf, the winner is decided on a key metric – the one that delivers better customer experience which further depends on parameters like network availability, overall performance and 5G readiness,” he says. IBM has been a major technology partner of Airtel’s since 2014 and of Vodafone Idea’s for more than a decade. The latest deals build on those.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/airtel-dials-ibm-as-battle-with-jio-heats-up/articleshow/75683920.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Chennai||New Elephant Gate bridge to be constructed in 13 months||Chennai: It took 25workers, six diamond cutter machines, two giant cranes, three earthmovers and 12 days to pull down a bridge that straddled eight railway lines to MGR Central for more than 80 years. Demolition of the Elephant Gate bridge began on April 27 and the lockdown came in handy as there was no need to suspend train services. A few daily parcel trains operated were shifted to Egmore railway station for two days for the work. Though the work was sanctioned by the railway ministry in 2008-09 at an estimated cost of Rs 43.77 crore, it could be carried out only now because neither the railways nor the local body officials could make a move to tear it down as it meant disrupting road traffic on the busy Elephant Gate bridge Road and rail traffic from the city's busiest railway station, that catered to around 4 lakh people a day. The bridge will be rebuilt using steel spans and will be lengthier than the the old one so railways can lay more tracks leading out of Central station and Moore Market Complex suburban station. A railway official said, "The bridge had out-lived its life." Dismantling of top slabs and piers from all eight spans was done using diamond wire saw cutters while cranes held the slabs. The demolition and reconstruction work was awarded to the Valecha-CSR JV in April this year. An official from the company said, "We will soon begin piling work. The bridge will be rebuilt in 13 months." The Elephant Gate bridge, also known in railway parlance as the old 9R bridge, was constructed during 1933 and had over the years become weak and stood in the way of expansion plans of Central station, which handles around 100 trains daily. Situated just 1km away, the bridge stood across the railway lines between exit of Chennai Central yard connecting the Basin Bridge coaching depot on the right and the Salt Cotaurs goods yard on the left.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/new-elephant-gate-bridge-to-be-constructed-in-13-months/articleshow/75684667.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Lucknow||Fund crunch hits work at SDRF HQ building||LUCKNOW: One of the forces on the forefront of the Covid battle, the State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) has another battle in its hand — to operate out of a building which is far from being completed. Shortage of funds has forced SDRF officials to abandon midway the construction work at its headquarters on the city’s outskirts. UC Gehlot, the MD of UP Rajkiya Nirman Nigam, which is the agency constructing the SDRF building, told TOI that despite repeated reminder the fund has not been released for this project and the construction work is stalled for the past one year. An IPS officer is heading SDRF and he is known as commandant. It has staff strength of 450, including a deputy commandant and two assistant commandants.“Whenever our state faces crisis, either natural or man-made, SDRF rises to the occasion to offer flawless service to the needy,” said an alert jawan of the force deployed on guard duty. He rued the fact that the force is not getting the attention it deserves. Half constructed office building and residential blocks clearly reflect that SDRF is an urgent need of funds. The work was halted a year back because of funds crunch, said a project manager. The SDRF campus is a sprawling 85-acre area near Noorganj village on Bijnor road. It had been set up following directives from the Centre to start a force on the pattern of NDRF to tackle natural and man-made calamities. To be constructed with an estimated cost of Rs 96 crore, the foundation stone of the project was laid in January 2017 by the then CM Akhilesh Yadav. It was one of the several projects which were launched before the 2017 state elections and was to be completed by March 2019. Initially it was proposed that an administrative block would be constructed for the commandant and his subordinates and two residential blocks and barracks for jawans. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath had inaugurated partially constructed administrative block in March 2019. Since then, construction work has not moved forward an over two-thirds of the work is lying unfinished.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/fund-crunch-hits-work-at-sdrf-hq-building/articleshow/75685232.cms||Subhash Mishra
May 12, 2020||Chandigarh||AC, repair & stationery shops allowed to open||Ludhiana: Deputy commissioner Pradeep Kumar Agrawal on Monday allowed the opening of shops selling electric fans/air coolers spare parts, books and stationery. He also said services such as AC repair, vehicle repair, electrician and plumber will also be available. Supply of electrical, sanitary items, construction material will be available too. These will be open from 7am to 3pm and from 3pm to 7pm, these shops can do home delivery. This is not applicable in hotspots and containment zones. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/ac-repair-stationery-shops-allowed-to-open/articleshow/75682707.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Ludhiana||25 trains in just 6 days from city railway station||Ludhiana: After the railway ministry began the service of running special Shramik trains for ferrying migrants labourers to their home states, the Northern Railway authorities of Ferozepur division have run the maximum number of 25 such trains from Ludhiana railway station in just six days by following all standard protocols for ferrying thousands of passengers to their native places. With the large number of registration on the government portal by local migrant labourers, the Railways will have to run five trains daily from Sunday onwards to ensure quick transportation of all registered passengers. As per data available with TOI, in the initial days the local railway authorities ran almost two to three trains daily but after the district administration demanded that more trains be run, the Railways have decided to run at least five train on daily basis from the railway station by arranging between 20-24 coaches after sanitising these properly to overcome any untoward situation. The railway authorities have been struggling in managing the availability of a large numbers of rakes for ferrying the migrants to their designated stations as a large number of trains are heading towards Bihar and Uttar Pradesh from different divisions. On Monday, the first train left the railway station around 12.15pm for Sitamarhi (Bihar ) railway station with 1,188 passengers on board after following standard protocols of maintaining social distancing and wearing of masks. The 12-coach train will reach its destination on Tuesday evening after covering a distance of 1,423km by maintaining an average speed of 60km. Sources in the railway department have revealed that, “Ludhiana railway station has emerged as one of the top stations of Northern Railway, from where the maximum number of special trains to Bihar and Uttar Pradesh were run in just six days. Although, in the initial days the district administration raised the demand of eights train per day with the authorities concerned but due to certain technicalities, the proposal couldn’t be executed.” “The Railways will have to maintain its frequency of moving special trains from the city for the next few days because registration numbers have gone beyond the government’s imagination,” sources added. Senior divisional commercial manager of Ferozepur division Vivek Sharma said, “Ludhiana has run a large number of trains to different districts of Bihar and Uttar Pradesh as demanded by the local administration. We are ready to deal with any difficult situation as we have managed everything by making optimum use of its available resources. We are working on the request of the state government, if they will ask for increasing the number of trains, then we will provide them as much trains for ferrying every single migrant labourer stuck here.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/25-trains-in-just-6-days-from-city-railway-station/articleshow/75683927.cms||RAHUL TAWAR
May 12, 2020||Business||Rahul Bhatia’s InterGlobe eyes bankrupt Virgin Australia||NEW DELHI: InterGlobe Enterprises (IGE) is eyeing Australia’s second-largest airline Virgin Australia Holdings, which went bankrupt last month amid the coronavirus pandemic. While IGE said “it does not comment on speculation as a rule,” it is learnt to be examining bidding for Virgin Australia and has appointed a consultant. No bids have been put in yet. The first round of bids have to be submitted by May 15. So far, 20 likely bidders have evinced interest. Virgin Australia stakeholders include Abu Dhabi-based Etihad, Singapore Airlines and Richard Branson’s Virgin Group. The VA deal is being examined by IGE and not by group company IndiGo. No interest in VA, made no proposal, says IndiGoVA has appointed a team of Deloitte administrators to “recapitalise the business and ensure it emerges in a stronger financial position on the other side of the Covid-19 crisis” after Australia refused its request for a $888 million loan. Among the others eyeing VA are Australian PE firm BGH Capital, global investment giants Bain Capital, Brookfield and Oaktree Capital Management, Macquarie Group and three Australian states — Queensland, NSW and Victoria. VA’s total liabilities are close to $7 billion. Morgan Stanley and Houlihan Lokey are conducting the deal for VA’s administrators. IndiGo, India’s only cash surplus airline is officially out of the VA picture. IndiGo CEO Ronojoy Dutta said in a statement: “We refer to certain reports stating that Indi-Go has expressed an interest in Virgin Australia. We deny the contents of these reports and would like to clarify that IndiGo has not formulated any indicative proposal, nor does it have any interest in this matter.” The dynamics of aviation industry will change significantly in a post-pandemic world, with several airlines struggling to survive and some looking for infusion of funds from new investors to revive. Among Indian carriers, IndiGo is the only one with its own cash reserves. Other airlines like GoAir and Vistara are backed by promoters with deep pockets, while state-owned Air India’s divestment process is on. IndiGo has been planning to spread its wings abroad for a long time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/rahul-bhatias-interglobe-eyes-bankrupt-virgin-australia/articleshow/75686048.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Ahmedabad||Coronavirus positive cases in Ahmedabad cross 6,000-mark||AHMEDABAD: In India, Ahmedabad is on third spot in major cities after Mumbai (14,521) and Delhi (7,233). Chennai’s tally has now reached to 4,372. Except four major states, all other states have less cases than the district, reveal analysis. Total deaths in the district also reached 400-mark on Monday – three of the deaths are recorded in Ahmedabad district outside AMC limits whereas 397 are recorded in the city. City is second in terms of mortality across India only after Mumbai. “Cases are still coming from the identified hotspots and major drives are carried out to test maximum persons who might have come in contact with the positive patients and reduce the contact chain,” said an AMC official. “From the all-time high of 349 cases recorded on May 5, the cases are on constant decline and stringent lockdown could be one of the success factors.” Out of the deaths in past seven days, 102 were men and 64 were women. State health department officials said that in majority of the deaths, the patients were found to have co-morbidities such as hypertension, diabetes, existing health conditions such as kidney, heart or liver ailment and in some cases diseases such as cancer and mental health issues.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/positive-cases-in-ahmedabad-cross-6000-mark/articleshow/75684676.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Ahmedabad||Health department tries to placate Civil’s resident doctors||AHMEDABAD: Two days after a letter with 23 points of contention by a resident doctor at Civil Hospital —Gujarat’s biggest Covid-19 treatment facility — went viral, the state health department officials tried to douse the fire by holding a meeting. TOI had reported about the letter on May 10, outlining the major demands and solutions sought by the resident doctors serving at Covid-19 hospitals on the Civil Hospital campus. While the hospital authorities claimed that the interaction was successful, the representatives of resident doctors said that they are still pursuing the state health department for several basic demands. Dr M M Prabhakar, OSD for Medicity, told TOI that the meeting was conducted with representatives of the resident doctors and their unit heads. “All the points that were raised by the resident doctors were discussed and we assured them of the quickest resolution of their issues,” he said. Sources aware of the development said that Jayanti Ravi, principal secretary (health & family welfare), Dr J P Modi, the superintendent of Civil Hospital, Dr Maitreya Gajjar, in-charge of the 1,200-bed hospital, along with senior officials and unit heads were present. Senior health department officials stressed on not testing asymptomatic medical workers citing national guidelines. “One of the major issues which has still to get amicable resolution is testing of every patient for planned surgery taking place on the campus. In every surgery, the chances of infection are high,” said a doctor on condition of anonymity. Some of the issues for which the officials assured of support included availability of essential medicines, availability of technicians, team approach for the duty chart, treatment protocol, proper management of blood samples and computerized records. Sources added that while the fight against Covid-19 has reached its optimum point, the health department did not want trouble with resident doctors who form the backbone of the entire healthcare system. The doctors were also asked to approach senior officials instead of taking to social media, they added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/health-dept-tries-to-placate-civils-resident-docs/articleshow/75684704.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Delhi||Ganga Ram OPD opens as hospitals alter course||NEW DELHI: With India learning to live with novel coronavirus, new steps are being taken to restart stalled healthcare services. Hospitals have begun routine OPDs and surgeries for non-Covid-19 cases after putting in place mandatory measures like prior booking, masks for every visitor and, mostly importantly, full safety gear for healthcare personnel.  Only low-risk cases are allowed in non-Covid zonesSir Ganga Ram Hospital (SGRH), which resumed OPDs and surgeries on Monday, said they are allowing each doctor to only see a maximum of four patients in an hour. “Patients are advised to show their status on Aarogya Setu app. Only low-risk cases are allowed in non-Covid zones. Appointments and payments are being done online,” said Dr Shankar Acharya, the head of OPD coordination and senior spine surgeon. On the first day, the hospital saw about 30 patients. Its daily footfall in the pre-lockdown period was in hundreds. “Our department saw eight patients, mostly those awaiting kidney transplant or suffering from dialysis-related complications. These patients had been waiting for over a month to visit the hospital because tele and video consultations weren’t enough,” said Dr AK Bhalla, senior consultant and chairman, nephrology at SGRH. Bhalla added, “Normally, we used to have a queue outside the OPD. Today, there were only a few patients. They were wearing masks. We, on the other hand, were covered from head to toe with N-95 mask, face shield, gowns and shoe cover.” There is a palpable fear among patients visiting the hospitals these days. “No one visits the cafeteria. Patients are even wary of visiting the pharmacies,” said an official at Apollo Hospital, which is running OPD services in limited capacity. “Patients have been coming unattended or with one attendant. Usually, 3-4 people accompanied a person who had to undergo a major surgery. They are consciously trying to avoid touching any surface and moving around with arms crossed,” the official added. Shiva Kumar, a patient at SGRH, said, “I am a diabetic and at high risk of developing complications due to Covid-19. I had postponed my hospital visit for over a month. Recently, I developed breathing complications, so I had to see a doctor. Tele-consultation and video calls cannot replace a personal visit to the doctor.” Dr BL Sherwal, director of Delhi State Cancer Institute (DSCI), which resumed OPD operations last month, said they are getting 60-70 patients daily, mostly follow-up cases. “We performed radiotherapy on 10-12 patients today. From Wednesday, admissions will also start,” he adde. Safdarjung Hospital has already started OPD services and sources said AIIMS is also devising a detailed plan to start them soon. “Maintaining social distancing, wearing masks, sanitising hands regularly and following respiratory etiquette is going to be the key to successful resumption of hospital services,” said a doctor at AIIMS. The chairman of Hospital Board of India of Indian Medical Association, Dr VK Monga, said most hospitals and nursing homes have resumed operations. “We never told the doctors to not operate. We have advised them to follow all precautionary measures and get a patient tested if he or she is symptomatic for Covid-19,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/ganga-ram-opd-opens-as-hospitals-alter-course/articleshow/75684692.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
May 12, 2020||Rajkot||Influx of ‘ill’ new headache for Amreli admn||Rajkot: First, they battled massive illegal influx of natives from Surat, and now their ‘legal entry’ too has thrown a frustrating medical challenge to the Amreli district administration. Official sources said that large number of people coming to their natives in Amreli district are conveniently concealing their medical condition to the health teams at the checkposts. In fact, officials said they are not revealing the co-morbities even while applying online with Surat district collectorate for inter-state travel passes. In fact, many even pop paracetamol tablets commonly used for fever. When questioned about their medical history at the Chavand checkpost, majority of them declare that they are completely healthy. But when taken to government quarantine facilities in their respective talukas, they start demanding regular medication for diabetes or blood pressure, officials told TOI. Recently, a 50-year-old man who returned home in Kadiyali village near Rajula on May 9, did not reveal at the checkpost that he suffered from serious liver and cardiomegaly (enlarged heart) . He died the next day. Officials said nearly 40% of people coming from Surat are either concealing or providing wrong medical history. More than 36,000 people have ‘officially’ entered Amreli from the checkpost between May 7 and May 10. As per the government’s inter-state travel guidelines, people above 65 years, children less than 10 years, pregnant women or those having co-morbid conditions are not allowed to travel as they fall in the high-risk category. “They have valid passes to travel. But their entry is actually illegal as they are misdeclaring their medical conditions. We can lodge an offence against each one of the, but it’s a Herculean task as number of such people are very very high,” said Amreli collector Aayush Oak. Officials said despite clear guidelines, most families are carrying children less than 10 years. Amreli-based surgeon Dr Bharat Kanabar said, “We don’t have enough medical staff in the district to examine these many number of people. They are coming because of financial compulsion, but if they will continue flouting rules, it’s posing a grave risk to this green zone.” Medical experts say even a healthy person travelling for over 12 hours without sleep and standing in queue at checkpost in this scorching heat will have high temperature. This makes it difficult to decide if a person is Covid suspect or not.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/influx-of-ill-new-headache-for-amreli-admn/articleshow/75682737.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
May 12, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Civic body sends migrant broom-makers to transit home||Bhubaneswar: The Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Monday relocated five families of seasonal migrants, who were staying under a flyover and were selling eco-friendly brooms, to a transit home at Rasulgarh. They belong to Bilaspur in Chhattisgarh and had come here to sell brooms made up of branches of some shrubs, which are available on the outskirts of Bhubaneswar. The BMC swung into action to rescue and relocate them as none of them knew anything about the corona virus and they continued to live under the flyover after the lockdown was imposed. “Since they have no home and they didn’t know that corona is a virus and has become pandemic, we decided to shift them to transit home so that they are not infected and infect others. We had to toil hard to counsel and convince them to shift to the transit home. They will continue to stay there till the lockdown is lifted. Cooked food will be provided to them during the stay,” said BMC deputy commissioner Kamalakanta Behera. A BMC official said the migrant families usually migrate from Chhattisgarh in winter and they stay here till June-end. Because of the lockdown, neither could they return home nor do business. “When the squad moved to enforce lockdown and social distancing, it had come across plight of this distressed people, who were oblivious of the current pandemic. So, it is a humanitarian aspect of the squad to rescue such people and help them live with safety at this juncture,” said commissioner of Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation Prem Chandra Chaudhury. During their stay in the transit home, the migrants will be allowed to sell the brooms but will not be allowed to go out, official sources said. The traders will come to the transit home and buy the brooms in bulks at the gate. One family of the migrants makes 25 brooms a day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/civic-body-sends-migrant-broom-makers-to-transit-home/articleshow/75682738.cms||---
May 12, 2020||Pune||135 Puneites, stuck in across the world for days, back home||PUNE: There was some uncertainty and a few hiccups, but the relief of being back home far outweighed the hardships for the 135 Puneites who returned to the city in the last two days. They were on India’s first flights to bring home those stranded abroad, as part of the Vande Mataram mission — the country’s massive repatriation endeavour. The 135 people were flown to Mumbai, from places such as London, San Francisco, Singapore and the Philippines and put under a 14-day quarantine at various three star hotels in Deccan Gymkhana, Balewadi and Wakad, district authorities and Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) officials stated. Tanea Bandyopadhyay, who was completing her last year of masters in international affairs at the National University of Singapore, returned from Singapore on Sunday. “ I feel extremely relieved at being back in Pune. There has been a lot of uncertainty in the past few months. Being stuck in a foreign country indefinitely creates a lot of anxiety,” she told TOI. Raj Wani, who was working in a Los Angeles-based firm as a construction engineer while he was in the US, told TOI, “I reached Mumbai at 5am on Monday. After waiting at the airport till 10am, we got onto a state transport bus. Each of us was charged Rs1,265 for the journey to Pune. There were also a few hiccups before we boarded the flight from San Francisco to Mumbai.” He said, “For one, my flight was confirmed in the last minute and the airline could not process the tickets of a few travellers before check-in. This process took four hours. Though social distancing norms were being followed at the airport in San Francisco, they were almost nil on the flight because it was packed.” Rashmi Bhamare Patil, a gynecologist and infertility specialist, had gone to the US for a workshop in February but got stuck there till she returned on Sunday. “My overall-experience was mixed. The expenses on the air ticket, transport and quarantine charges in the hotel have been high. The total cost for me is coming up to Rs1.4 lakh till now.” Vishesh Dean, a software developer staying in Singapore for the last eight years, returned to Pune on Sunday. “The trip to Mumbai was seamless, and the immigration process was decently organized. But the transport process from Mumbai to Pune was a bit arduous. All in all, I am thankful for the extra effort taken by the authorities in setting up the hotel accommodation. The meals have been timely and adequate so far,” he told TOI. “The Internet facilities have been a bit dodgy at least for me, and am relying on mobile 4G for now. I don’t expect the help at the reception to be able to work out the issues by themselves, especially since they seem more nervous than usual due to the proximity with us Indians (NRIs/citizens) returning from an affected place like Singapore,” Dewan said. A district administration official said the the hotel quarantine was a paid service and travellers returning would have to bear the charges of their stay. “If a batch of travellers has one hotel as their quarantine facility, then travellers coming from some other country will not be allowed to be quarantined in the same hotel. We are providing those hotels as quarantine facility, which charge a reasonable per night cost of Rs2,000-3,000 per person. If someone is not willing to pay this amount, then that traveller is requested to shift to the PMC’s free of cost institutional quarantine facility.” The owner of a city-based hotel, where around 63 Puneites back from London, have been quarantined, told TOI, “The per person charge for a 14-day quarantine period at our hotel is approximately Rs36,000, inclusive of taxes and meals. We have been instructed by the authorities to quarantine those who have returned in rooms with only split air-conditioning units.” He added, “ We are charging a very nominal amount to those using the hotel as quarantine facility, especially since it involves a lot of expenditure such as disinfection, sanitizing bed sheets, towels, rooms and corridors, besides providing meals, electricity and toiletries.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/135-puneites-stuck-in-across-the-world-for-days-back-home/articleshow/75684689.cms||Neha Madaan
May 12, 2020||Ranchi||State won’t implement Centre’s new discharge policy||RANCHI: Two days after the Centre issued fresh guidelines directing all states and Union Territories to conduct RT-PCR tests only for patients with severe Covid-19 symptoms, the state health department on Monday said that it will continue testing patients irrespective of how severe or mild their symptoms are to prevent the spread of infection in the community. Talking to TOI, state health secretary Nitin Madan Kulkarnin said: “We are not in a crisis situation and we will conduct RT-PCR tests for all patients. Almost 95% cases in Jharkhand are asymptomatic, mild and moderate and we will discharge them only after they test negative at least once.” As per the Union ministry of health and family welfare’s revised policy, only those with severe symptoms will undergo one RT-PCR tests before they are discharged. Patients with mild and moderate symptoms will be sent home without any test if they do not develop severe symptoms. Until last week, a patient had to test negative twice in two consecutive tests conducted within 48 hours for discharge. Kulkarni said: “We are not in a crisis situation. Almost 50% of the total cases have recovered and they have been discharged. We have enough beds for treating patients, including those with mild symptoms, and have decided to continue with the older protocol with only a few changes as per new guidelines.” He added, “We have also instructed our Covid-19 treatment centres to discharge patients only after thorough medical examination for 48 hours after they test negative.” Meanwhile, public health experts in the state said the revised guidelines aim to save scarce testing and treatment resources as it has been observed that may patients continue to test positive even after they become asymptomatic during his treatment. “The follow-up tests was resulting in wastage of resources. Now, these resources can be used to diagnose new cases. The new policy will also help free up hospital beds for those who need it the mosr,” said a doctor on Covid-19 duty in Ranchi. While some sources in the health department said adopting the revised policy will help save beds and testing kits, Kulkarni said the state has enough resources and it is better to be cautious. “Not even 1% of the total ICU beds in state and 5-6% nationally have been utilized for Covid-19 patients. In Jharkhand, most cases are asymptomatic and we will continue to take all precautions before discharging a patient,” he said. As per the Centre’s new discharge policy, Covid patients have been divided into three categories — mild/very mild/preasymptomatic cases, moderate and severe cases. All categories will continue to be monitored in hospitals. For mild category, doctors will continue to monitor fever and pulse oximetry. According to the revised policy, a patient can be discharged after 10 days of symptom onset if he/she has not had fever for three days, without undergoing the mandatory negative confirmatory test. The patient needs to be in home isolation for seven days. In moderate cases, a patient can be discharged after 10 days of symptom onset if his/her fever subsides within three days and maintains an oxygen saturation above 95% for the next four days, without any external support. In severe cases, that include immune compromised patients, they can be discharged only after clinical recovery and after testing once by RT-PCR.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/state-wont-implement-centres-new-discharge-policy/articleshow/75683902.cms||Gaurav Pandey
May 12, 2020||Ranchi||Ramgarh, H’bag abuzz with birds & butterflies, say wildlife enthusiasts||RAMGARH/HAZARIBAG: The ongoing lockdown has been implemented to contain the deadly coronavirus. It also made daily life difficult by forcing people to stay off the roads and asking industries to remain shut, but the resultant lack of pollution is now helping wildlife enthusiasts a chance to spot rare species of birds and animals in Ramgarh and Hazaribag districts. Ramgarh divisional forest officer Vijay Shankar Dubey said, “The population of butterflies and birds has increased significantly here in the last few months. Breeding of butterflies is an indication of the environment becoming pollution-free. Now, the situation is such that the deafening noise of vehicles and industries have been replaced by the soothing sounds of birds and butterflies even in urban pockets of the district.” Similarly in Hazaribag, the regional chief conservator of forests, Sanjeev Kumar, said he has come across many rare species of birds and butterflies recently in the Hazaribag National Park and its surroundings, calling it a positive outcome of the lockdown. “Some very rare species of butterflies like common crow, common jezebel, cabbage white and blue tiger have been spotted recently,” he said. He added that in Hazaribag Wildlife Sanctuary and in its adjoining roads and forests, wolves, wild boars, mongoose and hyena are now a common sight and deep inside the forests, there have been reports of leopards being spotted. “Even Canary Hills and its adjoining forests are now abuzz with various kinds of butterflies.” Noted bird watcher Mrityunjay Sharma, who resides near Canary Hills, said many rare birds like pied tit, pea fowls, tailor bird, spotted dove, plum headed parakeet, alexandrian parakeet, etc., can be heard chirping throughout the day in and around the area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/ramgarh-hbag-abuzz-with-birds-butterflies-say-wildlife-enthusiasts/articleshow/75683867.cms||N K Agarwal
May 12, 2020||Ranchi||Health secy asks Bokaro admin to keep a pool of docs ready for Covid duty||BOKARO: State health secretary Nitin Madan Kulkarni has asked the Bokaro administration to keep a pool of registered practising doctors, both from government and private entities, ready to engage them for Covid-19 duty in case of exigency. The advisory has come in the backdrop of huge number of people set to return to the district and finding certain gaps related to human resource, training, infrastructure, laboratory services, infection prevention and control protocols at Bokaro General Hospital (BGH), the only Covid-19 designated hospital in the district with 45 isolation beds. Moreover, BGH is also facing shortage of manpower. Kulkarni directed Bokaro DC Mukesh Kumar to review and address the gaps at BGH and submit a fact sheet by Tuesday. Talking to TOI, Kulkarni said, “The Bokaro administration has been asked to identify doctors from both government and private health facilities. First, the government doctors will be deployed and if required, private doctors will be engaged to treat Covid-19 patients.” The health secretary also asked the administration to check whether BGH is following infection prevention and control protocols strictly or not. He said the DC has been asked to ensure that BGH has separate entry and exit gates, provide oxygen in 80% beds in the Covid ward, set up a sample collection facility, provide treatment protocols to doctors, nurses and santisation workers and maintain adequate stock of PPEs. In the recent days, the threat of coronavirus infection has increased after the arrival of migrant workers, students and people from different parts of the state and the country. More than 20,000 migrant workers are also expected to arrive in Bokaro in trains and buses. Currently, BGH has limited manpower but has to dedicate a full team of doctors, nurses, paramedical staff and sanitisation workers in its Covid ward. On normal days, it caters to 40,000 indoor patients and 11 lakh outdoor patients annually. The BGH administration has requested for additional staff dedicated to fight the virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/health-secy-asks-bokaro-admin-to-keep-a-pool-of-docs-ready-for-covid-duty/articleshow/75684298.cms||Divy Khare
