May 13, 2020||Bengaluru||#LockdownCreativity: Needlework is helping people in quarantine relieve anxiety||‘A stitch in time saves nine’, goes the proverb. But the current slowdown has given that little extra time on our hands to revisit some of the long-forgotten hobbies, stitching being one of them. Photographer Manvi Gandotra loves being creative with the camera, but it’s needle and thread that are keeping her spirits high during the lockdown. “Considering the situation around, I was slightly demotivated to do photography at this time. And I realised sewing is something that could keep me creatively engaged at home,” say Manvi, who has already churned out more than 40 embroidered pieces of cloth in the past few weeks. She admits being quite addicted to her lockdown hobby and, in fact, finds it therapeutic during these stressful times. Although the calming effect of art therapy is known to all, embroidery hoops are beating the confinement blues like how! Sewing can be both creative and therapeuticSimilarly, Maya Kilpadi, who works with a city start-up, finds needlework to be a creatively satisfying pastime that has helped her de-stress while in quarantine. However, instead of picking up something new, Maya resumed an incomplete project, which she had begun 10 years ago. “I had this kit with a half-done piece of embroidery lying at home for a decade. So, I started working on it again,” she explains. Manvi, on the other hand, likes to do a little something every day. “I take up a small stitching pattern daily, and I try to finish it by the end of the day. This gives me a sense of accomplishment. I also try to learn a new stitching technique every day.” It’s like walking down memory laneAnisha Yadav, who is studying medicine in the US, found her inspiration for stitching on social media. “My friend had posted a picture on Instagram some time ago, and it brought back so many memories of my grandmother and mother stitching when I was a kid, and then me trying to follow the tradition when I was in school,” she says, adding, “Of late, sewing has also helped me cope with my anxiety issues.” A perfect gift for your loved onesThe calming effects aside, a piece of neat needlework can also be the perfect gift for a dear friend or a family member. “I recently presented an embroidered frame to my friend’s little daughter, something that can be added to her nursery. To be able to gift someone a personalised, handmade item makes you feel happy and satisfied. Who knew a simple activity could lead to such a strong sense of connection,” says Anisha. Tips for first-timers… Start with a small project – an easy pattern or design Try simple stitching techniques, such as filling stitch or running stitch Don’t look at stitching as a task. Instead, try and enjoy the process||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/lockdowncreativity-needlework-is-helping-people-in-quarantine-relieve-anxiety/articleshow/75700432.cms||Joyeeta Chakravorty
May 13, 2020||Bengaluru||Lockdown gets Bengalureans to try bio enzymes as part of sustainable living||The lockdown, it would seem, served as the perfect time for a lot of people to scout their pantries and look for natural alternatives to items they would normally source from the neighbourhood store. One such activity that has been gaining popularity is making homemade bio enzymes. Not only are these chemical-free cleaners effective, but they are easy to prepare too. What is bio enzyme?Bio enzymes are cleaners made using natural ingredients that can be used to clean the floor, clothes, plants and dishes. Citizens show increased interest in bio enzymesVani Murthy, one of the founding members of Solid Waste Management Round Table (SWMRT), says that ever since the lockdown began, queries about bio enzymes and chemical-free cleaners have been on the rise. “Not many people are aware about bio enzymes and that they are easy to make at home. Anytime is a good time to make bio enzymes, but during the lockdown, people have been trying it, because they have a lot of time on their hands,” she says. Singer Bindhumalini is one of those who finally put her plan to make bio enzymes to action. “I always wanted to make chemical-free cleaning agents at home, but couldn't because of my schedule. The lockdown proved to be the perfect opportunity to take it up and I am already on my second batch,” she says. Bio enzymes are effective and environment friendly“Bio enzymes have multiple uses. You can wash clothes, clean your surfaces - tables, kitchen shelves, bathroom tiles and more. In fact, I use bio enzyme mixed with soap nut liquid as a conditioner when I wash my hair," says Vani, adding, "The best part about them is that since they are made of natural ingredients, they do not harm the environment." Here’s how you can start making bio enzyme at home“You can use any kind of citrus peels. I used orange and lemon peels. All you need to do is ensure that you remember to open the bottle to let the gas escape and close the lid again,” says Bindhumalini. Ingredients Cirtrus (lemon, orange) peels Jaggery Water Dry yeast (if available) MethodFollow the proportion 1:3:10 (1 part jaggery, 3 parts citrus peels and 10 parts of water). For example, if you take 100 gms of jaggery, take 300 gms of peels and one litre of water. Mix all the ingredients and pour this into a plastic container. The plastic container should be a little big so that you allow the gas to form. Place the container in a cool, dark place. For the first two weeks, open the lid every day for a minute to let the gas out and close it again. The frequency of this process will decrease as time goes by. Two weeks later, the lid can be opened once in two days for the next two weeks and after two months, you can open it once a week. By the end of two months, a clear liquid will form, which you drain and use as cleaning agent. The pulp can be used in many ways such as washing brass vessels, cleaning the sticky grime over your chimneys and windows. It can also be composted. Note: If you have yeast, add a pinch of it when you’re mixing the remaining ingredients. With yeast the process should take a month. Without it, it takes about three months to prepare.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/lockdown-gets-bengalureans-to-try-bio-enzymes-as-part-of-sustainable-living/articleshow/75701970.cms||Sandra Marina Fernandes
May 13, 2020||Bengaluru||It felt like entering a sci-fi film when I landed in Bengaluru airport: Soundarya Jayamala||In the wee hours of May 11, Soundarya, the daughter of actress-politician Jayamala, finally reached Bengaluru after a long wait. A former actress herself, Soundarya is pursuing her Bachelor’s Degree in zoology at Wales’ Swansea University. She was homebound in early March, but was sent back from Dubai after the Indian government put restrictions on students trying to travel back home from the UK, amid the Coronavirus outbreak. She was in self-quarantine in Wales, until she received the news last weekend of being allowed to fly back to her country. Finally back in her city, she recounts the journey with gratitude and tells us how the past month has changed her perception of life… ‘No journey in my life is ever going to be the same again’I just started crying when I reached Delhi airport. Everyone around me was whistling and clapping. It was a crazy atmosphere. No journey in my life will ever be the same again. I don’t think most people really understand what it is to travel during this time. I was just telling someone that no one should travel for the rest of this year. After we disembarked from the aircraft on Monday morning, they tested all of us. The results will come out today, specifying if we have tested Covid-19 positive or negative, or have symptomatic infection. All of us were extremely tired. We had to be in long queues everywhere. This long wait began from the time I arrived in London to catch to flight. There were four rows of around 300 passengers. All of us had to stand for a long time, as they were only allowing 20 people at a time to board the plane. The aircraft was full. It had all kinds of people – senior citizens, who were returning home for medical care, pregnant women and, of course, many students. ‘Unless asked to step out for tests, we are not allowed to leave our rooms’When we reached the airport here, I couldn’t believe what we were looking at. It felt like we were in some kind of a sci-fi film, in which they were all taking us for tests. Even on Monday evening, they called all of us to an assembly area in the hotel in Bengaluru, where we are staying for further tests. We have four medical staff members staying with us here through the 14-day quarantine period. I must say that the facilities are fabulous. Even though, we can’t order in the hotel, we have a set menu that is delivered to us periodically outside the door of our room. We don’t have any staff coming forth to help us. Instead, we have been shown where to get our towels and other essentials from. No one is allowed to come in contact with anyone in our floors. We are not allowed to leave our rooms, unless we have been summoned for something. ‘The flight was a germaphobe’s worst nightmare’I’m a germaphobe and I keep myself far away from anyone who coughs or sneezes. So, it was quite the ordeal for me to travel in a fully-packed aircraft that had lavatories that were being used by all, and had no guarantee of cleanliness. Nevertheless, I ensured that didn’t come in contact with anything. I am really grateful that I finally managed to come back home safe. ‘I don’t think I’ll be travelling outside the country soon again’I have never had a graduation ceremony in my life. I had an option to stay back for the same this year. But, I said to myself that I’d rather be at home than wait for the ceremony. This experience has made me realise how we go behind so many unnecessary fringes in life, when all that matters to us is how connected and close we are with our near and dear ones. I will use this time here in the quarantine to complete my essays and get good grades. I think it will be a long time before I decide to travel anywhere again. I don’t think I’d head outside the country until the end of this year, at least. ‘I’ll be back with my family a day before my birthday’I think, we are close to the finishing line of this journey back home. My mother had called recently to ask if she should send home-cooked food to the hotel. I told her to hold on, I’m confident that I will be back home soon. Incidentally, the quarantine ends on May 26 and my birthday is on May 27. There will be no better gift ever for me than to reunite with my mother and all my dearest ones.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/it-felt-like-entering-a-sci-fi-film-when-i-landed-in-bengaluru-airport-soundarya-jayamala/articleshow/75703092.cms||Sunayana Suresh
May 13, 2020||Goa||Ferrando in love with FC Goa’s style and support||Panaji: Brazilian great Zico started it all in 2014. FC Goa has always been about attack, moving forward. When Zico left and was replaced by Sergio Lobera, the Spanish coach gave the club a distinct identity with their attacking style of football Now, his replacement Juan Ferrando is eager to carry the legacy forward with the same philosophy of the club.  “It is about the style, you know. I know it is very important for the club. And it is not just the club, but everyone around the world of football, who love football. (They) Love to attack. I love to attack,” Ferrando told the club’s website.  With Lobera at the helm for almost three seasons, Goa have been the most feared side in the Indian Super League (ISL) and fans can expect it to continue when another Spaniard takes charge once the coronavirus pandemic subsides.  “I am very excited and motivated. FC Goa is a big club and I feel this is a great opportunity for me. Not only to work on this project, but also in the country. It is a pleasure,” Ferrando said.  FC Goa have not been able to win their maiden ISL title in six attempts. They made it to the final last year and bowed out in the semi-finals against Chennaiyin FC this season. However, the Goan side managed to top the league stage and become the first club from India to secure a place in the AFC Champions League group stages.  Since then, many players have been on their way out. Captain Mandar Rao Dessai has opted to follow in Lobera’s footsteps to Mumbai, Jackichand Singh is now in Jamshedpur and a few foreign players are also looking at pastures greener.  FC Goa have not really been busy in the transfer market but whatever happens, Ferrando has ensured fans that they will continue to witness attractive football.  “At the end of the day, the players need to enjoy the game. And the same goes for the supporters. They need to enjoy the game. This is our mentality. This is my mentality. And 100 percent, I can say that it will be the mentality going forward,” said the 39-year-old.  Ferrando has been coaching for almost 20 years after his playing career was cut short due to knee and hip injuries. He doesn’t admire one coach but follows certain individuals that has influenced him over the years.  “I don’t have one specific coach that I really look up to. However, I certainly look up to a number of them and try to learn from everything that I have in front of me. For example, what Jurgen Klopp is doing at Liverpool, the positional attacks of (Pep) Guardiola etc. When (Thomas) Tuchel was working at Borussia Dortmund, I used to really look up to his work as well,” said Ferrando.  The passion of the fans at the Nehru Stadium in Fatorda was clearly evident from what he has seen so far through match videos and the coach has urged fans to continue with their support.  “Of course, I would love for the supporters to come and enjoy the game, but I love that typical stadium feel – a lot of noise, a lot of supporters,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ferrando-in-love-with-fc-goas-style-and-support/articleshow/75704338.cms||FLAVIO LOPES
May 13, 2020||Chandigarh||Covid resistance: Homoeopathic dispensaries ordered to keep immunity booster||MOHALI: Arsenium Album 30, life-saving immunity booster in case of Covid-19 attack, is now a must keep in the homoeopathic dispensaries of Punjab, by a state government order. Interested people can get the medicine after thorough medical check-up. Its course is for three days every morning on empty stomach. One dose is four to five tablets. Deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan said, “Keeping dispensing record for data analysis will tell us about the effectiveness of this medicine.” The district homoeopathic officers and homoeopathic medical officers (HMOs) will make people aware that this medicine wasn’t a treatment for coronavirus but just an immunity booster to help fight various diseases, including Covid-19. Recently, state health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu gave away 100 packets of immuno-booster Arsenium Album 30 to Mohali senior citizens council. These family doses come from Indian Institute of Homoeopathic Physicians (IIHP) national adviser Dr B S Chandok. J R Chaudhary of the senior citizens council received the packets. The minister said, "The greatest service to mankind in the present scenario is to provide people with food and medical help. Providing senior citizens with the best of healthcare is state government’s priority."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/covid-resistance-homoeopathic-dispensaries-ordered-to-keep-immunity-booster/articleshow/75704925.cms||Barinderjit Saluja
May 13, 2020||Chandigarh||Bigfoot joins Indian basketball team, now find him shoes||CHANDIGARH: While the world seeks Bigfoot, he's searching for a shoe that fits. Amaan Sandhu, boy of the Indian men's basketball team, doesn't have his size in the whole, wide country. He wears 17 and the problem is getting bigger. When the team won its first continental tournament match in three years (in February), at the Fiba Asia Cup 2021 qualifiers in Baghdad, beating hosts Iraq 94-75, Sandhu, 17, didn’t get to play, yet he calls it "the most thrilling experience of life", “just to wear the Indian jersey, getting to train with senior players, and sitting in the dugout". Captain Vishesh Briguvanshi was his roommate and he made sure to pick his brains. Covid-19 interrupted the meet. Amaan, who grew up in a rare Indian family that stayed up late to catch a non-cricketing match live from the US, watches training videos these days during lockdown, as he told TOI from his home in Mohali. The lad from this basketball-crazy house of Sandhus wants to be a giant of the game. His father, Gurcharanjeet Sandhu, and sister, Akarshan Sandhu, represented India, while his mother, Rajinder Kaur, played on the domestic circuit for more than a decade. Growing up, Amaan faced a unique problem. At 12, his shoe was 13, and in India, you don’t get that size generally. “Don’t ask, it was irritating," he said. "My father used to take me to factory outlets in Ludhiana to find shoes my size. Since that would be costly, we'd ask our relatives in Canada to send over a pair, but even that wasn't any cheaper." In February, at Chicago's Basketball Without Borders camp during the 2020 All-Stars Game, he bought three pairs of shoes. He said: "I am done for the next two years, I guess.” Asked about chances of growing taller, since he is only 17, the 6-foot-11-inch boy said: “Aisa mat bolo (Don’t say it). No one can imagine the trouble of having big feet.” The student-athlete of NBA Academy India was part of Punjab's gold-medal winning team from the junior nationals in Patna. He was also one of the three Indians and lone boy among them to go to Basketball Without Borders global camp in Chicago. About his journey, he said, “I started playing without a roadmap. I'd wish to play for Punjab and India but getting into NBA academy changed my life. I started to understand the importance of good grades. The short-term plan is to get a good scholarship. I am in Class XI, so I have two full years." Speaking on his lockdown schedule, Amaan said, “I came home from NBA Academy in March, a few days after the lockdown started. I do the workouts and activity challenges my coaches suggested and I give online lessons to the schoolchildren for NBA India." The player who idolizes Los Angeles Lakers star DeMarcus Cousins says lockdown has improved his discipline and mental strength. His father is on the frontlines of this war on Covid-19, being on Punjab Police duty. "So I practice dribbling at home with my mother and sister," Amaan said, adding, "I make life difficult for them, as they have to do the workouts with me everyday.” After a promising start to his career, Amaan wishes to take on the world’s best. He said, “I want to improve and impress the NBA scouts.” That'll be stepping into bigger shoes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/bigfoot-joins-indian-basketball-team-now-find-him-shoes/articleshow/75705016.cms||Pratyush Raj
May 13, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Bapuji market shut in Bhubaneswar for violation of social distancing norms||BHUBANESWAR: The Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Tuesday shut one of the biggest markets of the city at Bapuji Nagar following enforcement squad reporting violation of social distancing norms. The BMC hasn’t set any date for reopening of the shops. The Bapuji Nagar market is known for electronics appliances, furniture, sanitary fittings, mobile shops and other non-essential shops. Although the capital city is still a red zone, the BMC had allowed opening of standalone shops selling non-essential items but continued to put restrictions on markets complexes, where five shops were located in one place. Though Bapuji Nagar has several standalone shops spanning from Rajmahal square to Sishu Bhawan square, it was witnessing crowd. “The shops had to be closed because had they been allowed to operate, then a different message would have gone to the people that there is now no threat of Corona virus. That would have gradually made people being reckless. So, in order to restore the social distancing norm, the market was closed. However, the ones dealing in essential items like medicines and grocery will continue to do business in the same market,” said BMC deputy commissioner Anshuman Rath. Besides Bapuji Nagar, the city authorities saw several big vegetable markets being relocated to different places for second time in a row because of overcrowding of people. The vegetable markets from Indradhanu market, Unit-IV and other places had been relocated from the usual place in April soon after the first phase lockdown. As the authorities those places also witnessed crowd swelling, the markets were relocated again to another place, where the vegetable vendors sit in a long row far away from each other. “Even after lockdown is lifted, the markets won’t be allowed to go back to their usual place as they are small and the markets will get congested,” said a BMC officer. Meanwhile, the authorities have been keeping a close watch on the non-essential shops, which have been allowed to open. The BMC squad and police have been monitoring the areas, where there are clusters of shops, market complexes and malls. In the city now, auto rickshaws are off the road but cabs operate to ferry patients and transport persons associated with medical duties. Barber shop, spa and salon as usual are not allowed to open. In case of vehicles, four wheelers are allowed with two passengers including the one on the wheel. Private office can open with 33 per cent employees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/bapuji-market-shut-in-bhubaneswar-for-violation-of-social-distancing-norms/articleshow/75705113.cms||Riyan Ramanath V
May 13, 2020||Agra||Speeding truck crushes bike-borne cop’s leg in Firozabad||AGRA: A bike-borne policeman was knocked down by a speeding sand-laden truck near Tundla market intersection on NH-2 in Firozabad district on Tuesday. The victim, whose leg was crushed under the wheels, was immediately rushed to a private hospital in Agra. According to police, head constable Ganga Das, posted at Khandauli police station in Agra, was returning to work after fetching medicines from his house in Firozabad when the accident occurred. Several videos of the victim lying on the middle of the road with his right leg crushed below the knee was widely circulated on social media. On information, Tundla police rushed him to a private hospital in Agra. Tundla SHO Gyanendra Kumar said, “The policeman was heading for work when a sand-laden truck hit him. It was later found abandoned on Etah Road. A case will be lodged against the driver for rash and negligent driving.” Khandauli SHO Bahadur Singh said, “Ganga Das had official permission to visit his house in Firozabad’s Ramgadh as he had to fetch his medicines. His condition is now stable and the crushed leg will be operated upon.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/speeding-truck-crushes-bike-borne-cops-leg/articleshow/75704085.cms||Arvind Chauhan
May 13, 2020||Patna||Paperless hearing: Training for Centre’s counsels at Patna high court||PATNA: The central government counsels at Patna high court and Central Administrative Tribunal are being imparted training on ‘paperless hearing’ in view of Covid-19 pandemic as all hearings are presently carried out via videoconferencing in order to maintain social distancing. The Patna high court had taken up hearing via videoconferencing on March 19 and become the first high court in the country to do so. While the petitions are being filed through e-mail, the hearings are happening via videoconferencing at the Patna HC. Central government additional solicitor general S D Sanjay, who started the training for Centre’s counsels on May 4, said Supreme Court lawyer Maurya Vijay Chandra has been roped in for the purpose. Chandra has been imparting training to the counsels via video conferencing. “There are around 80 counsels of central government in the state,” Sanjay said. “Counsels are being given technical knowledge on creating soft copy of petition and attaching required documents as annexures for filing it via email. They are also being trained on appearing virtually before bench while watching video on one side and important points of petition or annexure open for reading on another side of computer screen,” he said. Sanjay said Union law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad was apprised about the training for central government counsels in the state during his video conferencing with all additional and assistant solicitor generals in high courts across the country on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/paperless-hearing-training-for-centres-counsels-at-patna-hc/articleshow/75702923.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Agra||Minor bludgeoned to death in Agra city||AGRA: A five-and-half-year-old boy was found bludgeoned to death in Sadar police limits of Agra city. Deceased victim was identified as Vansh. He was a son of local private teacher Geetam Singh and his wife Ruby. The family lives in Bindu Katra area near Agra-Gwalior highway. The kid was elder among two siblings. According to police, at around 2pm, a distress call was received about boy’s death. Rohan Botre, SP City Agra said, “The victim’s body was found lying stone throw away from his home in shrubs. We have detained one man based on the complaint received from victim’s father. Police team is interrogating him, but we are also working on the motive behind kid’s mother. We will soon crack the case.” Sources said that victim Vansh was playing outside his home at around noon, when he went missing suddenly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/minor-bludgeoned-to-death-in-agra-city/articleshow/75695654.cms||Arvind Chauhan
May 13, 2020||Kolkata||No income and mounting dues – modelling dreams crash for Kolkata girls in Mumbai||Every year, several established and aspiring models from Kolkata move to Mumbai in the hope of realising their dreams. Among them are Priyasha Chaudhuri and Sona Goldar, who have been able to taste success in the world of modelling after years of hard work and dedication. However, the pandemic and the subsequent lockdown have come as a terrible blow to them. With no work, pending payments and overdue rent, these models are staring at an uncertain future. In a candid chat, the flatmates shared their struggles and fears with CT. Read on… How long can I depend on my savings: Priyasha Chaudhuri It was in 2016 when I left my home city, Kolkata, and moved to Mumbai to fuel my modelling dreams. After a lot of hard work and perseverance, I started getting a fair amount of modelling assignments. But this pandemic has ruined everything. There’s no work and no income. Sona and I share a flat in Versova for which we pay Rs 28,000 a month. Though the landlord has offered us the option of deferred payments, it is even more difficult. We will have to pay for the current month plus the pending months together. I’m left with no option but to depend on my savings. But for how long? My parents suggested I come back to Kolkata, but that won’t solve anything because we are on a one-year contract. Even if we don’t stay, we have to pay the house rent. Plus, the chances of getting work in Kolkata is way less compared to Mumbai. Even after the lockdown, fashion industry will continue to suffer. Ramp shows and fashion weeks will be out of question for very long. Though I won’t give up my dreams so easily, I’m really stressed thinking about my source of livelihood. As models, we need to maintain a healthy diet. But most of that stuff is expensive. So now we are making do with basic rice, dal and sabji to survive. I was living a supermodel’s life until the lockdown: Sona Goldar:After beginning my modelling career in Kolkata in 2011, I shifted to Mumbai, the city of dreams, in 2013. I have walked for renowned fashion shows, done music videos, advertisements for various brands and photoshoots for renowned magazines. Basically, I was living the life of a supermodel till March 2020, when the lockdown was announced. Like several others, this pandemic has taken a toll on models, who survive on payments based on individual projects. Not only are we uncertain about our future, we haven’t received payments of projects that happened before the lockdown. At times we just eat two meals a day to cut down on food expenses. Models are required to look fit and attractive to stay in business. But we need money for that. Right now, our only motto is to survive. We don’t know when we will start getting work again. The government should address the concerns of the fashion industry too. Modelling seems like a lavish job, but it is full of uncertainties. The cost of living in Mumbai is pretty high and it’s impossible to sustain here without an active income. Rent, groceries, electricity, gas, EMIs – there’s so much to take care of. Each passing day is adding to our miseries. Parents are asking us to come back so that we can save on rent and food expenses. But we can’t just leave everything abruptly. My room, my pet Piku, and my friend and roommate Priyasha have become like a family for me. A pandemic can’t make us give up our dreams.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/no-income-and-mounting-dues-modelling-dreams-crash-for-kolkata-girls-in-mumbai/articleshow/75704062.cms||Ruman Ganguly
May 13, 2020||Business||Government set to guarantee up to Rs 3 lakh crore loans to MSMEs||NEW DELHI: The government’s much-awaited stimulus for micro, small and medium-sized businesses is expected to include a provision for additional loans of up to Rs 3 lakh crore or 20% of the bank exposure to the sector, along with a more liberal dispensation for government contracts. In addition, more funding for Mudra loans, meant for tiny businesses, are on the anvil, government sources told TOI. Read our coronavirus live blog for all the latest news and updatesThe finance ministry has floated a proposal for the cabinet to guarantee fresh working capital limits to small units through the National Credit Guarantee Trustee Company so that small businesses are not starved of working capital. Currently, bank exposure to over six crore micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) is estimated around Rs 15 lakh crore, sources said. Coronavirus outbreak: Complete coverageOn Tuesday, the finance ministry said that between March 20 and May 8, state-run lenders contacted 97% of borrowers eligible for emergency credit lines and working capital enhancements and sanctioned loans to the tune of Rs 65,879 crore. But the funding is seen to be inadequate even to pay salaries and other dues given that sales have come to a halt and payments are overdue from large businesses and government departments, something that will be pushed by the finance and MSME ministries once again. More on Covid-19 Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage Lockdown 3.0: What's allowed and what's not in the three zones It's time to mask up and stay safe: Join TOI's #MaskIndia campaign MHA's guidelines for home isolation Trust the newspaper for your daily verified news  Additional working capital is expected to help banks lend more to provide funds to MSMEs amid expectations that the finance ministry will prod the Reserve Bank of India to extend the loan moratorium beyond the current three-month period so that businesses don’t come under pressure to repay dues at a time when liquidity is already tight in absence of sales. Apart from helping them tide over the immediate cash crunch, an announcement on a new definition for MSME is also expected to enable them to scale up. Besides, there are indications that government contracts up to a specified value will be given to Indian businesses. In addition, the mandatory procurement from micro and small businesses is expected to be tightly monitored. Watch Aim towards a Self Reliant India: PM Narendra Modi||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/government-set-to-guarantee-up-to-rs-3-lakh-crore-loans-to-msmes/articleshow/75706083.cms||Sidhartha
May 13, 2020||India||Supreme Court may scrap 45-day summer vacation||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Tuesday indicated that it was ready to scrap the 45-day-long summer vacation, which is scheduled to start from May 17, and continue to work through the vacation using video-conferencing facilities to make up for lost time due to the lockdown caused by Covid-19. A bench headed by Justice L N Rao, who was part of the judges’ committee tasked to suggest ways and means for the SC to function during and after the lockdown, in the course of hearing of a case informed solicitor general Tushar Mehta, “From next week onwards, we (the judges) will be sitting in courtrooms in the SC. Lawyers can argue from their chambers.” The bench was operating from courtroom No.4 on Tuesday. Other members of the committee were Justices R F Nariman, U U Lalit, A M Khanwilkar, D Y Chandrachud and Rao. Meanwhile, the judges’ committee has submitted a report to CJI S A Bobde suggesting several alternatives — scrapping of the vacation altogether,curtailing the seven-week summer vacation to just two weeks, and allowing the vacation to be shifted to some other time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sc-may-work-during-45-day-summer-recess/articleshow/75706192.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
May 13, 2020||India||Under-5 mortality rate halved from 2000 to 2017||NEW DELHI: Two scientific papers on child survival published on Tuesday by the India State-Level Disease Burden Initiative depicted a significant decline — 49% — in the under-5 mortality rate (U5MR) between 2000 and 2017, but it pointed out inequality between states and wide variations between districts. While there is a variation of 5-6 fold in the rates between states, there is also a variation of 8-11 fold between districts, noted the report published in the Lancet. The initiative is driven by the Indian Council of Medical Research and the Public Health Foundation of India, among others. The findings show there were 1.04 million under-5 deaths in 2017, down from 2.24 million deaths in 2000 Most under-5 deaths in UP, Bihar comes secondNeonatal deaths in India have gone down from 1.02 million deaths in 2000 to 0.57 million deaths in 2017. Neonatal mortality rate (NMR) has dropped by 38% in India since 2000. Sixty-eight per cent of under-5 deaths in India are attributed to child and maternal malnutrition, whereas 83% of the neonatal deaths to low birth weight and short gestation. The highest number of under-5 deaths in 2017 were in UP (312,800, which included 165,800 neonatal deaths) and Bihar (141,500, including 75,300 neonatal deaths). U5MR and NMR were lower with the increasing level of development of the states. In 2017, there was a 5.7-fold variation in U5MR ranging from 10 per 1,000 live births in the more developed state of Kerala to 60 in less-developed UP, and a 4.5-fold variation for NMR ranging from 7 per 1,000 live births in Kerala to 32 in UP. “The research paper has shown that India has made positive strides in protecting the lives of newborns over the last two decades,” Niti Aayog member V K Paul said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/under-5-mortality-rate-halved-from-2000-to-2017/articleshow/75706299.cms||---
May 13, 2020||India||India CO2 emission fall, first in 4 decades||NEW DELHI: For the first time in four decades, emissions of toxic carbon dioxide have declined in the country — thanks to an economic slowdown, growth of clean energy and the ongoing lockdown. This was revealed in the latest analysis done by Lauri Myllyvirta and Sunil Dahiya of the Centre for Research on Energy and Clean Air (CREA). According to the analysis, CO2 emissions in the country fell by around 15% in March, and are likely to have fallen by 30% last month, year-on-year. Using the latest consumption data for coal, oil and gas, the analysts concluded that CO2 emissions fell by 30 million tonnes in the financial year 2019-20 compared to the previous fiscal. ‘Fall in fossil-fuel use cut CO2 emissions’As per analysts, power and transportation sectors are the major contributors of CO2 pollution in the country. TOI earlier reported that the thermal sector spewed out nearly 929 million tones of CO2 in a year. “The fall in the consumption of fossil fuels has led to the decline in CO2 emissions,” said Dahiya. The analysis, which is based on government data from various ministries, stated that power generated from coal-fired plants fell by 15% in March, and 31% in the first three weeks of April. “In contrast, renewable energy (RE) generation increased by 6.4% in March, and saw a slight decrease of 1.4% in the first three weeks of April,” it added. In an earlier study last year, Myllyvirta and Dahiya had predicted a sharp fall in the growth of CO2 emissions due to slowdown in the expansion of coal-fired electricity generation. Not just coal, consumption of oil too has witnessed a decline. The already-slow demand in growth of oil consumption fell by 18% this March, compared to the previous year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-co2-emission-fall-first-in-4-decades/articleshow/75706535.cms||Manka Behl
May 13, 2020||Patna||Six special flights to bring back those stranded abroad||GAYA/PATNA: Altogether six flights operated by Air India and its subsidiaries under the ‘Vande Bharat’ mission will bring people from Bihar stranded in the UK, the USA and the Middle East countries to Gaya airport between May 16 and 22, according to the schedule of special flights released by the ministry of civil aviation on Tuesday. As per the schedule, one flight each will land at Gaya airport from UK, Russia, Oman, Qatar, Kazakhstan and Kyrgyzstan in the second phase of the mission. Gaya airport director Dilip Kumar, however, said he has not yet got any official intimation about the special flights. A mock drill for the evacuation of symptomatic patients from a flight and the terminal building was conducted at the Gaya airport on Monday. “If a person shows Covid-19 symptoms during the journey, he will immediately be separated from others and made to leave the flight from the back door when it lands in Gaya,” Kumar said. The administration has also made arrangements for paid quarantine centres in Bodh Gaya. Magadh divisional commissioner Asangba Chuba said it was the state government’s decision to make Gaya airport the landing point for special flights coming from abroad. “Only the Gaya airport handles international flights in the state. No international flight lands even at Patna airport,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/six-special-flights-to-bring-back-those-stranded-abroad/articleshow/75703300.cms||Abdul Qadir
May 13, 2020||Business||Allow cos to capitalise Covid losses: Deloitte||TNN Mumbai: With the three-month moratorium on loans expiring May-end, businesses whose top line has been hit because of the Covid-19 lockdown risk defaulting on their loans, and consequently becoming ineligible for credit. To avoid a logjam and to ensure businesses remain functional, industry body Ficci and Deloitte have suggested a two-step restructuring. In the first step, the losses for the quarter are capitalised and moved to the balance sheet and, in the second, banks provide a ‘crisis liquidity bridge’ with a credit guarantee from the government. According to Deloitte India partner Sumit Khanna, because of the ongoing Covid-19 crisis and lockdown, most businesses’ revenues are seriously impaired, some have had no revenues at all, while a few like telecom are doing better. Borrowers whose cashflows have been seriously impaired may default either by not meeting loan obligations or breaching loan covenants, forcing lenders to recall their loans. “The redeeming feature of the proposal is that the government does not undertake any fund outflow upfront. The government is only required to provide guarantee on bank loans based on an assessment by lending banks, guided by parameters set by the RBI. While there may be defaults despite continuous and rigorous monitoring, they are expected to be contained within 10%, necessitating support of Rs 30,000-40,000 crore to banks over 5 years by the government,” said Khanna. He said that the losses can be capitalised by showing the excess of costs over revenue for the lockdown quarter as an investment under ‘Covid crisis investment’ in the balance sheet. This can be amortised over five years. “Businesses are invested in the battle against Covid. If businesses do not make revenue, the government will not make revenue — through goods and services tax or income tax. Moreover, there is a large ecosystem comprising entities that are upstream and downstream that are impacted,” he said, explaining the need to ensure that businesses do not shut down. To address the liquidity issue, the report by Deloitte and Ficci recommends that banks can disburse additional funds to the extent of costs that have been capitalised in the form of a ‘crisis liquidity bridge’, possibly with a one-time restructuring of existing liabilities. To ascertain whether the business will be in a position to repay, Deloitte recommends the framework provided under RBI’s June 2019 circular for dealing with stressed companies. The circular requires the business plan to be approved by two external rating agencies. This reduces the chances that lenders are throwing good money after bad. According to Khanna, even if 5% of the loans go bad, it will be cheaper for the government than providing a direct financing package.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/allow-cos-to-capitalise-covid-losses-deloitte/articleshow/75704835.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Business||Glenmark starts trials for potential Covid drug||Mumbai: Glenmark Pharmaceuticals said on Tuesday it has initiated human trials of Favipiravir, while Jubilant Life Sciences said it’s subsidiary has entered into a non-exclusive licensing agreement with Gilead Sciences for Remdesivir. Both drugs are antivirals and potential therapies for Covid-19, with their safety and efficacy yet to be established globally. Under the agreement, Jubilant Generics will hold the right to register, manufacture and sell Gilead’s investigational drug Remdesivir in 127 countries, including India. Jubilant will receive technology transfer from the US-based Gilead to enable expedited access of the medicine to Covid-19 patients, upon approvals by regulatory authorities. Multiple clinical trials are ongoing to generate more data on the safety and efficacy of Remdesivir as a treatment for the coronavirus. Remdesivir remains an investigational drug and has not been approved by USFDA, a company statement said. Glenmark said Covid-19 patients from over 10 leading government and private hospitals are being enrolled for the study, with the trial completion and study results expected by July-August. Favipiravir is an antiviral drug approved in Japan for treating influenza, and has recently shown promise as a potential treatment for the latest coronavirus, leading to a spike in its demand in India and globally. The product is a generic version of Avigan of Fujifilm Toyama Chemical Co, a subsidiary of Fujifilm of Japan. Multiple clinical trials have been initiated on Covid-19 patients in China, Japan and the US. Other companies including BDR Pharma, Cipla and Strides Pharma are also in the advanced stage of getting regulatory approvals for the studies, while API manufacturer Lasa Supergenerics is readying plans to manufacture the product. Having internally developed the API and formulation for the drug, Glenmark filed the product for clinical trials with India’s Drugs Controller General, and received approval for conducting the trial on 150 mild to moderate patients. According to the approved clinical trial protocol, subjects will be randomised in a 1:1 ratio to Favipiravir with standard supportive care or standalone standard supportive care. Treatment duration is a maximum of 14 days and the total study duration will be maximum for 28 days from randomisation. “The clinical trial will let us know the efficacy of this molecule on Covid-19 patients,” said Sushrut Kulkarni, executive VP — global R&D, Glenmark Pharmaceuticals, adding, “If the clinical trials are successful, Favipiravir could become a potential treatment for Covid-19 patients.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/glenmark-starts-trials-for-potential-covid-drug/articleshow/75704889.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Aurangabad||Spotted deer dies after being rescued from stray dogs||Aurangabad: A male spotted deer, rescued from being attacked by stray dogs in the Satara area, succumbed to injuries on Monday night. It was the first sighting of a spotted deer on the city outskirts, said experts.The incident occurred close on the heels of a forest fire in a section of the mountainous area here, which may have pushed many animals towards human habitat.Conservationist Kishor Pathak said Satara resident Anand Thote had tried to rescue the deer, which was being chased by a pack of stray dogs.“The deer was badly injured and received deep wounds on different body parts, including the throat. First aid was provided to the animal, but it succumbed. The carcass of the animal was handed over to the forest department,” he said.Pathak said spotted deer had not been sighted around the city in the past many years. “A spotted deer was last sighted in the Gautala-Autramghat wildlife sanctuary more than two years ago. While antelopes and deer are common in the forest areas and farms, the sighting of spotted deer on the outskirts is a sign of healthy biodiversity in the mountain range surrounding parts of the city,” he said.Also known as chital, spotted deer is a Schedule III animal under the Wildlife (Protection) Act 1972.Honorary wildlife warden Atindra Katti said the cause of death of the spotted deer must be carefully examined. “It may be wrong to assume that the spotted deer may have strayed into human areas in search of water. These animals required very little water and can quench their thirst from the plants they eat. Wild animals often get scared during the rescue operations and die due to cardiac arrest. It must also be noted that the spotted deer that died was alone, whereas deer usually live in groups,” he said.On Friday, a huge fire had started in the parts of the mountain range behind the Kanchwanwadi area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/spotted-deer-dies-after-being-rescued-from-stray-dogs/articleshow/75703147.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Patna||Infant mortality rate among girls more than boys in Bihar||PATNA: Even though the state’s infant mortality rate (IMR) has come down by three units in 2018 compared to 2017, it continues to be higher among girls than boys. According to World Health Organisation, IMR is probability of dying between birth and age of one year per 1000 live births. In Bihar, the number of girls dying between their birth till one year of age is more than boys. As per the sample registration system (SRS) bulletin by registrar general of India for 2018 published on Friday, IMR for male child was 30 compared to 35 in case of girls in 2018. In fact, when compared to 2017, the difference has further widened when IMR for male was 34 and that for female was 37. The data also shows more difference between rural and urban areas. Surprisingly, IMR for girl child was higher (34) than boys (26) in urban areas. For rural areas, IMR for girls was 30 compared to 35 in case of boys. This difference based on sex in Bihar is also more than national average. IMR for male in India stands at 32 while it is 33 for female. Among the 21 states and union territories in the category of bigger states, difference in IMR of newborn boys and girls was highest in Jharkhand — male 27 and female 34. Bihar had the second highest difference. In 13 out of the 21 states, IMR for female was less than male. Maharashtra had no difference at all between IMR for male and female. According to UNICEF, newborn girls have a biological advantage in survival over boys, with lesser vulnerability to perinatal conditions like birth trauma, intrauterine hypoxia, birth asphyxia, distress syndrome and neonatal tetanus. Still, more newborn girls than boys die in Bihar. Talking about this opposite trend, UNICEF state health specialist Dr Hubbe Ali said even though girls have biological advantage, care given to them is less in Bihar, or in India. UNICEF state spokesperson Nipurnh Gupta added, “Our team has visited hospitals and paediatric wards and seen that when a boy child falls sick, entire family is there for treatment. In case of female child, we spotted only mother as attendant or accompanied by maternal grandparents. Many a time newborn girls needing medical help are not even taken to hospital.” Dr Ali shared the data of admission of female child in newborn care unit (NCU) of government hospitals in Bihar and said, “In 2016, it was 35% while it has reached 38%, as per the latest data of February 2020. It is because of state government’s initiative. However, it is still not sufficient as standard admission should be at least 42% in Bihar.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/infant-mortality-rate-among-girls-more-than-boys-in-state/articleshow/75703324.cms||Sheezan Nezami
May 13, 2020||India||State govt orders to dilute labour laws must pass scrutiny of state Legislatures, Courts, House panel chief B Mahtab says||NEW DELHI: The parliamentary standing committee on labour, headed by BJD MP Bhartruhari Mahtab, has sought clarifications from the governments of Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat, Punjab, Maharashtra, Goa, Odisha and Rajasthan on their decision to put in abeyance or dilute labour laws in their states. The panel has given the states two weeks to explain the steps taken by them, and whether they are in line with the proposed codes of the Union government, which seek to replace a few dozen labour laws. Speaking to TOI, Mahtab said while labour was a concurrent subject and state governments had the right to legislate on the subject, no orders could exceed constitutional provisions, nor “trample” on the rights of the labour force, especially because the Constitution offered them protection. “Industry and the labour force are two wheels on which the productivity of the country rests. Both must work in tandem. Pampering the industry alone will not deliver the desired results,” Mahtab said. He also said just passing an executive order or an ordinance was not enough. “These decisions will have to be confirmed by the state legislatures and must stand the scrutiny of courts,” he added. Referring particularly to the ‘Uttar Pradesh Temporary Exemption from Certain Labour Laws Ordinance, 2020’, which exempts factories, business establishments and industries from implementing all but three labour laws for 1,000 days, the BJD MP said all states must adhere to constitutional norms, which also mandates that there cannot be two sets of laws or provisions for different industry. “This is the real incongruence. Law must be uniform for everyone,” Mahtab said. The distress faced by migrant workers has also led to questions over tardy implementation of the Inter-State Migrant Workmen (Regulation of Employment and Conditions of Service) Act of 1979, which was enacted to regulate service conditions of inter-state labourers, and which is now proposed to be repealed and brought under the purview of the Occupational Safety, Health and Working Conditions Code, 2019. “It is the responsibility of the Union government to protect the interests of migrant labourers in this time of distress. But other than making trains available to ferry them, there has been no assistance. The 1979 Act clearly defines the duties of the Union government,” Mahtab said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/explain-dilution-of-labour-laws-house-panel-tells-states/articleshow/75703181.cms||Swati Mathur
May 13, 2020||Goa||Covid workers get nod for 20% pay hike||PANAJI: After Chief minister Pramod Sawant announced a 20% hike in basic pay to the staff engaged in fighting the Covid-19 pandemic, the proposal has been granted in-principle approval. An official said that releasing additional funds to Covid-19 frontline workers may take a little while as details are being sought from the directorate of health services and GMC about the beneficiaries. “We will be able to release 20% additional salaries to the frontline workers after the list is obtained,” the official said. The additional salaries will be released from state funds. It is expected that benefit will accrue to all frontline workers, regular as well as contract employees who may be engaged for Covid duties, he said. This includes housekeeping, facility management, ambulance and security staff. The official however said that since not all security and other staff of the GMC were connected with services for fighting off Covid-19, not all can get the benefits and hence specific details were requested.  Also, staff posted at ESI will also be considered for 20 % increase in pay. The increase in pay is counted for three months starting from March, and if their duties get extended, it may be considered, subject to approval of the government, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/covid-workers-get-nod-for-20-pay-hike/articleshow/75705890.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Patna||90% of dental clinics closed in Bihar||PATNA: Around 6,500 out of the 7,000-odd private dental clinics in the state have been closed due to the nationwide lockdown, president of the Indian Dental Association (Bihar chapter), Dr Mohit Kumar, said on Tuesday. The remaining clinics take up only emergency cases. Dentists say opening clinics would cost them a lot as they will have to frequently sanitise the dental chairs in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. As they closely work on teeth and oral cavity, the aerosol released during treatment may add to spreading the deadly virus not only in their clinics but also in the community. Patients also avoid visiting dental clinics for the same reasons, they say. Principal secretary (health) Sanjay Kumar said the government has already issued order to keep all private clinics open and treat patients while taking all standard precautions. He said PPE and other necessary items were available at all places and the dentists should render their services following the precautionary norms. However, Dr Mohit said many of the clinics were in small rooms or rented buildings and dentists fear unregulated flow of patients and their attendants without keeping social distancing. Besides, the situation demands regular fumigation in clinics and sanitisation of dental chairs and waiting spaces. Using PPE for each patient would make the treatment costlier, he said. The average number of patients in OPD at the Patna Dental College (PDC) has also dropped from 400 to hardly 25-35 per day, said its principal Dr DK Singh. “We attend only emergency cases. We also refer patients to go for Covid test first and show report,” he said. Head of the PMCH dentistry department, Dr Shivendra Chaudhary, also admitted about 50% fall in the number of OPD patients. He, however, said cases of trauma, assault, accidents, bleeding from gums requiring immediate treatment are admitted and their Covid test is conducted in the hospital itself. Dr Vipul, who runs a dental clinic in Vaishali, said all the 20 clinics in his locality were shut for want of protective gears and regular sanitisation. Dr Jaideep Kumar of Motihari said about 55 dental clinics of the town were virtually closed. He said dental treatment in the coming days would become dearer as several measures and instruments would be required for keeping the clinics, doctors and other staff safe against the corona infection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/90-of-dental-clinics-closed/articleshow/75702836.cms||VK Tripathi
May 13, 2020||Patna||Tejashwi Yadav calls for more tests, dubs isolation centres ‘torture camps’||PATNA: Leader of opposition Tejashwi Prasad Yadav on Tuesday criticised the functioning of quarantine centres in the state and requested CM Nitish Kumar to take the help of elected representatives, who know the “the ground reality”, to fight the Covid-19 pandemic. The RJD leader, who took a road trip from New Delhi after taking a special permission to reach Patna on Monday evening, also demanded an increase in the number of Covid tests being conducted in the state. In a tweet posted on Tuesday morning, Tejashwi said, Covid testing was worryingly low in Bihar, while the surge in positive cases was alarmingly high. He stated that in the first 10 days of May, the average test per day was 952, while average daily surge in cases were 25. He also uploaded a video of a migrant worker staying in a quarantine centre in Shambhuganj block in Banka, showing his fractured hand. The migrant worker, who returned from Karnataka, is heard in the video saying he was thrashed by cops for asking for better quality food and his hand was fractured. Sharing the video, Tejashwi wrote, “Quarantine centres in Bihar have been converted into torture camps. This labourer was beaten by cops for protesting against bad quality food. It is a request to respected chief minister to take feedback from public representatives also apart from officials.” The opposition leader also raised questions over the railways allowing special trains to ferry passengers in full capacity now instead of maintaining social distancing rule framed by the Centre. However, Tejashwi came under attack from the JD(U) for taking a road trip amid lockdown to reach Patna. “First of all he needs to be quarantined for 21 days. Be it poor or rich, no one knows who is carrying the virus. Once he stays in a quarantine centre he will get to know all about the arrangements made there by Bihar government," said JD (U) state spokesperson Arvind Nishad. He further said CM Nitish Kumar has always served people in the times of need, be it during water-logging, flood or acute encephalitis, while Tejashwi could not even play the role of opposition leader and was absent most of the time. The ruling party leaders have in recent times attacked Tejashwi for “always being absent from Bihar in times of crisis”. Earlier, state water resources minister Sanjay Jha had mocked Tejashwi for his “absence” and offered him all assistance required in coming back to Bihar from Delhi. However, Tejashwi’s elder brother Tej Pratap Yadav said he has given a strong reply to those who are attacking him through his work. “I am alone enough for them (opposition). But now since Tejashwi has come back, it will give me more strength,” Tej said. He had last month started ‘Lalu ki Rasoi’ on the occasion of his birthday and said this kitchen will continue to provide food to the poor amid lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/tejas-calls-for-more-tests-dubs-isolation-centres-torture-camps/articleshow/75703274.cms||Sheezan Nezami
May 13, 2020||Patna||IPS officer goes into self-isolation||PATNA: An IPS officer went into self-isolation at home on Tuesday, a day after one of his bodyguards was tested positive for Covid-19. The IPS officer’s bodyguard is one of the 19 BMP-14 personnel, including a retired jawan, to have tested positive for coronavirus in the city. They all used to live on the BMP premises near Patna airport. Sources said the affected bodyguard used to travel with the IPS officer in the latter’s vehicle. Altogether 1,500 people, including family members BMP personnel, live on the BMP premises. There are also flats for some IPS officers on the premises. The administration has regulated entry and exit on the campus following detection of Covid-19 cases. Patna civil surgeon Dr Raj Kishore Chaudhary said the IPS officer, whose bodyguard was found infected, would have to undergo Covid-19 test. “There are chances of more BMP personnel contracting the virus as all 29 barracks of three battalions are connected to each other,” Chaudhary said. He said the samples of 450 BMP personnel would be collected for tests. “Around 250 samples have already been collected. If required, IPS officers would also be tested,” he added. ADG (headquarters) Jitendra Kumar said the IPS officer is currently posted as AIG to a senior IPS officer who functions from Sardar Patel Bhawan. He said the IPS officer had last come to the state police headquarters before Saturday. “The police headquarters was sanitised on Saturday and Sunday as part of a routine exercise,” he added. “No visitor is allowed to enter the police headquarters unnecessarily. If any visitor wishes to visit the police headquarters, s/he will have to seek prior permission from authorities concerned,” the ADG said, adding thermal screening facility has been made available at the entrance of the police headquarters. “We have requested the health department to carry out door-to-door screening in all police lines and battalion headquarters across the state. The door-to-door screening has already been carried out in police lines in Nalanda district,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ips-officer-goes-into-self-isolation/articleshow/75702819.cms||Debashish Karmakar
May 13, 2020||Patna||19 special trains bring home 23,000 stranded people||PATNA: Altogether 19 Shramik special trains carrying 23,000 migrant workers, students and other stranded people reached Bihar from Punjab and nine other states on Tuesday. East Central Railway (ECR) has so far received 121 special trains which have brought back 1.43 lakh stranded people to the state. Danapur divisional railway manager (DRM) Sunil Kumar said the special train from Malur in Karnataka reached Danapur early on Tuesday with 1,160 passengers. Railway Protection Force (RPF) personnel and healthcare staff ensured adherence of social distancing norms during medical check-up and transportation of the passengers to their respective districts by buses,” the DRM said. ECR chief public relations officer (CPRO) Rajesh Kumar said two special trains from Mumbai carrying around 2,300 migrant workers, students and others reached Bhagalpur and Saharsa, while a special train from Nagpur reached Darbhanga with nearly 1,200 passengers. “Shramik special train from Rewari in Haryana reached Araria in with 1,170 persons. Special train from Agra Cantt in Uttar Pradesh carrying about 1,200 migrant workers and others reached Barauni around 1pm while a special train from Ambala reached Muzaffarpur with 1,140 people,’ the CPRO said, adding another special train from Patiala in Punjab reached Supaul with 1,100 people. While a special train carrying mostly students from Kota in Rajasthan reached Samastipur, another special train from Tiruppur in Tamil Nadu reached Muzaffarpur with 1,180 migrant workers and other stranded people. The special train from Jalandhar in Punjab carrying mostly migrant workers reached Chhapra. Similarly, a special train from Ludhiana in Punjab reached Sitamarhi with about 1,100 passengers. The special train from Mangalore in Karnataka reached Khagaria with migrant workers and other stranded people. Likewise, the special train from Nellore in Andhra Pradesh reached Motihari, while another special train from Kovvuru in Andhra Pradesh reached Barauni with around 1,200 passengers. “Special trains from Bibinagar in Telangana and Coimbatore in Tamil Nadu reached Gaya with migrant workers, students and other people, while two other special trains from Chandigarh in Punjab and Ankleswar in Gujarat carrying migrant workers reached Kishanganj and Katihar,” the CPRO said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/19-spl-trains-bring-home23000-stranded-people/articleshow/75703130.cms||Kumod Verma
May 13, 2020||Bareilly||Bareilly Municipal Corporation relaxes house tax rules, offers discounts to residents||BAREILLY: In a major relief to city residents, Bareilly Municipal Corporation (BMC) has decided to relax rules regarding payment of house tax. by residents to the civic authority in view of the coronavirus pandemic . Officials at BMC said residents can pay house tax at one go and avail 10% discount or pay in installments. Those who pay tax for May, June and July will be given a 10% discount on residential and commercial properties. Those paying for August, September and October can avail of 7.5% discount while 5% discount will be given for November and December. Bareilly mayor Umesh Gautam said the move is aimed at providing financial relief to tax payers during the crucial period. Speaking with TOI, Gautam said, “The decision to the effect was taken considering the losses that have been incurred by tax payers, especially those into business due to the Covid-19 lockdown and consequent financial crisis being faced by them. The relaxation in house tax is aimed at easing some financial burden during this crucial period of pandemic." The mayor said, "The relaxation to be provided to house tax payers has been divided into three slabs and the discount will be granted by the civic body till December 2020. This way, there will be some financial respite to residents." Officials said the civic authority is taking appropriate measures for public welfare and has been working round the clock to combat Covid-19 pandemic. Mayor Gautam added, “Besides routine sanitization drives in containment zones and hotspots, BMC is also spraying disinfectants in other localities, public places and interior city pockets. Regular inspections by sanitization teams are being conducted in areas where Covid-positive cases have been reported previously.” Bareilly civic body is also making efforts to serve poor residents of the city. Ever since the lockdown came into effect, BMC has been distributing 1,500-2,000 food packets and ration items every day among the needy and destitute people in various parts of the city, including railway stations, rainbaseras (sheler homes), bus stops and slum areas. The food is being prepared at two BMC community kitchens at Harunagla shelter home and the BMC office in Civil Lines, the officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/bmc-relaxes-house-tax-rules-offers-discounts-to-residents/articleshow/75704425.cms||Maria Khan
May 13, 2020||Patna||Anand Kumar to interact with US students||PATNA: Super 30 founder and mathematician Anand Kumar has been invited to hold a virtual session with the students of University of California, Berkeley on May 16 in a bid to boost the morale of the students amid Covid-19 pandemic. Executive vice-president of Berkeley India Speaker Series, Shubham Parekh, who extended the invitation to Kumar, wrote in the letter, “The session is aimed at pepping up the students as most of them are going through depression and anxiety due to the fatal impact of the pandemic and growing uncertainty about how long it would last and at what cost.” “As someone who has grown up in India and witnessed the dire situation of the public education system, I have realised the importance of your contribution to the uplift of the marginalised sections of society through education…we would like the students of UC Berkeley to gain your invaluable advice,” the invitation letter read. Kumar, who is globally acclaimed for his pioneering ‘Super 30’ initiative, which prepares students from the underprivileged sections for India’s highly competitive Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) entrance exam, said he is looking forward to the opportunity. “In these difficult times, there is a need to hold on to our nerves and be positive. I will acknowledge the students of UC Berkeley with the success stories of my own students, who never gave up despite seemingly insurmountable odds to make a mark for themselves,” Kumar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/anand-to-interact-with-us-students/articleshow/75703351.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Patna||Bihar eyes its pie in PM’s Rs 20 lakh crore package||PATNA: The state government is hopeful of getting adequate share from the Centre’s special financial package worth Rs 20 lakh crore announced by PM Narendra Modi on Tuesday to tackle the economic crisis caused by Covid-19 pandemic. Deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi said the Bihar government was hopeful of getting significant support from the Centre for creation of jobs for lakhs of migrant workers who have returned to the state from across the country. “The PM’s emphasis on self-reliance and local produces along with financial reforms are the best possible ways to tackle the economic crisis, which is looming large not only over India but across the globe. Bihar will be one of the biggest beneficiaries of the financial package as it is home to probably the largest number of workers and middle-class people,” the deputy CM said. Industries minister Shyam Rajak said Bihar would make the most of the economic relief package. “The state can do extremely well in sectors like food processing, khadi, handloom and agriculture. We have sufficient workers and artists who can showcase their talent if encouraged. Our Madhubani paintings and khadi products are famous worldwide.” The minister said the package should also focus on the marketing of the products. “Over two lakh ‘gamchas (towels)’ were recently manufactured in Gaya. The products should be marketed well. Similarly, industries also need a push,” Rajak said. Bihar Industries Association (BIA) president Ram Lal Khaitan said the economic package would benefit cross-sections of the society, including micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs), middle-class and farmers. “The government has very intelligently covered different sectors that play a vital role in shaping up the country’s economy. The MSMEs and small-scale industries make significant contribution to the growth of gross domestic product (GDP) of the country,” he said. P K Agarwal, president of Bihar Chamber of Commerce and Industries, said the package would definitely give a boost to the state’s as well as the country’s economies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bihar-eyes-its-pie-in-pms-rs-20-lakh-crore-package/articleshow/75702896.cms||Archi Rani
May 13, 2020||Business||Anil Agarwal to take Vedanta private in Rs 16,200 crore cash offer||MUMBAI: Metals and mining magnate Anil Agarwal plans to offer Rs 16,200 crore in cash to take the Mumbai-listed Vedanta Ltd private, the Indian company said on Tuesday. Vedanta Resources, the London-based outfit which Agarwal delisted in 2018, is offering Rs 87.5 for a share of Vedanta Ltd to minority shareholders of the BSE/NSE-traded company. The offer price is at a 2% discount to Vedanta Ltd’s Tuesday closing price of Rs 89.30 on the BSE but represents a 10% premium to the stock’s last trading price on Monday. Vedanta Resources, along with other companies, holds 50.14% of Vedanta Ltd, while public shareholders own the remaining 49.86%. Agarwal, who started as a scrap dealer and now has a net worth of $3 billion according to Forbes, has been simplifying the corporate structure of his enterprise and the delisting of Vedanta Ltd is part of that effort. Taking the company private is the “next logical step” in the simplification process and will provide more operational and financial flexibility in a capital-intensive business, said Vedanta Resources. In the past, Agarwal merged Sterlite with Sesa Goa to form Vedanta Ltd in 2012, four years later he folded Cairn India into Vedanta Ltd, and then in 2018 delisted Vedanta Resources’s shares from trading on the London Stock Exchange. The delisting proposal of Vedanta Ltd comes amid the coronavirus pandemic that has depressed stock markets and clouded the demand for metals globally. “Due to the impact of Covid-19 pandemic, we have accelerated the simplification strategy in this challenging environment to ensure support for meaningful deleveraging and to enable us to continue to invest in the growth of the business,” said Vedanta Group chairman Anil Agarwal. The delisting transaction will transform the credit profile of Vedanta Resources, which holds 36.8% in the India unit, and will support an accelerated debt reduction programme in the medium term, added Agarwal. The delisting offer will provide public shareholders of Vedanta Ltd an opportunity to realise immediate and certain value for their shares at a time of elevated market volatility, the company said. If Agarwal had gone for the delisting of Vedanta Ltd in early January, then he would have had to pay about Rs 6,500 crore more than what he’s paying now as stock has fallen 40% from its high. Vedanta Ltd’s shares have fallen 42% since January, giving it a market capitalisation of Rs 33,195 crore. According to India’s delisting rules, if the promoter’s holding exceeds 75% in the company, then the stock can be taken off from trading on the bourses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/agarwal-to-take-vedanta-pvt-in-rs-16k-cr-cash-offer/articleshow/75705053.cms||Reeba Zachariah
May 13, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Traders recommend odd-even opening of shops in markets||NEW DELHI: Residents’ Welfare Associations (RWAs) have supported the idea of opening of alternate shops in designated markets and planned industrial areas. However, they have opposed the concept in residential areas as it would be difficult to screen visitors. In letter to chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, RWAs have suggested various relaxations in lockdown 4.0. Rajiv Kakria, convener of Save Our City campaign, said, “We suggest opening of planned markets and industrial areas, but after making them safer by following protocols such as installing sanitisation tunnels for disinfection at entry points. Also, the shops should operate in an odd-even manner.” Pankaj Agarwal of Delhi RWAs Joint Front said the government had already made the mistake of allowing standalone shops as 60% of them exist in residential areas. Traders have been complaining about heavy losses due to shops being closed for over 50 days. Federation of Local Shopping Complexes in Delhi sent an appeal to the CM on Tuesday sharing difficulties being faced in paying rent and salaries to staff. The organisation’s president, Rajesh Goyal, said, “Even organised markets contain standalone shops. These shops are neither interconnected nor have central airconditioning like malls.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/traders-recommend-odd-even-opening-of-shops-in-markets/articleshow/75727179.cms||Vibha Sharma
May 13, 2020||Nashik||Water usage in Nashik increases by 15 MLD since Covid-19 lockdown||NASHIK: The water consumption in the city has increased from 500 to over 515 million litres per day (MLD) since the lockdown was imposed one-and-a-half months back, said NMC officials on Tuesday. Due to Covid-19 outbreak and ongoing summer, the usage of water has increased. “There has been a lot of commercial establishments that are closed due to lockdown. But despite this, the consumption of water has increased in the city as residents are using more water for hygiene and cleanliness purposes in wake of the Covid-19,” said an NMC official. According to the official, the increase in water usage has been approximately 15 MLD. “As everyone is at home due to lockdown the usage has gone up. That is also one of the reasons behind the increase in daily water usage,” said the official. Till December 2019, the water usage in the city increased to 500 MLD. “This has been because of the rise in population in the city, particularly those migrating to the city in search of work. Moreover, new residential societies and eateries in the city are also emerging gradually. This has overall led to a rise in consumption of water in the city,” added the official. Gangapur dam is the major source of water to the city as it provides 80 percent of the total water. The NMC arranges the remaining water from Darna and Mukane dams. Earlier, the NMC had demanded of 5,000 mcft of water for the city for a period between October 15 last year and July 31 this year. This includes 3,600 mcft of water from Gangapur dam complex, 400 mcft from Darna and 1,000 mcft from Mukane dam. Last year, NMC had water reservation of 4,900 mcft of water, including 4,200 mcft of water from Gangapur dam, 400 mcft from Darna and 300 mcft of water from the Mukane dam. The city currently has 1.96 lakh water connections, including 1.87 lakh residential, while 4,000 connections are commercial and remaining 5,000 are non-commercial.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/water-usage-in-city-increases-by-15-mld-since-covid-19-lockdown/articleshow/75703163.cms||Tushar Pawar
May 13, 2020||Patna||Govt taking steps to end migrants’ woes: Sushil Modi||PATNA/BETTIAH: Migrants at some of the quarantine centres in state resorted to violent protests over alleged lack of basic facilities on Tuesday. Over 250 migrant workers quarantined at the government girls high school and the government middle school at Pandarak in Patna rural created ruckus and blocked NH-31, alleging lack of basic amenities and substandard food being served to them. The trouble started around 10am when the inmates of girls’ school centre were allegedly not served breakfast as the cook and the sweeper had fled after two of the inmates tested positive for Covid-19. Furniture and utensils were damaged as the migrants went on a rampage. Barely an hour later, some inmates of the middle school quarantine centre created a scene demanding action against the officers concerned for serving substandard food to them. Later, they blocked the NH-31. The video of their protest also went viral on social media. Pandarak police station SHO Raman Prakash Vashishtha said senior officials rushed to the two centres and brought the situation under control. Patna deputy development commissioner (DDC) said investigation was on to ascertain the real cause behind the protests in Pandarak. However, similar scenes were witnessed at quarantine centres in Saharsa, Katihar, Bhojpur, Sitamarhi, Nawada, Banka, Begusarai and Muzaffarpur districts. With around 12,000 migrants quarantined at 122 camps in West Champaran by Tuesday, earlier reports of disquiet among the migrants picked up with angry protests against alleged mismanagement made viral over social media by smartphone using inmates. Reports alleged that 42 migrants returning from Gujarat boycotted their meals at the Machchargama Middle school in Yogapatti block on Monday. “Morning meal was served at 3pm ... even today, food is not in sight,” some migrants told local reporters on phone. At Nawalpur, about 10km further from Machchargama, 92 migrants who have returned from Punjab came out of their quarantine camp and marched to the Yogapatti police station protesting insanitary conditions, alleging that 25 of them are kept in a room without any mask, sanitiser or soaps. Similarly, video clips from Piprasi across the Gandak alleged discovery of worms in the food. “We have created cells to address all issues in the blocks where camps have been set up … from reception and accommodation to housekeeping, food and also a grievance cell,” West Champaran DM Kundan Kumar said, adding that WhatsApp and control room numbers are displayed for inmates to share their grievances. A major worry that the administration is grappling with are the desperate attempts to break and go home. “We cannot allow that and are monitoring and screening their health daily,” he said. “We understand they are restless. We have thus begun their skill mapping and are gainfully employing them according to their abilities. Masons, for example, are being trained to build two-pit toilets and paver-block artisans too are being given work,” the DM said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/govt-taking-steps-to-end-migrants-woes-sumo/articleshow/75703261.cms||Ramashankar
May 13, 2020||Vadodara||Centurion Baobab gets healing touch||Vadodara: It has been standing tall amid the concrete jungle for years now and it is the only Baobab tree in the city. On Tuesday, this century-old tree located in Subhanpura area received a healing touch from environment activists. A huge branch of the 45-feet-tall tree that stands right next to a bungalow had fallen off on Monday, giving locals a scare. “The branch was so huge that it left a big gap in the tree’s trunk. If such an old tree is exposed to outer environment, it can catch infection just like we humans get infected due to injury on our body. The infection can stem the tree’s growth and even damage it in the long run,” said Dr Jitendra Gavali, director, Community Science Centre (CSC). “So we decided to give a healing touch to the tree. We pasted a mixture of neem oil, soil and water on the area that was damaged. This mixture kills microbes and ensures that the tree doesn’t suffer any infection,” said Hitarth Pandya, environment activist. Locals said that this tree is home to a variety of bird species and monkeys too who frequent it to eat the fruits. A 950-year-old Baobab tree located in Padra is, in fact, listed by the forest department as a heritage tree. The tree’s girth is about 90 feet and it stores nearly 50,000 litres of water inside.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/centurion-baobab-gets-healing-touch/articleshow/75702319.cms||Tushar Tere
May 13, 2020||Patna||Blocked Bailey Road may reopen soon||PATNA: With the Covid-19 situation improving in the Khajpura locality as five more people expected to be discharged on Wednesday, the district administration is gearing up to open the blocked portion of the arterial Bailey Road. According to Patna DM Kumar Ravi, a decision on the opening of Bailey Road will be taken soon as the situation was improving. Commuters are as of now not allowed to move towards Jagdeo Path on Bailey Road and have to take flyover before Sheikhpura. “The situation has improved to a great extent and we are reviewing opening of Bailey Road. Almost all patients from Khajpura have recovered, which is a very good news,” Ravi. Most of the positive cases in Patna are from Khajpura locality with 22 people testing positive for Covid-19, followed by BMP campus where 14 personnel, including one retired jawan, had tested positive for coronavirus. Of the 22 Khajpura patients, 20 have already recovered and the rest two also on way to recovery. “Khajpura has the maximum cases, but good news is that people have recovered. Hence we will give some relaxation and make Bailey Road accessible for commuters. Only the lane where people lived behind Shiv Mandir Gali will be closed for next 14 days.” Ravi further said other localities had individual cases so tackling them was not difficult. As on Tuesday evening, 73 people had tested positive for Covid-19 in Patna district, 38 of them have recovered and have been sent back home and five are expected to be sent home on Wednesday. One Covid-19 positive person died on May 10 and now total number of active cases in Patna stands at 30. There are now 15 containment zones in Patna. Initially, when Covid-19 cases started reporting in March, Patna had five containment zones. In April, the number of containment zones reached 12 and then to 16 on May 10. However, two places were removed from the list of containment zones recently and one BMP campus has been added to it. As per the information shared by district administration, there are 46 quarantine centres in Patna with 3,019 people staying in it. District magistrate Kumar Ravi has also instructed officials to speed up development work in rural areas and provide job opportunities to labourers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/blocked-bailey-road-may-reopen-soon/articleshow/75702773.cms||Sheezan Nezami
May 13, 2020||Business||HC rejects Wadhawans’ bail plea||Swati.Deshpande@timesgroup.com Mumbai: The Bombay high court on Tuesday rejected pleas for a pre-arrest bail filed by brothers Dheeraj and Kapil Wadhawan, promoters of Dewan Housing Finance (DHFL), before reserving its orders. The two were named as accused in the Yes Bank Rs 750-crore money laundering case and another one involving Rs 4,200 crore received for fixed deposits from two trusts of Uttar Pradesh Power Corporation Provident Fund. Justice Bharati Dangre, who pronounced the orders, had heard the matter at length for three hours till almost 8 pm via video-conferencing on Friday. Justice Dangre noted the “serious nature of allegations of money laundering, with deep rooted conspiracy entered into by the applicants (Wadhawans) with the assistance of others, particularly the promoter of Yes Bank, Rana Kapoor and his family members”. As a result, she said the call for custodial interrogation is a right available to the investigating agency Enforcement Directorate (ED). The judge also observed that, “it appears that the close knit family” decided, as disclosed by them, to relax at their Mahabaleshwar home to manage stress of earlier arrest “in spite of all seriousness of accusation hovering over them”. Justice Dangre also said that their “conduct” on being released on bail and “travelling to an obscure place like Mahabaleshwar, though their submission that it is with permission, raises more questions to be answered”. She added, “The growing pandemic of Covid-19 cannot be made a smoke screen to evade their custodial interrogation.” The HC said a “balance” has to be exercised. “The serious economic offence cannot wait for the pandemic to recede and their contention of ‘not being healthy’ would not absolve them of being subjected to interrogation…. A money laundering offence has serious ramifications and has the potential to bring the swirling economy of entire country to a standstill,” said Justice Dangre. She added that “mere apprehension” expressed about a possible exposure to the Covid-19 infection during interrogation in custody, when they are “in age group of early forties, cannot be cited against the right of agencies to seek their custody for interrogation into a serious economic offence”. Dheeraj had said he underwent angioplasty in January 2018 and was hospitalised for a month in October-November last year. The Wadhawans’ counsels Prasad Dhakephalkar and Amit Desai “vehemently” argued that they were being made “scapegoats” with political parties attempting to “gain one-upmanship” over their arrest by “raising a bogie” of them being serious offenders. “The procedure of law must be followed,” said the HC looking at the “gravity of the accusations” and the need made out by the ED counsel Anil Singh for custodial interrogation. Desai had argued that arrest in the six-month-old FIR was not warranted, especially during a pandemic, and had invoked their right to life while stressing that the transactions were in the “regular course of business”. In the Yes Bank FIR in March 2020 registered by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) at New Delhi for offences of cheating and under Prevention of Corruption Act, it was alleged that a loan of Rs 750 crore was sanctioned to RKW Developers, which was siphoned off by Kapil Wadhawan by transferring it to DHFL. ED alleged a “quid pro quo” between the two business groups and their promoters. Its counsel Singh also said that after Yes Bank invested Rs 3,700 crore in DHFL as short-term debentures, DHFL “paid a kickback of Rs 600 crore to Kapoor and his family members in the garb of a loan to a company”. The ex-chairman of Yes Bank, Kapoor, was arrested on March 8 by the ED and is in custody. “Dheeraj was wrongly named in the FIR,” said counsel Dhakephalkar, merely because he was a “director of RKW Developers”. In the second case, the ED said in violation of 50% bar on PF amounts being invested, Rs 4,200 crore was deposited with DHFL as fixed deposits in 2017-18 in alleged collusion with some officials of the UP trusts with an alleged kickback of Rs 42 crore to the officials. Over Rs 2,200 crore is still due from DHFL, said Singh. Desai argued that there was every intention to pay back, but certain legal hurdles and a court order and the subsequent corporate insolvency process of DHFL rendered it difficult.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/hc-rejects-wadhawans-bail-plea/articleshow/75704784.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Coimbatore||Ensure private schools don’t force parents to pay fees: MP||Coimbatore: Coimbatore MP P R Natarajan has written to the district collector and chief education officer to act against private schools that force parents to pay fees during the lockdown period. In a communication, he said there have been representations from parents that some private and self-financing schools have been asking them to pay the fees. The schools were willing to provide online classes only to those who pay fees, he said.“There are also instances that the schools have been threatening parents that their children would not be allowed to attend school in the coming academic year on non-payment of fees,” he said.He said some schools have made teachers and non-teaching staff report for work amid lockdown and some schools have not paid their workers in full. “As this is a disaster situation, the district collector should ensure that schools, irrespective of whether they follow state or Central boards, should comply by the Tamil Nadu government’s directions. The district administration should get in writing from private schools that they would not force parents to pay fees,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/ensure-private-schools-dont-force-parents-to-pay-fees-mp/articleshow/75705241.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Patna||Passengers board special train at Patna, heave a sigh of relief||PATNA: It was after one and a half months when passengers reached Patna Junction and Rajendra Nagar Terminal on Tuesday evening to board a special AC train to Delhi. Six medical screening counters were set up at Patna Junction and four at Rajendra Nagar Terminal for passengers. RPF and Patna police personnel were deployed there to maintain social distancing of passengers. Most of the passengers were those who had reached Bihar for some work but got stranded due to the nationwide lockdown. Ram Vinay Sharma, a retired Army man, said he had reached Bheldi in Saran for searching a suitable boy for her daughter’s marriage. “I am settled in Gurugram. I reached Patna on March 19 and stayed at my in-law’s place since then. My wife and daughter are at Gurugram,” he said while waiting in a queue for medical screening at Patna Junction. Ramashraya Pandit, who was with his daughter Dr Sarita, said they had reached Serthia in Jehanabad for Holi celebrations but got stranded. “My wife and son are at Palam in New Delhi,” he said. Sarita said she had received a call to work in AIIMS-Delhi but missed the chance due to the lockdown. Meena Devi, along with her 18-year-old daughter Priyanka Kumari, son Kamal Kumar and his wife Maya Devi and their child had reached Bhabhutia in Saharsa to attend her mother’s death anniversary before the lockdown, but got stranded. Kamal, a DTC bus conductor, said he reached Patna at 7am on Tuesday by a bus arranged by the Saharsa district administration. “My father got his legs burned while making tea for himself in our absence at our residence in Narela,” Kamal said, adding that he spent Rs6,309 to book ticket in the special train to return. At Rajendra Nagar terminal, Shiva Chaudhary from Bulandshahar in Uttar Pradesh was in queue to board the train. “I was studying at Vishakhapatnam. Before janata curfew, we decided to return due to pandemic. My friend from Biharsharif in Nalanda got train tickets to Patna. I had planned to board another train to Bulandshahar from Patna but got stranded as train services were terminated,” he said. Chaudhary said his father will come to Delhi station to pick him up. “I shelled out Rs1500 for travelling less than 100km from Biharsharif to Patna in a cab and Rs1580 for train ticket to reach Delhi,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/passengers-board-special-train-at-patna-heave-a-sigh-of-relief/articleshow/75702946.cms||Debashish Karmakar
May 13, 2020||Patna||Bihar: New academic session not likely before September||PATNA: Universities may have begun essential office works and online education amid the Covid-19 lockdown, but they are unlikely to resume their normal academic activities in the near future. Patna University (PU) and its colleges have been carrying out their official works since April 20 when they reopened after 25 days’ closure. Patliputra University (PPU) and Munger University (MgU) also started performing important works almost a fortnight ago and now all other universities will do so, albeit with reduced staff strength, in a day or two as directed by the state education department. However, as things stand today, the revival of regular classroom teaching in colleges and postgraduate departments seems remote. Neither the government nor the chancellor’s secretariat has taken any decision on resumption of regular teaching and examinations in the institutions of higher education in the state. According to the recent guidelines of the University Grants Commission circulated to the vice-chancellors (VC) of all universities, the ongoing online classes will have to be completed by May 31. Summer break will be in June and pending semester examinations in July. The results of all examinations will be declared and admission of students to new batches completed in August. Classes of the newly admitted students will begin on September 1. The universities have also been asked to develop a foolproof plan before the new session begins and strictly follow the norms of social distancing to avoid any eventuality arising due to Covid-19. PU pro-VC Dolly Sinha told this newspaper on Tuesday, “The university is waiting for a directive from the chancellor on resumption of pending examinations and offline classes. Keeping in mind the present situation, we may not be able to start a normal academic session for several months.” PPU pro-VC G K Chaudhary said, “Maintaining social distance in classrooms will be difficult. Universities will, therefore, have to develop a culture of online education and ensure sufficient infrastructure for the purpose.” Moreover, several institutions in the state have been made quarantine centres to accommodate Covid-19 suspects. “Some of our colleges are serving as quarantine centres and classes cannot be started until they are freed by the district administration,” claimed MgU VC Ranjit Kumar Verma.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/new-academic-session-not-likely-before-september/articleshow/75702802.cms||B K Mishra
May 13, 2020||Chennai||Class X board exams in Tamil Nadu from June 1||CHENNAI: In a surprise move that has shocked teachers, parents and students, school education minister K A Sengottaiyan on Tuesday said Class X board exams in the state will start on June 1. “Class X board exams will be conducted from June 1 to 12 and evaluation of Class XII answer scripts will begin on May 27,” he said. More than nine lakh students may have to sit for the exam amid a raging pandemic. Speaking to reporters in Erode later in the day, the minister said buses will be operated across the state, including tribal hamlets, to pick up and drop students during the exam. “We have modified seating arrangements in classrooms to maintain social distance. All arrangements have been made after getting advice from doctors and parents,” the minister said, appealing to students to wear face masks while coming for the exam. Answering opposition leader M K Stalin’s question about why the chief minister gave consent for holding the exam while denying permission for train and flight operations, Sengottaiyan said students’ future will be spoiled if board exams are postponed or cancelled. Paper evaluation has been completed in several states where exams were held, he pointed out. No decision, however, has been taken on reopening schools. The minister’s announcement has left several teachers shocked. Possibility of exam centres being set up in containment zones and teachers and students coming from such zones, additional space for setting up evaluation and exam centres to ensure social distancing, and provision for sanitizers and water facilities for all students and teachers can become logistical nightmare for authorities, teachers said. More importantly, the fear of virus spreading may keep away many students from the exam, they said. The minister also announced that ‘a postponed Class XI exam (that was to be held on March 26) will be held on June 2, and re-exam for 36,842 absentees of Class XII final exam will be held on June 4.” Officials of the school education department said it would be challenging to evaluate Class XII answer sheets and hold Class X board exams together while following social distancing norms. “Almost all evaluation centres are designated as exam centres. It would be challenging to conduct both paper evaluation and exams simultaneously while following social distancing norms. We may need more classrooms,” they said, adding that it would be a problem to ensure sanitization and water facilities in schools. A total of 3,825 centres have been earmarked for conducting Class X exam. While 9.45 lakh students appear for exams, more than 20,000 teachers needed for answer sheet evaluation. “We were expecting Class X exams in July. Conducting exams in June would create stress among parents and many of them may not send their wards to write the exam fearing infection,” said N Vijayan, principal, Zion Matriculation Higher Secondary School. Students may have also forgotten whatever they learnt in schools due to the long break. “We need to refresh their memory for a few days in school before the exams while following social distancing norms,” he said. A Peter Raja, president, Tamil Nadu High School and Higher Secondary Schools Headmasters’ Association, said the government must consider conducting exams in two spells. “In districts with fewer cases they may conduct the exam as per schedule and in districts with more cases they must conduct the exam after the situation improves,” he said. “Considering the spread of infection in our state, school education department should postpone the exam to July 1,” Tamil Nadu Students’ Parents Welfare Association president S Arumainathan said. There would be more absentees in Class X exams if the present trend continues, he said. Tamil Nadu Teachers Association, too, has demanded that the exam be postponed till the spread of the virus is contained. DMK president MK Stalin questioned the urgency in announcing the exam. “The announcement would only create panic among parents. Conducting exams after bringing the Covid-19 spread under control and ensuring normalcy would be the right move. The exam schedule needs to be announced after preparing students, teachers and parents mentally. It is not right on the part of the school education minister to increase the confusion amid a pandemic,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/class-x-board-exams-in-tn-from-june-1/articleshow/75705239.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Business||Over Rs 70,000 crore debt of NBFCs maturing in Q1||MUMBAI: Over Rs 70,000 crore of debt issued by nearly 60 non-banking finance companies (NBFCs) is coming up for redemption in the first quarter of FY21. The good news is that more than half of the debt is concentrated with the top 15 borrowers with strong parentage, and a portion of that has already been redeemed. Also, many of these issuers have floated bonds last month and are liquid, given that there has been hardly any offtake of retail loans since the lockdown. According to debt market sources, several public sector and private banks are also providing a moratorium to select NBFCs. “Our discussions with smaller unlisted NBFCs and cooperatives across states indicate that they are availing bank moratorium, assignment/securitisation and obtaining fresh borrowings to ride through the current liquidity challenges,” said a report by Emkay Research. According to the report, the problem that NBFCs will face will not be in terms of raising liquidity but in recovering loans from borrowers. “We remain concerned about the potential asset-side issues emanating from a consistent rise in demand for loan moratorium (rise in the number of customers availing moratorium in May 2020 compared with the prior month) and difficulty in collection and recoveries amid lockdowns. According to our checks, 45-50% of MSMEs and 75% of vehicle loan takers have opted for moratorium,” said the report. According to rating agencies, housing loans are the least risky in the finance sector. The extent of moratorium availed by home loan borrowers is relatively lower compared to other segments. In early April, rating agency Crisil had estimated that almost three-fourths of NBFCs will have a liquidity cover of over 3 times to meet capital market debt obligations up to May 31, 2020, when the moratorium is slated to end. On the other hand, only 3% had less than one-time liquidity cover. A liquidity cover of less than one time indicates inability to make debt repayments on time and in full, without the benefit of collections, external support, or access to additional credit lines or funding. “If we assume no moratorium on bank debt, only 37% of the Crisil-rated NBFCs will have a liquidity cover of more than 3 times for their total debt repayments up to May 31, 2020, while those with less than 1 time would increase to 11%. And if business disruption continues beyond the moratorium period, considering debt repayments till June 30, 2020, almost a quarter of these NBFCs would have a liquidity cover of less than 1 time with debt obligations aggregating to Rs 1.75 lakh crore,” Crisil had said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/over-rs-70000cr-debt-of-nbfcs-maturing-in-q1/articleshow/75705087.cms||Mayur Shetty
May 13, 2020||Nashik||Door-to-door survey in 5 containment zones stopped||Nashik: The Nashik Municipal Corporation has stopped the door-to-door survey exercise being carried out in five containment zones of the city as things are now under control in these areas. Currently, there are 28 containment zones in the city and the areas where the survey has been stopped are Govind Nagar, Anandvalli on Gangapur Road, Rajlaxmi Lawns on Nashik Road, Bajrangwadi near Nasardi bridge on Nashik-Pune road and Sanjeev Nagar on Satpur-Ambad link road. A civic official said that positive cases of Covid-19 had surfaced in these zones between April 6 and 15. "But all the high-risk contacts in these five zones were tested negative. Also the nine positive patients in these areas have also recovered and discharged," he said. "We are conducting survey in other containment zones in the city as part of precautionary measures to find out suspected patients, but situation is under control as we have already traced out high risk contacts," he added. The first Covid-19 positive patient in Nashik city, tested on April 6, was from Govind Nagar area, while the second and third cases were reported from Anandvalli and Rajlaxmi Lawns areas on April 10. Till April 27, the city had only 10 Covid-19 positive patients with a total of six containment zones in the city. There were no new Covid-19 patients in the city between April 28 and May 1. The city recorded 30 more Covid-19 positive patients from 22 containment zones in just 11 days — between May 0 and 12. "Most of the patients testing positive during these 11 days were high risk contacts of the previous positive patients," the official said. One more tests positive in the city One more person, a resident of Kathe Lane area of Nashik city, tested Covid-19 positive on Tuesday. According to NMC sources, the person is a security guard at NMC’s Zakir Hussain hospital where Covid-19 positive patients are being treated. "He had no symptoms of Covid-19. But as he was on duty at the hospital, his throat swab sample was taken and sent for testing on May 10. The test report came on Tuesday that confirmed that the person was positive for coronavirus," a civic official said. With this fresh case, tally of Covid-19 patients in the city has reached to 40.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/door-to-door-survey-in-5-containment-zones-stopped/articleshow/75703199.cms||Tushar Pawar
May 13, 2020||Coimbatore||Active Covid-19 cases drop to 1||Coimbatore: Three more Covid-19 patients were discharged from ESI Hospital in the city on Tuesday, taking the number of active cases in the district to just one. The district also didn’t report any new positive cases for the ninth consecutive day on Tuesday, maintaining the total number of novel coronavirus cases at 146. Meanwhile, testing of Amma Unavagam workers and sanitary workers in and around the earlier containment zones for Covid-19 is still going on. The family of three from Baba Street in Venkatapuram was discharged from the ESI Hospital after they tested negative for the virus on Tuesday. They were admitted to the hospital on May 2. They have been asked to remain in home quarantine for two weeks. Only after that they would be allowed to travel to Kerala, where they have to remain in quarantine for another 14 days. The health department said all the patients to hospitals and primary health centres with symptoms of flu and breathlessness were being tested for Covid-19. They have collected samples from 172 such patients on Tuesday alone. The city corporation is also screening its frontline workers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/active-covid-19-cases-drop-to-1/articleshow/75705247.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Coimbatore||District can expect normal southwest monsoon: Experts||Coimbatore: The district could expect a normal southwest monsoon, receiving close to 194mm rainfall between June and August this year, say weather experts. At least 19 other districts in the state are also expected to record normal rainfall.While the district receives most of its rainfall during northeast monsoon, southwest monsoon is crucial for improving or maintaining the groundwater table.The Agro Climate Research Centre at the Tamil Nadu Agricultural University on Tuesday said most parts of the district and neighbouring Erode and Tirupur could expect a normal southwest monsoon.“While the district is expected to receive 194mm rainfall compared to the normal 189.8mm, Erode is likely to record 221mm rain against the usual 229mm and Tirupur 144mm, compared to 154mm,” said a press statement issued by the centre.“Any deviation by 10mm or lesser is considered a normal rainfall,” it said. In fact, only Salem is expected to receive lesser rainfall in western region.Around eight districts, including Chennai, Villupuram and Kancheepuram, are likely to see a drop in usual rainfall by anywhere between 10% and 20%. In southern part of the state, Virudhunagar and Madurai are also expected to record lesser rainfall.The Agro Climate Research Centre said the forecast was based on the southern oscillation index and sea surface temperature values of the Pacific and Indian Oceans.Dr S P Ramanathan, head, Agro Climate Research Centre, TNAU, said, “We used the Australian Rainman International software. We also analyzed the long period average weather parameters using the software to forecast the rainfall in different districts in the state.” While districts such as Coimbatore depend on northeast monsoon for 65% of the total rainfall, southwest monsoon is expected to help improve the groundwater table, which usually gets depleted in summer. “It helps improve the water levels in dams that are used to supply drinking water to residents,” said a Public Works Department official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/district-can-expect-normal-southwest-monsoon-experts/articleshow/75704438.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Nalgonda doctors go the extra mile to assist the needy||HYDERABAD: Apart from treating patients, doctors in Nalgonda district are providing food to leprosy patients, physically challenged, poor and homeless people. The doctors have also contributed money to the needy during the Covid-19 lockdown in the last 25 days. “The worst sufferers are leprosy patients. With deformed hands, feet and damaged limbs due to chronic infections, they are unable to take care of themselves,” Dr Jayaprakash Reddy of Indian Medical Association (IMA), Nilagiri, said. On alternate days, more than 400 people are being provided food by IMA doctors with each of them taking turns to sponsor the meals. The doctors — Uday Singh, Venu, Ramesh, Nagesh, Kameshwar, Jayakumar, S Srinivas, Indira, Swetha, PVN Murthy and Cobra Reddy — and IMA Nilagiri president Pulla Rao have taken it upon themselves to ensure that the poor do not go hungry. “This is being done as a social responsibility in addition to providing professional service to the society,” Dr Jayaprakash said. The doctors have also taken up awareness programmes about coronavirus by teaming up with police. They also went around distributing masks, particularly to vegetable vendors. PPE kits worth Rs 1 lakh were donated to the Nalgonda Medical College and handed over to Nalgonda SP AV Ranganath.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/nalgonda-docs-go-the-extra-mile-to-assist-the-needy/articleshow/75705311.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
May 13, 2020||Business||Air India to operate special domestic flights to several Indian cities from May 19||CHENNAI: Air India will operate special domestic flights from different cities between May 19 and June 2 to help passengers stranded across the country reach home. Passengers must pay for the seats for which bookings were yet to begin. A majority of the flights are from Delhi, Mumbai, Hyderabad and Bengaluru. Chennai will have one flight: Kochi-Chennai on May 19. Delhi will have 173 flights, Mumbai 40, Hyderabad 25 and Kochi 12. Read our coronavirus live blog for all the latest news and updatesFlights from Delhi will be operated to Jaipur, Bengaluru, Hyderabad, Amritsar, Kochi, Ahmedabad, Vijayawada, Gaya, Lucknow and a few other cities. Air India will operate flights from Mumbai to Visakapatnam, Kochi, Ahmedabad, Bengaluru, Hyderabad and Vijayawada. There are also flights from Hyderabad to Mumbai, Delhi and back. Bengaluru will have flights to Mumbai, Delhi and Hyderabad and an incoming flight from Bhubaneswar. Coronavirus outbreak: Complete coverage A senior AI official said the schedule is ready. “We are waiting for a nod from the ministry of civil aviation. The schedule has been prepared as part of phase-2 of evacuation flights to bring Indians from abroad. The government had said that domestic flights too could be included in the second schedule,” he said. Schedule for some of these flights has been designed to ensure that passengers arriving from abroad on rescue flights can fly to their home states. “But that will also depend on quarantine rules,” an official said, adding that the operation was scheduled to start on May 15 but was postponed to 17. “Now it has been decided to start on May 19. The commencement will depend on the ministry’s approval. But this will be a forerunner to start domestic operations in a phased manner,” he said. More on Covid-19 Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage Lockdown 3.0: What's allowed and what's not in the three zones It's time to mask up and stay safe: Join TOI's #MaskIndia campaign MHA's guidelines for home isolation Trust the newspaper for your daily verified news  People will have to book through the airline site soon after a notification is released. A senior official of the Airports Authority of India (AAI) said preparations were on to handle domestic flights because there is a hint that private airlines may be allowed to operate more flights from Chennai. Sriharan Balan of Madura Travels said, “The domestic points included in phase-2 of repatriation flights will be of help for several people who are waiting to travel home. We were trying for charter flights and airlines had said that they will ferry people on domestic routes if there are sufficient number of passengers. The registration shows that hundreds of people want to fly from Chennai to Mumbai and Delhi and other cities.” Watch Air India to begin special domestic flights to several Indian cities from May 19||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/ai-to-operate-spl-domestic-flights-to-several-indian-cities-from-may-19/articleshow/75705252.cms||V Ayyappan
May 13, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Chaos at Attibele checkpost as many forced to turn back||BENGALURU: Hopes of hundreds of people stranded in Tamil Nadu and wanting to return homes have been dashed by the shocker of an overnight order from the Karnataka government: either pay and get quarantined at a hotel here or ‘go back’ to the place where they come from. A TOI team visited the Karnataka-Tamil Nadu border post on Hosur Road near Attibele and saw all Karnataka-bound vehicles being stopped by Bengaluru Rural police. About 40 vehicles had queued up on the TN side of the border. People were told that they would be taken to an institutional quarantine for which they have to pay Rs 1,250 per day. Raghav from Bengaluru received a two-way pass approval on Monday. As his children and wife were stuck in Chennai, he went to bring them back. On Tuesday morning as he came near the border, police gave him two options: either pay for quarantine of his family or drive back to Chennai. Raghav and his wife were seen pleading with police as their child was as young as one-and-a-half-old. Ajay from Banashankari was travelling back from Kelamangalam in Krishnagiri district where his wife had suffered a miscarriage. He was stopped at the border and was asked to go back. He said: “The health of my father in Bengaluru is not good. As I could not stay either at Bengaluru or Kelamangalam I’ve been shuttling between both places to take care of both. Though I’ve obtained a pass, I’m asked to get quarantined at a hotel. I was not aware of the overnight order.” Several migrants and students who were heading home only because they could not afford to stay there during the lockdown were taken aback by the mandatory home quarantine order. Vineeth, who is pursuing post graduation in international relations in Madras University, said: “I could not meet expenses as I lived in a room. I managed to hitch a ride but my journey ended at the border where police asked me to go for quarantine. The person who dropped was travelling to Dakshina Kannada district and he was let off. Now, I can’t go back to Chennai or enter Bengaluru. I can’t afford to go for hotel quarantine too.” He was trying to call his friends to mobilise money. Anekal and Attibele police deputed at the border said they had no other option but send back people who don’t agree for paid quarantine. “About 90% of those who travelled from TN returned as they did not want to go for paid hotel quarantine. Some of them who had hitched rides are stuck on the border,” they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/ktakas-paid-quarantine-order-stumps-those-stranded-in-tn/articleshow/75704429.cms||Kiran Parashar
May 13, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad: ‘No qualified teachers, no PG courses’||AURANGABAD: Ahead of the start of the new academic year, Marathwada Association of Students Aurangabad (MASA) has demanded a check on colleges that offer postgraduate courses without having qualified teachers. In a memorandum issued on Tuesday, MASA has demanded that such colleges must be barred from offering post-graduate courses until qualified teachers are made available. Dr.Babasaheb Ambedkar Marathwada University (Bamu) has over 150 colleges which offer post-graduate courses in the stream of Science, Arts and Commerce. “Teachers who have passed NET or SET and have Ph.D are only considered qualified as teachers for post-graduate courses. However, many colleges do not have such qualified staff and still offering the post-graduate courses. Students and parents are in dark about such facts,” Ulhas Udhan, MASA president and ex-management council member of Bamu said. MASA has alleged that colleges affiliated to Bamu have roped in part-time teacherswho serve as faculties for postgraduate courses. “Such teachers are appointed on clock-hour-basis and do not have necessary eligibility. As per rules, they are not competent to teach for postgraduate students,” Udhan said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/no-qualified-teachers-no-pg-courses/articleshow/75703191.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Surat||App to protect you from Covid hotspots, patients||Surat: With Covid fears topmost on people’s minds, a city-based start-up has developed a android mobile application that will protect people from straying into hotspots or from coming in close contact of positive patients. Yash Sanghavi, 28, and his team developed the named ‘Avira-19’, a mobile application for Surat citizens that can be downloaded from a web portal, responscity.com. Sanghvi’s firm develops solutions for civic bodies, early warning system on floods for districts among others. “Avira-19’ app is a hyper local app designed for Surat City. It is a location-based and time-enabled data that is visually represented on a map and keeps track of Covid-19 infections across the city. The system is designed in a manner that it can alert citizens in advance, if they get too near to any red zones. It also allows citizens to create an alert for a particular zone, and to know if any new cases have been registered near them. The positive patient’s data is collected from the Surat Municipal Corporation,” said Sanghavi while explaining to TOI about the app’s functionality. “We have over 3,000 active users of the city and aim to maximize our outreach. The idea is to stop spread of the deadly contagion by sensitizing people and help in flattening the curve,’’ he said. While its homepage will show all the registered active (Red), recovered (Green) and deceased (Black) cases of Surat on a map, users can also get info on total number of cases in the city, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/app-to-protect-you-from-covid-hotspots-patients/articleshow/75703208.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Mumbai||RIP, ‘Aapri Ruby’: Multifaceted theatre doyenne passes away||MUMBAI: Theatre doyenne Ruby Patel—one half of the golden couple of the Parsi-Gujarati stage of yore as well as a famous poker-faced actor from the heyday of city’s English plays—passed away in Mumbai on Monday. She was 86. Patel is survived by husband and long-time co-star Burjor Patel and three children. Their daughter Shernaz Patel is a renowned theatre, television and movie actor. Mumbai, which mourned the demise of English theatre’s “comedy king” Bomi Kapadia this past week, has lost in Patel not only a prominent memory cue of Western-drama-obsessed ’60s Mumbai, but also a reminder of the glory days of Parsi theatre when some patrons fondly referred to her as “Aapri Ruby”. One of the descendants of the Parsi-Gujarati stage that traces its roots back to 1853’s Parsi Theatrical Company, Patel, along with Burjor, was part of shows that saw over 50 performances under director giants such as Adi Marzban, Firoz Antia and Dorab Mehta. The couple joined the Parsi wing of the Indian National Theatre (INT), acted in popular plays, including ‘Gher Ghungro Ne Ghotalo’ and ‘Hello Inspector’ and later formed the theatre company Burjor Patel Productions and spent 20 years in Dubai before returning to Mumbai in 2009. Patel’s funeral was held at the Tower of Silence in Malabar Hill on Tuesday. In his Twitter tribute, actor Viveck Vaswani, who had worked with Shernaz in the serial ‘Khandaan’, called actor Hosi Vasunia and Patel “the Dharmendra and Hema of the English theatre” for having delivered 15 hits. Theatre personality and adman Rahul da Cunha, who had directed Patel in three plays in the 1980s, said she could effortlessly straddle not only two languages but also two comedic styles: Deadpan and slapstick.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/rip-aapri-ruby-multifaceted-theatre-doyenne-passes-away/articleshow/75705268.cms||Sharmila Ganesan Ram
May 13, 2020||Coimbatore||Government hospital shows way for speedy recovery of accident victims||Coimbatore: There has been a 43% increase in orthopaedic surgeries in the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital (CMCH) ever since the implementation of Tamil Nadu Accident and Emergency Care Initiative (TAEI) in 2018.The initiative has reduced the duration of accident victims’ hospitalization and their chances of hospital-acquired infections, while increasing the trust in the government healthcare system.A study on the impact of the initiative in CMCH was published in the International Journal of Orthopaedic Sciences earlier this year as a model to be followed in other low-income countries.According to the study, the number of orthopaedic surgeries that are performed in the hospital has surged to 1,053 in 2019 from 732 in 2017. The crux of the initiative is segregation of patients in the emergency ward based on if they require intensive care, admissions or if they could be treated as outpatients.It also ensures availability of all super speciality departments and neurosurgeons, orthopaedic surgeons, anesthetists and paediatricians round the clock.The study says the initiative helps the hospital focus more on patients who need intensive care within the golden hour. Dr S Vetrivel Chezhian, co-author of the paper and director of the Institute of Orthopaedics at CMCH, says. “Under the TAEI plan, we will perform the surgery to correct the fracture immediately after stabilizing the patients. It will be done in six hours, which otherwise would take three to seven days.”Most of the trauma patients that the hospital gets are victims of two-wheeler accidents, which leave them with either open or closed fractures. “In the case of closed fractures, we will perform intra medullary interlocking nailing. In the case of open fractures, wounds will be debrided and long bones will be stabilized with external fixation. Then plastic surgery will be performed (for raw area cover),” Dr Vetrivel Chezhian said.However, the scenario was entirely different in 2016 when open fracture wounds were debrided and fixed with plaster of paris temporarily. The surgery was considered elective and performed later. “Just getting blood work, echocardiography, cardiologists’ opinion and anesthetist’s evaluation used to take three to seven days, after which the surgery would be performed,” the study says.When surgeries are completed faster, doctors say, a patient’s hospitalization time will be reduced. “Most patients would be discharged in three to five days. Their overall expenditure will be less, and they needn’t spend a lot of days in hospital, helping them return to work early. On the health front, lesser stay reduces chances of infection and faster rehabilitation,” says Dr Vetrivel Chezhian.The hospital too would benefit by performing surgeries on emergency patients under the Chief Minister's Comprehensive Health Insurance Scheme, which will be disbursed later. Touts also wouldn’t have time to entice trauma patients and move them to private hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/government-hospital-shows-way-for-speedy-recovery-of-accident-victims/articleshow/75705255.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Coimbatore||Five bakeries sealed in Ooty for flouting rules||Udhagamandalam: Five bakeries were sealed in Ooty town by food safety department officials on Tuesday. Food safety officials conducted surprise inspections in all bakeries and meat stalls across the district. Officials said about 82kg of bakery products, worth Rs 20, 000, were seized and destroyed. Bakeries are opening after 45 days in Ooty. “Based on a complaint, we held a surprise check at 15 bakeries in Ooty municipality on Tuesday. In most of the bakeries, packed items were not labelled with weight, manufacturing date and ingredients as per labelling rules,” said Dr J Thangavignesh, district food safety officer.  An official said more inspection will follow.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/five-bakeries-sealed-in-ooty-for-flouting-rules/articleshow/75704449.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Bhopal||28 new containment areas in Bhopal||Bhopal: A total of 28 new areas were added to the list of ‘containment areas’ in Bhopal on Monday while 14 such areas were decontained, thereby easing extra restictions that were imposed on residents of those areas like barracading and ban on entry and exit into the area. The total number of containment areas in the city now stands at 198.On Monday, 32 new coronavirus-infected persons were detected in the state capital. Of them, 12 were from the Covid-19 hotspot of the city, Jehangirabad. As many as 10 more containment areas have come up in areas under Jehangirabad police station.Other than 10 new containment areas in Jehangirabad, five more came up.in areas under Aishbagh police station, three in areas under Koh-e-fiza police station and one each in areas under Mangalwara, Kotwali, Bajariya, Avadhpuri, Habibganj, Shyamala Hills, Bagh Sevaniya, Ashoka Garden and Nishatpura.Areas denotified as containment area 28 days after no fresh cronavirus case was found in the restricted area include two in areas under Jehangirabad police station and one each in areas under Koh-e-fiza police station, TT Nagar, Kamla Nagar, Habibganj, Avadhpuri, Chuna Bhatti, Piplani and Itkhedi.Among 40 police stations in the city, only six have ‘no containment zones’ in areas under their jurisdiction.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/28-new-containment-areas-in-bhopal/articleshow/75704453.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Capital stn cops heard conspiring to ‘frame’ man under Arms Act in viral clip, probe ordered||BHUBANESWAR: Commissionerate police have initiated an inquiry against two officers of Capital police station here for allegedly trying to frame a man in a false case. The probe started after an audio clip, featuring a purported phone conversation between the police station’s inspector-in-charge Girija Chakraborty and sub-inspector Rakesh Samal, went viral on the social media. Police suspect that the alleged conversation took place over two weeks ago. Incidentally, Samal was suspended for allegedly misbehaving with a woman on May 7. In the audio, Chakraborty can be heard asking Samal to create a false FIR saying the man (whose identity could not be established in the audio clip) possessed a sword. Chakraborty further asked Samal to slap relevant sections of the Arms Act against the man after showing seizure of the sword from his possession. Commissionerate police has asked additional deputy commissioner of police Raj Kishore Paikray to inquire into the case. “We are trying to find the source, authenticity and context of the audio clip,” commissioner of police Sudhanshu Sarangi said. Chakraborty and Samal were unavailable for comment. “We had earlier heard of police planting firearms and other weapons to frame innocent people or build strong cases against notorious criminals. The clip has now confirmed this perception. We expect action against the irresponsible police officers,” senior lawyer Siddharth Das said. A few days ago, commissionerate police had suspended Premananda Nayak, inspector-in-charge of Nandankanan police station, for allegedly misbehaving with a woman colleague. Another sub-inspector of the Capital police station is also facing inquiry for allegedly selling a stolen vehicle to a man.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/capital-stn-cops-heard-conspiring-to-frame-man-under-arms-act-in-viral-clip-probe-ordered/articleshow/75703223.cms||Debabrata Mohapatra
May 13, 2020||Meerut||11 arrested in Muzaffarnagar after police gatecrash booze party||MUZAFFARNAGAR: Manager of a private bank and 10 others, mostly his juniors, were arrested when they were revelling together at a hotel in Muzaffarnagar, ignoring social distancing norms. After getting a tip-off, policemen raided the hotel and arrested the revellers and the owner of the eatery for defying the lockdown norms on Monday night. A large quantity of liquor bottles was also seized. All of them were booked under IPC sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by a public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life). The case was registered at New-Mandi police station of Muzaffarnagar. Station house officer Deepak Chaturvedi said, “All of them were arrested and produced before a magistrate, who sent them to jail. Further investigation is on into the matter.” Sources said that as a team brought the accused to the police station, several “prominent people” of the city called the SHO asking him not to press the charges. All of them were released on bail later.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/cops-gatecrash-booze-party-arrest-bank-manager-10-others/articleshow/75705263.cms||Mohd Dilshad
May 13, 2020||Meerut||Five Meerut hotels offer 122 rooms for paid quarantine facilities||MEERUT: Hotels in the city will now provide quarantine facilities to patients who are willing to pay for the hotel stay. They include Mukut Mahal, Subhadra, Big Bite, Rajhans Regency and Krome. While minimum charges of Mukut Mahal and Subhadra are Rs 1,500 per day, Big Bite’s rate varies from Rs 2,500 to Rs 2,800, depending on category of room chosen. Room charges at Rajhans Regency and Krome are Rs 1,000 and Rs 2,500 respectively. Hotels in Delhi have been providing such paid facilities for over a month now, but this is the first time in Meerut. “Meerut hotels have come forward to provide paid quarantine facilities. Rates have been finalised by each participating hotel according to services they will provide. Those willing to pay can now shift to these hotels for 14 days,” said Dr S K Sharma, additional chief medical officer. The hotels are offering up to 122 rooms for paid quarantine. Food and laundry charges will be extra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/5-meerut-hotels-offer-122-rooms-for-paid-quarantine-facilities/articleshow/75705251.cms||Ishita Bhatia
May 13, 2020||Meerut||UP: Bijnor stares at 30 per cent wheat loss due unseasonal rainfall||BIJNOR: Frequent rounds of unseasonal rain have caused damage to wheat crops in Bijnor district this season. Experts estimate a 30% loss of wheat production in the district. Officials confirmed that unseasonal rainfall was not conducive to wheat crop. They said Bijnor district was assigned a target of procuring 43,500 metric tonnes of wheat this season. As compared to this, the district food marketing department has so far purchased only 4,633 metric tonnes of wheat. Last year, the department had bought around 22,000 metric tonnes of wheat here. District food marketing officer Ghanshyam Verma said due to the unseasonal rain, quality and production of wheat has been affected. Now, it is estimated that the fall in wheat production could be up to 30%. Instead of coming to government procurement centres, farmers are opting to sell their produce to private buyers at a higher market price, he said. Verma said, "We had set up 43 procurement centres across the district. We are contacting farmers, asking them to bring their produce, but in vain. They are saying that this time, the crop has been affected by unseasonal rain, leading to lesser yeild than last year. Earlier, heavy rainfall had affected sowing and now, it has been raining during threshing of wheat. This has affected wheat production. The grains have turned black due to excessive moisture." When TOI contacted deputy director, agriculture department, JP Chaudhary, he said, "Unseasonal rain has partially impacted wheat crop. It has hit only production of late sowing wheat crop. There are some other reasons of less arrival of wheat at the procurement centres. First, farmers are busy harvesting and sowing sugarcane crop. Sugarcane crushing season is still on. Second, farmers are keeping wheat stocks at home because of the prevailing lockdown." Chaudhary added farmers were short of money and were indulging in barter system in lieu of labour wages. In addition, consumption of wheat may have increased in rural areas as migrant workers heading home have bought wheat directly from farmers. This season, wheat has been cultivated across1.60 lakh hectares in Bijnor district. Last year, wheat production was 36 quintal per hectare. This time, the production is still being assessed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/bijnor-stares-at-30-wheat-loss-due-unseasonal-rainfall/articleshow/75705258.cms||Harveer Dabas
May 13, 2020||Goa||Over 300 travellers quarantined||Panaji: As the lockdown restrictions have been relaxed, 303 travellers were placed under facility quarantine on Tuesday, while 418 samples were tested negative for Covid-19, the directorate of health services bulletin stated. After testing negative, 296 inter-state travellers were home quarantined. On Tuesday, two persons each were admitted to isolation wards of GMC and North Goa district hospital. As of Tuesday, 5720 covid-19 tests have been conducted in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/over-300-travellers-quarantined/articleshow/75705900.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Hubballi||Gadag reports 3 fresh cases||Hubballi: Gadag district, which had achieved zero active cases just three days ago, reported three fresh positive cases on Tuesday. Of the three, two are senior citizens residing at Ganji Basaveshwar Circle area in Gadag city and the third patient (P-905) is from Nargund, who had returned from Ahmedabad. Deputy commissioner MG Hiremath said that P-912, a-61-year-old man and P-913, a-65-year-old man, were secondary contacts of P-514, who tested positive on April 28. Hiremath said that 14 people from Palanpur in Gujrat and two from Ahmedabad arrived in the city and they were put under institutional quarantine in a hostel in Gangimadi area. Their throat swabs were sent for testing and15 of them tested negative while P-905 tested positive, he said. Ganji Basaveshwar Circle has already been announced as containment area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/gadag-reports-3-fresh-cases/articleshow/75703239.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Aurangabad||Maharashtra: Police portal issues 5.4 lakh travel passes||AURANGABAD: A web portal launched by Raigad superintendent of police Anil Paraskar to issue travel passes has been adopted across the state after it proved to be a huge success. Over 5.42 lakh travel passes have been issued by police and district administrations across the state through the portal covid19.mhpolice.in since March 28. The portal is the brainchild of Paraskar, who had launched it for his district on March 24. Impressed by the effectiveness and transparency of the portal, Konkan range special inspector general of police Niket Kaushik implemented it. It later drew the attention of Milind Bharambe, IG (law and order), who issued directives for its use across the state. The authorities concerned said that police used this system to issue passes only as an exception and not as a rule. This resulted in the rejection over 10.66 lakh passes out of the 20.84 lakh applications received through this portal so far. Paraskar, who is one of the administrators for the portal, told TOI that within three days of the launch, over 250 changes were made in the portal, which has not crashed despite heavy traffic. “The changes were made based on suggestions and inputs from various quarters.” The officer gave credit to his IT team As per the statistics, 98.17 lakh ‘unique visitors’ visited the portal between April 12 and May 12. In the last two to three days, 9-10 lakh people visited the portal. Considering the heavy flow of unique visitors and several lakh people uploading the applications comprising photos and other relevant details, a team of 10 experts was deployed around the clock to ensure that the portal does no crash. Moreover, to ensure that the data is uploaded and stored in a secured manner, the police purchased unlimited cloud data space for the purpose after receiving clearance from IGP Bharambe . The officer informed that in addition to this, 2.44 lakh one-side travel passes have been issued during the lockdown, indicating that people intended to return to their destinations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/police-portal-issues-5-4l-travel-passes/articleshow/75703241.cms||Mohammed Akhef
May 13, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Migrants brave sun, walk on highway to reach home||BERHAMPUR: Migrant workers from different south Indian states, including Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Karnataka and Tamil Nadu apart from Odisha, are seen walking on NH-16 (Chennai to Kolkata) to reach their native villages. The highway stretch from Girishola to Kanishi in Ganjam district is dotted with hordes of people, covering their faces with handkerchiefs or masks, carrying luggage and water bottles. Despite several challenges, including scorching heat and difficulty in crossing borders, they are trekking to reach home. Surendra Patra, 28, of Belaguntha in Ganjam works in a construction firm near Vijayanagaram in Andhra Pradesh. Patra said he along with some of his fellow workers trekked for five days to reach Golanthara, a border village near here. “We had waited for several days for the government arrangement. Since no arrangement was made, we decided to walk on May 7,” said Naba Patra, 30, of Belaguntha. “Since there is no special train from Vijayanagaram to Berhampur, we had no reason to wait for some more days,” he said. Most of them said they walk early in the morning, take rest in the noon and restart in the afternoon due to the soaring mercury. On the way, different organisations provided them food and drinking water, said Manoj Maharana, 30, of Sorada. “There has been no work for over a month now. The contractors have not paid us anything. We started running out of money. Despite our efforts, we could not arrange a bus. At last we decided to leave the place by walking,” said Moharana, who works as a carpenter in Andhra Pradesh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/migrants-brave-sun-walk-on-highway-to-reach-home/articleshow/75703250.cms||Hrusikesh Mohanty
May 13, 2020||Meerut||Haemophilia patients left in lurch in Meerut||MEERUT: Patients suffering from haemophilia — a blood clotting disorder — have been left in the lurch as they are unable to get transfusions critical to their survival in Meerut’s Lala Lajpat Rai Memorial (LLRM) Medical College, which also caters to patients from across UP. The treatment is unavailable since blood clotting agents — Factor concentrates F(VIII) and F(IX) — have been out of stock at the facility for two months. This has forced many patients with meagre means to travel to Delhi to seek treatment. Dr Soniya Nityanand, state nodal officer for haemophilia, said the agents were out of stock not just in Meerut but supply has been hit across government hospitals in UP that provide free treatment. “The funds — Rs 37 crore annually —earmarked for haemophilia treatment come from the National Health Mission. But we had not received the funds and hence supply was hit,” she told TOI, adding that Rs 5 crore have now been received and treatment would restart in Meerut within 10 days. There are an estimated 2,500 haemophilia patients across the state, with 250 of them in Meerut zone alone. Dr V K Bindra, a senior city-based physician, said that generally the factor concentrates have to be administered once in four months but more severe cases might need them more frequently. Patients TOI spoke to said they were forced to travel to Delhi's Lok Nayak Hospital which caters to critical haemophilia patients and is now a designated Covid-19 hospital. Rohit Kumar, a patient from Muzaffarnagar, told TOI, “I’m from a humble family. My father is a peon and giving tuitions is my only source of income. I have to depend on government hospital for my treatment. I’m a critical case as I require 1,500 units of factor concentrates a month. In April, I went to Delhi and had to pay Rs 4,000 to an ambulance. Now my ankles are swollen due to frequent bleeding and I need treatment again but I can’t afford to pay.” Another patient, Rajan Chaudhary, who is also the founder of a non-profit that works for hemophilic patients in West UP, said, “It’s been two months since patients have been waiting for treatment to start. Even if someone is able to go to Delhi, Lok Nayak is only admitting critical patients. We need treatment to start soon.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/haemophilia-patients-left-in-lurch-in-meerut/articleshow/75705275.cms||Sandeep Rai
May 13, 2020||Meerut||Uttar Pradesh: Girl walking back home from Greater Noida dies in Bulandshahr||MEERUT: An 18-year-old old girl who had set off from Greater Noida on foot along with her family for her native place in Hardoi district died in a quarantine centre in Bulandshahr on May 11. According to officials, the family of four – couple and their two daughters – was intercepted at Bulandshahr border and was taken to a quarantine centre in district on Monday morning. The victim, identified as Aarti Singh, had been suffering from tuberculosis for the past several years, officials said. According to the sources, Phool Singh, Aarti’s father, used to work as a driver and had lost his job due to the lockdown, following which, the family decided to walk to their village in Hardoi, more than 400km away near the state capital. “The family had started on foot late on Sunday and reached the Sikandrabad area on the Noida-Bulandshahr border early on Monday. The family was screened and found asymptomatic. As a procedure, they were sent to a quarantine centre at a private facility in Kakod area,” Bulandshahr SSP Santosh Kumar said. Late on Monday, the condition of one of the daughters of the couple deteriorated. She started vomiting blood and suddenly collapsed at the quarantine centre. “She was rushed to a local hospital but could not be saved,” another official said. According to the officials, the deceased had been suffering from tuberculosis for the past several years and was on medication. The family had not disclosed the medical history of the girl to avoid official scrutiny and detailed medical examination, they said. No postmortem was conducted as the local administration claimed it to be natural death and the deceased showed no symptoms of Covid-19. The girl’s body was handed over to the family members, who later left for their native village, Gajdharpur in Hardoi, in an ambulance arranged by the local administration. “The family wanted to cremate their daughter at their native place and requested for an ambulance to ferry the body. As a precaution, samples of the deceased and her family have been taken,” the SSP said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/girl-walking-back-home-from-greater-noida-dies-in-bulandshahr/articleshow/75705269.cms||Piyush Rai
May 13, 2020||Surat||Over 6L migrants leave Surat in 15 days||Surat: The coronavirus pandemic and the extended lockdown has triggered an exodus of about 6 lakh migrant workers from the from the city in the last fornight. Majority of the workers, who headed to their home districts after the lockdown left them without jobs or income, are from the textile and diamond sectors and that they may not return to the city soon. Official figures suggest that around six lakh migrants have already left for their native states taking various mode of transport including GSRTC buses, trains, private luxury buses and private vehicles in the last fortnight.According to Western Railway sources, about 85 Shramik special trains have been operated from Surat to various destinations since May 2, transporting close to one lakh migrants to Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand, Uttrakhand and Orrisa. Similarly, the Gujarat State Road Transport Corporation (GSRTC) has operated 2,700 buses since May 6 to ferry about 84,000 migrants, mainly to Amreli and Bhavnagar, Botad, Dhoraji and Patan.Sanjay Joshi, divisional controller of GSRTC said, “We have crossed the booking of GSRTC buses to 5,000 till May 12. Over 5,000 applications are still pending. GSRTC alone is expected to ferry about four lakh in the coming days”District administration officials said about 3,000 private buses and more than 10,000 private vehicles have been issued vehicle passes since April 28 to allow the migrants to travel.A senior railway officer told TOI, “Till now, only 1,200 passengers were boarded in each special train. After the revised guidelines, we will allow 1,700 passengers to travel . We will increase the frequency of the trains from 14 to 20 in a day.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/over-6l-migrants-leave-surat-in-15-days/articleshow/75703235.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Nagpur||‘Need to estimate occurrence of coronavirus in wastewater’||Nagpur: The CSIR-National Environmental Engineering Research Institute (CSIR-Neeri) organized a live broadcast of the National Technology Day lecture on Monday. Prof Manish Kumar, department of Earth sciences, Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Gandhinagar was the guest speaker and Prof Ashok Pandey, scientist, CSIR-Indian Institute for Toxicology Research (CSIR-IITR), Lucknow was the special guest on the occasion. CSIR-Neeri director Rakesh Kumar and chief scientist and head, climate change and skilling division, JS Pandey, also joined the event online. Speaking on ‘Propensity of SARS-CoV2 migration to aquatic environment and wastewater based surveillance’, speaker Kumar said that it is not possible to test all 1.3 billion people of India for Covid-19. Therefore, scientists are taking a cue from the country’s surveillance programme for polio and turning to sewage to get a clearer snapshot of how many people are infected with the coronavirus. Pandey endorsed the wastewater based surveillance approach to combat Covid-19 and said that this method can be useful looking at the current testing limitations. In his welcome address, director Kumar informed that CSIR is working on five verticals to fight against the pandemic namely surveillance, rapid and cheap diagnosis, development of new therapies (including repurposing of drugs and new drugs), hospital assistive devices and supply chain and logistics. Among these verticals, CSIR-Neeri is participating in the three verticals, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/need-to-estimate-occurrence-of-coronavirus-in-wastewater/articleshow/75703245.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Goa||‘Woman who died in isolation ward had bronchitis’||PANAJI: The 46-year-old Pernem woman who died at the isolation ward of Goa Medical College (GMC) and Hospital, Bambolim, on Monday, tested negative for Covid-19, said a GMC official. She suffered from severe bronchitis, he said, refuting the rumours linked to her death. The woman’s body was handed over to her immediate family on Tuesday. Those showing Covid-19 like symptoms are admitted to the isolation ward of GMC but shifted to Covid hospital (ESI) in Margao if he/she tests positive for coronavirus, the official said. The GMC has created a severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARI) ward to isolate such patients from Covid-19 suspects. A real time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) testing facility is also available in the state, wherein test results can be obtained in an hour, the official said. Chief minister Pramod Sawant said the woman was not suffering from Covid-19. He appealed to the people not to believe in rumours. “There has been no death due to coronarivus infection in Goa (so far),” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/woman-who-died-in-isolation-ward-had-bronchitis/articleshow/75705908.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Aurangabad||1,183 catch Shramik spl from Jalna, get free seats||Aurangabad: Another Shramik special train carrying 1,183 migrants left from Jalna to Unnao (Uttar Pradesh) on Tuesday. While those who boarded the first train for Unnao on May 10 paid Rs 595 for every seat, those travelling on Tuesday got their tickets for free following the latest guidelines framed by the government. Jalna collector Ravindra Binwade said health check-up of all passengers was done. “The passengers were provided with a face-mask, sanitiser and food among other essentials. Earlier, special buses brought the migrants to the station,” he said. Two trains to UP from Aurangabad today Aurangabad district collector Uday Chaudhari said two trains to UP will start from Aurangabad on Wednesday. “We have sent three trains to MP — one each to Bhopal, Jabalpur and Khandwa. Seven more trains are lined up. Two trains to UP will leave on Wednesday. Two more trains will run to UP in the next couple of days. The destinations of UP-bound trains are Gorakhpur, Balia, Unnao and Agra. We will have one train to Araria in Bihar and one to Daltongunj in Jharkhand in the next few days,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/1183-catch-shramik-spl-from-jalna-get-free-seats/articleshow/75703263.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Nashik||Agriculture department projects kharif sowing on 22 lakh hectare in north Maharashtra||NASHIK: The state agriculture department has projected kharif cultivation on total 22 lakh hectare for upcoming kharif season in North Maharashtra that includes four districts — Nashik, Dhule, Jalgaon and Nandurbar. Maize, cotton, bajra, moong, urad, soybean, jowar (sorghum) and bajra are the major kharif crops in the region. The agriculture department has also made an arrangement to ensure that farmer will get adequate seeds and fertilizers. For 2019 kharif season, the state agriculture department had projected sowing on 22.49 lakh hectare, but actual sowing was carried out on 21.02 lakh hectare. "Cereal crops like paddy, maize, bajra and jowar is expected to be cultivated on 8.98 lakh hectare, while for pulses like tur, moong, urad, among others, the area under cultivation will be around 1.62 lakh hectare. Oilseeds like soybean and groundnut will be on 1.92 lakh hectare," an official from the state agriculture department said. "Of the total 22 lakh hectare, 6.23 lakh hectare is to be under cultivation in Nashik, Jalgaon (8.10 lakh hectare), Dhule (4.87 lakh hectare) and Nandurbar (2.72 lakh hectare)," he added. For cotton, which contributes to 41% of the total kharif sowing in the region, the agriculture department has projected sowing 9.13 lakh hectare as compared to of 8.97 lakh hectare last year. At 19%, maize is the second largest crop taken for cultivation during kharif season in North Maharashtra. This year, sowing of maize has been projected at 4.25 lakh hectare. Actual Kharif sowing of maize last year in the region was recorded at 4.01 lakh hectare. Bajra is the third major crop in North Maharashtra which contributes to 10% kharif acreage. This season, sowing of bajra has been projected at 2.17 lakh hectare against actual sowing on 1.81 lakh hectares last year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/agri-dept-projects-kharif-sowing-on-22l-hectare-in-north-maharashtra/articleshow/75703269.cms||Tushar Pawar
May 13, 2020||Salem||Man held under Pocso Act for raping minor||Salem: The Kondalampatty All Women Police arrested a man early Tuesday morning under Pocso Act for attempting to rape a minor girl. The accused, P Tirumalai, 32, of Earvadi near Mallur, was a licensed porter. Police said he attempted to rape the minor girl when she was alone at her house on Monday evening. The girl raised an alarm following which her neighbors rushed to the spot and rescued her. The accused had fled by then. Based on a complaint filed by the girl’s parents, police arrested the accused. Further inquiries are on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/man-held-under-pocso-act-for-raping-minor/articleshow/75705278.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Husband killed, wife hurt, jewels missing||VIJAYAWADA: In a shocking incident, a couple was attacked and a man was stabbed to death by unidentified miscreants at Kasipadu village of Pedakurapadu mandal in Guntur district on Monday. The deceased was identified as Pulipati Radhakrishna Murthy, a small-time businessman. According to Pedakurapadu police, the incident happened in the midnight when both Radhakrishna and his wife Venkata Narasamma barged into their home and thrashed them with knives. They then stole the gold ornaments worn by Narasamma and fled from the spot. Cops said that Radhakrishna suffered grievous injuries and died on the spot while Narasamma suffered grievous injuries. Locals who heard their screams for help immediately alerted the cops and rushed the woman to a local government hospital and later shifted to Guntur Government General hospital (GGH) for better treatment. Cops reached the spot and examined the crime scene. Preliminary investigation suggested that three persons were involved in the crime. A case under section 302 of IPC (murder) was registered at Pedakurapadu police station. Radhakrishna’s body was shifted to GGH for post-mortem. Further investigation is still on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/husband-killed-wife-hurt-jewels-missing/articleshow/75703273.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Migrants from AP keep Rayagada on its toes||KORAPUT: Every day hundreds of migrant labourers from Andhra Pradesh are entering Rayagada district on the way to their states and it has increased problem of the district administration. According to an official source, as the migrant labourers are being forcibly evacuated from Andhra Pradesh, they are entering Rayagada district through walking and on cycles thus increasing risk of spread of Covid-19. The migrant labourers of states like Jharkhand, Uttar Pradesh and Bihar are crossing Rayagada district to reach their states and if anyone of them has been carrying the virus then there is possibility of its spread in the district, said an official at Rayagada. Though till now no coronavirus positive case has been detected in Rayagada and the tribal-dominated district placed in the green category, but the mass entry of migrant labourers has forced the administration to enhance its surveillance. Admitting that the migrant labourers of other states are entering Rayagada and are creating problem, the administration claimed the situation is under control and people need not panic. “Migrant labourers from bordering Andhra are entering our district in large numbers. Though, we are trying to keep them in our quarantine centres but many of them, especially those who are riding cycles, are not willing to stay and proceeding with their journey,” said collector (Rayagada) Promod Kumar Behera. Still, their movement inside the district is being closely monitored, he added. The workers, who are walking into the district, are being kept in quarantine centres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/migrants-from-ap-keep-rayagada-on-its-toes/articleshow/75703272.cms||Satyanarayan Pattnaik
May 13, 2020||Meerut||Two each from Meerut and Bijnor, four in Baghpat test positive for Covid-19||MEERUT: Two people each from Meerut and Bijnor, and four from Baghpat tested positive for novel coronavirus (Covid-19) in Meerut on Tuesday. With the fresh cases, the Bijnor’s tally now stands at 45, Baghpat has 25 cases, and Meerut has 263. Moreover, 72 people have been discharged from Meerut so far, making the total active cases here at 191. Dr Vishwas Chaudhary, Meerut district surveillance officer, said, “The two positive cases belong to Sarai Jeena area in Kotwali and Kaseru Khera area.” It should be noted that this the first time since the last week that Meerut has reported lower number of cases. Speaking about the Baghpat case, district magistrate Shakuntala Gautam, said, “Four patients tested positive in Baghpat on Monday late night taking the total tally of the district to 25. Out of the total four positive cases – three belong to the family of a lab technician who, along with his wife and son, had tested positive earlier. Another case is from Hameedbad village.” With this, six from a family – lab technician, his wife and son, and three others – have tested positive in Baghpat. Talking about the Bijnor cases, Ramakant Pandey, district magistrate, said, “The two positive cases are contacts of the doctor, who had earlier tested positive here and died. One is his brother-in-law, while the other is his nephew.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/two-each-from-meerut-bijnor-four-in-baghpat-test-positive/articleshow/75705279.cms||Ishita Bhatia
May 13, 2020||Vijayawada||Chittoor grapples with Koyambedu fallout||Tirupati: With the number of Covid-19 cases linked to Chennai steadily going up across Chittoor district over the last 72 hours, the district administration led by collector Dr Narayana Bharat Gupta is now focussing all their attention on tracing and isolating all those who have returned to the district with links to the Koyambedu market in Chennai. Ten new Covid-19 cases were reported in Chittoor district in the last 24 hours. Out of the 10 cases, five cases were reported at V Kota mandal, two cases at Ramakuppam mandal, one case each at Pichatoor, Satyavedu and Vayalpadu mandals. The district administration has declared 24 containment zones in the district, where positive cases have been reported in the last few days. Chittoor district collector Dr Narayana Bharat Gupta told reporters that the district administration has sped up the process of identification and isolation of Covid-19 suspects with Chennai links. “We have so far traced 565 returnees to the district with links to the Koyambedu market in Chennai. Three hundred and twelve people were screened for Covid-19, of which 40 tested positive,” he said. Meanwhile, Covid-19 special officer RP Sisodia—who inspected V Kota mandal where the cases have been constantly going up—told reporters that about 11 Koyambedu returnees and five of their primary contacts in V Kota had contracted the virus. “With 200 samples already collected from suspects in V Kota mandal, the number of positive cases is likely to go up in the coming days,” he added. Chittoor district collector told reporters that the district administration has sped up the process of identification and isolation of Covid-19 suspects with Chennai links||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/chittoor-grapples-with-koyambedu-fallout/articleshow/75703266.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
May 13, 2020||Meerut||Meerut: No health worker, kin of Covid-19 dead waits entire night with body at crematorium||MEERUT: With the entire family in quarantine, next of the kin of a Covid-19 deceased spent an entire night with his body at a Meerut crematorium in the absence of health workers in PPE to lift it. The relative made frantic calls to district administration officials and health department staff on Monday night, but all in vain. So the kin and policemen had to wait at the crematorium till help arrived on Tuesday morning. The 67-year-old man, a resident of Sambhal, died at Lala Lajpat Rai Memorial (LLRM) Medical College on Sunday. The information was given to the family on Sunday evening. The family alleged that after at least 12 hours of follow up on Monday, the officials of Sambhal and Meerut administration took a call on the place of cremation. The 27-year-old son of the deceased, who is quarantined in Moradabad, said, “We were told about the death in the evening despite the fact that my father died in Monday morning. Then the authorities took another 12 hours to finalise where the body will be cremated. And even after that my cousin kept waiting for the health authorities to arrive and carry the body outside the hearse van, until Tuesday morning.” The cremation was eventually carried out on Tuesday morning at Meerut’s Suraj Kund crematorium. Meanwhile, a video of the deceased’s nephew, who was at the spot for the cremation, went viral on social media. He said, “I have been waiting for health team to arrive to carry the body to the pyre since Monday. I made calls to the health as well as district authorities, but all in vain. Everybody kept asking me to wait. The entire family in already in quarantine; I am the only one who is not infected. And I could have not taken the risk in the absence of health team.” Dr RC Gupta, principal, LLRM Medical College, said, “We had provided the body to the family after disinfecting it with sodium hypochlorite, as per the norms. It was packed in a three-layered bag and was safe to be carried. The relatives of the deceased asked for a PPE kit, which was not possible. However, as per the norms, we provided gloves and masks to them. Despite this, they refused to touch the body or carry it outside the hearse van.” Dr Raj Kumar, Meerut chief medical officer, said, “According to norms, only the driver of the ambulance is sent in a PPE and there is no requirement of any other health team at the spot. However, after assistance was sought, a worker with a PPE kit was sent on Tuesday morning, after which cremation was done. Nobody was available on Monday night.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/no-health-worker-kin-of-covid-19-dead-waits-entire-night-with-body-at-crematorium/articleshow/75705277.cms||Ishita Bhatia
May 13, 2020||Surat||Those caught on CCTVs without mask being booked||Surat: Closed-circuit television (CCTV) installed throughout the city by police for video surveillance a few years ago had been helping them in investigation of crime and also to keep an eye of traffic offenders. The city police, which were first in the country to use CCTV surveillance for crime prevention, investigation and detection, have now started registering offences against people caught on camera without mask. Thus, the CCTV system is probably being used for the first time in the country to make the fight against coronavirus effective, sources said. A few offences were registered at Umra police station against those motorists caught on camera without mask. Many offenders were caught without mask near Ashok Pan crossroads on City Light Road. The commuters were found moving on their mopeds without covering their faces. One of the senior citizens was booked despite wearing a mask because it was not properly worn. They were booked for violating public notification issued in the backdrop of outbreak of coronavirus and under The Epidemic Diseases Act. “The accused are yet to be arrested. We have also registered offences against pillion riders caught on camera. It is a violation of the public notification,” said M L Salunke, police inspector, Umra police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/those-caught-on-cctvs-without-mask-being-booked/articleshow/75703259.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Rajkot||Covid returns to Kutch, six test positive||Rajkot: Six persons in Kutch, all from Anjar taluka, tested positive for coronavirus on Tuesday.Five of these six persons had recently returned from Mumbai while one arrested with marijuana two days ago also tested positive. The number of cases in Kutch has gone up to 15 now. In Devbhoomi Dwarka district, an 18-month-old girl tested positive on Tuesday. Her mother, who was part of a group that came to Dwarka from Ajmer last week. Meanwhile five persons were also discharged from Sir T Hospital in Bhavnagar and as many from Rajkot Civil Hospital as per the new guidelines. In Rajkot, 53 patients have been discharged so far. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/covid-returns-to-kutch-six-test-positive/articleshow/75703139.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Vijayawada||SI suspended for dereliction of duty||Vijayawada: City police commissioner Ch Tirumala Rao suspended a sub-inspector of police attached to Krishna Lanka police station on Tuesday. According to police sources, two constables have already been suspended for dereliction of duty and selling liquor during the lockdown period. The SI—identified as Prakash—was delegated to register a case against the erring constables and had failed to so. Inquiring about the FIR, the commissioner was informed that no case was registered by Prakash. The commissioner Rao then issued suspension orders against the sub-inspector and an inquiry. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/si-suspended-for-dereliction-of-duty/articleshow/75703282.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Vadodara||BUTA demands infra to create online material||Vadodara: The Baroda University Teachers Association (BUTA) on Tuesday demanded that M S University should provide laptops to all teachers and set up infrastructure facilities in all departments to create online material as per guidelines of University Grants Commission (UGC). UGC’s online courses or programmes regulations 2018 envisages 20% of course to be taught online. A committee headed by Nageswar Rao, vice-chancellor of the Indira Gandhi National Open University has now recommended that the online percentage should be raised to 40% considering national interest in the light of Covid-19 pandemic. “We as an association are demanding good configuration laptops for all teachers by June this year so that they can create online material,” said BUTA president Dr K V R Murthy. “To create good video lectures for our students, each department should be equipped with good sound proof air condition room, a dedicated computer facility with required audio, video and related software,” he said. BUTA has also suggested that since 20% of syllabus can be online content, academic calendar too can be modified by reducing 20% teaching days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/buta-demands-infra-to-create-online-material/articleshow/75702345.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: App cabs get set to put safety measures in place||KOLKATA: Two major app-cab aggregators — Ola and Uber — will take a couple of days to put things in order to resume normal services across the city. Local offices of Uber are scheduled to function from Wednesday. Ola will also conduct online training for driver-partners. The Bengal government had on Monday allowed app-cab operations in the city. According to the aggregators, the government order stated that each cab needs to have a transparent partition between the drivers and the commuters. Moreover, the drivers must have basic training on Covid-19 safety protocols and must sanitize the car after every ride. These directives need to be implemented before resuming services. Uber, one of the two major aggregators, too, will put all precautions in place first. “We are preparing to resume services in Kolkata for essential commute according to the guidelines of the government,” said Ratul Ghosh, head, India (east) & Bangladesh, Uber. However, we are serving communities in this zone with Uber Essential and UberMedic, he added Ola will also carry out safety exercises — ‘10 steps to a safer ride’ — before services resume in over 100 cities. All cabs will be driven only across the identified safe zones and to ensure every driver-partner adheres to the safety rules, a mandatory selfie authentication mechanism before and after every ride has been put in place. However, operators felt that both the government order and aggregators’ protocols have grey areas. “If someone books a cab, without the e-pass, the cabby will have a problem. There will be unnecessary arguments,” said Indranil Banerjee, secretary, West Bengal Online Cab Operators’ Guild. “With limited number of commuters, we may not find passengers where we have a drop. So, we will end up travelling long distances without passengers. We will bleed more to run such cab services,” said Sheikh Manu, secretary Ola, Uber App-Cab Operators’ and Drivers’ Union.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/app-cabs-get-set-to-put-safety-measures-in-place/articleshow/75704498.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
May 13, 2020||Goa||Goa: Photo of crowded KTC bus goes viral||PANAJI: Social distancing norms were thrown to the wind recently by passengers aboard a Kadamba Transport Corporation Limited (KTC) bus. In a picture that has gone viral on social media, the mask-clad passengers can be seen standing close to each other inside the bus which was plying on the Margao - Panaji route, via Bambolim. KTC officials have attributed the sudden rise in commuters on this route to the opening of OPDs at the Goa Medical College and Hospital. “There must have been a rush of people to visit the OPDs. Since it is a big bus which has a middle door and a front door, passengers must have huddled together in the centre while reaching the destination in order to get off,” KTC managing director Venancio Furtado said. Currently 225 KTC buses ply daily on various routes across the state. A host of Covid-19 precautions such as only allowing people wearing a mask aboard, checking commuters’ temperature with a hand-held thermal scanner and seating only one person per seat are being maintained. Reacting to the picture on social media, Furtado maintained that there could be instances wherein social distancing is not possible. He said that passengers travelling on public transport should ensure that they keep safe distance from their fellow travelers. Further, he said rush hour travelling should ideally be avoided.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/photo-of-crowded-ktc-bus-goes-viral/articleshow/75705914.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Doctors go online as patients skip clinics||BHUBANESWAR: The coronavirus pandemic and the simultaneous lockdown that has forced many to try different things to stay afloat, has not spared private medical practitioners either. As people started staying away from clinics to avoid getting exposed to Covid-19, private practitioners have started providing online consultations. Several websites and smartphone applications including HealthPlix, AskApollo, Practo and DocPrime have emerged as the leading players in online consultation services. While the portals and apps help arrange appointment’s online, patients have to make digital payment. “There are many general patients including diabetics, cardiac patients and those suffering from some kind of pulmonary diseases who need consultations once a week or a month. It is a difficult time for such patients since they are unable to visit the clinics,” said Pradeep Narayan Sahoo, medicine specialist and diabetologist at AMRI, Bhubaneswar. He said that online consultation has created a safety barrier between patients and doctors. “Social distancing and less physical contact are the keys to avoid the virus and online consultation has come as a boon,” said Sahoo, who runs his clinic near Fire Station Square. Several doctors using the online consultation say it is easy and convenient. Patients have to visit a particular portal or download the app and after entering a few basic details about identity and medical history, they can then book a slot to consult with the doctor of their choice. They can pay the consultation fee online. It must be noted that several government hospitals including AIIMS, Bhubaneswar have also started telemedicine service where they are asking patients to reach out to them through phone calls or any form of message. The difference, however, is that the government one is a free service. A few doctors said online consultation is suitable for general patients and not for those dealing with chronic illnesses. “For the online service, a patient has to inform about his or her body temperature, blood sugar level and more, which is not possible for all. A doctor’s touch is necessary,” said P K Acharya, former director of Capital Hospital. EoM||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/doctors-go-online-as-patients-skip-clinics/articleshow/75703295.cms||Sandip Mishra
May 13, 2020||Hubballi||Pandemic brings down open-defecation in villages||Hubballi: Many villagers who have so far been reluctant to use toilets, are now learning to use them, instead of defecating in the open. Bagalkot ZP CEO Gangubai Manakar is making use of the lockdown to motivate villagers to use toilets, and avoid defecating in the open. As a result, people in many villages are now using toilets, which they also see as a means of maintaining social distancing. After two people tested positive for Covid-19 in Danakshiruru village in Bagalkot, the village was sealed and declared a containment zone. Though many families had toilets, they were not using them, but defecating in the open. Due to their village being sealed, villagers were unable to defecate outside, and decided to appeal to the authorities to allow them to do so, however, Gangubai explained to them the risk of the virus spreading through faeces, and that they could maintain social distancing better if they used toilets in their houses. “After my interaction with villagers, not only villagers from Danakshirur, but also residents of many villages in the district have agreed to use toilets in their houses. Covid-19 has come as a boon for us to convince reluctant villagers to make use of toilets to contain the spread of the novel coronavirus. We have also explained in detail about how Covid-19 could spread, including through faeces, and also how it is important to maintain social distancing to prevent getting infected. Thus many villagers in the district are using toilets now,” said Gangubai. “I have also recorded a voice message that explains how using toilets helps to curb the spread of the novel coronavirus, and played it through the public address system. We also created awareness on the issue by beating drums in villages, asking villagers not to defecate in the open. Our efforts are now slowly yielding results, as many people are now using toilets, and some who still don’t have toilets, are keen to make use of government funds to construct them,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/pandemic-brings-down-open-defecation-in-villages/articleshow/75703289.cms||Basavaraj Kattimani
May 13, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Random tests for Salt Lake, Rajarhat begin||KOLKATA: Following in the footsteps of the Kolkata and Howrah civic bodies, the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation has started conducting random swab testing of residents inside the containment zones under its jurisdiction in Salt Lake and Rajarhat. On Tuesday, samples were collected and sent to Niced for testing. According to sources, the swab sample collection started in a few containment zones in Tegharia and will be taken to the other areas in phases. The prime objective of the testing will be to detect asymptomatic carriers within the containment zones. Residents of the township hailed the move. “This will help detect asymptomatic carriers among the residents and necessary precautions can be taken,” said Sandip Sarkar, an AD Block resident. “The civic authorities should also consider collecting swab samples from the shopkeepers of the market complexes as many of them could be asymptomatic carriers,” said a resident of BD Block.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/random-tests-for-salt-lake-rajarhat-begin/articleshow/75704511.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Surat||SGCCI to launch first virtual expo on healthcare from May 15||Surat: When the spread of global pandemic has prompted a domino effect forcing industry and trade bodies to cancel shows around the world, the Southern Gujarat Chamber of Commerce and Industry (SGCCI) is all set launch country’s first virtual expo on healthcare.The virtual healthcare expo, which aims to capture new opportunities for the sector amid coronavirus disruption, will be held for 15 days and that the companies manufacturing healthcare products from Gujarat and across the country are expected to participate. The expo is likely to be held from May 15.“This is going to be the first virtual expo on healthcare” says president of SGCCI, Ketan Desai. “We have already designed the virtual 360 degree content for the expo and that about 25 companies from the healthcare industry have already registered” added Desai.According to Desai, the virtual expo has been designed in such a manner that the visitors would get the feeling as if they are visiting live exhibition. The virtual expo will run 24x7 for 15 days and anyone from anywhere in the world and without the cost of flights and hotels can visit the expo.The venue and all the exhibitors’ stand will be rendered out to real physical dimensions. Visitors will be invited to register and navigate through the hall and visit stands, complete with 3D products, HD videos and literature downloads, generating real-time sale enquiries.Another advantage of the virtual expo is that the exhibitors will be able to update their products on their stands on regular basis. The entry and registration of the visitors will be free.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/sgcci-to-launch-first-virtual-expo-on-healthcare-from-may-15/articleshow/75703317.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Hubballi||Couple test positive for Covid-19 in Yadgir||Yadgir: A couple tested positive for the novel coronavirus in the district, which until now was in the green zone, with no cases. The 33-year-old woman and 38-year-old man, from Sohrapur taluk, had arrived in the district after visiting their relatives in Ahmedabad in Gujarat, on May 9. The couple, along with a family member, had travelled to Ahmedabad in March, and were stuck there, due to the lockdown. Deputy commissioner Kurma Rao said that they travelled in a truck from Ahmedabad, and alighted at Hunagund in Bagalkot district, on the national highway. From there they came directly to a fever clinic at Sohrapur, in a private car. Four of them, including a car driver, were under institutional quarantine since their arrival, and their throat swabs were collected for testing. The couple tested positive, and have been quarantined in a hospital. The district administration clamped section 144 of the CrPC in the district on May 9, following a large influx of migrant workers from other states. As many as 1,900 people have arrived from Maharashtra, Telangana and other states. They have all been quarantined in government facilities. The police were seen closing shops and business establishments on Tuesday, and forcing people to stay at home. From Wednesday, except for containment zones, the lockdown will be relaxed as per the directions of the state government. However, shopowners will be asked to give an undertaking stating that they will wear masks and maintain social distancing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/couple-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-yadgir/articleshow/75703322.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Kolkata||New rules to make Kolkata airport corona-ready for take-off||KOLKATA: The Kolkata airport is ready for a fresh takeoff. As airlines rev aircraft engines in anticipation of resuming flights, the airport gave the finishing touches to new travel protocols in the Covid-19 era to ensure social distancing norms and eliminate contact points while passing through the terminal. The changes begin right at the entrance with everyone required to wear masks before entering the terminal. Disinfectant mats will be placed at the entrance to clear shoes of any virus. Physical distancing markers have been laid out on the floor outside the entrance and at other queue points, such as check-in counters, self check-in terminals, security check and frisking points and boarding gates. CISF personnel will no longer physically check passenger tickets and ID cards but view it through a glass shield. At the check-in counter, passengers have to display the tickets and ID cards from a distance. The boarding card printer will be so placed that the flyer can take it directly. The only contact point will be the baggage tagging area. However, the bags will be sanitized at the destination before being put on the conveyor belt for collection. At security checkpoints, passengers will be inspected with hand-held metal detectors with extra-long handles so that CISF personnel in PPE are at a fair distance. There will be no physical frisking. There is also a proposal to do away with the need to stamp the boarding pass. In the security hold area, middle seats have been marked with red cross to indicate that they are not to be used. While there is no restriction on retail outlets, only ready-to-eat snacks like sandwiches, rolls and patties will be available from food & beverage outlets. The airport operator has acquired four portable fumigation machines that will be used to disinfect surfaces in the terminal. In washrooms, attendants will regulate entry to prevent crowding. While taps are sensor fitted, touchpoints like flush knobs in commodes will be sanitized after use. Touch-free sanitizer dispensers have also been installed at eight critical locations in the terminal. There are two more units in the international wing. “We expect a decision on resumption of flights anyday now and have prepared the facility to ensure safety for both flyers and airport and airline staff,” Kolkata airport director Kaushik Bhattacharjee said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/new-rules-to-make-kol-airport-corona-ready-for-take-off/articleshow/75704517.cms||Subhro Maitra
May 13, 2020||Kolhapur||Govt plans heliports in western Maharashtra||Kolhapur: Minister of state for agriculture and cooperation Vishwajeet Kadam on Monday informed that the government was planning to have one heliport each in every district of western Maharashtra. Talking to reporters on Monday, Kadam said that the heliports would enable aerial movement of goods and people something that was a major problem last year as most of the roads were inundated due to floods. "The government would soon take a decision on it. Helicopters, which would be pressed into service during flood situation, can prove as major help to the people who may get stranded in the flood," he said. "The government has also decided to buy 87 new lifeboats, which will have all the kits of rescue operations, health and other essentials. A joint meeting of all the officials and elected representatives from Satara, Sangli and Kolhapur districts will be held to chalk out a comprehensive policy," he added. According to Kadam, the government also plans to release water from Koyna dam to drought affected areas before the onset of monsoon so that administration would get enough time to address the flood situation. "Release of water from Koyna dam would ensure more time to fill the dam to its capacity," he said. Kadam said that gram panchayat elections, which were scheduled to be held since September this year, were likely to be postponed. "The government has taken a policy decision to postpone all the election in view of the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. More than 12,000 gram panchayat elections are to be held later this year. The preliminary exercise of gram panchayat elections was completed, but the remaining work is pending as the administration is busy handling corona situation," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/govt-plans-heliports-in-western-maharashtra/articleshow/75704527.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Nashik||Nashik: Health committee seeks Radhakrishna Game’s nod to conduct meeting||NASHIK: The health committee of the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has sought permission from municipal commissioner Radhakrishna Game to conduct meeting of the committee which has not been held since two months owing to the lockdown put in place due to Covid-19 outbreak. During the meeting, the panel is expected to discuss steps that the health department needs to take on the Covid-19 issue. “The meeting of health committee of NMC is not held for the past two months due to lockdown following outbreak of Covid-19. Considering the current scenario, there is an urgent need to discuss the steps to curb Covid-19 in the city,” said Dipali Kulkarni, chairperson of the health committee of NMC. “I have written a letter to municipal commissioner Radhakrishna Game seeking permission to conduct meeting of the health committee. The meeting will only be conducted if we get permission from the commissioner,” said Kulkarni. She said that the agenda of the meeting, if permitted, will include measures to curb the spread of Covid-19, strengthening health services in civic hospitals, sanitation, clearing city of black spots and pre-monsoon works in the city to avoid water-logging in the city during monsoon. NMC has deployed over 1,500 sanitation employees across all six divisions of the municipal corporation. The civic body is also collecting over 500 tonne of waste through garbage vans across the city. Moreover, the municipal corporation is also collecting biomedical waste of around 50 tonne from hospitals and medical clinics through a private contractor. On Tuesday, the NMC collected 547 tonne solid waste and 191 tonne biomedical waste in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/health-committee-seeks-games-nod-to-conduct-meeting/articleshow/75703343.cms||Tushar Pawar
May 13, 2020||Surat||One more SRP jawan positive in Bharuch||Surat: One more jawan in the State Reserve Police (SRP) camp at Roopnagar in Bharuch’s Valia taluka tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday. Jayanti Bhil, 50, was deployed in the lockdown duty at Yakutpura in Vadodara on March 24. Bhil returned to the SRP camp on May 1 and was kept in quarantine facility at Netrang. He developed symptoms of the virus and underwent testing, which confirmed that he was infected. On Monday, two jawans, Ashok Patel (37) and Priyavadan Vasava (40) had tested positive. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/one-more-srp-jawan-positive-in-bharuch/articleshow/75703392.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Nashik||Agri varsity to conduct only final semester exams||Nashik: The Mahatma Phule Krishi Vidyapeeth (MPKV) — Rahuri-based agricultural university — on Tuesday announced that students studying in the eighth semester will have to appear for the examination while the remaining students will be promoted on the basis of their previous performances. The Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) had released guidelines for agricultural universities across the country. Based on these rules, the MPKV came out with detailed instructions regarding examinations and preparation of the results. According to university officials, students studying in the last semester of all its affiliated colleges will have to appear for the examinations. "The final year students will have to appear for the examinations as it will affect their further studies or career plans," the authorities said. As per this decision, around 15,000 students will have to appear for the final examinations and around 45,000 students will be promoted on the basis of internal examinations and previous performances. The district administration of Ahmednagar, where the university is situated, is utilising the college and hostel premises of the university. An official from the university said that the dates and mode of conduct of examinations depends on when the district administration will vacate the facilities and sanitise the whole premises. "The examinations are to be conducted before June 15 so that the result could be declared by July 15. We will begin the admission process for Semester III and V from August 1 and for Semester VII from July 1. Also the first semester will begin from September 1," the official said. "Conducting examinations on time will enable the students to enrol for the post graduate courses on time as they will need the transcripts to apply in various colleges," he added. The official also said that the final semester can be conducted online or offline, depending on the situation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/agri-varsity-to-conduct-only-final-semester-exams/articleshow/75703376.cms||pragya jain
May 13, 2020||Goa||Faleiro seeks allowance for self-employed||Panaji: Navelim MLA and former chief minister Luizinho Faleiro has sought allowance and relief for self-employed Goans affected by the lockdown. In his letter to chief minister Pramod Sawant, Faleiro has asked for sustenance, support and livelihood allowance to self-employed Goans especially taxi drivers, motorcycle pilots and rickshaw drivers, “to help them tide over these challenging days which have threatened their households”. “The government must consider granting insurance aid, bank installment waiver and other such measures that would go a long way in helping our hardworking Goan brothers,” he stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/faleiro-seeks-allowance-for-self-employed/articleshow/75705949.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Visakhapatnam||AP may reach Covid-19 peak in August, predicts IIM-Visakhapatnam study||VISAKHAPATNAM: Covid-19 infections may peak after August in Andhra Pradesh even if the lockdown is extended to May 31, predicts an epidemiological modelling-based research conducted by the Indian Institute of Management-Visakhapatnam. However, the study suggests that Andhra Pradesh would be safe from Covid-19 if strict social distancing is practised by the public. The study indicates that transmissions will be threefold at the peak with no social distancing, against the Covid-19 numbers with minimal social distancing. But if the lockdown ends on May 17, the peak will be reached around July 21 with 5% of the total population infected with no social distancing, and in August with less than 2% of population infected if minimal distancing norms are followed. The research also indicates a possible second wave of infections in Andhra Pradesh even if the lockdown is extended till June 14 and no strict social distancing norms are followed. Speaking to TOI, Anirban Ghatak, lead researcher and a faculty of decision sciences and information systems at IIM-V, said they predicted the progression of the pandemic in states based on the extended susceptible-infected-recovered/removed (eSIR) model. “We considered nine different scenarios and effects of intervention measures with different possible dates of lockdown relaxation, followed by different levels of social distancing guidelines post-lockdown,” said Ghatak. Ghatak added that minimal social distancing practices include the norms that were in place before lockdown such as closure of educational institutions and malls. “Strict social distancing is something that is followed in Wuhan, China, ground zero of Covid. Hubei province opened its doors only after the effective reproductive number plummeted to nearly zero, implying significant reductions in probable transmissions. This is further followed by strict social distancing,” said Ghatak. The study covered 15 states, which have been badly hit by the pandemic, including Maharashtra, Gujarat, Delhi, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Telangana, West Bengal and Karnataka.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/even-at-peak-social-distancing-can-lower-transmission-rate-says-study/articleshow/75703370.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
May 13, 2020||Kolhapur||Maharashtra: Closure of markets force farmers to destroy produce||KOLHAPUR: As the agricultural produce markets remain closed due to the extension of the lockdown in big cities, especially Pune and Mumbai which fall in the red zones, the fruits and vegetables grown by the farmers in the fields are likely to go down the drain. Pranav Patil, a farmer from Shirol who supplies exotic flowers and vegetables to big cities, did not harvest the produce in his poly house (commonly known as green house) with the hope that the lockdown would be lifted and the markets would reopen. “Due to the floods last year, flowers like gerbera and carnation, which I had grown in the poly house, went in waste. This time, I decided to grow vegetables. I procured the top quality seeds for growing yellow and red capsicum. Now, that the markets are closed, I will again lose my crop. I will not be able to repay the loan that I had taken to set up the poly house,” said Patil. There are over 900 poly houses in the district. With proper nutrition and under regulated temperature, farmers grow exotic flowers and vegetables in the poly houses organically, which, despite being costly, have a huge demand from hotels in big cities. Unlike regular farmers, the poly house farmers invest more in the hope for a good price for their produce. The farmers from the region are now demanding compensation for the losses they have incurred due to lockdown. Some farmers have even started online petitions to get compensation from the government. Sagar Shete, a farmer and director of one of the farmer producers company in Shirol, said, “The government can waive off the loans or at least make up for the losses we have suffered. We have demanded that the district administration carry out a panchnama of the crop loss.” Small farmers are sending their produce to the big cities without hoping for a good price. Many farmers are unable to bear the transportation cost and therefore destroying the crop in the fields. According to primary estimates, around 40% of the vegetables have been destroyed in the farms. “Now, the farmer is left with no option but to make prepare the field for monsoon, which is just three weeks away. The government can at least provide the saplings and nutrients free of cost so that the farmers can turn to growing vegetables,” said Shete.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/closure-of-markets-force-farmers-to-destroy-produce/articleshow/75704540.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Nashik||Maharashtra: 50,000 students, kin register for blood donation||NASHIK: Nearly 50,000 students and their relatives and friends from across Nashik, Pune and Ahmednagar districts have registered for the online blood donation drive launched by the Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) two weeks ago. According to SPPU sports director Dipak Mane, the drive is an initiative to compile a directory of all those who are interested in donating blood as an when required. “The students are coming forward in large numbers after the university appealed to them to enrol for blood donation. We had asked all the colleges to the SPPU to participate in the drive,” Mane told TOI. The donors have enrolled through a Google form and given their details. The family members, friends and neighbours of students have also filled the form. “We do not have the bifurcation yet about the students and others but we have received over 50,000 registrations till date,” said Hemant Patil, physical director of the city-based KTHM College. Patil said the Google form includes the information about the students, their blood groups, physical health status and other required information. It also has details about the nearby hospitals of the applicants as they can go and donate blood thre as and when required.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/50k-students-kin-register-for-blood-donation/articleshow/75703402.cms||pragya jain
May 13, 2020||Vadodara||3 Mumbai-return labourers test +ve||Vadodara: Three labourers who returned from Mumbai to their native in Dharoliya village of Bodeli taluka in Chhota Udepur tested positive for the coronavirus on Tuesday. The tribal district recorded positive cases after a gap of 18 days, taking the tally of cases to 17. According to health officials, 35 samples including one of an active case were sent to SSG Hospital in Vadodara for testing. Of these 35 samples, those of Nilesh Rathwa (22), Shailesh Koli (26) and Vijay Rathwa (17) tested positive. The trio had recently returned from Mumbai where they used to work as labourers. The three new cases are the first to be registered in a village of Chhota Udepur district. The previous 14 cases were from Bodeli and Chhota Udepur towns. The trio will be admitted at the special Covid-19 isolation ward in Chhota Udepur town. On learning about the positive cases, the district collector and other senior officials of the administration visited Bodeli taluka to take a stock of the situation in Dharoliya village and deliberated on cluster containment. Meanwhile, on Tuesday evening the only active patient till Monday – Uzair Ranger – was discharged as his test reports arrived negative. Ranger was admitted on April 22, but as his four consecutive test reports turned out to be positive, he remained under treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/3-mumbai-return-labourers-test-ve/articleshow/75702373.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Amaravati||Andhra Pradesh: CM YS Jaganmohan Reddy calls to dispel stigma around coronavirus||AMARAVATI: Elimination of social stigma surrounding Covid-19 is key to defeat the virus, said chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy on Tuesday, directing officials to take up an aggressive campaign to create awareness among the public. He said that discrimination against Covid-19 positive patients and their family members is preventing many others from voluntarily coming forward to undergo screening. Jaganmohan Reddy reviewed Covid-19 containment measures with officials at the camp office on Tuesday. He directed them to not compromise on screening of Covid-19 patients in all four districts, which have been reporting fresh cases due to Koyambedu (Tamil Nadu) market links. Special chief secretary (health) KS Jawahar Reddy said 20 of the 33 positive cases reported in Chittoor, Nellore and East Godavari districts in the last 24 hours have Koyambedu links and 13 positive cases reported in Ananthapuram and Kurnool districts have links with Kalyan in Mumbai. Citing an example, officials informed the chief minister that the family of a government employee did not allow him to come back home even after recovering. The chief minister asked officials to focus on launching awareness programmes on a large scale to lower fears surrounding the disease. The chief minister asked officials to concentrate on non-Covid-19 patients and the availability of treatment facilities for them. He asked them to ensure that normalcy returns to hospitals in the state. During the meeting, Jaganmohan Reddy also asked officials of the agriculture, marketing and civil supplies departments to step up paddy procurement. He asked officials to keep in mind untimely rains and cyclones while planning procurement operations and clear payments to farmers after completion of the procurement process.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/cm-calls-to-dispel-stigma-around-virus/articleshow/75703420.cms||Samdani MN
May 13, 2020||Goa||‘No Entry’ sign mid-road baffles Chaudi commuters||POINGUINIM: Commuters were left confused on Tuesday after they came across a ‘No Entry’ sign halfway along the road connecting Chaudi to Manohar Parrikar bypass.  There is no prior indication that the stretch will cease to be a two-way road. This road is also used by commuters from Margao to Chaudi.  PSI Harish Raut Desai of the Canacona traffic cell said he is aware of the inconvenience being caused. He then informed executive engineer (NH 66) Laxmikant Naik, who told TOI that he will get the signboard reinstalled at the start of the Chaudi-end of the side road.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/no-entry-sign-mid-road-baffles-chaudi-commuters/articleshow/75705985.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Kolhapur||Maharashtra: Satara registers three more Covid-19 cases||KOLHAPUR: Satara district has registered three new Covid-19 cases on Tuesday, taking the total number of confirmed cases to 122. Of the three new cases, two are close contacts of a Covid-19 positive patient admitted to the Krishna Medical College in Karad while another case is of a 20-year-old having travel history from Thane. He is being treated at the Satara district hospital. According to district civil surgeon Amod Gadikar, the hospital received 67 throat swab results which turned out negative. As of now, 142 suspects have been admitted to isolation wards of the Satara district hospital and sub-district hospital, Karad. The throat swab samples of these suspects have been sent to the B J Medical College in Pune for testing. At present, Satara district has 122 confirmed Covid-19 cases, of which, 85 are active while 35 have recovered from the contagion. Meanwhile, a Shramik train carrying around 1,320 labourers to Reva in Madhya Pradesh was flagged off on Tuesday. The labourers working in various industries across Satara district were part of this journey. The train, according to the district administration, will reach Reva by 1.30 pm on Wednesday. Sangli registers 3 Covid-19 cases Sangli district has registered three new Covid-19 cases on Tuesday, taking the tally of positive patients to 41. The fresh cases include a 68-year-old woman from Miraj and a 40-year-old woman from Sangli while another patient is a close contact of an earlier positive patient from Ankale village.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/satara-registers-3-more-covid-19-cases/articleshow/75704568.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Nagpur||NMC officials fail to quarantine Mumbai returnees||Nagpur: On one hand, municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe is mass quarantining people from containment zones but on the other, his health officials are not even testing people who have returned from other cities. This despite the returnees willingly informing the NMC about their journey. Manish Kubde, a resident of Dighori, had gone to Mumbai to pick up his stranded sister. He had obtained a travel pass following the stipulated procedure. He returned to the city on Monday morning. On returning home, Kubde immediately rang up NMC’s helpline and informed the staffer about his journey. “The staffer told me that NMC was overburdened and hence, could not send staffers to my home. They asked me to go to KDK College Hospital. When I went there with my sister, the hospital authorities told me that their quota for the day was full and I should come on Tuesday morning. When I went there on Tuesday morning, the authorities asked me to come in the afternoon,” he said. “Frustrated over the dilly-dallying, I again rang up NMC healthline and police. NMC told me that they would send somebody soon. The police department sent two cops, who just noted the details of my journey. Till Tuesday night, nobody from NMC had turned up,” said Kubde. When TOI contacted NMC health officer Dr Vijay Joshi, he said that if Kubde had been tested in Mumbai, there was no need for him to get tested here again. “We test returnees as neighbours lodge complain with us in such cases,” added Joshi. Kubde, however, said that he had not been tested at Mumbai. “They only checked my temperature and let me go. The government does not seem to be serious about lockdown,” he added. Kubde further said that although he crossed several districts before reaching Mumbai and also on his way back, nobody stopped him at district boundaries. The state government has banned inter-district travel without a valid pass.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nmc-officials-fail-to-quarantine-mumbai-returnees/articleshow/75705369.cms||Ashish Roy
May 13, 2020||Nashik||155 Covid-19 patients discharged in district||NASHIK: As many as 155 Covid-19 patients were discharged from different hospitals in the district on Tuesday. While one patient is from Nashik rural the remaining patients are from Malegaon. This is the biggest number of discharged Covid-19 patients after the state government declared the new guidelines regarding discharging patients with mild and very mild symptoms. Currently, 441 patients are admitted in various Covid care hospitals across the district, a maximum number of them from Malegaon. As per the latest reports from the district administration, a total of 701 Covid-19 patients have been found in the district out of which 227 have recovered with 33 succumbing to the infection and the remaining 441 are being treated in different hospitals. According to the new guidelines patients with mild, very mild or pre-symptomatic symptoms are admitted to a Covid care facility and they will undergo regular temperature and pulse oximetry monitoring. The patients can be discharged after 10 days of onset of the symptoms and if there has been no fever for three days. There will be no need for testing prior to the discharge. At the time of discharge, the patients will be advised home isolation for a further seven days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/155-covid-19-patients-discharged-in-district/articleshow/75703422.cms||Santosh Sonawane
May 13, 2020||Kolhapur||Kolhapur: ‘Schools should follow govt orders on no fee hike, flexible payment’||KOLHAPUR: Many stakeholders across the city have come ahead in support of government directives of no fee hike in private schools for the upcoming academic year along with a flexible fee payment approach. Prajakta Sawant a parent said that looking at the current situation schools should have a flexible approach towards fees and other formalities. “Many parents will find it difficult to arrange money for a one-time payment,” she said. Earlier, the directive from the state government read, “Parents should not be forced to pay the remaining fee of the academic year 2019-20 and the fee for 2020-21 in one go, they must be given monthly/quarterly payment options.” Ramesh More member of the Kolhapur city and district citizens action committee said that since schools are already closed from March, students have already missed two months of their last academic year and the usual academic year, which begins from June 15, is unlikely this year due to the pandemic situation. “We are going to demand waiver in fees for the last two months of the academic year and first two months of the upcoming academic year. But for that, we need to know when and how the academic calendar is going to be scheduled and we are waiting for the state government to announce that,” he said. According to the education department, the parents must be given more options for payment of the school fee. “The schools can make efforts to collect fees online too. The parents must also be allowed to give fee in instalments as they have also been facing economic crisis in their jobs,” read the directive. Meanwhile, Asha Ubale the primary education officer said that the academic results of Class I to IX will be sent by schools to respective parents via Whatsapp.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/schools-should-follow-govt-orders-on-no-fee-hike-flexible-payment/articleshow/75704591.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Kolhapur||Maharashtra: Solapur city registers 2 deaths, 2 fresh cases||KOLHAPUR: Two more patients succumbed to Covid-19 in Solapur city on Monday and Tuesday, taking the count to 19. The city also recorded two fresh cases on Tuesday, taking the total number of positive cases to 277. A 52-year-old woman from Ravivar Peth had been admitted to the Solapur civil hospital on May 6 and tested positive on May 7. She died on at 8 pm Monday. The second deceased was a 71-year-old man from Shivaji Nagar Modi area of the city. He was admitted on May 4 at the Solapur civil hospital in a critical condition and tested positive on May 6. He succumbed to the infection on Tuesday. Meanwhile, the two patients who tested positive are female and state health workers. The number of active cases has reached 186. A total of 72 patients have recovered from the contagion. On Tuesday, the administration received 133 pending swab results, of which two were positive while the rest negative. Till date, 3,442 samples have been tested, of which 2,954 have tested negative, 277 positive and results of 211 are awaited. The Solapur district administration has urged citizens to stay home and follow the lockdown rules. It was on April 12 that Solapur city recorded its first COVID case. The number of cases has been soaring steadily in the city and the rural parts of the district since then.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/solapur-city-registers-2-deaths-2-fresh-cases/articleshow/75704601.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Vijayawada||AP testing more than 27 countries||Vijayawada: With 1,91,874 Covid-19 tests, AP has conducted more number of tests till date than 27 other countries in the world, including Qatar (1.27 lakh tests), Indonesia (1.13 lakh) and Thailand (97,000), said KS Jawahar Reddy, special chief secretary (medical, health and family welfare), on Tuesday. The new challenge for the state now is the arrival of migratory workers and stranded students, tourists and pilgrims. “Nearly 8,000 people from several states having high disease incidence like Maharashtra, Rajasthan and Gujarat have returned in the last few days. We are also focusing on testing people aged above 50 years,” he added. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ap-testing-more-than-27-countries/articleshow/75703447.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Hyderabad||SSC exam dry run held to test Covid-19 measures in Telangana||HYDERABAD: Ahead of holding the remaining SSC exams, the Telangana school education department held a trial run at four city schools on Monday in order to assess what kind of measures can be taken at examination centres in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. In all, 5,34,903 students had registered for the class 10 exams and 2,530 centres were identified by the director of government exams, with an average of 200 to 220 candidates per centre, to hold exams. After the HC order, the SSC exams were deferred from March 23 after conducting three exams — first language paper-1 and 2 and second language. About 10-20 students were called with their writing pads to four schools — Government High School, Borabanda, New St Mary High School, Bandlaguda, BRJC Parsi High School, Secunderabad, and Government St Peter’s High School, Himayatnagar, on Monday. “The government has to file an affidavit in the High Court explaining preventive measures being taken at SSC centres in view of the pandemic. The trial run was conducted so that we can put forth the facts in front of the court,” Hyderabad district education officer B Venkata Narsamma said. As part of the trial run, students entered the examination hall wearing masks. They were given sanitiser at the entrance of the examination centre and only one student was allowed to sit on a bench in a diagonal pattern during the conduct of the trial run. “We will be taking all necessary measures such as sanitising the examination hall, chairs, tables and benches. Additional exam centres closer to the existing ones are being identified so that proposed norm of one student per bench can be followed,” Narsamma added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ssc-exam-dry-run-held-to-test-covid-19-measures/articleshow/75704599.cms||Preeti Biswas
May 13, 2020||Mangaluru||Buses allowed to resume services in Udupi||Udupi: Deputy commissioner G Jagadeesha on Tuesday granted conditional permission to KSRTC and private bus operators to resume their services. Buses can operate for 12 hours each day from 7am. They will be permitted to carry only 50% of the seating capacity without any scope for the passengers to stand and travel. The KSRTC will operate 20 buses on 11 specified routes or areas. Jagadeesha, also the chairman of regional transport authority, has permitted 16 private buses under the ownership of Bharati Motors to operate on the route specified in their permit as per the approved timetable. The fares cannot exceed what the RTA has prescribed. The buses must be sanitised before start of each day’s trip, after each trip and at the end of the day’s trip. Passengers and crew will compulsorily have to wear masks and maintain social distancing. Inter-district trips of buses are totally banned, Jagadeesha said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/buses-allowed-to-resume-services-in-udupi/articleshow/75698370.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Hyderabad||UoH defers admissions to August||Hyderabad: The University of Hyderabad (UoH) deferred its entrance examination and admission process to August, as per the revised academic calendar issued by the varsity on Tuesday. The UoH entrance examination-2020 for admission in 128 courses offering close to 2,400 seats was scheduled from June 2 to 6 at 38 examination centres across the country. As per the revised academic calendar, the entrance exam and admission process will be held from August 1 to August 31. Classes for the next semester (ongoing post-graduate, integrated PG, MTech, MPhil and PhD) shall commence from August 12 and that for the fresh batch admitted in 2020-21 shall commence from September 1. The university has decided on resume research work by its PhD and MPhil students in a staggered manner from June 15 to June 29. Provisional declaration of results of final semester students will be done on June 15 and they will have to appear for special examination and/or continuous assessment on July 1. Students pursuing PG, integrated PG and MTech have to report to the university between July 12 and July 15 following which their academic interaction will be held from July 16 to August 1. “The university made it optional for the final semester of PG students to write a special end-semester examination only if they are not satisfied with their grades computed on the basis of continuous assessment and past performance. This optional exam will be held from July 4 for those who opt for it and report to campus on July 1,” reads a press release issued by UoH. The end-semester exams for students will be held from August 3 to August 11 and their results will be declared from August 12 to 16.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/uoh-defers-admissions-to-august/articleshow/75704614.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Hyderabad||HC nod for Inter exam evaluation||Hyderabad: Making it clear that life has to go on amid precautions and that we cannot stop everything till the arrival of the vaccine for the coronavirus, the Telangana high court on Tuesday gave the green signal for the state government to go ahead with the evaluation of Intermediate examination papers. The bench of Justice M S Ramachandra Rao and Justice K Lakshman permitted the Intermediate Board to evaluate the answer sheets written by 9.65 lakh students. The bench, while hearing a PIL filed by social activist K Omprakash from Siddipet, however, directed the state to ensure that all precautions like evaluators maintaining social distancing, wearing masks, sanitizing the entire building where the valuation has commenced. Telangana Advocate General BS Prasad informed the court that the valuation of answer scripts will be completed within 10 days from now and all precautions will be taken. We are moving forward keeping in view the interests of the students who have to appear for various competitive examinations based on Intermediate results. The case will come up after 3 weeks. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-nod-for-inter-exam-evaluation/articleshow/75704626.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Goa||Submit school data online: Education directorate||PANAJI: The directorate of education (DoE) has taken the annual process of collecting data from aided secondary schools online for the new academic year 2020-21, due to the lockdown. Schools have been provided a link through which they have been asked to submit its details. Annually, schools provide details of its student enrolment, number of divisions in each class, teacher numbers and other such information. Based on this institutes are assessed and accordingly government grants are released to them. The details of both teaching and non-teaching staff along with their address and phone numbers should also be provided, the DoE has said. The process, however, is experiencing teething problems with school heads complaining that the link is not operational. The lockdown has meant a sudden shift in functioning of schools and their administration. This week training of computer teachers of schools was completed by the SCERT and DoE on carrying out teaching through apps like Zoom. These computer teachers will now begin training teachers in conducting the virtual classes, as preparation for the new academic year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/submit-school-data-online-edu-directorate/articleshow/75706008.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Kolhapur||Covid-19 screening at two more centres in Kolhapur||KOLHAPUR: Considering the huge inflow of travellers into the city, the Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC) has decided to begin screening of people with mild symptoms at two more centers — Isolation Hospital and D Y Patil hospital. At present, people entering the city are asked to get their screening done at the Chhatrapati Pramila Raje civil hospital. Those entering the district have been asked to get their check-ups done at two Covid Care Centres — Ichalkaranji and Gadhinglaj. Now, with two more screening facilities in the city, total eight facilities have been opened up in the district and the city. The CPR hospital, which treats Covid-19 suspects and confirmed patients, is facing staff shortage. Moreover, the hospital is witnessing a surge in the number of patients coming in for healh check-up as a number of people are travelling to their hometowns and, for that, they have been asked to undergo medical check-up and get fitness certificate from the concerned medical facility. Civic chief Mallinath Kalshetti said, “We have screening facilities ready at two other hospitals — Isolation Hospital Shendapark and D Y Patil hospital. We have asked the staff at the entry points to ask the travellers to get screened at any of these two hospitals. We have also appointed four nodal officers to manage the travellers coming into the city.” According to primary estimates, around 9,000 people have entered the city since the lockdown have been eased. Authorities estimate that equal number of people are expected to enter the city in the coming days. Currently, those entering the city from Pune and Mumbai are advised to get screened, however, citizens are getting panicked with the rising number of Covid-19 cases and the inflow of travellers into the city. They have asked the local committees to place all travellers in quarantine facilities. A senior district administration official, on the condition of anonymity, said, “There are less number of quarantine wards in the city and the district which are insufficient to accommodate a lot of people. Advisory has been issued to the staff on ground to let travellers coming from places other than Pune and Mumbai to go home and observe self-isolation. However, we have reported that cases are increasing in other districts as well and the people stranded there are inadvertently been asked to go home without screening. We have asked the local committees and volunteers to ensure the travellers stay at home for at least seven days and that they are checked for Covid-19 symptoms.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/covid-19-screening-at-two-more-centres-in-city/articleshow/75704621.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Trichy||Autistic kids given kits to beat lockdown inertia||Trichy: To help children with autism spectrum disorder access therapeutic training, the district administration has issued kits to a few children, who were hit by the lockdown. Trichy collector S Sivarasu distributed the kits to 24 children at the collector office on Tuesday. The kits were provided by the state government through district differently abled welfare office. The kits comprised flash cards, picture book, building blocks, stress ball, whistle, crayons, a health drink and chocolate. District differently abled welfare officer R Ravichandran said that children with the autism spectrum disorder were unable to visit the early intervention centre for autism children during the lockdown. “Therapies for such special children are being provided in the centre. The lockdown crippled them. So, we are providing some kits that will make them engaged with the activities at home with the instructions from the teachers from the centre,” said Ravichandran. Dolphin Special School has been running the only early intervention centre for autism with the financial support of the state government in Trichy district. A total of 24 children have been attending the centre to get various therapies, which include occupational therapy, speech therapy and special education besides sensory integration therapies. Director of Dolphin Special School G Praveena Carmel shared their experience of handling the autism children during the lockdown. “Autism children were attending classes for six days a week. They were used to the therapy. Since the centre was closed due to lockdown, parents could not convince them. Now, they are accepting the reality,” said Praveena. Instead of leaving them uncared, Praveena and her team got in touch with the students through WhatsApp video calls providing them tasks to do at home. “Now, they are used to the training at home. The kits provided to them will be useful because most of the students are from below poverty line. It will attract their attention more,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/autistic-kids-given-kits-to-beat-lockdown-inertia/articleshow/75705379.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Bhubaneswar||AI flight to bring back people stranded in Dubai today||BHUBANESWAR: A special Air India (AI) flight, flying out people stranded in Dubai, will land at the Biju Patnaik International Airport here on Thursday. The special flight will take off from New Delhi at 6.20 am and reach Dubai at 10 am. It will begin its return journey at 11 am and arrive here 3.45 pm, and then head back to New Delhi after 45 minutes. “We have received the schedule of the AI flight from Dubai, but not the passenger details. We expect to receive that a few hours before the flight’s arrival on Thursday,” said airport director V V Rao. Government sources said around 2,400 people from Odisha are stranded in Dubai, and they have registered for return with the state’s Covid-19 portal. “Standard SOP will be followed for the people coming from Dubai. We have paid, as well as free, quarantine facility. Those who can ensure home isolation will be allowed to go straight home,” said a government officer. No passenger flight has left or arrived at the airport since the lockdown began on March 24. The city airport has started preparations to resume operations. Safety and social distancing markers have been planned for passengers and airport staff.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/ai-flight-to-bring-back-people-stranded-in-dubai-today/articleshow/75703471.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Nagpur||Man stabs wife, sprays insecticide in mouth to ensure death||Nagpur: Vilas Bhujade, 38, allegedly stabbed his wife Shruti to death at their Hiwrinagar residence in the wee hours of Tuesday following their differences over her friendship outside the marriage. After inflicting wounds on Shruti’s neck, face and lips, Vilas sprayed insecticide in her mouth to ensure death. It’s learnt Vilas, who co-owned family’s ration shop, had already known about wife’s proximity to another man, but their closeness had become apparent during the ongoing lockdown. She used to spend hours speaking to her friend, also married, over mobile even in presence of Vilas. She would also engage in video calls with her friend ignoring Vilas. The couple, who had an arranged marriage in 2013, is learnt to have never shared their issues with rest of the family. Police said the trigger point of the murder was Shruti’s having stepped out of the house stating she was visiting a clinic at 7.30pm. The clinic was closed but Shruti returning late had left Vilas enraged. The gory drama unfolded in front of the couple’s six-year-old daughter who was shocked to see her parents fight. She had also tried to wake up her uncle as Shruti continued to ask the daughter to call family members for her rescue. Shruti was already killed by the time the family members managed to reach the place. Vilas, desperate to bump off wife, had ended up breaking a knife with the impact of the assault. He pounced upon Shruti with a second knife during their scuffle. As she tried to raise an alarm, Vilas forcefully gagged her. After Shruti fell silent, Vilas sprayed insecticide in her mouth to ensure her death. Vilas’s elder brother Satish and his wife were the first to see the gruesome sight after his niece woke him up. The rest of the family joined at the ground floor where the murder took place. “The couple had dinner calmly without displaying any tension. Shruti had also enjoyed a walk in the vicinity post dinner with her sisters-in-law,” said Vilas’s eldest brother Rajendra. According to a source, Vilas had also met wife’s so-called friend in the past and tried to dissuade him from speaking to Shruti. The man had learnt to have told then that Shruti had been insisting to talk and not him. Satish immediately alerted an ambulance and later dialled 100. Shruti was declared dead at a private hospital later. Police had also reached the place. Vilas was rounded up from his residence. An offence of murder was registered against Vilas at Nandanvan police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/man-stabs-wife-sprays-insecticide-in-mouth-to-ensure-death/articleshow/75705406.cms||Soumitra Bose
May 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Aspirants allege irregularities in PG seat allotment||Hyderabad: Postgraduate (PG) medical aspirants, after protesting the fee hike of medical seats in private colleges, are now alleging that there are irregularities in seat allotment in the first phase of counselling. While students claimed seats in various specialities in the open category are not allotted, the medical university officials said the seats, which are left vacant in this phase, will be filled in the second phase by taking GO 550 into consideration. PG aspirants claimed that allotment is not carried out according to the reservation matrix released by the Kaloji Narayana Rao University of Health Sciences (KNRUHS), the medical university which is conducting counselling on behalf of the state. “Initially, KNRUHS released a seat matrix. Later, it was modified according to high court orders on diploma seats. However, the seat allotment is not done according to either of these matrices,” said Bharath, a PG aspirant. He also questioned why GO 550, which was not implemented last year, is being implemented this year. “The said GO can be implemented for those seats, which are not allocated. What about those open category seats, which are already converted to reserved category,” questioned another aspirant. The Telangana Doctors Federation said that the varsity should look into these allegations and address the issue. “Higher officials should look into the matter and do the needful,” said PS Vijayender, state convener of the federation. As per GO 550, open category seats have to be filled based on merit irrespective of reservation category. Later, reserved seats are to be filled as per norms. In case a reserved candidate secures seat in the open category on merit basis and leaves it for better chances in the reserved quota, that vacant seat has to be filled up with a candidate from the same reserved category on merit basis. “Students have no reason to worry. Seats are not going anywhere and will be filled up following all norms. In the second phase, vacant seats will be filled by taking the said GO into consideration,” said B Karunakar Reddy, vice-chancellor, KNRUHS.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/aspirants-allege-irregularities-in-pg-seat-allotment/articleshow/75704636.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Madurai||1,200 KKNPP guest workers to return home by train today||Madurai: Nearly 1,200 guest workers engaged in the ongoing construction works for units 3 and 4 in Kudankulam Nuclear Power Plant (KKNPP) will be returning home by train from Tirunelveli on Tuesday. “They are among the 3,344 guest workers working for L&T (their contractor) who have registered online to return home due to the pandemic,” Radhapuram MLA I S Inbadurai said. The workers had staged protests on May 4 and 9 demanding that they be sent home. “The chief minister has arranged for their return in phases. Majority of contract workforce is from Jharkhand (1,053) and Bihar (894). On Tuesday, 1,200 people from these two states will leave be taken from KKNPP to Tirunelveli Junction, from where the train will take them to Patna,” he said. From Patna they will reach their hometowns by road. The next train will take guest workers from Uttar Pradesh (468), West Bengal (400) and Odisha (292) and in smaller numbers from other states like Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Gujarat, Himachal Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh in batches. Meanwhile, only 23% guest workers in Ramanathapuram registered online to return to their home states. Ramanathapuram collector K Veera Raghava Rao said they have enumerated 3,174 guest workers – West Bengal (1,296), Odisha (443), Bihar (449) and Uttar Pradesh (302) – working in the construction, hotel and other sectors. The collector said that 743 have registered to return home and the remaining have decided to stay back. Around 740 tourists from other states have applied for passes and sought help to return home. About 202 of them left by buses on Saturday. On Monday, CPI’s leader S Muruganandham petitioned the district administration, alleging foul play in fixing fares for the six buses that took the tourists from the district on Saturday. He said that officials finalised the fare at Rs 2.75 lakh a bus while operators were ready to operate for Rs 1.5 lakh. “Government buses could have been used,” he said. Responding to this, the collector said the respective state governments where the tourists returned had in principle agreed to bear the transportation cost.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/1200-kknpp-guest-workers-to-return-home-by-train-today/articleshow/75684178.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Kolhapur||Maharashtra: Teacher dies chasing truck flouting lockdown rules||KOLHAPUR: A 35-year-old school teacher was killed and his colleague seriously injured after they came under the rear wheels of a truck they were chasing for breaking lockdown rules on the Anantpur-Daflapur road in Sangli district in the wee hours of Tuesday. The teacher, Nanasaheb Sadashiv Kore, of Daflapur, was deployed at the Shingnapur check post on the Maharashtra-Karnataka border along with five others. They were busy with some work when the cement-carrying truck entered Maharashtra from the Karnataka side but did not stop at the check post. Kore and his colleague started chasing the truck on their motorcycle. However, after travelling some distance, the motorcycle came under the rear wheels of the truck while overtaking it. Kore and his colleague fell ont he road. Passersby took them to a local hospital where Kore was declared brought dead. An officer from the Jath police station said the truck-driver, Hanmant Gorade (35), of Daund in Pune district, has been arrested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/teacher-dies-chasing-truck-flouting-lockdown-rules/articleshow/75704640.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Mangaluru||Fourth Shramik Special train departs from DK||Mangaluru: The first Shramik Special from Mysuru division of South Western Railway, with 1,428 migrant labourers from Bihar, left from Kabaka Puttur railway station on Tuesday. The train is being run following a request from the state government. So far, three Shramik Specials have departed Dakshina Kannada. They had left from Mangaluru Junction railway station under Palakkad division of Southern Railway on Saturday and Sunday. The Shramik Special comprises 24 coaches, including 18 sleeper, 4 general and two ladies-cum-luggage van, with a capacity of 1,464 passengers. Bound to Bapudham Motihari in Bihar, it passes through Arsikere junction, Ballari junction, Guntakal junction, Vijayawada and Gaya junction and reaches the destination at 7am on May 14. As per the ministry directives, social distancing has to observed with all passengers wearing face masks. Adequate soaps and sanitisers have been provided in each compartment for maintaining personal hygiene. Passengers were sensitised about Covid-19 and the need to observe precautions to keep the virus at bay. Prior to its departure from Mysuru on Monday, the empty rake was fully sanitised as per standard protocol of Railway Board. Six Railway Protection Force personnel, onboard the train, will coordinate with Government Railway Police of the respective state governments. Meanwhile, as many as 1,452 Rajasthan-based migrant workers will go back home in two special trains, which will leave for Jodhpur from Hubballi on Wednesday and Thursday, said officials in the district administration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/fourth-shramik-special-train-departs-from-dk/articleshow/75703491.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Vijayawada||MLAs made respondents in lockdown violation PIL||Vijayawada: The high court on Tuesday allowed petitioners to include public representatives who violated lockdown norms as respondents in the Public Interest Litigation (PIL) petition seeking directions to the state government to take action against lawmakers for either holding meetings or participating in public gatherings during the lockdown period. Para Kishore, an advocate, moved the HC with a PIL pointing out violations by the MLAs during the lockdown. He argued in his petition that lawmakers, who should educate people, are violating the norms. He included five MLAs as respondents in the petition along with the state government and the police department. The HC had earlier issued notices to respondents and asked the state government and director general of police to file action taken report. On Tuesday, advocate for petitioner Karumanchi Indraneel Babu told the HC that even after high court notices, many lawmakers were violating lockdown norms. Upon hearing both sides, the HC allowed petitioners to include lawmakers who violated lockdown norms as respondents in the petition. The HC posted further hearing of the case to next Tuesday. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/mlas-made-respondents-in-lockdown-violation-pil/articleshow/75703479.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Goa||350 flyers likely to land at Goa airport||Panaji: A total of 350 passengers on two flights are likely to arrive at Goa airport, the nodal officer for NRIs informed the state executive committee on Tuesday. The flights are likely to land after a week, the SEC was told. The SEC has advised the South Goa collector to make arrangements for paid quarantine facility and necessary transportation arrangements of the passengers. tnn The SEC also advised the secretary health to work on testing protocols for such cases, to expedite their test results while they are waiting at the airport. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/350-flyers-likely-to-land-at-goa-airport/articleshow/75705402.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Migrants flock to railway stations, return disappointed||Hyderabad: After announcement of special train services, hundreds of migrant workers flocked to railway stations on Tuesday hoping to book tickets. However, they had to return disappointed after being informed that tickets could be booked online. Two special services will pass through Secunderabad and connect the state to New Delhi, Chennai, Bengaluru and other key locations. “A huge number of workers belonging primarily to Bihar and Jharkhand gathered at Secunderabad station. They were misinformed about trains running from today,” a RPF personnel told TOI. Around 150 people gathered at Lingampally, Kacheguda, Ghatkesar, Moula Ali, Nizamabad and Vikarabad railway stations each. The workers were under the impression that they would get tickets from reservation counters. “Ticket reservation counters were to be opened at select locations across the twin states, including Secunderabad, Warangal, Vijayawada and Guntakal only for people applicable for railway quotas,” SCR said in an official statement. SCR officials informed that ticket counters were only open for high official requisition holders, politicians, freedom fighters, Divyangjan passengers, eleven types of patients as classified by Indian Railways and students. The RPF and GRP told workers to get registered at local police stations. “We are providing food packets and water bottles to workers gathering at stations,” the RPF personnel added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/migrants-flock-to-railway-stns-return-disappointed/articleshow/75704660.cms||Arya Sharan
May 13, 2020||Hyderabad||51 more positive, two dead as surge in Jiaguda raises total Telangana coronavirus cases||HYDERABAD: Authorities battling the Covid-19 spread tightened vigil across the city after two persons died and 51 tested positive for the virus. Jiaguda area has become the hotbed for new cases in the city with 36 from the area testing positive. Fourteen others among the new cases turned out to be migrant labourers. The total number of cases in state stood at 1,326 and the toll was 32. “So far, 25 migrant labourers have reported positive recently. So chief minister KCR has instructed the department to make sure all the asymptomatic migrant labourers coming into the state should be home quarantined or kept in government quarantine,” medical and health department director Dr Srinivas Rao said. In Hyderabad, Jiaguda continued to remain a major concern for officials as the area reported about 40 cases even on Monday, said an official. He said rumours of Rs 1,500 being deposited for ration card holders in banks led to chaos and hundreds gathered before banks, which possibly led to the spread of the virus. “Another reason for the local spread was a popular butcher shop owner testing positive,” the official added. According to highly placed sources, there are about 600 primary contacts for the new cases from these areas. They were all quarantined and authorities are in search for their secondary contacts also. A 65-year-old patient admitted with high diabetes and hypertension died at the Gandhi hospital on Monday and at least six patients were admitted in the hospital The health department undertook a fever survey in 6,570 households in four containment zones of Sharada Nagar, Thirumalagiri Nagar, JB colony, Bhagya Nagar Colony and Vijayapuri Colony. In one case, officials had to take help of the police to persuade a 27-year-old woman suspect to give her samples. Twenty-one people were discharged on Tuesday, taking the total tally of recovered people to 822.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/51-more-ve-2-dead-as-surge-in-jiaguda-raises-total-t-cases/articleshow/75705403.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
May 13, 2020||Rajkot||Gujarat: Refused tobacco, five threaten to kill man||RAJKOT: Five persons fired five rounds in the air to threaten a paan shop owner after he refused to give them tobacco products in Garabhadi village of Sayla taluka in Surendranagar district on Monday night. Police said the Kuldeep Khawad, Yogesh Gadhvi, Lala Khawad, Ladhu Khawad and their three unidentified aides, who also resorted to stone pelting on the house of Gordhan Mithapara and threatened to kill him. Police said Kuldeep and Gadhvi had gone to Mithapara’s paan shop on Monday morning and demanded tobacco. When Mithapara said he did not have the stock, the entered had a heated altercation with him. On the same night, they decided to teach Mithapara a lesson. They went to his house armed with country made pistols, axes and stones. “The five persons dealt blows with axes on the door of Mithapara’s house and threw stones at it. They asked the shop owner to come out. When Mithapara came out, they threatened to kill him and fired five rounds in the air to scare him,” said an official from Dhajala police station. Meanwhile, the police have launched a manhunt for the five who have fled the village after the incident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/refused-tobacco-5-threaten-to-kill-man/articleshow/75703501.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Kolhapur||Dates stock dries up during Ramzan||Kolhapur: With several restrictions imposed on a lot of activities due to the lockdown, many essential commodities are drying up from the markets. One such commodity are dates— a fruit that is in high demand during the holy month of Ramzan. Dates are usually imported from countries like Iran, Saudi Arabia and Egypt. However, now, due to the lockdown, they cannot be imported and the ones that were already stocked before the imposition of the lockdown are rapidly exhausting from the markers. Jalil Bagwan, a vendor in the Nagala park area, said, “Our shops were shut ever since the lockdown was imposed on March 25. We were not able to trade any type of fruit or dry fruits during this period. We did not place any orders with wholesalers as we were not sure when will we be able to open our shops” “When we opened our shops from May 4, we sold all the available stock of dry fruits like dates, raisins, almonds and cashews within two days. Customers visiting our shops ask us about the dates but we are not getting them from wholesalers and traders,” said Bagwan. A wholesaler based in the Shahupuri area of the city said that he had placed the order for dates with concerned agencies considering the high demand during Ramzan. “As all the import orders are stuck due to the lockdown, we could only sell the available stock of dates to retailers and the shops,” he said. Imran Momin, a resident of Uchgaon said, “During Ramazan, we prefer consuming dates as it gives a lot of energy. This year, we could not get dates from any shops nearby our locality. We have requested the shop owners to alert us once the stocks are replenished.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/dates-stock-dries-up-during-ramzan/articleshow/75704667.cms||Vivek Waghmode
May 13, 2020||Kolhapur||Kolhapur MIDC returning to normalcy||Kolhapur: The situation at Kolhapur MIDC is improving gradually as industrialists have started operating their units with minimum strength. More than 50% of the industries have sought permission from the government to start operations by following social distancing norms. Sanjay Shete, chairman of Kolhapur Chamber of Commerce and Industries (KCCI) said, “Till now, more than 700 industries have started operations in the city and the district. There were some glitches at the initial level such as permissions for various aspects like allowing employees to travel from their homes to Kolhapur, getting permissions to procure raw materials from other parts of the state and management of the available funds to start operations. However, almost all the industrialists have resolved these issues and have started operations with available resources.” Immediately after the industries began their operations, the industrialists faced the issue of settling salaries of employees for the month of March and April. “We had requested the state government to make a decision in this regard and grant us some financial help to clear the pending salaries. Our request is pending with the state government and we had no option to clear salaries of employees from available cash flow as the employees were not ready to resume work without being paid. We have started the operations, however, we expect the government to declare some package for industrial sector else it will be difficult for us to continue operations in the long run,” Shete said. He said that the industrialists are expecting to start operations in Pune and Pimpri Chichwad MIDCs so that industrial units in Kolhapur MIDC get orders from them. “We are expecting to start operations in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad MIDCs so that the Kolhapur MIDC gets orders from the industries set up in these industrial units,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/kolhapur-midc-returning-to-normalcy/articleshow/75704682.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Vadodara||New cases surface in western parts, numbers cross 600 in city||Vadodara: Covid-19 cases crossed the 600 mark in the city with cases being reported from posh localities in the western parts of the city too. The deaths due to the disease stood at 32 with the Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) not declaring any new deaths even as some patients have died over the last few days. The fresh cases included those from Mathura Nagari on the Old Padra Road, Racecourse Circle, Atladara and Gorwa BIDC that had not witnessed cases so far. With one more case being reported in Bhayli. More staff members of city-based Bhailal Amin General Hospital (BAGH) have tested positive. After a 59-year-old physician working with the hospital tested positive last week, his 58-year-old wife also tested positive on Tuesday. She is a gynaecologist. The doctor couple are residents of Vasna-Bhayli area of the city. They are both asymptomatic, hospital sources said. A 34-year-old nurse working with the hospital also tested positive on Tuesday, sources said. A confirmation from hospital was however pending till Tuesday night. Details provided by VMC revealed that 264 persons still remained in hospitalisation while 311 were discharged. Those discharged included 13 persons who were discharged on Tuesday. As many as 905 persons were advised home quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/new-cases-surface-in-western-parts-numbers-cross-600-in-city/articleshow/75702467.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Hyderabad||As hundreds of stranded return home, chorus for more flights gets louder in Telangana||HYDERABAD: While hundreds of stranded citizens continue to return home from across the globe many from Telangana are still anxiously waiting for their turn. Flustered at not being able to make it to the list, of passengers travelling under the Vande Bharat Mission, many are desperately appealing to authorities to arrange more flights so that they can be accommodated. Right from Singapore, Malaysia and Ukraine to the US and the UK, scores of families and students have reached out to the Indian government, through social media, seeking help. Among them are also those who need medical attention. “There are about 1,100 students from Telangana and AP who are stranded in Chernivtsi, Ukraine since March 6. Though we have all registered ourselves (for the evacuation flight), there are very less flights from here. In fact, there is no direct flight to Hyderabad,” Vivek Mallam told TOI. According to the medical student, while 18,000 people have registered for flights, only 7,300 have been confirmed to fly. Other students from the same college, too, made similar pleas, saying they were willing to follow all protocol if they are accommodated on flights back home. Another hopeful passenger, Venkata Rama Krishna, said he and his pregnant wife are stranded in Malaysia, waiting to be evacuated and sent back to Hyderabad. “She can’t travel in her eighth month; the flight to Hyderabad is on May 14 but we have no flight ticket till now... PM said priority for pregnant woman; please help,” he tweeted. Also waiting for a confirmation is Naresh Peddu’s elderly mother, stranded in the UK. She could not find a seat on the first flight from London to Hyderabad that landed on Tuesday. “My mother has been wait listed. However, we didn’t receive any notification after that, and not sure when the next flight to Hyderabad would be. She is elderly and is running out of her medicines. Hope you can help,” Peddu wrote, tagging the ministry of external affairs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/as-hundreds-of-stranded-return-home-chorus-for-more-flights-gets-louder/articleshow/75704680.cms||Sudipta Sengupta
May 13, 2020||Hyderabad||We’re broke, pay our airfare and quarantine bill, Gulf returnees beseech Telangana government||HYDERABAD: Thousands of Gulf workers and their families protested on Tuesday demanding the central government bear the cost of air ticket and the state government provide free quarantine to Telangana workers returning home. Read the entire story on TOI+If cost of journey didn't hit them, "paid quarantine" will||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/were-broke-pay-our-airfare-quarantine-bill-gulf-returnees-beseech-state-govt/articleshow/75704687.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
May 13, 2020||Goa||Mala nullahs desilted to prevent floods||PANAJI: Last monsoon, several houses in Mala flooded following heavy rainfall, making them unlivable. Officials of Water Resources Department (WRD) said that as part of flood mitigation measures this year, various nullahs and sub-nullahs leading to the Mala Lake have already been desilted. The work has been completed up to the Mala petrol pump. Under the Smart City project, the Mala Lake itself is set to be desilted, and WRD officials said they have already submitted a detailed project report for this work to the Smart City office. Once the long-awaited desiltation of the lake is carried out, it is expected to bring further relief to Mala residents. “All nullahs and sub-nullahs connecting to Mala Lake have been desilted to get all the water to the raw water pumping station opposite the Mala petrol pump. The nullahs have turned into drains over the years with the depth going up to 1.2-1.5m. As a flood mitigation measure, the desilting has been done. But if it rains continuously for 3 to 5 days and if this coincides with high tide, then flooding can occur,” a WRD official said. The WRD project report has estimated Rs 50 crore as the cost of installing high capacity pumps permanently at the Mala Lake to pump the water directly into the Rua De Orem creek. But this report is under the consideration of the Smart City office. The Mala Lake is spread over an area of 32,000sqm and , apart from desiltation, a beautification project was planned for the lake as early as 2005. Under the lake side development project, various facilities were be created within the lake and along its periphery. But the plans could not materialise and the desiltation is now being planned as part of the Smart City works.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mala-nullahs-desilted-to-prevent-floods/articleshow/75706036.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Trichy||NRIs from TN stranded in Saudi urge govts to bring them back||Trichy: More than 180 non-resident Indians (NRIs) from Tamil Nadu who are stranded in Saudi Arabia have appealed to the state and central governments to repatriate them. The stranded people are at present accommodated at facilities in Jeddah, Dammam and Riyadh. While many of them said they had lost their jobs post the Covid-19 pandemic, some of them who had gone on a business visit said that their visas had expired and were stranded there due to the suspension of international flights.A few NRIs from Chennai, Trichy, Madurai and Tenkasi districts expressed fear over contracting Covid-19, and miss the opportunity to get back home. Another section said they are running short of money, their hotel stay becoming expensive and eateries shut during the day. “I am eight months pregnant, and I have to return home within this month. If delayed, I cannot travel and may have to deliver the baby here,” Gayathri Jegan, a nurse from Cuddalore employed at Al Qassim city told TOI over phone. The stranded group includes at least 10 pregnant women whose periodical medical checkups are being missed due to the pandemic. The women, including those working in Saudi Arabia were to leave in March-April, but stuck there because of the lockdown.“As there was no sign of suspension of international flights in early March, I had planned my visit to supply machinery for my client. Now that the flight services have been cancelled, I am staying at my client’s place for the past two months. We did not get any help from the Indian Embassy,” T Ashok, a Chennai-based painting machinery supplier stuck at Riyadh said. “The external affairs ministry has already been requested to ensure the well-being of the NRIs. The need to operate a rescue flight from Saudi Arabia to Tamil Nadu will be conveyed,” Trichy MP Su Thirunavukkarasar told TOI. Meanwhile, PMK founder S Ramadoss on Tuesday has appealed to the governments to operate special flight for rescuing the Indians stranded in Kuwait.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/nris-from-tn-stranded-in-saudi-urge-govts-to-bring-them-back/articleshow/75705401.cms||Deepak Karthik
May 13, 2020||Hyderabad||1 dead, 5 hurt in accident||Hyderabad: A van carrying 20 migrant labourers from Hyderabad to Jharkhand turned turtle at SS Nagar in Kamareddy district on Tuesday. A 32-year-old labourer died in the accident while five others are in critical condition. The deceased, Sureshwar Ram from Kamat Villages in Garhwa district of Jharkhand was travelling with 19 other labourers from the same district after they got stranded in Hyderabad following the nation-wide lockdown. “They worked in a construction site and managed to hire a vehicle to go till Nagpur, from where they had planned to get another vehicle to reach their hometown. They did not have any permit,” said SS Nagar SI Naresh. The 20 migrant workers boarded the vehicle from Shankarpally. The accident occurred at National Highway 44 near Daggi village in Kamareddy district at 1.30 pm. The deceased sustained a severe head injury and died on the spot. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/1-dead-5-hurt-in-accident/articleshow/75704707.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Goa||Exodus of labourers will not affect PWD works: Deepak Prabhu Pauskar||PANAJI: Given the exodus of migrant labourers from the state, PWD minister Deepak Prabhu Pauskar said this will not have any impact on works being carried out by the department. He also said that contractors have been directed to complete various projects estimated at Rs 120 crore, that includes road works in all talukas and improving water supply, by the end of this month. Speaking to TOI, Pauskar on Tuesday said that migrants who have left the state didn’t have any means of employment, while those who are working for PWD contractors have stayed back. “As there is work here, there are migrants who have not left for their native places,” he said. He said that works of around Rs 120 crore have commenced, and under these tenders, PWD will complete hotmixing of most roads in all talukas. During the last monsoon, the minister had to face widespread criticism due to dilapidated roads across the state. Pauskar also said that though there has been a delay due to the lockdown, the department will complete all these works by May 30. Completing water treatment plants, construction of overhead tanks, and laying new water pipelines are some of the works being carried out in the state, he said. The PWD minister said that work orders of around Rs 40 crore for some other projects will be issued in a few days. Due to financial constraints, Pauksar said that PWD will only take up works on priority. “We will only issue necessary tenders,” he said. With migrants leaving the state in droves, BJP has urged chief minister Pramod Sawant to resume business activities in an attempt to address this issue. Sawant had also urged contractors to convince labourers to stay back.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/pauskar-exodus-of-labourers-will-not-affect-pwd-works/articleshow/75705411.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Vijayawada||Shops in orange, green zones closed, traders call for clarity||Amaravati: Even as chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy is batting for easing of lockdown norms for the revival of economy, at the field level, the administration continues to enforce curbs on traders. Traders say that officials are not allowing shops selling essential commodities to open during the day in green and orange zones. Sources said that district collectors, who have been designated as Covid-19 commanders, have not issued separate proceedings directing the police to ease out restrictions on shops and establishments. On Monday, a district collector had issued permission to an MNC beverage company to reopen but could not issue guidelines to open business in green mandals. Following the Centre’s directive on easing of certain lockdown regulations, the state government had decided to give green signal to open all essential and non-essential commodity outlets and liquor shops in green and orange mandals across the state. The collectors have not issued orders to allow merchants to keep shops open from 7 am to 7pm two weeks after the Centre relaxed the guidelines. “We are following the district magistrate’s Covid-19 action plan. We can’t allow all the shops to function without any directive from the district collector,” said a superintendent of police (SP). He said the collector had issued orders to allow shops to open between 6 am-9am in the past and the same would be in force until further orders were issued. The Centre in its guidelines had said that there was no need for fresh permission from any authority to resume business activity in green and orange zones. Sources said that field-level police officials are making the merchants to down the shutters by 9 am although allowing the shops between 6 am-9am is a norm fixed for red zones. “They are not allowing even seed and fertilizer shops to remain open despite agriculture sector has been exempted from the lockdown norms,” said Mallikharjuna Rao, a fertilizer dealer in Vinukonda, a green mandal. In many districts, there is ban on sale of chicken, meat and fish despite no evidence to link these to Covid-19. “After allowing the liquor shops to run without maintaining social distancing rule, there is no meaning banning meat, sea food and poultry,” said Karim Khan, a meat vendor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/shops-in-orange-green-zones-closed-traders-call-for-clarity/articleshow/75703525.cms||Samdani MN
May 13, 2020||Kolhapur||Tight security deployed at Kognoli toll plaza||KOLHAPUR: The increased movement of vehicular traffic after relaxation in lockdown has increased the problem for district administration and police who are already working overtime to curb the spread of Covid-19. Owing to this development security at Kongoli toll plaza on the Pune-Bangalore National Highway has been increased to ensure that only those will valid travel pass are allowed to enter Maharashtra. Precautions are being taken as the number of Covid-19 positive patients continue to increase in Belagavi district of Karnataka, bordering Maharashtra. Most of the people travelling to South India from Pune and Mumbai and vice versa have to pass through Kolhapur. Prashant Amrutkar, deputy superintendent of police (Karveer division), said, "Since some relaxations were announced during lockdown from May 4 we have witnessed rise in number of vehicles at Kognoli toll plaza. We have deployed additional police force to tackle the increased number of vehicles." He added, "Police personnel are checking the travel passes of the people waiting in queues and letting them go after confirming the details mentioned in the pass.We have also made separate arrangement for people who come to the toll plaza without having valid pass. A special team has been deployed to tackle such passengers and they upload the details of passenger on the website and get approval for travel. Once they receive approval, these passengers are allowed to travel further." Dinkar Patil, a resident of Kognoli, said, "We need to go to Kagal several times for buying materials related to farming activities, but every time we are made to wait for hours in queue. Police is allowing us to travel but waiting at the toll plaza is consuming lot of time."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/tight-security-deployed-at-kognoli-toll-plaza/articleshow/75704699.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Vijayawada||Morgue mess: AP hospital swaps Covid-19 negative body with positive one||TIRUPATI: In a shocking goof-up, staff at the government general hospital in Kurnool swapped bodies of a person who had died of Covid-19 with that of the body of another person who was not suffering from the coronavirus. To make matters worse, the staff performed the funeral of the non-Covid-19 body mistaking it to be that of the Covid-19 victim. At the same time, the body of the Covid-19 positive person was handed over to the wrong family. This happened even as a central government team was is in Kurnool to study the Covid-19 scenario. Enraged family members of the non Covid-19 deceased, identified as A Ram Babu, staged a protest at the hospital demanding that the management hand over the right body to them. Kurnool district collector G Veerapandian has now appointed a three-member committee to probe the goof-up. The panel comprises Kurnool GGH superintendent Dr Narendranath Reddy, Kurnool medical college principal Dr Chandrasekhar and district medical and health officer Dr Ramagiddaiah. According to family members, Ram Babu, 66, a resident of Kurnool city, was admitted to the hospital on May 7. He died on May 9. His Covid-19 tests which arrived two days later on Monday confirmed that he was negative and that he died of other causes. After hospital staff called Ram Babu’s family members to claim the body, they ere shocked when they were shown the body of another man at the mortuary. Taken aback, when the family members asked about Ram Babu’s body, the hospital staff confessed to their goof-up. According to hospital sources, apart from Ram Babu, a 36-year-old patient with Covid-19 symptoms from Kurnool city was admitted to the hospital on May 9. The 36-year-old patient died on May 10 and his tests revealed that he was Covid-19 positive. The family members of the 36-year-old patient were present at the funeral rites. The body was buried in the city outskirts. The goof-up was finally exposed on Tuesday after the family members of Ram Babu, the non-Covid-19 patient, said the body being handed over to them was not Ram Babu’s. ‘‘Will officials exhume the body and hand it over to us?” wondered Ram Babu’s son Ramesh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/morgue-mess-ap-hosp-swaps-covid-ve-body-with-ve-one/articleshow/75705427.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
May 13, 2020||Rajkot||Prime accused in drunken brawl murder held||Rajkot: The accused who had allegedly stabbed a man to death on the night of April 15 in Rana Kandorana village of Ranavav taluka in Porbandar district was nabbed on Monday night. Police said the accused, Vijay Bhutia, had allegedly stabbed Ramesh Kadegia (27) in a fit of rage in an inebriated state. “During his interrogation, Bhutia said he had entered into a drunken brawl with Kadegia, following which he had flashed out a knife and had killed him,” said M N Dave, inspector with Porbandar local crime branch. The police caught Bhutia on the basis of a tip-off about him going to his house in Kutiyana of Porbandar district on a motorcycle. Bhutia is the main accused in Kadegia’s murder, according to complaint filed but Vijay Kadegia, brother of the deceased.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/prime-accused-in-drunken-brawl-murder-held/articleshow/75703560.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Goa||Health centres approach GSIDC to set up pandals||Panaji: With government hospitals, including primary and community health centres, directed to follow social distancing norms and operate OPDs at 50% patient load, the institutes are now approaching Goa State Infrastructure Development Corporation (GSIDC) to set up pandals and seating arrangements for patients. A GSIDC official, however, said that it is not possible to honour all requests due to logistical reasons. The hospitals and health centres will have to make their own arrangements for building pandals. “We are only going to consider GMC’s request,” he said, adding that they are running short of manpower due to lockdown conditions. A pandal has already been erected outside GMC casualty, while chairs have been placed for patients. Since last week, GSIDC has received requests from seven institutes to build pandals. Another hurdle is ensuring hygiene norms are followed, while fewer people are available for work. “It is not just a question of erecting a pandal, but also making an elaborate seating arrangements considering social distancing norms,” he said. Also, pandals will have to be waterproof in view of the approaching monsoon. Most health centres as well as hospitals are having a difficult time managing patients in view of social distancing norms due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The waiting area inside government health centres is insufficient as patients are made sit on chairs leaving the adjacent seat vacant. Most of the time, patients are made to stand outside the main entrance of hospitals. A security at the North Goa district hospital said they endured a tough time when the OPD commenced last Tuesday. “Some patients refused to listen if they were told to wait for a few minutes. There were even scuffles, and on one occasion, a doctor refused to take in patients when his cabin was crowded,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/health-centres-approach-gsidc-to-set-up-pandals/articleshow/75705419.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: First train to arrive at Secunderabad station today||HYDERABAD: First set of special passenger trains from Bangalore to Delhi and Delhi to Bangalore will arrive at Secunderabad railway station on Wednesday. All the passengers leaving and entering the city will be screened and those arriving from other states will be kept under home quarantine. Cops will be on guard to ensure that desperate passengers, including migrant workers, do not sneak into the station. The railways informed the cops that about 250 passengers are likely to arrive at the station in the morning. “All the passengers boarding the train will be screened by the medical teams and only asymptomatic passengers will be allowed to board. Similarly, passengers arriving from other states will also have to go through medical screening. After revenue and municipal officials collect their details, they will either be sent to home quarantine or institutional quarantine based on their health condition,” railway inspector Adi Reddy said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/1st-train-to-arrive-at-secbad-station-today/articleshow/75704695.cms||Mahesh Buddi
May 13, 2020||Kolhapur||Over 600 motorists booked for violating lockdown rules||Kolhapur: Continuing the drive against people violating lockdown rules, Kolhapur police have booked more than 600 two-wheeler owners for flouting rules, including driving double seat or triple seat without valid reasons. Police have launched flying squads in the city to ensure that people follow social distancing norms to prevent spread of novel coronavirus. Police inspector in-charge of city traffic branch Vasant Babar said, “We have booked more than 600 motorists for violating lockdown rules and have collected fine worth Rs 1.27 lakh from them on Tuesday.” “We have launched a special drive to keep a tab on people violating lockdown rules. Ever since the lockdown rules have been relaxed since May 3, we have witnessed people stepping out of their homes frequently. Also, the number of vehicles on roads have been increased. As per the guidelines issued by the district administration and our senior officials, people are allowed to commute only for valid reasons. There is ban on riding double seat or triple seat,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/over-600-motorists-booked-for-violating-lockdown-rules/articleshow/75704712.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Goa||‘Mining cos must reduce ore traffic’||QUEPEM: Quepem municipal council on Monday issued a stern warning to two mining companies operating at Cavrem-Pirla to reduce the traffic of ore-laden trucks entering the town or face complete halt to its operations. In a meeting held in presence of the deputy collector Rohit Kadam, chairperson Dayesh Naik and councillors Manuel Colaco, Raul Pereira and Filu D’Costa made it clear to the company representatives that the council will not allow ore transportation through the town for the next season and suggested an alternate route through Rivona. Citing last week’s TOI report on mining traffic, Quepem deputy collector directed the companies to maintain a gap of 45 seconds in between two trucks and allow only 90 trucks per hour—45 of each company. Naik had convened the meeting to discuss the unprecedented movement of ore-laden trucks through the town and hammer out an alternative route. Mine owners’ representatives said that three culverts on the bypass road from Pirla to Rivona have become weak and need repairs, to which councillors suggested that they take up the work as part of their corporate social responsibility. D’Costa said that the flow of ore-laden trucks numbering 6-7 in a minute is dangerous for the public.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mining-cos-must-reduce-ore-traffic/articleshow/75706046.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Vijayawada||Farmers body seeks rescue package for tobacco trade||Guntur: The Federation of All India Farmers Associations (FAIFA) has appealed to the Union government to protect livelihoods of tobacco growers during the ongoing pandemic as demand for tobacco products has fallen in the wake of the lockdown. Flue cured virginia (FCV) tobacco farmers are under stress to sell their harvest and meet mounting labour and infrastructure charges due to interruption of auctions following the lockdown. Nearly 130 million kilograms of FCV tobacco worth over Rs 2,000 crore are yet to be sold with tobacco auctions resuming only gradually, causing quality loss under prolonged storage. Auctions for the winter FCV cultivation usually start in March. In 2019, farmers received an average price of Rs 121.53 per kg for the crop grown in the state. This year, demand from traders and manufacturers has been weak due to rising inventory in the market and delay in export shipments. ` With over 95% of the crop in storage, FCV tobacco farmers in the state fear losses of more than Rs 200 crores on account of quality deterioration and weight loss. “We request the Union government to immediately start the auctions in all the auction platforms. Centre should also direct the Tobacco Board and other concerned officials to coordinate with growers, exporters and traders to facilitate reasonable prices,” said Javare Gowda, president, FAIFA. Gowda said the Centre should also sanction compensation of Rs 25,000 for each grower. Failure to bail out tobacco farmers, he said, would force many into a debt trap and harm marginal farmers, workers, and those employed in handling and transportation. FAIFA general secretary Murali Babu requested Union finance minister Nirmala Sithraman to intervene and reschedule crop loans for the next two to three seasons. He said growers should be allowed to repay loan amounts in instalments of 30% each season, even as regular seasonal loans continue to be sanctioned. The decision, he said, will benefit those burdened with interest repayments on non-institutional loans.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/farmers-body-seeks-rescue-package-for-tobacco-trade/articleshow/75703591.cms||Samdani MN
May 13, 2020||Hyderabad||4th Vande Bharat flight lands in city||Hyderabad: The fourth flight to the city, as part of the ongoing Vande Bharat Mission, reached the Rajiv Gandhi International Airport, from UK, in the wee hours of Tuesday. The Air India flight (AI 1839) with 331 passengers on board took off from London’s Stansted Airport around 9.45am (local time) on Monday and landed here at 2.21am (IST). Along with other passengers the flight, which came via Delhi, also ferried students from Telangana, who had sought help from the government to be repatriated. After a brief halt, the same flight departed as, AI 1840, carrying 87 passengers from the city to Delhi, from where they will be airlifted to the US. The flight took off at 5.31am.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/4th-vande-bharat-flight-lands-in-city/articleshow/75704713.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Goa||Goa: Health secretary will conduct inquiry, says Vishwajit Rane||PANAJI: Health minister Vishwajit Rane on Tuesday said that he has moved a note to the health secretary to constitute an inquiry into the death of former MLA Jitendra Deshprabhu. “The inquiry committee will be appointed by the public health department. All aspects will be clear, while standing operating procedures (SOP)s for all departments will be made mandatory,” Rane told TOI on Tuesday. Deshprabhu, who was admitted to GMC on April 21 in a critical condition, had died of pneumonia. A senior resident attached to the radiology department was placed under suspension pending inquiry alleging negligence. The former MLA was referred for CT scan, but primary inquiry revealed that this was delayed as the senior resident was missing from duty, while the junior resident was also not on the duty seat when Deshprabbu was referred for CT scan, an official said. A source said that there has been no progress by the initial inquiry committee appointed to ascertain the facts of the case as one of the senior doctors appointed to head the inquiry cited his inability to be part of it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/health-secy-will-conduct-inquiry-rane/articleshow/75705429.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Kolhapur||Allow shops in market complexes to open: Kolhapur traders||KOLHAPUR: With Prime Prime Minister Narendra Modi announcing extension of lockdown from May 17 on Tuesday, city-based traders have come up with a demand to allow opening of non-essential shops in commercial complexes and markets. Such shops continue to remain shut as per order from the state and central governments. The district administration also decided to keep such shops shut in order to maintain social distancing. As per rule, only essential and standalone non-essential shops are allowed to remain open. The permission for traders to open standalone non-essentials shops was given after the traders agreed that 50% of the shops will remain open on any day. One of the traders with a shop in the Kolhapur Municipal Corporation-owned commercial complex said, "We had requested our association to put forth our demand. We have zero cash inflow and lot of materials in our shops. We are going to meet the civic authorities to let us open the shops every alternate day." There are 45 market complexes in the city with over 2,000 non-essential shops. Many are stores of branded goods and repair centres. Operators of such establishments are currently facing the financial crunch due to lockdown. Meanwhile, on Tuesday, more rush was observed on the roads and market places. NEven after the repeated appeals by police, people were seen coming out on road even after the prohibitory orders came into effect at 7pm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/allow-shops-in-market-complexes-to-open-traders/articleshow/75704717.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Nagpur||Scat analysis to reunite tiger cub with mother||Nagpur: In a bid to reunite three-month-old tiger cub rescued from a village in Chichpalli forest range, Chandrapur forest officials have decided to go for scat analysis of the suspected mother tigress and the cub. This is first experiment to reunite the cub with its mother by scat analysis. “We have sent scat samples of the probable mother tigress and the cub to Centre for Cellular & Molecular Biology (CCMB), Hyderabad, for DNA analysis,” said SV Ramarao, chief conservator of forests (CCF), Chandrapur. The cub was rescued from Sushi-Dabgaon village from a stack of paddy husk on April 24. It was found to be healthy and hence veterinarians found it fit for release. “Our staff tried to reunite the cub by taking it to the spot for three consecutive days, but it could not be done. Camera trap survey shows there are two tigresses in the same area, one with two cubs and another with three. Hence, it makes the reunion a bit risky. We are now going for scat analysis to ascertain the mother of the cub,” Ramarao said. Earlier, officials had decided to do a Covid-19 test on the cub by taking swab samples, but Nagpur Veterinary College returned the samples as it was not authorized to conduct such tests and suggested to sent them to Bhopal. “As the cub did not show any signs of coronavirus, we are not doing Covid-19 test,” said Ramarao. Chandrapur DFO AL Sonkusre says, “Scat samples of tigress were collected 3km from the spot where the cub was found. We had put a bait, which was killed by a tigress moving with cubs. The scat was found near the same spot. Hence, we are assuming it to be the scat of the same tigress. The tigress was localized and no other tiger was recorded in camera traps there.” CCMB had in 2007-08 done tiger estimation by scat analysis in six tiger reserves of Maharashtra. Wildlife biologist Aditya Joshi, who worked on tiger connectivity using genetics in Central India, said, “Scat analysis can be done to identify the parent. However, getting swab samples of tigress from the kill could have been the best option because we can link DNA sample to a tiger photograph using camera traps.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/scat-analysis-to-reunite-tiger-cub-with-mother/articleshow/75705434.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
May 13, 2020||Goa||‘Suspension of GMC doctor should be revoked’||PANAJI: The Goa Association of Resident Doctors (GARD) has sought revocation of the order suspending a senior resident attached with the radiology department at Goa Medical College (GMC) and Hospital until the inquiry is completed. The senior resident was accused of negligence of duty and placed under suspension after a preliminary report revealed that the doctor was absent from duty when former MLA Jitendra Deshprabhu was referred for a CT scan on April 21. The doctor had reportedly taken a lunch break when the patient was sent for scanning. GMC authorities said the senior resident doctor’s absence had delayed Deshprabhu’s CT scan who was admitted in a critical state. He died on the same day, and the cause of his death was cited as pneumonia. Condemning the suspension of their colleague, GARD on Tuesday stated that “hardworking frontline resident doctors are being wrongly portrayed in the eyes of the public”. The GARD statement read that Deshprabhu was taken to ward no 113 as per standing operating procedure (SOP). “The admission to the ward considered so that the patient could be put on urgent lifesaving treatment, but surprisingly, at this time, the relative accompanying the patient refused admission to this ward. The patient was then shifted to casualty, the reasons for which are under inquiry,” GARD said. It further stated that the patient’s condition worsened on the way to casualty with dropping oxygen saturation. “The need at that moment was urgent resuscitation and intubation for stabilisation, and not CT scan,” it stated. It is claimed that junior resident doctors of radiology were available throughout this time in their duty room, but were not informed about the case personally nor telephonically.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/suspension-of-gmc-doctor-should-be-revoked/articleshow/75705431.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Goa||Goa: Tar flow affected by piped bridge||PANAJI: An obstructive pipe-bridge across Tar river is likely to be replaced with a concrete one following a joint inspection of Mapusa Municipal Council (MMC) and other department officials indicating a major blockage to the river’s course. The structure, which was raised about 30 years ago when the bypass was first built from Green Park, Guirim to Peddem, Mapusa, hosts a water pipeline across the river to the town. The pipe bridge is an engineering blunder, as a 50m embankment was laid to erect it, choking the river. “The highway bridge over the river also encroaches on the river,” a Bastora resident said. “The CoP officials said that due to the piped culvert, their dredging machinery and barges cannot enter the river,” MMC chief officer Clen Madeira told TOI. After Madeira urged the authorities, an initiative has been launched to desilt some nullahs to prevent flooding. MMC will take up the matter with PWD once again for construction of a concrete bridge that can restore the river flow and clean the silted pipes . Madeira, hydrographic surveyor from captain of ports, Ram Gupta along with another official, municipal engineers, Venkatesh Sawant and Nadeem Sheikh, conducted the inspection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/tar-flow-affected-by-piped-bridge/articleshow/75706055.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Kolhapur||1,477 workers take Kolhapur’s 2nd Shramik train to Rajasthan||Kolhapur: A large number of migrant workers from Rajasthan — who were employed in sweet/bakery shops, snack-making units and the furniture industry — left for their homes in the second Shramik special train on Tuesday. As many as 1,477 workers took the 24-rake train from the Chhatrapati Shahu Maharaj Railway station at 6 am for Nagaur in Rajasthan. Kushal Suthar left Kolhapur with his extended family of 30 members. “I was the first from my family to come to Kolhapur eight years ago. I worked in a furniture-making unit in Shiroli. Since the lockdown, I have been out of work. Other family members too did not have jobs. I don’t know when I will be back. I may start my own business in my hometown. All my family members are now skilled in furniture work, therefore, I am taking all of them with me,” said Suthar. His 12-year-old son was carrying three cricket bats made by his uncle. “My younger brothers make toys and cricket bats,” said Suthar. Sohan Chowdhary, a sweet and bakery shop owner, came to the station with six workers who wanted to go back home. “I have 20 workers in my shop. They are all experts in making Rajasthani sweets and snacks. There are some Bengali workers too. However, they wanted to stay back. The business is down now, and I don’t think it will pick up soon. I can’t afford to keep all the workers here,” said Chowdhary. Meanwhile, hundreds of migrants held a rasta roko along the Ichalkaranji-Sangli road. They were seeking transport back to their hometown. They also said that they were not provided with ration and food regularly. The local authorities added most of these workers are from Karnataka and they will be sent home very soon. Some activists pointed out that the illiterate workers are still being asked to fill online travel forms. Ramesh Powar, an activist, said the migrants want to go home, but are not provided transportation only because they are unable to apply online. “We will arrange for transportation if the administration permits. We will take to the streets if their concerns are not resolved,” said Powar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/1477-workers-take-kolhapurs-2nd-shramik-train-to-rajasthan/articleshow/75704715.cms||---
May 13, 2020||India||Welfare of the people central to Modi government's decisions: Amit Shah||NEW DELHI: Making a full throttle endorsement of PM Narendra Modi’s call for a “self-reliant India”, senior BJP functionaries on Tuesday welcomed the package announced by him and also said the current leadership of the country has changed global perception about India. “India’s fight against coronavirus under the leadership of Modi ji has given a new direction to the world. The new India has not only stood against the crisis but has also extended support to the whole world, which has changed perception of the world towards our country, (sic)” said home minister Amit Shah, in a series of tweets with #AatmanirbharBharat. Shah said the PM has exhorted that 21st century should belong to India and time has come to change the slogan into a reality. He said people’s welfare is always central to the decisions taken by the Modi government. “The Rs 20-lakh crore package... is testimony to that thinking as it promises welfare of the poor, farmers, middle class and the traders...” Defence minister Rajnath Singh said the package will itself create opportunities for the country and draw a roadmap for a self-reliant India. “Consumption of swadeshi will make India self reliant. The new India can emerge only with domestic products,” Singh said. Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla too, in a series of tweets, said the PM has announced an unprecedented relief package in country’s war against the global corona pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/welfare-of-the-people-central-to-modi-governments-decisions-amit-shah/articleshow/75706559.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Surat||Lockdown-induced crisis forces man to end life||Surat: A 27-year-old employee of a milk dairy ended life in his house in Puna area of the city on Monday. The victim has left behind a suicide note in which he says that he is receiving threats from a private financier because of his failure to pay off debt.Arvind Kawad had hanged self with a rope which was tied to an iron rod in the ceiling of his rented accommodation on the third floor of the building. Police suspect Kawad had left his mobile phone camera on and positioned it in such a way that it shot his last moments. However, police are yet to recover the video since the phone is locked. Kawad in his one page suicide note says, "I am not committing suicide due to hunger, but because I am being threatened by a financier. He says if I don't pay his money within two days then he will kill me. However, I am not in a position to repay his money due to lockdown. I had invested the money taken from him in business. I have no other option but to commit suicide. Do not pay a single rupee to anyone after my death. Please take care of my mother.”"We are yet to collect details about his debt and threats issued by the financier since his family is busy with his funeral rites in their native village in Amreli district. We are yet to unlock mobile phone of Kawad. Hence, we do not know if he was being threatened by anyone over phone," said a police officer at Puna police station.Kawad's family had left for their native village in Amreli district a day ago. Kawad was to go to Amreli with his brother on Monday night on a motorcycle, but he committed suicide before they began their journey.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/lockdown-induced-crisis-forces-man-to-end-life/articleshow/75703631.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Hubballi||Discharged patient gets infected again in Belagavi, baffles many||Belagavi: A discharged Covid-19 patient has been retested positive for the infection even after recovering from the illness, puzzling many in the district. The patient (P-298) was first brought to Belagavi Institute of Medical Sciences (BIMS) on April 14 after his samples confirmed the infection. He was under a close watch due to comorbidity — he was suffering from diabetes and ischemic heart disease with CCF. According to BIMS, the patient was symptomatic during admission and the doctors succefully treated the patient, after which he was discharged on May 5. The government Covid facility ascertained his recovery after the throat swabs, taken on April 28 and 30, showed negative results consecutively. Although the patient was negative, he was under watch till May 5. Not to take any chance (as the patient was comorbid), BIMS collected samples again on the day of his discharge. Interestingly, he tested positive again on May 6, thus forcing the administration to readmit him. According to the latest health bulletin, the patient is stable. Debprasad Chattopadhyay, director of ICMR-NITM and a virologist, told TOI that the virus can stay in the human body for 37 days from the day he/ she tests positive. Chattopadhyay said the presence of the virus does not necessarily mean the person is symptomatic. After discharge, majority of those having viruses are asymptomatic. Speaking on the specific case, Chattopadhyay said at the time of testing the patient during his stay at the hospital, viral load may have been less. “The virus is behaving in a certain way for it to multiply steadily...,” he observed. He added that the virus may have multiplied enough to be detected again when the patient was tested for the third time. Chattopadhyay ruled out any reinfection, saying the virus was not dead in the patient’ body. BIMS director Vinay Dastikop said such cases have been reported across the world, while it’s the first in Belagavi. Dastikop also thinks that the viral load was less. He said the patient is asymptomatic, but is under observation and stable.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/discharged-patient-gets-infected-again-in-belagavi-baffles-many/articleshow/75703645.cms||Shreyas HS
May 13, 2020||Vijayawada||Child marriages go on despite lockdown in Andhra Pradesh||VIJAYAWADA: While the lockdown has ensured a fall in the number of crimes in general, child marriages in Andhra Pradesh seem to be on an upward curve. Many feel that with the police busy and officials tending to various duties, they could get away with child marriages. The woman development and child welfare department (WD&CW) has prevented as many as 165 child marriages in the state between March 25 and May 11. WD&CW director Kritika Shukla said that of the 165 complains of child marriages, Anantapur district reported the highest number of complaints —46, followed by Srikakulam—34. Krishna district reported 13 cases and Visakhapatnam 9 cases. Most of these child marriages were stopped upon intervention by authorities. In some cases, once the marriage is stopped, the children are not willing to stay with their parents. In such cases, the children are produced before child welfare committees (CWC). Based on CWC’s orders, the children are taken to Kasturba Balika Vidyalayas or Swadhar homes, the director said. In Srikakulam recently, a villager alerted officials that an underage girl was being married off secretly. When officials reached the village and enquired, the girl’s parents claimed that their daughter was above marriageable age. But an enquiry by officials revealed that the girl was a minor and the marriage was stopped. Sources say that with people restricted to their homes and officials on Covid-19 duty, people may have thought that they could get away with child marriages without getting caught. But Angandwadi workers, Childline, child marriage prevention officers and local police have together managed to prevent such marriages.  Anganwadi workers are tracking the cases with the help of Ward Mahila Samrakshana Karyadarshi. Moreover, ICDS supervisors and child marriage prevention officers are monitoring cases and counselling parents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/child-marriages-go-on-despite-lockdown/articleshow/75703638.cms||Nalla.Babu
May 13, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand to urge PM Narendra Modi for opening of Char Dham Yatra for pilgrims||DEHRADUN: The Uttarakhand government has decided to write to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to urge him to allow opening of Char Dham Yatra for pilgrims. The issue was raised in a recent meeting of council of ministers. Following which, the feedback is being taken from all the stakeholders. The government is planning to open the yatra for the entire state as 10 out of the 13 districts are currently in green zone, two in orange and Haridwar is the only district in red zone. “If not for the entire state, then we will request the yatra to be opened for the districts falling in green zone. We have to see that there are several hotel owners and other stakeholders in the green zone who will not earn a single penny if the yatra remains suspended,” state tourism minister Satpal Maharaj told TOI. The minister pointed out that the views of all stakeholders is being taken into account and will be incorporated in the letter to be forwarded to the PM. “To improve the economy of the entire region, we need to take some positive decisions while keeping in mind social distancing and other precautions required,” said Maharaj. The opening of portals of Badrinath is scheduled for May 15 and the doors of the three revered shrines have already been opened in the last week of April. The Char Dham yatra provides an annual revenue of approximately Rs 2,000 crore to all the stake holders including, the state government, hotel and restaurant owners, priests, pony owners and porters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-to-urge-pm-for-opening-of-char-dham-yatra-for-pilgrims/articleshow/75703649.cms||Kautilya Singh
May 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Seven months pregnant, woman on 800-km trek to reach her home||HYDERABAD: Even as Prime Minister Narendra Modi spoke about resilience and a new resolve to fight the coronavirus pandemic amidst the ongoing lockdown, a migrant worker, who is in her seventh month of pregnancy, is determined to walk nearly 800 km to her home in Bilaspur in Chhattisgarh — all the way from Hyderabad. Mujibur Renu says she has no choice but to walk to reach her home. Having already trekked 170 km along with her husband, the couple halted at Indalvai toll gate near Nizamabad on Tuesday for a break. There were 15 others walking with the couple. Their efforts to get an entry into one of the Shramik special trains having failed, they had decided enough was enough and started walking. “I am exhausted. I cannot walk continuously... so I sit once in a while,” 32-year-old Renu told TOI over phone. “We have no other option but to keep walking. If we get a ride, it’s fine. Or else, we will walk. The wait to get a seat in the train is just too long,” she rued. “It is better to move ahead than die hungry,” she added. “We have no money left to survive in Hyderabad.” Renu, who is expecting her first child with husband Mujibur Rahman, said they came down to Hyderabad in 2018. “We were working at a construction site in Bachupally. We ran out of all options to stay here,” Rahman said. It is common to find hundreds of workers walking in large groups on NH-44 to cross the inter-state borders. National Highway 44 is the longest-running National Highway in India. It is 3,745-km long and covers the north-south corridor. It starts from Srinagar in the north and ends at Kanyakumari in the south. The workers say they are choosing to take the journey by foot on two counts — one, they are not getting food in the city and second, the endless wait for a berth on the special trains. While the state government has arranged free travel on trains, the wait to get a ‘movement pass’ after registering their names seems to have put them on the edge. Many also complained about running out of ration, which they had received from the government. “Yes, we had received Rs 500 and 12kg rice last month. This May, we received some rice from another organisation which lasted only a week. We have no money left to buy food. Whatever little money we had, we have spent in the last one-and-a-half months,” explained Somesh Kumar, an industrial worker at Patancheru. Somesh, who hails from Uttar Pradesh, was also walking home along with the 15-member group. According to some volunteers who distribute food and water to the migrant workers on NH-44, they come across not less than 4,000 to 5,000 people walking, cycling or hitchhiking everyday. “Local legislators or public representatives should at least arrange food and transport for these workers up to Maharashtra border. Most of them are walking together or taking a lift from truck drivers which is risky when Covid-19 is spreading rapidly,” Ganga Reddy, a film writer, told TOI. Reddy has been documenting the plight of migrant labourers since one month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/7-months-pregnant-woman-on-800-km-trek-to-reach-her-home/articleshow/75705447.cms||Moulika.KV
May 13, 2020||Goa||Five held for possession of illegal fire arms in Goa||PONDA: Ponda police arrested five persons on Tuesday for illegal possession of fire arms, ammunitions and spares of fire arms. Two of them have been remanded and three are released on bail, said Ponda PI Mohan Gaude. Gaude said they constituted a team after receiving a tip-off and raided areas in Shiroda and Borim villages. The team arrested Rosario Fernandes, 52 Vasudev Gaonkar, 40, Vishwas Velip, 53, Vinod Shirodkar, 55, Niraj Chari, 41. Five different offences have been registered against the five accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/five-held-for-possession-of-illegal-fire-arms/articleshow/75706062.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Trichy||Traders urge govt to facilitate rent waiver of shops||Trichy: Traders have urged the state government to instruct the commercial complex owners to waive off monthly shop rents during the lockdown period between March and May.Tamilnadu Vanigar Sangankalin Peramaippu said that except for the grocery stores and vegetable stalls, business for other commercial outlets were hit severely post the covid-19 pandemic. As the lockdown imposed in the last week of March 2020 is still continuing, the traders federation sought the state government to make a formal announcement insisting the landlords of commercial complexes to refrain from collecting monthly rents for the three months starting from March. “Small-scale traders are being pressurised by their landlords to pay the rent or vacate the shops. With the shops kept closed for months, the small-scale traders are not in a position to pay the outstanding monthly rents. Governments should intervene and help traders,” Ve Govindarajalu, state general secretary of the federation said. Traders said that the landlords of the shops collecting monthly rent below Rs 15,000 were the most to pressurise the traders to pay the rent. “Commercial complex owners collecting rent in lakhs are agreeing to wait. We need similar respite for the small-scale traders as well. Even after reopening the stalls in recent days, there is no cash flow and sales happening,” Govindarajalu added. The traders federation also has sought the state government to instruct the commercial complex owners to collect only 50% of the monthly rent for the next three months till August 2020. To prevent the landlords from demanding the monthly rent for the shops that were closed during the lockdown, the traders also urged the state government and local bodies to waive off property tax for the commercial complexes during the lockdown period. There are over 1 lakh shops in Trichy city and suburbs with at least 4 lakh people directly and indirectly dependent on the shops for a living.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/traders-urge-govt-to-facilitate-rent-waiver-of-shops/articleshow/75705442.cms||Deepak Karthik
May 13, 2020||Nagpur||Tehsildar escapes bid on life by sand mafia||Nagpur: Pauni tehsildar Gajanan Kokorde, circle officer Kawte and team had a narrow escape from being mowed down after they intercepted two sand mafia trucks. In a bid to escape, the sand mafia men rammed the vehicle of the revenue department officials on Moru river bridge near Bhiwapur in the early hours of Tuesday. An offence of attempt to murder has been registered against Rabbul Khan and Kalam Khan for their alleged involvement in attacking the revenue department team. Apart from dashing Kokorde’s car, the sand mafia men had also thrashed patwari Patil accompanying the revenue officers. It’s learnt Kokorde and his team had tried to intercept trucks of the sand mafia near Neelaj, but the smugglers managed to flee the spot. After intercepting two trucks, Kokorde had asked the drivers to follow him to Pauni police station. He had also asked Patil board a truck and make the driver to follow him. After a short distance, the truck driver and his accomplice thrashed Patil and fled after throwing him off the vehicle. Kokorde noticed this and he started chasing the trucks. He intercepted the vehicles once again on Moru river bridge after overtaking them. In a bid to flee, one of the truck drivers dashed Kokorde’s vehicle from behind and fled the spot. Kokorde initially approached Bhiwapur police station but the case was later transferred to Pauni police station. Activist Nitin Tiwari said the sand mafia members had also attacked a woman tehsildar in Nagpur earlier.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/tehsildar-escapes-bid-on-life-by-sand-mafia/articleshow/75705444.cms||Soumitra Bose
May 13, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand: Child rights body seeks action taken report on flesh trade complaint||DEHRADUN: The State Commission for Protection of Child Rights (SCPCR) has sought an action taken report from Uttarakhand’s director general of police regarding the complaint lodged by activists of Vikasnagar against flesh trade in the area. The move comes after more than half-a-dozen female residents of Vikasnagar registered a complaint before National Commission for Women (NCW) in March this year regarding “rampant drug abuse and flesh trade activities in Vikasnagar and Herbetpur areas”. The activists had alleged that minor girls, especially those living in Chakrata, are trapped into drug addiction by miscreants and then thrown into flesh trade. The women activists also mentioned that they had already brought this issue before the cops of the respective areas but no action was taken. The activists didn’t fail to inform the NCW that hoteliers and lodge-owners in the area facilitate the trade. They even told the commission that a stipulated monthly amount is paid to concerning official so that the matter is not taken up and when the women brought the crime to the fore, the officials tried to brush it under the carpet and threatened them. Taking cognisance of the issue, NCW recently forwarded the complaint to National Commission for Protection of Child Rights from where it was forwarded to SCPCR as the matter involves minor girls. A TOI source in the commission also disclosed that the matter was brought to the notice of SSP Dehradun on May 4 by the NCPCR. Later, the DGP was also made aware of the matter to ensure that action is taken within due time. The SCPCR order to the DGP (a copy of which is with TOI) reads, “A special police team is required to be formed to investigate the matter as it is an issue of extremely serious nature. And the findings of the investigations and action taken information be submitted before the commission within fifteen days.” The letter is signed by Usha Negi, the chairperson of the commission. Incidentally, police have rescued young girls from the clutches of criminals in Vikasnagar and Herbetpur areas in the past as well. However, the locals of these areas are upset that some police officials have now joined hands with the culprits rather than protecting people from them. Babita Chauhan, one of the complainants, told TOI, “We are very sure that the crime is taking place in the areas and that is why we have even mentioned the names of the hotels and lodges which allow such immoral acts. Young girls are being fooled for money and then thrown into this unending agony of flesh trade. We can give all kinds of proofs that cops require but first, they need to at least start investigating. All the responsible citizens of Vikasnagar will come forward to support the truth.” (The victims' identity has not been revealed to protect their privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/child-rights-body-seeks-action-taken-report-on-flesh-trade-complaint/articleshow/75703716.cms||Shivani Azad
May 13, 2020||Dehradun||Injured leopard rescued, taken to Chiriyapur rescue centre||Dehradun: A three-year-old female leopard was rescued by officials after it sustained injuries in a fight with buffaloes in Aurangabad beat of Khanpur range in Haridwar forest division on Tuesday. The injured cat was found by the patrolling team of the forest department. After a couple of hours of struggle, the big cat was tranquilised and taken to Chiriyapur rescue centre for further treatment. The villagers confirmed that a leopard was seen chasing buffaloes in a nearby village. They added that the leopard ran into dense forest only after they started making sounds to scare it. Due to fear of poachers, rampant patrolling of forest is being conducted and therefore, the young leopard could be saved. The wildlife crime bureau had recently alerted Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh to stay on alert as members of the notorious “bawariya” gang are missing and they may resort to illegal forest activities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/injured-leopard-rescued-taken-to-chiriyapur-rescue-centre/articleshow/75703667.cms||Shivani Azad
May 13, 2020||Dehradun||Three die in separate incidents in US Nagar||Rudrapur: Two men were killed in separate road accidents on Tuesday, while another man, in depression due to his illness, committed suicide in Udham Singh Nagar district on the day. Police have sent the dead bodies for postmortem examination. The first accident took place when 22-year-old Deepak, a resident of Ratanpura village in Bazpur town, was travelling to Jogipura village on his bike with his friend Rajesh riding pillion. Deepak’s bike was hit by a speeding truck coming from the opposite direction on National Highway 74. Both Deepak and Rajesh sustained injuries and were rushed to a private hospital where doctors announced Deepak as brought dead while Rajesh is still undergoing treatment. The police managed to nab the errant driver and also impounded the vehicle. In another accident, Amjad Khan (45), a resident of Kelakhera town of the district, was run over by an unidentified vehicle and died on the spot. The victim was going to the nearby Fatehpur village on his bicycle to fetch milk when the accident took place. Police have registered a case in this regard. In the third incident, a 65-year-old man suffering from liver ailment allegedly committed suicide in Ravindra Nagar colony of the city. The deceased was identified as Nirmal Mandal and had been battling an illness for the past ten years. His family members found his body hanging from a ceiling on Tuesday morning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/three-die-in-separate-incidents-in-us-nagar/articleshow/75703668.cms||Aakash Ahuja
May 13, 2020||Vadodara||300 dancers from seven countries to attempt world record today||VADODARA: Like others they too are locked inside their homes. But the spirit of dance and their artistic inclination is bringing together more than 300 dancers of seven countries including India, United States, Canada, Australia, Sri Lanka, Mauritius and Bangladesh on an online platform to create a world record. M S University’s Department of Dance will attempt a world record through Facebook live on Wednesday as current teachers and students, alumni and former students spread globally will stage live performances of Kathak and Bharatnatyam dressed in ‘punjabi dress’ and ‘davni’ (practice sarees). “The live performance will be on a poem ‘Shatru hain adrishya’ penned by Sharad Gupta, working with Indian Railways in Mumbai. We have got it composed from a 16-year-old boy Shivam Singh, who sings well and also has a studio set up at his house. The task is challenging as everything has to be done without stepping out of their houses,” said Dr Smruti Vaghela, assistant professor at the department and coordinator of the project. The attempt to create India’s world record is to keep positive atmosphere through creativity during the stressful times. “We are dedicating this world record to all stalwarts and past gurus of our department and M S University,” she said. Dancers from six states including Gujarat, Maharashtra, Punjab, UP, WB and Assam will perform live in the 10 minutes performance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/300-dancers-from-7-countries-to-attempt-world-record-today/articleshow/75702489.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Surat||Surat: Married businessman rapes minor for four years on promise of marriage||SURAT: A 41-year-old married businessman was booked at Dumas police station for allegedly raping an 18-year-old girl for the past four years. The accused had developed friendship with the girl when she was around 15 years of age and used to go to play near his house. The accused started raping her at his house and then began taking her to different places in 2016. Police booked Mehul Patel, a resident of Abhva village near the city, on Monday for allegedly raping the girl who lives near his house. The accused has been booked for rape under Indian Penal Code and Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. He has also been booked for atrocity under The Scheduled Castes and Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act. The accused had promised the girl that he will marry her when she turned 18. The girl has alleged in her complaint that the accused had asked her to come with papers proving her age and that he will divorce his wife and marry her. When the girl approached him with papers recently, the accused told her that he will marry her after lockdown. When the girl refused to go back home, the accused thrashed her. Later he sent the girl in a car promising to take her out of station soon. The car brought the girl to his garage near his house where she was kept from April 20 to 27. Meanwhile, the girl's family came to know about her ordeal and rescued her. ( The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/married-bizman-rapes-minor-for-four-years-on-promise-of-marriage/articleshow/75703652.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Business||Philips to invest Rs 300 crore in India, hire 1,000 more||BENGALURU: Healthcare and consumer electronics company Philips said it will invest about Rs 300 crore (40 million euros) over the next three years in India to boost its manufacturing and R&D facilities. This comes at a time when many companies are re-evaluating their capex plans due to the impact of Covid-19. The Dutch firm’s India unit will make X-ray equipment, MRI (magnetic resonance imaging) components, and ultrasound machines at its facility in Pune whose capacity will be doubled in the coming days and will hire an additional 1,000 people. The factory, which started the expansion, is closed because of the lockdown, but construction will begin as soon as permission is obtained. “Covid-19 is not stopping us from our plans as we double down on our investments and focus on India,” said Daniel Mazon, vice-chairman and MD for the Indian subcontinent. The company has 6,000 people in India. The target, said Mazon, is to make healthcare facilities affordable enough to take them to tier II and III cities. The company also sees demand increasing for its connected care solutions amid the pandemic, and will work towards more public-private-partnerships (PPP) in this space. It already works on a PPP model in areas like cardiology, radiology and oncology and aims to double the number of such partnerships from the current 100. Mazon said PPPs have worked well for the company globally. A new area of focus in India is connected healthcare, which combines hardware like monitors and ventilators to patient monitoring and access systems to provide better treatment. “This will also help hospitals in smaller towns connect to a specialty hospital in a larger city. We are in talks with many state governments to start implementing this,” Mazon said. Philips will also expand its R&D operation in Bengaluru, where it is setting up a new campus that will be ready in three years. It is expected to house 5,000 employees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/philips-to-invest-rs-300cr-in-india-hire-1000-more/articleshow/75704740.cms||Avik Das
May 13, 2020||Goa||Goa: Four foreigners held for staying illegally at Parra||PANAJI: Goa police has arrested four foreigners including a woman for illegally staying in Parra. Superintendent of police, anti narcotic cell, Shobhit Saxena told TOI that a joint raid was conducted by ANC and Mapusa police after they received information of some foreigners staying at Parra without valid documents. Saxena said that they were staying without any passport, visa or identification documents. “While the three male foreigners claim to be from Nigeria and the woman from Kenya, their identities are being determined,” he said. Saxena said that they are verifying records of the foreigners to check if they are involved in any narcotic cases. “They have been lodged at the detention centre for deportation and black listing,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/four-foreigners-held-for-staying-illegally-at-parra/articleshow/75706068.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Dehradun||RWAs in a fix over allowing domestic staff inside societies||DEHRADUN: After surviving for over 40 days without the domestic helpers, the residents are divided on allowing the domestic helpers inside the residential societies. The issue has become a talking point on whatsApp group of various RWAs. Residents said that it has become difficult to decide if the workers should be allowed to come back to work and there must be a system which can ensure the safety of the residents Talking to TOI Brig (retd) Virendra Agarwal, president of Racecourse valley said “ Like everything during the lockdown, the administration should fix rules and guidelines for permitting the domestic helpers inside societies. Leaving the decision to the respective RWA’s leaves us in quandary as some residents want us to allow helpers while others are skeptical about it. In case the RWA’s take a decision the administration must extend their support.” However, there are residents who feel that in the interest of the people especially senior citizens in the society, domestic helpers should stay away for a while. Mahesh Bhandari, president of Doon resident welfare front, said “The decision should be left with the RWA members. Since, we are paying full salaries to the workers and the administration is ensuring supply of dry ration to people in need, there is no harm in waiting till the lockdown ends.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/rwas-in-a-fix-over-allowing-domestic-staff-inside-societies/articleshow/75703691.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Dehradun||Leopard’s body found in Nainital, poaching suspected||Nainital: A leopard’s body was found dead in the Jeolikote area of Nainital district on Tuesday. The leopard’s body was decaying and is predicted to be at least a month old. Locals also found a trap wire around its neck which raises suspicion of poaching. A local Paras Raj Bora spotted the leopard’s remains while he was on a stroll in the area and informed the forest department. “I found that the remains of leopard were trapped in a wire. The remains were decaying and it seems that the body is at least a month old. I immediately informed the forest department and then, the officials took the body,” Bora told TOI. He lives around 300 metres away from the spot where the leopard’s body was found. Bora added that this is the third such incident in the area. “In June 2018, a leopard was found trapped just a few metres away from the spot. Later, he was rescued by the forest department and sent to Ranibagh’s rescue centre. Similarly, in July 2019, another leopard was trapped in the wire and it died in the forest fire just around 200 metres from here,” Bora added. Meanwhile, the forest department officials who visited the spot said that they have taken the body and a forensic analysis will reveal the cause of the leopard’s death. “We have taken the remains into custody and a forensic analysis will be conducted to ascertain the cause of the leopard’s death. Anything conclusive can only be said after the analysis,” said the official present on the spot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/leopards-body-found-in-nainital-poaching-suspected/articleshow/75703729.cms||Prashant Jha
May 13, 2020||Rajkot||81 booked; 88 vehicles impounded in Amreli district||Rajkot: The Amreli district police have booked as many as 81 people and seized 88 vehicles for the alleged violation of the lockdown order in the past 24 hours.“Those booked were caught with their vehicles at 43 different check posts erected at the various entry and exit points of Amreli district,” said a senior official from the Amreli district police. Of those booked included nine persons who had opened their business establishments like shops, flour mill, small units, hand carts and shops selling tobacco products. They had allegedly gathered crowds outside their establishments while not caring about social distancing. Other 18 people were booked for moving on their vehicles without any valid reasons by Pipavav marine, Lathi, Khambha, Savarkundala, Dungar, Amreli taluka, Rajula, Jafrabad, Bagasara and Amreli city police stations. There were another 18 people among those booked for not maintaining social distancing and crowding around by Vadia, Khambha and Savarkundala police stations. Among those booked were two persons who were booked for not wearing masks and not keeping sanitizer. Of those booked also included 22 people who had allegedly crossed into Amreli district from Lathi, Khambha, Damnagar, Liliya, Rajula and Bagasara.The other 10 persons were booked who had gone out of their houses while being under home quarantine. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/81-booked-88-vehicles-impounded-in-amreli-district/articleshow/75703679.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Kochi||Kochi: Radio Mirchi thanks nurses||KOCHI: Radio Mirchi on Tuesday reached out to the nursing community on the occasion of International Nurses Day. As a gesture of thanking the ‘Super Nurses of Kerala’, who are providing yeoman service in the midst of a pandemic, Radio Mirchi handed over five kg of rice to 50 nurses of Thrikkakkara municipal hospital. The initiative ‘Mirchi Super Nurses’ was undertaken with the help of clients. Year 2020 has been designated as the International Year of the Nurse and the Midwife by the World Health Organization in recognition of the contributions made by them and the risks associated with nursing shortages. International Nurses Day is celebrated every year on May 12, which also happens to be the birth anniversary of Florence Nightingale.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/radio-mirchi-thanks-nurses/articleshow/75703680.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Vimsar to scale up testing||Sambalpur: The state government is planning to scale up the Covid-19 testing capacity of the laboratory at the Veer Surendra Sai Institute of Medical Sciences and Research (Vimsar), Burla, to 1,000 tests per day. One new recombinant technology polymerase chain reaction (rt PCR) test machine besides five truenat machines will be installed at Vimsar for this purpose shortly. At present, one rt PCR test machine with a capacity to test 100 swab samples per day has been there at the Covid-19 testing laboratory at the hospital. Nodal officer of the Covid laboratory, Vimsar, Benudhar Pandey said, “The installation of the new machines will enable us to conduct test of 1000 swab samples per day. The government has already asked us to develop the required infrastructure and make the manpower ready for conducting 1,000 tests daily.” Pandey said 37 persons have been involved for testing at the laboratory now. There are 30 experts from microbiology department of Vimsar, five experts from biotechnology department of Sambalpur University and two from the biotechnology department of Gangadhar Meher University (GMU) of Sambalpur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/vimsar-to-scale-up-testing/articleshow/75703727.cms||Subrat Mohanty
May 13, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Visakhapatnam: We can still smell styrene in air, say locals of Railway Colony||VISAKHAPATNAM: Residents of Railway Colony near Simhachalam, that is around 2kms from the LG Polymers plant, claim that they can still smell styrene in the air and appeals to authorities concerned have fallen on deaf ears. Speaking to TOI, Ananth Sekhar, one of the residents of the Railway Colony where around 500 people live, alleged that he smelled styrene in the air in the early hours of Tuesday. “We could smell the gas in the early hours of the day. So we approached the management of LG Polymers and they convinced us that the leak has been plugged and the gas is not leaking anymore. Although a few police personnel visited our colony, they claimed that they could not smell it and left, Sekhar said. Residents of the colony, K Prasad and J Srinu, underling the seriousness of the situation said that loco pilot Jeevan Kumar of Rajahmundry and goods guard L Mandal of Simhachalam had stepped out of the railway crew office to report for duty on May 7, the day the styrene leak took place, and fell unconscious. “Inhaling styrene may lead to long-term health effects. We appeal to the health department to visit our colony and ascertain the situation and conduct medical tests on us,” the locals added. As a precautionary measure, residents have shifted their cows and buffalos to a safe place. The gas leak has already killed the vegetation in the colony. The residents of the colony are chalking out plans to meet the members of various committees, who are visiting the affected villages, and raise their complaint.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/we-can-still-smell-styrene-in-air-say-locals-of-rly-colony/articleshow/75703684.cms||Nalla.Babu
May 13, 2020||Chennai||Local medical manufacturing can help cap mounting bills||Chennai: After shutdown of elective surgeries, "non-essential" consultations and children’s vaccinations during the Covid-19 pandemic, hospitals across the state were partially empty. The crisis, which has brought the healthcare sector in the state to its knees, can only transform by making permanent reforms the pandemic has forced, experts say.First on the list is making the country self-reliant with medical equipment and diagnostics. "Lessons learned from this pandemic are valuable," said Dr G S K Velu, Trivitron chairman and MD during the TOI’s virtual conclave, ‘Making Tamil Nadu Future Positive’, on the healthcare industry. "A country of 1.3 billion can no longer be dependent on imported diagnostic kits and medical equipment," he said.In March, when India began to see an increase in the number of Covid-19 cases, the country was forced to import testing kits. But within weeks, with support from the Union and state governments many indigenous manufacturers began making these kits — both the RT-PCR and antibody. "By the end of May most manufacturers should be able to make enough kits so we don’t have to import them anymore," said Dr Velu. Medical equipment manufacturing is at a stage where the Indian pharmaceutical industry was in the 1980s. "Today, no one looks at the manufacturer when they buy a medicine because quality control is ensured," he said. For that to happen in equipment manufacturing, government must support and place orders for ECMOs, ultrasounds and scans that are made in India.Indigenous equipment will also bring down cost of treatment for patients, said Apollo Hospitals Enterprises executive vice-chairman Preetha Reddy. "India has done reasonably compared to many developing countries. Our sanitization and social distancing protocols seem to have an effect. We have fewer mortalities and fewer number of healthcare workers are infected. We may soon have a larger number of patients coming from other countries," she said.Going forward, telemedicine, artificial intelligence, along with homecare, involving a lot of technology interfaces will be a part of the healthcare protocol. "Diabetologists or dermatologists may continue to see patients online, though it can never be a substitute for face-to-face interactions in some situations," said surgical gastroenterologist Dr V Baskaran, medical director, MIOT hospital. "If there is one thing that has changed for good, it is the public-private partnership. For a long time, the government did not trust private hospitals. And people did not trust government hospitals. Now, with Covid-19 the government has accepted many private hospitals as partners. It’s time for private hospitals to change too," he said.Keeping the cost of treatment low is a challenge as hospitals are forced to use PPEs and other disposables, which are expensive and not yet covered by the health insurance providers.The private healthcare industry is not looking for freebies from the government but does need some relief. "But we welcome short-term funding at rock bottom interest rates or relief in the form of MAT credit, which is our money in their account," Reddy said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/local-medical-manufacturing-can-help-cap-mounting-bills/articleshow/75706070.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Vijayasai stays the night in affected village||Visakhapatnam: It will be ensured that RR Venkatapuram and other areas affected by the LG Polymers gas leak are made safe, said YSRC MP Vijayasai Reddy on Tuesday. Speaking to media persons after a night stay in one of the affected villages and visit to the plant, the YSRC general secretary said district officials have brought the people back to the villages after confirming that the styrene in the atmosphere has been neutralised. “Shifting of chemical styrene from Visakhapatnam to Korea has started. Around 8,000 tonnes was shifted on Tuesday and another 5,000 tonnes would be shifted in two to three days. To instil confidence among the public, we the elected representatives – ministers, MLAs, and MPs — stayed in the affected villages,” he said. He added that medical camps would be conducted in the villages. Most of the residents of the affected villages have returned to their homes and people undergoing treatment at various hospitals may be discharged in a day or two, he said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/vijayasai-stays-the-night-in-affected-village/articleshow/75703743.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Goa||Goa: WRD set to tighten screws on illegal borewells, wells||PANAJI: Tired of violators illegally digging wells and borewells and then seeking to regularise the illegality by paying a meagre fine of Rs 5,000, the Water Resources Department (WRD) has decided to propose that this fine be hiked by three or four times as a deterrent. This is among the amendments to the Goa Groundwater Regulation Act, 2002, and Rules, 2003, to be effected soon. “Many are digging wells and borewells, mainly for commercial purposes, and then asking (for them) to be regularised,” said WRD executive engineer Anant Bhagwat. “They want to take the easier route rather than going through the process of applying formally. When we ask why the well or borewell was illegally dug up, they claim to have been ignorant of the law that makes prior permission mandatory.” Borewells are not permitted within close proximity of one another and by digging one before seeking permission, violators are eliminating the possibility of the permission being denied. Bhagwat said that the current fine of Rs 5,000 for illegal digging of wells and borewells was too low, and in a state with a high per capita income like Goa, it feels like peanuts for violators to shell out this amount. “We want to regulate the extraction of water in Goa when we are still in the safe zone in terms of groundwater. At present, the groundwater extraction in Goa is only 35%, as against 200% in states like Punjab and Haryana, where the industrial units are far higher,” said Bhagwat. He said that the WRD will also simultaneously tighten screws for those operating borewell digging machines in Goa. “It is mandatory for borewell digging machines operating in Goa to register with us, and therefore, their operations are monitored. But we have noticed that there are many who are coming with machines from across the border, digging, and returning. Currently, it is difficult for us to monitor their operations,” said Bhagwat. After WRD called on citizens to register their open wells, 6,502 wells have been entered into the records, while another 1,025 borewells are registered with the WRD at present. Registering wells and borewells helps the department monitor if there is over-exploitation of groundwater.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/wrd-set-to-tighten-screws-on-illegal-borewells-wells/articleshow/75706081.cms||Gauree Malkarnekar
May 13, 2020||Mangaluru||Interim report on cluster out, but no breakthrough on P-0||Mangaluru: A six-member team of experts probing the Covid-19 cluster at First Neuro Hospital, Padil, is no closer to finding the source or ‘P-0,’ after more than 1,000 swabs were tested. In Dakshina Kannada, the hospital has links to 19 out of 33 Covid-19 cases recorded so far, but none that can be conclusively traced to the hospital, experts maintained in their interim report, and have sought time to await results of reports of patients from Kerala treated and discharged from here, before coming to any conclusion. District health and family welfare officer Ramachandra Bairy, deposing before a meeting that district minister Kota Shrinivas Poojari chaired on Monday, said 19 out of the 1,000 swabs collected from those connected to the hospital have tested positive. While 8 are from Kasba village in Bantwal, 3 were infected at the hospital, including a ward staff member, patient and her son, and the the remaining six who tested positive are from Boloor under the Mangaluru City Corporation limits, Dr Bairy said. All those who came in contact with the ward staff member of the hospital, who tested positive, have tested negative for Covid-19. Even patients from Chikkamagaluru and Kodagu were treated at the hospital. Reports of patients from Kodagu and Chikkamagaluru and their primary contacts have tested negative. The missing link is Covid-19 reports of both inpatients and outpatients from Kerala treated at the hospital, and results of their swab reports could help in identifying the source, he said. “We are in touch with our counterparts in Kerala for reports of patients from the neighbouring state, who were treated at First Neuro Hospital,” Dr Bairy said. With these reports being crucial in tracing P-0 , Dr Bairy sought time to await the same, before coming to any conclusion. The minister said since there is lot of speculation about the source of the outbreak in the district since April 19, it is imperative for the same to be cleared at the earliest, before one could move forward. S Suresh Kumar, minister in-charge of Covid-19 for Karnataka, said, “As we can’t afford to leave any stone unturned in our fight against Covid-19, there is nothing wrong in having a look regarding patients treated at First Neuro Hospital. Uttara Kannada district authorities feel that the First Neuro Hospital has in a way contributed to the spurt in cases. We will do nothing to discredit any individual or institution, but we should do everything to get to the root of the infections,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/interim-report-on-cluster-out-but-no-breakthrough-on-p-0/articleshow/75703735.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Amaravati||Water row: AP won’t take more than its quota, CM YS Jaganmohan Reddy tells Telangana||AMARAVATI: Expressing displeasure at Telangana’s plans to sue his state, AP CM YS Jaganmohan Reddy on Tuesday said the state would not draw even a drop of water more than its allocated quota from Srisailam project. The response came even as Telangana on Tuesday lodged a complaint with the Krishna River Management Board (KRMB) against the neighbouring state. Jagan said Telangana was blowing it out of proportion. Defending the move to widen Pothireddypadu canal to draw surplus floodwater, he said both states could draw from Srisailam only as per quota fixed by Brajesh Kumar Tribunal and monitored by KRMB. At a meeting with senior irrigation officials, Jagan said: “We can only tap surplus floodwater to avoid wastage. How can we draw additional water without seeking permission from KRMB?” Expressing anguish at Telangana for politicising the issue, he said the neighbouring state was aware of the fact that the entire Rayalaseema region, Prakasam and Nellore districts are always short of drinking water. “Anybody should see the issue from a humanitarian angle.” The CM said they were compelled to meet the water needs of Rayalaseema, Nellore and Prakasam within 10 days. He said AP could draw 7,000 cusecs at 854 ft and 1,000 cusecs at 841 ft. Jagan explained that AP could draw 44,000 cusecs into Pothireddypadu canal when the Srisailam level is at 881 ft. “Official records have shown that water was not flowing for more than 10 days at above 881 ft in Srisailam to draw water into Pothireddypadu,” he argued. He said the new Veligonda project could draw 9,000 cusecs from two tunnels at 854 ft in Srisailam. Taking potshots at Telangana, he said the neighbouring state drew nearly 200 tmcft at 800ft level by taking 2 tmcft daily for Palamuru-Rangareddy project for nearly 45 days, 40 tmc for Kalwakurthi lift irrigation, 30 tmc for Dindi lift scheme and another 40 tmc from Srisailam Left Bank Canal at 824 ft. “When Telangana could draw water from Srisailam even at 800 ft, what is wrong in AP tapping waters at 881 ft? How could they think about leaving others to suffer despite knowing facts?” Jagan wondered. He said they were only making use of surplus floodwater. It may be recalled Jagan and KCR had held several rounds of meetings to resolve contentious issues related to sharing of Krishna and Godavari river water.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/water-row-ap-wont-take-more-than-its-quota-jagan-tells-t/articleshow/75705467.cms||Samdani MN
May 13, 2020||Rajkot||Gujarat: Grandmother, brother kill alcohol addict||RAJKOT: Tired of his drunken fights, a grandmother killed her 22-year-old grandson in a fit of blind raze in Advana village of Porbandar taluka on Monday night. She was assisted in the act by the deceased’s brother, said the police who arrested both accused on Tuesday. Police said Puri Bhutiya and her grandson Ramesh, bludgeoned Bhavesh to death after another episode of drunken fight. “Ramesh said that his brother Bhavesh was alcoholic and always beat up their grandmother in an inebriated state. On Monday night too, Bhavesh attacked his grandmother again, when she couldn’t take it any more. She grabbed Bhavesh from behind, while Ramesh hit him with a bat on the head,” said Y B Akhed, sub-inspector with Bagawadar police station. “Initially, the accused tried to mislead us by saying that Bhavesh had died after falling off the terrace. However, Bhavesh’s postmortem report revealed that he was bludgeoned to death. When we interrogated Ramesh, he confessed to the crime,” added Akhed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/grandmother-brother-kill-alcohol-addict/articleshow/75703734.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Dehradun||3 lakh expected to return to Uttarakhand; 10 more trains sought||DEHRADUN: With as many as 1.98 lakh people enrolling themselves through the link provided by the state, the Uttarakhand is expecting the arrival of around 2.5 lakh people in the next few weeks. To ensure that all returning are placed under quarantine, the authorities are preparing the chart only after going through the arrangements available in the district concerned. Transport secretary Shailesh Bagauli, who is also the nodal officer for the process, said, “Two trains have already arrived at Kathogdam and Haridwar and some more are lined up for the next few days.” He added that around 1,200 to 1,400 people can be brought back in a train. Trains from Surat, Pune and Bengaluru are expected to arrive within the next two days and the state has requested the rail ministry for trains from Jaipur, Punjab, Chennai, Kerala, Goa, Lucknow and Hyderabad. “A request for train is made only after seeing the number of people stranded in a particular city. We have requested for 10 more trains on different routes,” he added. Till Tuesday, 1.98 lakh people have registered themselves through the link. A total of 51,394 people have returned and out of the 29,775 people who had registered to go to other states from Uttarakhand, 9,770 have already left. On the issue of payment of rail ticket, he said that the state government has already provided Rs 1 crore to the Rail department. “The tickets are being provided as subsidized rates and the state government is providing the total amount,” he said, adding that “the health checkup of each passenger is done at the boarding railway station and the arrival railway station. Thereafter, a decision is taken on whether the passenger has to be kept in home or institutional quarantine.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/3-lakh-expected-to-return-to-ukhand-10-more-trains-sought/articleshow/75703741.cms||Kautilya Singh
May 13, 2020||Business||More tech can help small business survive Covid, says Zinnov||BENGALURU: Technology should be used to combat the effect of Covid-19 on small and medium businesses, consulting firm Zinnov has suggested. SMBs have severely suffered on account of lengthy closure procedures and lack of demand from original equipment manufacturers (OEMs). SMBs in manufacturing, retail and services are about 75 million in number and employ nearly 130 million people across the country. Manufacturing is the worst hit by the pandemic. Most factories making non-essential goods are still closed or have just opened, and working capital remains a challenge due to delay in receivables as large OEMs have put payments on hold. “To mitigate the effects of Covid-19 and ensure the survival of the SMB sector, it is critical for the government, the SMBs, and the technology companies to work together to formulate concrete strategies and deploy them. All three stakeholders need to prioritise spurring consumer spending, which acts as an engine of economic activity and growth,” Zinnov said in a report. For manufacturing SMBs like textile, automotive, pharma and electronics, technology providers should provide easy credit options, tracking solutions for goods, and communication solutions to get in migrant labourers who have moved back to their villages. As retail is set to change in the post-Covid environment, Zinnov says retailers are expected to use a gamut of technology solutions to better connect with customers virtually. These include better digital interfaces which are well supported on mobile and website as more customers are expected to shop online than visit a physical store. Technology companies need to enable contactless payment and contactless delivery through app-based solutions and payment gateways, the report says. With high demand fluctuation, leveraging data analytics to enable SMBs to target the right customers is expected to be crucial going forward. Digitisation of inventory and building digital interfaces and digital storefronts to enhance customer engagement will prove beneficial for retail SMBs, the report said. While services industry has been the least affected, the need to enable secure remote working wherever possible, by leveraging collaboration tools and security solutions will be critical in ensuring business continuity for several services SMBs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/more-tech-can-help-small-biz-survive-covid-says-zinnov/articleshow/75704760.cms||Avik Das
May 13, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: Toddy from Wednesday, but raise a toast at home||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM/KOCHI: The excise department has issued a set of guidelines for the functioning of toddy shops, that will open from Wednesday, based on the lockdown regulations. According to the guidelines issued by excise commissioner S Aananthakrishnan, customers will have the permission to buy toddy as parcel to their houses, and will not be allowed to consume it in the shop or the premises. The toddy shops have been denied permission to cook and serve or sell food. All toddy shops will have to maintain adequate soap and water for hand washing, and the employees should use face mask and gloves while working. The premises should be sanitized every day before beginning to function and the public will not be allowed to gather near the toddy shops. Each customer is allowed to hold a maximum of 1.5 litres of toddy only at a time. The shops have been asked to ensure that not more than 1.5 litres is sold to a customer. All the excise deputy commissioners have been asked to ensure that the details of the toddy shops in their jurisdiction are reported to the police, and if there are any law and order issues, the police should immediately take action. All the vehicles that are transporting toddy, will be checked and the quantity being transported will be registered at the checking stations. The department will deploy maximum possible number of officials for duty, as the steep increase in demand can lead to the manufacture and sale of illicit toddy. “Considering the long lockdown days, hundreds are expected to throng each shop from the first day. Hence, there should be extreme control of the crowd to ensure social distancing and the help of police will be sought for this,” said a senior excise officer from Ernakulam. Serpentine queues will not be permitted. “The working hours of toddy shops will be decided by the government. The excise will be carrying out quality-checks of toddy in each shop before the shops are opened,” said the officer. The unavailability of enough toddy will also be a problem as the tapping sector has been dormant for the past two months. “Much time will be taken for the supply chain to be back to normal. A special team will be set up in each range to check the sale of illicit toddy,” the excise officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/toddy-from-today-but-raise-a-toast-at-home/articleshow/75707121.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Chennai||Institutions put to virtual test with new chapter in learning||Chennai: The coronavirus outbreak may have disrupted classroom teaching, thrown into disarray exam schedules and forced students and teachers ro stay indoors, but learning has not stopped. Institutions in the state are now equipped with technology, a powerful tool, to reach beyond the classroom walls to teach students, bringing a paradigm shift in the teaching-learning process. On its part, the state government has put in place virtual classrooms. For students of polytechnic colleges, nearly 700 lessons have been uploaded online which can be accessed through a QR-code system. This will soon be extended to engineering streams as well, Tamil Nadu higher education secretary Apoorva. "This is a juncture where we have to adopt technology and it’s time for us to change. Covid is now speeding it up. This pandemic has given time to rethink education and learning," she said.The secretary said plans are being made to incorporate video lessons and flip classrooms that will enable students to be introduced to a topic at home before it is taken up in the classroom, so that it takes less time to complete lessons or syllabus. "A virtual classroom will only be a tool. It cannot replace campus learning or peer interaction because it is not only from a teacher or syllabus that you learn. You have a lot to learn from your friends and teachers outside the classroom," she said.With online classes coming to the rescue at a time when the country is under lockdown, G Viswanathan, chancellor of Vellore Institute of Technology (VIT) said it is time to focus on building digital infrastructure. "So far, we were spending a lot of money on physical infrastructure. We didn’t know that digital infrastructure is going to be this useful. Now Covid has proved that we require digital infrastructure as well. So we have to concentrate on both," he said. At least 46,000 students in his institution are now undergoing online education. Despite these changes, a teacher can never be dispensed with, he believes. "I always remember how we were taught and how we learned about punctuality and discipline, which can happen only in a classroom," he said.S Vaidhyasubramaniam, vice-chancellor, Sastra University said the way forward is to have a blend of physical and a digital infrastructure, terming it ‘phygital infrastructure’, in campuses where students could be either physically present or virtually connected to classrooms thereby also enabling physical distancing. To enable such an infrastructure, there needs to be a push for new norms and standards, he said, "It is no more going to be a teacher or student centric atmosphere. It is going to be learner centric, where the teacher will be a student and the student will be a teacher. I am sure that phygital campuses will catalyse this change," he said.Online exams will be one of the biggest challenges in this scenario. "Students are also getting smarter. They could be beating the system. This is a challenge that institutions have to surmount and build intelligent evaluation systems," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/institutions-put-to-virtual-test-with-new-chapter-in-learning/articleshow/75706078.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Nagpur||10 ha Ambazari forest gutted in fire||Nagpur: Over 10 hectares of forest was gutted in a ground fire at Ambazari Biodiversity Park on Tuesday morning. Nagpur deputy conservator of forest (DyCF) Prabhunath Shukla said the fire was ignited due to a short circuit in one of the feeders of tower line passing through the reserve forest. This is for the fourth time a huge forest area below the tower line has been burned due to short circuit. In January first week, 3 hectares of forest was also gutted due to short circuit. The fire was first noticed by a temporary forest worker Sanjay Awsare at 7.30am in compartment number 797. By the time fire brigade from Wadi and Trimurti Nagar reached the spot, the fire had spread in huge area and could be controlled. Ambazari forest is known for grassland and bird species accustomed to this habitat. Frequent fires in Ambazari are destroying the biodiversity and habitat in the area. Last time when the fire occurred, Nagpur CCF P Kalyan Kumar had told TOI that the forest department has warned state electricity officials and had asked to repair the obsolete power lines during discussion. On Tuesday, Kumar visited the spot and again and held discussions with MSEDCL officials about the steps to be taken by them. “It seems MSEDCL officials have not taken any steps to repair the old lines. The forest department should register a preliminary offence for negligence causing huge fires,” demanded district honorary wildlife warden Kundan Hate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/10-ha-ambazari-forest-gutted-in-fire/articleshow/75705465.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Surat||Tanker driver burnt to death after accident in Hazira||Surat: The charred body of a driver was recovered from remains of chemical tanker which caught fire following an accident on the Adani by-pass road, some 25km from the city, on the Surat-Hazira state highway on Tuesday.Police said that the accident took place when the tanker driver was returning to Ankleshwar after emptying the chemical at the Adani port. The driver of the tanker identified as Anil Kaul, 30, lost control over the vehicle and rammed into a parked truck trawler on the highway. The accident sparked fire in front part of the tanker making it impossible for the driver to escape. Police inspector of Hazira, V B Desai told TOI, “The impact was so huge that the driver, who had sustained serious injuries, could not come out of the tanker and was burnt to death.” Desai added, “We have sent the driver’s body for post mortem and investigation was on.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/tanker-driver-burnt-to-death-after-accident-in-hazira/articleshow/75703746.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Bhubaneswar||1336 migrants to arrive today, curfew at Balasore rly stn||BALASORE: The Balasore district administration has imposed 24-hour curfew around the Balasore railway station in view of the arrival of a large number of people in two Shramik Special trains on Wednesday. The curfew has been imposed from 12 midnight of Tuesday to 12 midnight of Wednesday. The curfew will be imposed between Laxminarayan temple and Nuasahi square other than the area within 500-metre radius of Balasore railway station. Movement of individuals and all non-essential activities are prohibited during this stipulated period, police said. However, vehicles engaged for shifting of the returnees to their destinations will be allowed to ply. Sahadevkhunta police station IIC, Industrial police station IIC and Balasore Town police station IIC have been directed to ensure law and order in the prohibited area. Violators will be prosecuted under relevant provisions of IPC, an order said. The district administration took this decision keeping in mind that at least 1,336 Odia migrants are expected to arrive by two trains on Wednesday. Of the 1,336 migrants, 1,118 are from Balasore district and 218 are from Mayurbhanj district. While 884 people are expected to reach from Thangadh in Gujarat in one train, 452 people are expected to reach from Pune in Maharastra. Nilu Mohapatra, sub-collector, Balasore, said it will be a challenge for the administration to monitor the movement of returnees and ensure their smooth dispersal from the station to their respective destinations while maintaining law and order. After the primary screening, the district administration officials will send the migrants to their respective districts by buses and four-wheelers. Social distancing and other guidelines are to be strictly followed, he added. Several senior officials will be present at the railway station to coordinate arrival, screening and transportation of migrants. A medical team would also be present to undertake the necessary medical examination, said Mohapatra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/1336-migrants-to-arrive-today-curfew-at-balasore-rly-stn/articleshow/75703760.cms||Kishan Sahu
May 13, 2020||Dehradun||Don’t send message, mails seeking fees: Uttarakhand high court||NAINITAL: The Uttarakhand high court (HC) has prohibited the private schools in the state from sending emails, WhatsApp messages or any form of communication to parents asking them to pay the tuition fee for conducting online classes during the lockdown period. The direction comes from the bench of Chief Justice Ramesh Ranganathan and Justice Ramesh Chandra Khulbe which heard two public interest litigations (PIl) alleging that the private schools in the state were charging fee from parents in contravention of the government’s order released on May 2. An Interim Order (IO) was passed by the division bench on Tuesday said that the private institutions are using subtle means to force parents. “It does appear that subtle means are being adopted by these private institutions to force parents to pay the tuition fees. Since payment of tuition fee by students is voluntary, none of the private schools shall send e-mails or WhatsApp messages or any form of communication to the parents calling upon them to pay the tuition fee,” the order read. The HC also directed the state government to appoint the district education officers (DEO) and block development officers (BDO) as nodal officers to whom the parents can address their complaints. “On receipt of such complaints, the concerned nodal officers shall take prompt action against the erring education institutions who are coercing parents to pay the tuition fees of their children, though the Government Order dates 02.05.2020 stipulates that payment of tuition fee is voluntary,” read the order. Speaking to TOI, Ajay Veer Pundir, the counsel appearing for petitioners said that the HC has also directed the secretary, school education, to furnish detailed information about the number of schools offering online courses and the number of students who have access to them and whether tuition fee is being charged from students who cannot access the online classes. “We also said that some schools are evening charging fee from the parents of students studying Upper kindergarten that is the students who are not even in Class I. The court has now directed the secretary to furnish the details for this too and issue appropriate directions as well,” Pundir said. “He (secretary education) shall consider the wisdom in conducting such online programmes for these children in Upper Kindergarten, examine whether this is just a ruse to collection tuition free from them, an issue appropriation directions to all such private schools in this regard as he considers appropriate,” the HC said. The court has given two weeks’ time to comply with all its direction and has listed the matter for May 26 when the secretary will furnish the details.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/hc-asks-schools-to-not-send-any-mail-or-messages-to-parents-for-fees/articleshow/75703751.cms||Prashant Jha
May 13, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Toddy from Wednesday, but raise a toast at home||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM/KOCHI: The excise department has issued a set of guidelines for the functioning of toddy shops, that will open from Wednesday, based on the lockdown regulations. According to the guidelines issued by excise commissioner S Aananthakrishnan, customers will have the permission to buy toddy as parcel to their houses, and will not be allowed to consume it in the shop or the premises. The toddy shops have been denied permission to cook and serve or sell food. All toddy shops will have to maintain adequate soap and water for hand washing, and the employees should use face mask and gloves while working. The premises should be sanitized every day before beginning to function and the public will not be allowed to gather near the toddy shops. Each customer is allowed to hold a maximum of 1.5 litres of toddy only at a time. The shops have been asked to ensure that not more than 1.5 litres is sold to a customer. All the excise deputy commissioners have been asked to ensure that the details of the toddy shops in their jurisdiction are reported to the police, and if there are any law and order issues, the police should immediately take action. All the vehicles that are transporting toddy, will be checked and the quantity being transported will be registered at the checking stations. The department will deploy maximum possible number of officials for duty, as the steep increase in demand can lead to the manufacture and sale of illicit toddy. “Considering the long lockdown days, hundreds are expected to throng each shop from the first day. Hence, there should be extreme control of the crowd to ensure social distancing and the help of police will be sought for this,” said a senior excise officer from Ernakulam. Serpentine queues will not be permitted. “The working hours of toddy shops will be decided by the government. The excise will be carrying out quality-checks of toddy in each shop before the shops are opened,” said the officer. The unavailability of enough toddy will also be a problem as the tapping sector has been dormant for the past two months. “Much time will be taken for the supply chain to be back to normal. A special team will be set up in each range to check the sale of illicit toddy,” the excise officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/toddy-from-today-but-raise-a-toast-at-home/articleshow/75703771.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Lucknow||Four test positive in Nazarbagh, Khadra||Lucknow: Covid-19 cases continued to trickle in from Nazarbagh on Tuesday with three more persons being found infected with novel coronavirus, taking the tally of positive cases in the locality to 18. Nazarbagh has already been declared a hotspot. All fresh cases were neighbours of the two infected vegetable vendors and a shopkeeper who tested positive earlier. They were among 150 people out of 300 whose swab samples were taken on Monday Reports of remaining will come on Wednesday. “All four patients are asymptomatic, of which two were admitted to KGMU and other two to Lokbandhu Hospital,” said CMO Dr Narendra Agarwal. One more positive case was reported from Khadra. So far, total 262 cases have been reported in the city. Meanwhile, the pregnant woman from Faizabad was discharged within three days after being admitted to KGMU as her two consecutive tests came negative.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/four-test-positive-in-nazarbagh-khadra/articleshow/75705481.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand education dept issues notice to 12 schools||DEHRADUN: The state education department has issued notices to 12 city schools for going against government order and pressurising students to pay their fees during the lockdown period. The notice clearly mentions that if the school is found guilty of violation of the order then it will be booked under the Epidemic Diseases Act of 1987. The schools have been asked to respond to the notice within a week. The move comes after National Association for Parents and Students Rights (NAPSR) made the department aware of the several complaints from the parents of the students who are being pressurised by schools to pay fees despite the government’s order which clearly states that the schools can accept fees only from those parents who are willing to pay it voluntarily. Also, many schools have been accused of asking for other fee charges like building fund, magazine charges, and others. This is also against the state government order which says the schools can only accept tuition fees if they are conducting online classes. “We have received several complaints from parents regarding violation of the government order by schools. Therefore, we have sent notices to 12 schools of Dehradun and they have to respond within a week. Parents allege that these schools were constantly pressurising them for fees and even asking for advance fee,” said Asha Rani Painuly, chief education officer of Dehradun. A day ago, the National Association for Parents and Students Rights (NAPSR) had lodged a complaint with the Union ministry of human resource and development and the State Commission for Protection of Child Rights (Uttarakhand) against some private schools of Uttarakhand for “conducting online classes for students of lower primary classes (up to KG classes)”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/education-dept-issues-notice-to-12-schools/articleshow/75703773.cms||Mohammad Anab
May 13, 2020||Hyderabad||In a 1st, Telangana to tell its farmers what to grow when||HYDERABAD: Telangana has become perhaps the first state in the country that will tell its farmers what to grow when as part of a pilot project. Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao issued a statement on Tuesday saying the change would begin with paddy which will be limited to 50 lakh acres. Redgram, another important crop, will be limited to 10 lakh acres. The government will soon announce what crops should be cultivated in which areas. Officials said the state government will not extend Rythu Bandhu scheme and Minimum Support Price (MSP) to farmers who don’t follow the new directives. At present the state gives Rs 10,000 per acre per year to each farmer whether he cultivates the land or not. The statement said regulatory cultivation would benefit farmers as it would help get minimum support price and ensure demand for their produce. To convey this message KCR will interact with field officials on May 15. The state would also set up a seed regulatory authority to check spurious seeds in the state. The chief minister added that presently conditions are “if someone wants to sell the crop produced there are no buyers and if someone wants to buy the agriculture produce, the prices are sky high. This situation has been in vogue for several years and should go now”. The state suggested that the Telangana Sona variety of paddy should be cultivated in 10 lakh acres, cotton in 50 lakh acres and redgram in 10 lakh acres. The government also decided to encourage vegetables in farmland near urban areas. The government will also suggest to farmers which vegetables should be grown in which areas.“I have been saying that farmers should go in for crops that have demand for the past 20 years since I was transport minister. The practice of everyone cultivating the same crop should end,” the CM said. The new seed regulatory authority will ensure that only seeds of crops identified by the government are sold. If need be, the government would bring changes in the Seed Act. The CM decided to have an exclusive meeting with the representatives of seed companies soon. He also announced deterrent action against companies that sell spurious or fake seeds. “The government will identify those making and selling fake and spurious seeds and book them under PD Act. Since the government feels that there will be large dumping of the fake cotton and red chilli seeds, strict measures are in place to stop this menace,” KCR said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/in-a-1st-telangana-to-tell-its-farmers-what-to-grow-when/articleshow/75705496.cms||Koride Mahesh
May 13, 2020||Goa||Rain brings relief to parts of Goa, more showers expected over next few days||PANAJI/POINGUINIM: Rain and moderate thunderstorm lashed parts of the state on Tuesday affecting talukas of Sattari, Bicholim, Pernem and Canacona. The India meteorological department (IMD) had earlier issued a rain forecast due to a trough formation in the Arabian Sea. On Tuesday, the trough was closer to Goa, passing through interior Karnataka and along with the increasing temperature in the state was conducive for formation of thunderstorm clouds. In addition, there was moisture inflow at 3km from the surface, with easterly winds bringing moisture from the Bay of Bengal into interior parts of Karnataka. When the temperature is high, heat plays a big role along with the moisture in cloud formation. Masses of clouds were carried to Goa with the winds which brought in showers to the state. The current situation may be prevalent on Wednesday as well. “The temperature is likely to be high and there is a possibility of thunderstorm clouds even though the amount and spatial distribution of rain may not be as high as on Tuesday,” IMD scientist, Rahul M said. Light rainfall will continue at isolated places in Goa in the coming days. The distribution and intensity of the rain however will be much lesser than the previous days, IMD said. Similarly, in the southern part of the sate, moderate to heavy rains accompanied by thunderstorms with winds reaching speed of 30-40kmph affected parts of Gaondongrim, Cotigao and Poinguinim in Canacona. There were also reports of damage to a house and a cowshed when a tree crashed on the shed, said station fire officer Ravindranath Pednekar. He also said that trees crashed on the road leading to Gaondongrim and Shristhal, which were cleared by fire personnel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/rain-brings-relief-to-parts-of-goa-more-showers-expected-over-next-few-days/articleshow/75706090.cms||Nida Sayed
May 13, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Safety lax around Dandu Bazaar?||Visakhapatnam: Even after Dandu Baazar in Maharanipeta recorded more than 18 cases and was declared a containment zone, people of the locality seem to be giving social distancing a miss. Residents of nearby colonies are worried as there is hardly any movement restrictions in the area. In a recent order by the government of Andhra Pradesh, it was said that no shops will open in the containment zone, which includes the core area and buffer zone. However, when TOI visited the areas in and around Dandu Bazaar on Tuesday, it was seen that apart from medical stores and shops selling essentials, barber shop, flour mills and other shops were open as well. G Nitesh, an entrepreneur who lives around 200 meters away from Dandu Baazar, said, “During the third phase of the lockdown, the rules were relaxed for the benefit of people. However, the same period saw coronavirus spreading at an alarming rate in areas like Maharanipeta. From the past one week, people seem to be moving freely on the streets without following social distancing norms and safety measures like wearing masks.”  Nitesh added, “Although none of us are going out nor allowing anyone to come into our home, it is horrifying to see the condition prevailing in and around our area. Here it’s not only the officers concerned who are to be blamed but even the public who have been taking the condition lightly.” Another resident of a nearby colony, Bharat Kumar, said that complaints have been raised on social media to take strict actions against people flouting norms. “Only the Dandu Bazaar lane is closed and the other lanes near to it are open and normacy as resumed even as the city continues to record more cases.” Speaking to TOI, DCP (I) Ranga Reddy, said, “We have deployed police in the containment zone (300 meters in and around Dandu Baazar). The police have restricted people’s movement there. However, we will look into the nearby areas as well. Most of the people have been tested and their samples have been collected, hence small shops in nearby locations apart from the containment zone are being allowed to run.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/safety-lax-around-dandu-bazaar/articleshow/75703778.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Trichy||Corpn asks shops to avoid crowding or face closure||Trichy: Unhappy over large number of people venturing out during the lockdown and flouting social distancing in commercial establishments and markets, Trichy Corporation has warned shops to fall in line or face closure. Sanitary department officials have been insisting shops to affix notice boards telling people to wear facemasks and maintain social distancing while making purchases. “Even though we used the public address system to make people understand the importance of social distancing, the response was not at the desired level. Still, commercial outlets were seen crowded,” an official with the Trichy Corporation said. To prevent crowding, the civic body has floated a model notice board to place the at the entrances of shops. The notice board in English and Tamil insist people wear facemasks and maintain social distancing. The shops where social distancing was flouted will face severe actions including lock and seal, official sources said. The civic body, meanwhile, conducted a review meeting with contractors and engineers involved in corporation’s infrastructure projects in the city. The private contractors were told to ensure social distancing and not employ workers aged above 55 years were at construction sites. The sites where civil work is underway were told to be sanitised frequently. The workers should be given provisions for frequent handwash, the officials added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/corpn-asks-shops-to-avoid-crowding-or-face-closure/articleshow/75705489.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Vadodara||Godhra imposes more stricter restrictions like A’bad||Vadodara: Godhra has gone in for a stricter lockdown and only milk, medicines, cooking gas and petrol is now available in the town. The decision was taken in wake of the series of Covid-19 cases despite the lockdown in the town. Similar restrictions are in force in Ahmedabad and Surat cities. The town that has a population of around two lakh has recorded 62 cases till date. The Panchmahal district of which Godhra is the headquarter has reported total 70 cases. All the other cases are from Halol town in the district. Four people have died of Covid-19 so far, all from Godhra town. Like other places, the administration had allowed sale of grocery, vegetables and fruits in Godhra. But the sale of these items was also stopped since May 10. Sources said that the reason for increasing the restrictions was that the lockdown was not being followed in some pockets. Also, the number of cases in the town was on the rise consistently. It has been decided that the present system would continue till the end of the third phase of the lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/godhra-imposes-more-stricter-restrictions-like-abad/articleshow/75702504.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand: Kailash road makes old jobs redundant, opens new avenues||PITHORAGARH: With the Kailash Mansarovar road that traverses the Byas valley of Dharchula tehsil in Pithoragarh inaugurated, residents of adjoining villages are looking ahead to alternative occupations to make their ends meet, now that they can reach Lipulekh from Dharchula by road. On Friday, the Union defence minister inaugurated the 80km road from Ghatiyabagad to Lipulekh pass, which is 60km from Lakhanpur, previously the last road stop in the Kailash Mansarovar Yatra and Indo-China trade. In the past, villagers and Army used ponies for transportation from Lakhanpur, and horses and yaks to carry goods. Locals who owned pack animals and earned a livelihood from transport will now have to think of new occupations. Narendra Singh, a resident of Bundi, said, “For the last 10 years, I have been rearing mules, horses and yaks for carrying goods till Nabidhang village for Kailash Yatra and border trade, and earned some money on the side. This has now lost relevance,” adding, “With the old mode of transportation gone, I’m thinking of buying a vehicle to carry passengers and goods.” Restaurant owner Bheen Singh said, “My family runs a small restaurant in Chheyalekh, which has been linked to the road. So we’re looking forward to more tourists and pilgrims coming to our restaurant.” He added, “Our restaurant is on the old Kailash trek route, so we’ll shift it to somewhere near the road.” Another local, Salu Datal, said, “This road will create new job opportunities in Byas Valley, which has many picturesque tourist attractions along the way. Pilgrims will come and hospitality industry will give a boost to employment of villagers.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/kailash-road-makes-old-jobs-redundant-opens-new-avenues/articleshow/75703781.cms||Prem Punetha
May 13, 2020||Lucknow||KGMU puts off Kanika Kapoor’s plasma donation plan||LUCKNOW: A fortnight after Bollywood singer Kanika Kapoor got herself tested for plasma donation for treatment of Covid-19 patients, “confidential medical history of her family” has come as an obstacle in the procedure. KGMU authorities have deferred her plasma donation procedure saying that it would be taken either for research purpose or for plasma therapy in an emergency situation. After undergoing treatment for Covid-19 at Sanjay Gandhi Postgraduate Institute of Medical Sciences (SGPGIMS), the singer had, on April 27, offered to donate plasma for clinical trial being carried out at KGMU. She was tested at KGMU and was found eligible for plasma donation. Antibodies against coronavirus were found in her blood and her report for antigens was also fine. Head of transfusion medicine department at KGMU Prof Tulika Chandra said, “Her blood plasma is fit for donation but we have deferred the procedure because of her family medical history which is confidential.” “Even if her plasma is taken, it would perhaps be done for research purpose. We will use her plasma for a patient only if a dire emergency situation arises,” she added. “Her blood tests were done for eligibility. A few other procedures were required to be followed which led to this discovery,” Prof Chandra added. The singer had hogged the limelight after she was found positive to coronavirus infection on March 20 after her return from London. She was admitted to SGPGI and completed 21-day home quarantine on April 26. According to experts, as is the case with all volunteers of plasmapheresis, Kanika’s sample was also tested on various parameters. For plasma donation, a person’s haemoglobin level should be above 12.5, weight more than 50kg and should not have diabetes, cardiovascular issues, malaria or syphilis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/kgmu-puts-off-kanikas-plasma-donation-plan/articleshow/75705492.cms||Yusra Husain
May 13, 2020||Bhubaneswar||State to issue SOP for people coming by special passenger trains||BHUBANESWAR: The state government will on Wednesday issue standard operating procedure (SOP) for people returning by the special passenger trains from New Delhi. “Special relief commissioner P K Jena will issue the SOP,” said an official source. Registration on the government’s Covid-19 portal will be mandatory for all returnees. The government may allow home quarantine for people returning by the passenger trains. An SOP has also been issued by the state government for foreign returnees who will arrive here as part of the Centre’s mega repatriation plan Vande Bharat. All such persons need to register themselves with the government’s portal. On arrival here, thermal screening shall be carried out for all passengers at the airport/seaport by the health and family welfare departments, said the SOP. Passengers found to be symptomatic during screening will be taken to the designated medical facility while asymptomatic passengers will be quarantined as per existing practice. The SOP said any returnee who violates quarantine shall be liable to be prosecuted as per penal provisions of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897 and Covid-19 regulations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/state-to-issue-sop-for-people-coming-by-special-passenger-trains/articleshow/75703784.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Mysuru||DFRL’s mobile lab to boost state’s covid testing capacity||Mysuru: Karnataka’s Covid testing capacity is likely to go up with Mysuru Medical College and Research Institute (MMCRI) knocking on the doors of Defence Food Research Laboratory (DFRL), an arm of Defence Research and Development Organisation, seeking its help. Mysuru-based DFRL has advanced testing facility. If the facility is inducted into Covid lab, it could increase testing of samples by 300 a day. The Mysuru Medical College and Research Institute is currently conducting around 300 test a day. Since two week average daily covid testing capacity has increased to 4800. Increasing capacity of Mysuru lab could push up the figure beyond 5000 mark every day. CP Nanjaraj, dean and director of MMC&RI, said that talks are underway with DFRL to utilise the mobile lab facility to carryout Covid tests in Mysuru. “This will surely enhance our testing capacity beyond 600 every day,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/dfrls-mobile-lab-to-boost-states-covid-testing-capacity/articleshow/75703809.cms||Lawrence Milton
May 13, 2020||Dehradun||1,200 migrant workers from Surat reach Kumaon by special train||Nainital: A special migrant train brought around 1,200 migrant workers belonging to various districts of Kumaon. The train had left Surat early morning and reached Nainital’s Kathgodam railway station at around midnight. Speaking to TOI, several migrants said that the establishments they worked at had been closed even before lockdown and since then they were waiting to return to their villages. "Almost all the industrial units in Surat were closed before the lockdown. For 50 days we were left with whatever meager amount we had with us. I even tried to book a private vehicle but that wasn’t allowed. Many of my friends started walking home but I chose to stay back and it was finally when the administration informed us that a train will be running from Surat to Nainital that I got out of my locality," said a migrant worker from Garud in Bageshwar district. Surat in Gujarat has been the hotspot of protests by migrant labourers. In the past few weeks, several protesting migrants even clashed with the authorities demanding that they be allowed to go back to their villages. According to the district administration, most of the migrants who were on train are from Nainital district (510) followed by Bageshwar (291), Pithoragarh (254), Almora (123), Udham Singh Nagar (16) and Champawat (6). The district administration said that while some of the migrants who were from the nearby areas were allowed to go to their homes at night, the rest were taken to the stadium at Gaulapar area where they were given dinner and screened for Covid symptoms. "The migrants who belonged to districts other than Nainital were taken to the Gaulapaar stadium. They spent the night in the stadium after which they were sent to their home districts in 48 buses. Most of them will reach their home today itself," said the district administration, adding that during the entire process all social distancing norms were followed and circles were drawn even at the station to make the labourers stand apart from each other. Meanwhile, around 1,240 migrant workers reached Haridwar station with their families on Tuesday from Pune. ASP GRP Manoj Singh Katyal told TOI, "All passengers were screened by health department officials and most of them were sent to their home districts by bus. However, those from remote areas stayed back at Haridwar and they will be sent on Wednesday morning. Two workers from Haridwar were isolated as they had fever. Another train with migrant workers is expected to arrive from Surat late in the nightlate night." With inputs from MS Nawaz in Haridwar||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/1200-migrant-workers-from-surat-reach-kumaon-by-special-train/articleshow/75703864.cms||Prashant Jha
May 13, 2020||Dehradun||One more Covid-19 patient case, Uttarakhand tally now 69||DEHRADUN: With one more Covid-19 positive case reported from Haldwani on Tuesday, the total count of cases has now shot up to 69 in Uttarakhand. However, the total number of active cases in the state is only 22 as 46 patients have already recovered. According to health department, a 23-year-old woman, who had returned to Haldwani from Gurugram, tested Covid-19 positive on Tuesday. The patient was initially placed in institutional quarantine. “The patient isn’t suffering from any Covid-19 like symptom but the health department officials had found a medical prescription from her possession. A doctor had prescribed medicines for throat infection to her. That is why, her sample was sent for testing,” said additional secretary (health) Yugal Kishore Pant, while adding that the patient has now been moved to Dr Susheela Tiwari Medical College. The state till now has done 10,471 tests among which 9,390 samples tested negative. The health department is awaiting reports of 436 samples.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/one-more-covid-19-patient-case-state-tally-now-69/articleshow/75703836.cms||Ishita Mishra
May 13, 2020||Goa||Under lockdown, Goa’s jobless rate hits 13% in April||PANAJI: An extended lockdown from March 22 led to a rise in Goa’s unemployment rate, as it touched 13.3% in April from 2.8% in February. With the state economy coming almost to a standstill, stakeholders said joblessness could rise further if the government doesn’t take bold steps to revive economic activity. The Centre for Monitoring the Indian Economy (CMIE) did not detail the reasons for the rise in unemployment but industrialists and business insiders said the uncertainty over lifting lockdown and economic revival prompted many companies and small businesses to reduce their staff. “To tell you frankly, I could not pay my staff and I asked them to leave. Tourism will not start anytime soon, and I can’t afford to keep my workers till the economy revives,” said a small hotelier from South Goa. CMIE pegs the national unemployment at 24.7%. It shows that Goa’s unemployment figures are similar to Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Delhi, while Punjab, Chhattisgarh and Telangana at 2.9%, 3.4%, and 6.2%, respectively, have fared relatively better. “Goa just hit a five-month high unemployment rate of 13.3% in April. This is up from 2.1% from November 2018 and an average of 7% in recent years. With tourism sector likely to be subdued through the year, this will lead to further increase in unemployment,” said principal and professor of economics at Shree Mallikarjun and Shri Chetan Desai College of Arts and Commerce Manoj Kamat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/under-lockdown-goas-jobless-rate-hits-13-in-april/articleshow/75705503.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Trichy||BDU asks affiliated colleges to go digital, adopt online classes||Trichy: While only a handful of autonomous arts and science colleges have adopted online classes to complete pending syllabus, Bharathidasan University has been sensitising its affiliated colleges on conducting online classes. It has also been building its own repository of e-content that will have course material across disciplines so that students can have access to it through the university’s website. Affiliated colleges need not invest in digital infrastructure as the university is extending its platform as a service (PaaS). In the last two days, 300 principals and faculty members from the affiliated colleges were sensitised through webinar sessions on switching to online classes. They were told that BDU has acquired licence for all google services including Google Meet. So all affiliated colleges could use google services free of cost and enjoy all the benefits as BDU does. BDU registrar G Gopinath said that the move is following a direction from the higher education department secretary who has instructed to educate colleges on taking online classes. “The university has built an unique e-content Development Cloud (EDC) for the college teachers to upload and share e-contents and digital study materials for students who can view and download them and prepare themselves for the semester examinations. It is important to create a repository of e-content so that students who cannot attend online classes can have access to study materials,” he said. S Parthasarathy, director, university informatics centre, said that the initiative has laid foundation for the creation of a permanent repository of e-content for various programmes offered by affiliated colleges. While it can be accessed any time and anywhere, students will be at liberty to choose e-content from a specific faculty member uploaded in the repository. “We have received queries saying that many students may not have smart phones, especially those coming from rural areas. Many NGOs are helping fight hunger among poor people during the lockdown. We hope that they would come forward to lend their gadgets to needy colleges to gain access to the online study material,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/bdu-asks-affiliated-colleges-to-go-digital-adopt-online-classes/articleshow/75705500.cms||Sampath Kumar
May 13, 2020||Visakhapatnam||NGT inquiry panel to submit interim report on May 18||Visakhapatnam: The six-member committee constituted by the National Green Tribunal (NGT) will submit its interim report to the tribunal on May 18. At present, the committee members have been collecting information from all stakeholders and eyewitnesses and inspecting the site of gas leak at LG Polymers at RR Venkatapuram. Speaking to TOI, one of the committee members, Prof P Jagannatha Rao, who is from Andhra University Chemical Engineering department, said their committee chairman B Seshasayana Reddy, who is AP High Court judge, is scheduled to visit Visakhapatnam on May 15 to join their study. “We will submit an interim report to the NGT on May 18. Our chairman will interact with the stakeholders and personally visit the plant on May 15. Till then, we are here doing our job,” Prof Jagannatha Rao said. The NGT had taken suo motu cognizance of the issue and indicated it will look at the case in the light of Sections 14 and 15 of the National Green Tribunal Act 2010. Preparatory to this fact-finding study, the NGT ordered LG Polymers India to deposit an initial amount of Rs 50 crore with the Visakhapatnam district magistrate, Prof Jagannatha Rao said. The NGT also issued notices to AP and central pollution control boards, the Visakhapatnam administration, the ministry of environment, forests and climate change and LG Polymers India to submit their opinions of the episode.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/ngt-inquiry-panel-to-submit-interim-report-on-may-18/articleshow/75703841.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
May 13, 2020||Trichy||Teachers gift Rs 56L worth essentials||Thanjavur: Teachers from across Thanjavur district donated essential commodities worth Rs 55.75 lakh to the families of 11,237 students studying in their schools. Essentials worth Rs 40.48 lakh purchased by the money pooled in by 1,835 teachers were donated to the families of 8405 students on Monday. Earlier, essentials worth Rs 15.27 was donated to 2,832 families of their students on May 5. As many as 313 teachers including 103 headmasters had contributed to the cause. The donation event titled ‘our school, our children, our family’ was held at Thanjavur Corporation Girls Higher Secondary School. District collector M Govinda Rao, divisional revenue officer Velumani and chief educational officer M Ramakrishnan along with headmasters and teachers attended the event. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/teachers-gift-rs-56l-worth-essentials/articleshow/75705517.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Lucknow||No fare for migrants on 1st Shramik Spl from city||Lucknow: As many as 1,630 migrant workers and their family members, including 74 children, living in the state capital were sent to Raipur, Chhattisgarh, by a Shramik Special train on Tuesday evening.DM Abhishek Prakash said it was the first train from Lucknow for migrant workers. The migrants were not charged any fare .Rajyarani, a labourer, carrying luggage on her head while holding her infant child in lap, boarded the train at Charbagh railway station along with others.“We were also planning to go home like many others who left last week on bicycles, but shelved the plan after hearing reports of accidents,” she said while thanking the state government for arranging their free travel in train. Manoj Kumar, a physically challenged e-rickshaw driver, was happy that he will finally reach home. “I have not been charged for the journey,” he added.In a series of reports last week, TOI had highlighted how migrant labourers from Chhattisgarh were walking or cycling home in the absence of transport after a couple on a bicycle were crushed to death by a truck on May 7. The migrants were first taken to Awadh Shilp Gram on Tuesday for medical screening and from there ferried to railway station where they were given food packets before boarding the train.ADM Vaibhav Mishra, in charge for sending workers to their native home in Chhattisgarh, said, “The railways provided train on the request of UP and Chhattisgarh governments. All the workers who had requested for transport were sent on Tuesday. More trains will be arranged on demand.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/no-fare-for-migrants-on-1st-shramik-spl-from-city/articleshow/75705515.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Goa||No person will leave airport until Covid-19 test results obtained: CM||Panaji: With the Dabolim airport gearing up to receive Goans from abroad soon, chief minister Pramod Sawant on Tuesday said not a single passenger will be allowed to exit the airport until the state government obtains his/her Covid-19 test results. The nodal officer for NRIs informed the state executive committee that 350 passengers would land in Goa on two flights after around a week. Meanwhile, Sawant said that each person entering the state from abroad would have to undergo a test for coronavirus and that a standard operating procedure (SOP) had been finalised to receive people at the airport as well as at the Mormugao port. “We will test everyone, Goan or non-Goan, coming through Dabolim airport. If anyone is found to be positive for Covid-19, he/she will be kept in institutional quarantine,” Sawant said. Those who test negative will have to undergo a mandatory institutional quarantine at their own cost. Read the entire story on TOI+If cost of journey didn't hit them, "paid quarantine" will||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/no-person-will-leave-airport-until-covid-19-test-results-obtained-cm/articleshow/75705510.cms||Murari Shetye
May 13, 2020||Goa||Goan identity must for rail tickets: BJP to CM Pramod Sawant||PANAJI: BJP state president Sadanand Shet Tanavade on Tuesday said the party is in favour of allowing only those people who have Goan credentials to buy train tickets to facilitate their entry into the state. He said the party also wants that the SSC examinations should be held as per the schedule.  Tanavade said BJP has spoken to chief minister Pramod Sawant urging him to take up the matter with the Centre on allowing only people of Goan identity proofs to buy train tickets. He also said that those coming to Goa are Goans and stranded in other states. Tanavade said that there are few people coming to Goa who want to travel to Karwar, Belagavi in Karnataka and other parts of Goa. “We don’t want such people to be given train tickets,” he said. Sawant had said that Rajdhani Express trains from Delhi to Goa for this week have been cancelled. However, the one from Delhi to Kerala via Goa is as per the schedule with a halt in Goa. Sawant had said that so far 90% of train passengers to Goa were Goans and only 10-odd per cent had arrived on their onward journey to neighbouring areas like Belagavi. Further, Sawant had said that all passengers who arrived on Saturday in Rajdhani Express from Delhi had been tested for corona. Tanavade said the Goa board has made necessary arrangements for smooth conduct of SSC examinations. “Only 100 students will be allowed to appear in each school with 12 pupils in every classroom,” he said. Congress youth wing has been strongly demanding that SSC exams should be cancelled in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goan-identity-must-forrail-tickets-bjp-to-cm/articleshow/75836748.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Hyderabad||2 docs held for sex determination tests||Warangal: District medical and health officials along with police personnel busted a sex determination racket here on Tuesday. According to District Medical and Health Officer K Lalitha Devi, a doctor couple, Ravi and Sabita, from Mulugu district, were conducting illegal sex determination tests on pregnant women at Surya Nursing Home in Kothawada area here. Following a tip-off, the teams conducted raids at the nursing home and caught the couple red-handed. Officials seized the machinery used for the tests and booked the couple. —Shiva Kumar Pinna||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/2-docs-held-for-sex-determination-tests/articleshow/75704808.cms||Shiva Kumar Pinna
May 13, 2020||Trichy||Govt law college hosts moot court sessions online||Trichy: The government law college here conducted online moot court sessions for final year LLB students on Tuesday. Moot court is part of internal assessment for final year students in which students will take part in simulated court proceedings. “As students cannot attend colleges due to the lockdown, it was an attempt to get them onboard through their smart phones,” said M Rajeswaran, principal of government law college, Trichy. “Instead of going for video conferencing applications, we chose to have the session on Whatsapp video call since students are comfortable with the app,” he said. Final year students have to complete three types of activities, which are part of internal assessment. Apart from visiting courts and advocate’s chamber, they must prepare for model court cases and make their arguments after making prior preparations. The details of model cases were circulated among students in February and moot court sessions were scheduled for April. But it did not happen because of Covid-19 outbreak. K Sathish Kumar, final year LLB students who made his arguments on net neutrality as a respondent, said the online session was easier than appearing in person. “I would have been anxious while attending the session in person as the model court room will give you a real court room atmosphere. This helped me to deliver in an effective way,” he said. Out of 12 students, nine appeared for the online moot court session chaired by principal and a couple of other faculty members on Monday. “Accessibility to smart phone or laptop is a prerequisite. Some students especially in the rural areas could not attend, therefore, we made online moot session optional for students. Those who could not make it can attend the moot court sessions once the college reopens,” said the principal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/govt-law-college-hosts-moot-court-sessions-online/articleshow/75705521.cms||Sampath Kumar
May 13, 2020||Trichy||16 pregnant women test +ve in Perambalur||Trichy: The central region witnessed 69 more Covid-19 positive cases as new contacts of Koyambedu cluster patients tested positive in Ariyalur and Perambalur while two Maldives returnees tested positive in Trichy on Tuesday. In Ariyalur, 36 people tested positive on Tuesday which included 30 who returned from Koyambedu market. The remaining six people who tested positive were from containment zones in Sendurai and Ariyalur blocks. With the 36 new cases, 344 people have tested positive for Covid-19 in the district so far. Meanwhile, 35 patients including nine women and two children, linked to the Koyambedu cluster, were discharged from Ariyalur government hospital after they tested negative. In Perambalur, 27 people including eight men and 16 pregnant women tested positive for Covid-19. The total positive case in the district rose to 132. The 16 pregnant women hail from containment units established in 37 villages, officials added. “Expecting mothers with an estimated due date (EDD) within 5 days have to take a mandatory test. That is the reason why we have reported many positive cases among pregnant women. All of them were asymptomatic,” an official with the Perambalur district administration added. In total, 24 pregnant women in the district have tested positive for Covid-19 till now. The pregnant women were admitted at Trichy, Perambalur, Ariyalur and Kallaakurichi government hospitals. On average, at least 20 pregnant women are being tested for Covid-19 in Perambalur district. Meanwhile, 20 people under Covid-19 treatment were discharged from Perambalur government hospital on Tuesday. The discharged patients were told to be in home quarantine for the next 14 days. Trichy recorded two cases of Covid-19 positive taking the total number of cases in the district to 67. Both of them, Maldives returnees, are natives of Musiri in rural part of Trichy. They were among the 16 Maldives returnees in Trichy. The remaining 14 have tested negative. Trichy collector S Sivarasu said that the infection had nothing do with Trichy. “On their return to Coimbatore, their samples were tested. They tested positive. So, they were shifted to Trichy for treatment,” the Collector told TOI. The collector also issued a statement that there was no Covid-19 infection in any other parts of the district on Tuesday. Earlier in the day, Mahatma Gandhi Memorial (MGM) government hospital discharged six patients including a Trichy resident and five patients from Perambalur after their recovery. Four people including a 23-year-old pregnant woman tested positive for Covid-19 in Karur on Tuesday. The total number of positive cases in the district is 52 of which 42 have been discharged. There are only 10 active cases are being treated at the Karur medical college hospital. A 23-year-old woman, who is nine-months pregnant, from Thanthoni block tested positive on Tuesday. Samples of her family members have been sent for test. Health workers are trying to trace her contacts. The other three are from Pallapatti. They had returned from Maharashtra. They were intercepted while entering Karur district a few days back and shifted to a school in Pallapatti. One patient from Vallam was discharged from the Government Medical College Hospital in Thanjavur on Tuesday. From 69 cases, there were only 23 active cases in Thanjavur on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/16-pregnant-women-test-ve-in-perambalur/articleshow/75705524.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Hubballi||Kashaya, oil pulling are daily routine now||Hubballi: In his appeal to the people of the country on April 14, when the central government announced the extension of the lockdown, Prime Minister Narendra Modi called on the citizens to turn to Ayurveda to bolster their immunity, which in its turn, would markedly improve their chances in warding off the Covid-19 pandemic. Residents of North Karnataka certainly appear to have taken his suggestion in the earnest, and a dose of ‘kashaya’ - a medicinal potion made using herbs and spices – is now a part of their daily diet. Cinnamon, cloves, dry ginger, cardamom, turmeric, black pepper and dry Tulsi leaves are among the common ingredients used in the preparation of the kashaya that is common in the region. Gadag district Ayush officer Dr Sujatha Patil pointed out that preparation of the kashaya was a ridiculously easy task. “All the ingredients that one needs are there in the kitchen. What is more, we are distributing the powder that the kashaya can be made with among residents in the containment areas in Gadag,” said Dr Sujatha. She said all the ingredients could be mixed and ground into a fine powder using a mortar pestle. “Instead of having tea, one can drink the kashaya twice a day. In addition to boosting immunity, the kashaya also helps reduce weight,” said Dr Sujatha, adding that the Union ministry for Ayush had approved the formula. Dharwad district Ayush officer Dr Sangamesh Kalahal advised people to have Chyawanprash twice a day, which he dubbed a ‘maharasyana’ that could prevent the body from being assailed by many bacteria and viruses. “The public must also take to eating healthy food and include leafy vegetables in their diet,” he said. Meanwhile, in Raichur and Kalaburagi districts, residents have taken to preparing potions using Unani products such as mulethi, amla and neem. Kalaburagi resident Haqeem Shah pointed to the existence of a large body of scientific evidence substantiating the efficacy of Unani medicines in boosting immunity. Dharwad district resident Vanaja K, a railway employee, is among those who is preparing the kashaya not just for herself but all members in her household. “One tablespoon of the powder is enough to serve the kashaya to four people. All families on our quarters are drinking the kashaya to stay fit,” she said. In Gadag, many residents have reverted to an old system that traces its roots to Ayurveda – oil pulling. The process that involves keeping oil in one’s mouth on an empty stomach is widely regarded as a very effective method to stay immune. A technique that was very popular in the 1990s has now resurfaced among the people in Gadag. “All members in my family have taken to this habit with coconut oil. It is an ancient method that helps in the removal of toxins from one’s body,” said Sadanand Maggad, a resident of Kurhattipet in Betgeri-Gadag.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/kashaya-oil-pulling-are-daily-routine-now/articleshow/75703888.cms||Kishan Singh Bhorde
May 13, 2020||Hubballi||Welcome relief in Hubballi as shops, offices reopen||Hubballi: After more than 50 days, Hubballi on Monday saw a glimpse of the hustle-and-bustle it was used to before the Covid-19 lockdown came into effect. The usual traffic was back on almost all the roads of the city as it recorded a fair amount of business activity. As announced by district in-charge minister Jagadish Shettar, standalone shops and those located in complexes were open. Mechanics, plumbers and carpenters resumed their services and so did hardware and electrical goods shops. Bookstalls, bakeries and other shops were back in business, much to the delight of the public. Shopkeepers tried their best to make customers maintain social distancing. Many government offices resumed work with full attendance of employees in some departments. Some offices maintained the stipulated number of workers as per the norms. Except for public transport services, everything else looked like pre-lockdown days in Hubballi. However, strict enforcement of the lockdown continues in containment areas where people are not allowed to venture out. The entry and exit points of these areas have been barricaded and the zones have heavy presence of police personnel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/welcome-relief-in-hubballi-as-shops-offices-reopen/articleshow/75692695.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Hyderabad||KCR, Jagan have tacit understanding: Cong||Hyderabad: Telangana Congress legislature party leader Bhatti Vikramarka on Tuesday charged chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao of having reached a tacit understanding with his counterpart in AP YS Jaganmohan Reddy over drawal of water from Pothireddypadu. “We have strong suspicion that the AP government has released a GO for drawal of 3 TMC water from Pothireddypadu in consultation with CM KCR. If KCR remains silent, three to four districts of Telangana would get affected with water scarcity due to AP’s decision,” said Bhatti Vikramarka. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/kcr-jagan-have-tacit-understanding-cong/articleshow/75704824.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Trichy||Farmers rejoice as rain lashes delta||Trichy: Heavy rain lashed in and around Tiruvarur, Nagapattinam and Thanjavur district on Tuesday bringing cheer to farmers as it would help them prepare their lands for kuruvai cultivation. Sudden rain lashed in Kumbakonam and Darasuram, while surrounding areas received moderate to heavy rain during the morning hours on Tuesday. The sky was mostly cloudy since early morning and the climate was breezy. Rain water flooded the main streets and the many low lying areas in the town were inundated. Farmers have cultivated summer paddy in many places in Kumbakonam and Papanasam. The rain would be a boon, farmers said. Mayiladuthurai and surrounding areas in Nagapattinam district also received heavy rain in the morning. The rain, which flooded the streets, lasted for more than 30 minutes. Kudavasal, Nannilam, Tiruvaur, and Thiruthuraipoondi taluks in Tiruvarur district received moderate to heavy rain in the morning hours. In Tiruvarur, farmers have cultivated summer paddy and cotton in thousands of acres. As the crops are nearing its maturity stage, the rain would help resist pest. “Farmers should do summer ploughing utilizing the rain. Summer ploughing would minimize the input cost at the time of cultivation. Rain would help germinate weeds on the lands which would be a green manure for the crops. If farmers would do summer plough, they need not plough more than once at the time of nursery transplantation,” a senior official from the agriculture department in Tiruvarur said. The rain that lashed various parts of the delta districts brought down the temperatures, which was hovering around 40 degrees Celsius.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/farmers-rejoice-as-rain-lashes-delta/articleshow/75705527.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Hyderabad||This Telugu surgeon globetrots flying jet to deliver medical supplies||HYDERABAD: On the frontline of the pandemic, Dr Venkataramana Vijay has his battles cut out both in the ICU and in the cockpit. The New York-based surgeon and pilot has been delivering medicines from across the globe as cases continue to rise in the US. The Telugu-American heart surgeon now pilots a Boeing-747 jumbo jet. “Earlier I used to spend half the month flying and half in the operation theatre. But now, I have been travelling to China, Japan and Malaysia to help get medical requirements for the country to help during the pandemic,” says Vijay. The US Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) currently regulates cargo operations which includes the operations of Sky Lease Cargo, for whom Vijay works. He has so far flown over 500 tonnes of medical gear such as masks, gloves, PPE equipment, testing kits and ventilator parts to the US.“In China, we land in Changsha and Zheng Zhou, very close to Wuhan, because central China is the manufacturing hub even for medical supplies,” said Vijay, adding that even if one person falls sick, all four pilots would be quarantined. For Vijay, coming to the US was a forgone conclusion in 1989, considering the opportunities and his family’s academic background. Being a doctor, was a result of not being great at maths, he laughs. But being a pilot was a passion — as his class 2 teacher wrote in his report card — which he pursued after establishing himself as surgeon. Vijay says seeing hospitals such as Mount Sinai, where he works, teeming with patients reminds him of trauma following 9/11. “I treated patients suffering from asbestos inhalation at that time. As a healthcare provider you realise that the physical wounds can be treated, but one has to hand hold a patient through mental trauma.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/this-telugu-surgeon-globetrots-flying-jet-to-deliver-med-supplies/articleshow/75704847.cms||Uttara Varma
May 13, 2020||Hyderabad||TSRTC to slash seating capacity on buses||Hyderabad: The Telangana State Road Transport Corporation (TSRTC) is planning to reduce the seating capacity in its buses to ensure physical distance once operations commence post-lockdown. According to officials, services will resume with a proper plan in place to ensure social distancing at bus stops as well as inside the buses. “The seating capacity will be reduced to half. Apart from that, we are also ensuring that there is no overcrowding or foot-boarding on the buses,” said a senior TSRTC official. There is also a proposal to increase online availability of tickets for bus services in order to avoid long queues at bus stations. As of now, tickets are available online for only premium services like Vajra, Garuda Plus, Garuda and Rajadhani through the state transport corporation’s portal. Meanwhile, TSRTC has been taking up regular maintenance of the buses at all depots. “Each depot has one cargo vehicle to transport goods that are necessary to maintain the buses. We have been regularly maintaining the buses stranded in depots during the lockdown. Depot supervisors are also instructed to keep the buses in running conditions,” said TSRTC Greater Hyderabad zone executive director, V Venkateshwarlu. With the central government already permitting states to operate buses with 50 per cent seating capacity in green zones, TSRTC authorities are waiting for state government to take a call on public transportation on May 15.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/tsrtc-to-slash-seating-capacity-on-buses/articleshow/75705167.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Hyderabad||BJP state prez booked by Nalgonda cops||Hyderabad: Nalgonda police registered a case against BJP state president B Sanjay and other party activists for violation of lockdown rules on Tuesday. Sanjay along with BJP’s Nalgonda district president, K Sridhar Reddy and other party activists had visited sweet lime groves in Peddavoora and had organised a press meet there. “As per guidelines issued by state government pertaining to lockdown on May 7, party meetings or gatherings with huge number of workers should not be organised. They have violated lockdown rules by visiting sweet lime groves in huge numbers without maintaining social distance and also conducted a press conference there. A case has been registered against them under IPC Section 188,” Nalgonda SP AV Ranganath said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bjp-state-prez-booked-by-nalgonda-cops/articleshow/75705156.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Trichy||Teachers fear poor results in class X board exam this year||Trichy: As soon as the revised dates of class X board examination were announced by school education minister K A Sengottaiyan on Tuesday, A Marudachalam, a head master of a government school in Manachanallur sent a voice message to parents asking them to help their children prepare for the examination. The class X board examination earlier scheduled for 18 days from March 27 till April 13 was postponed indefinitely due to lockdown. The exams have been scheduled to be held within 12 days starting from June 1. With less than 20 days left for the board examination, it may be difficult for the students to restart their preparation after a gap of 6 weeks. While officials from the school education department anticipate further revision of the examination dates, teachers felt that it may not be appropriate to have board examinations for class X when covid-19 cases are on the rise.This is the first batch appearing for the examination in the new syllabus, and there is no blue print of the question paper available. Further 25% of questions are expected to be asked out of the book, said a teacher from a government school in Trichy. Saying that students may not fare well in the subjects like English and Mathematics, another teacher said that the results may likely to be affected if the students especially from the rural areas appear for the examination without class room revision for at least 10 days. While the valuation work is also going to start from May 27, a chief education office staff said that teachers can work while maintaining social distancing but the same cannot be expected from school children. Schools have started receiving calls from parents seeking clarification on the board examination as soon as the announcement came. The school education department has instructed district chief education officer (CEO) to depute staffs in the office to clarify doubts on the board examination.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/teachers-fear-poor-results-in-class-x-board-exam-this-year/articleshow/75705540.cms||Sampath Kumar
May 13, 2020||Trichy||HR&CE employee swindles Rs 5L meant for priests’ salary||Thanjavur: A Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowment (HR&CE) employee has been suspended for misappropriating salary meant for village temple priests to the tune of Rs 5 lakh. A police complaint has also been lodged against the accused. According to HR&CE officials, the accused, Narasingan, 32, of Papanasam, was working as a junior assistant in the office of the HR&CE assistant commissioner at Kumbakonam. The embezzlement came to light when the priests went to encash their salary cheques for the April. When officials came to know that all the cheques had bounced, they checked the account and found that there was no money in it.HR&CE assistant commissioner Ilayaraja conducted an inquiry during which it came to light that junior assistant Narasingan had misappropriated the money meant to be deposited with the bank. Narasingan was immediately suspended and a complaint lodged against him with the Kumbakonan East police station, officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/hrce-employee-swindles-rs-5l-meant-for-priests-salary/articleshow/75705536.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Lucknow||Webinars bring experts to LU colleges||Lucknow: Webinars were organized in two LU colleges on happiness and stress management in times of Covid-19. Mahila Vidyalaya Degree College organised a webinar titled ‘Overcoming the Stress Disease Connection - A Practical Approach’, said principal Nisha Gupta while at Shri Guru Nanak Girls Degree College, the webinar’s theme was ‘The Pathway of Happiness - A Practical Approach’, said principal Surbhi G Garg on Monday. Both webinars were held in association with LU’s Counselling & Placement Cell in the presence of its director Prof Madhurima Lall. Guest speaker for both webinars, Prof Anil Mishra from LU’s chemistry department. Meanwhile, a webinar on minority rights and Constitution was also held for students of Shia PG Law College . Vice-chancellor NALSAR Law University Hyderabad Prof Faizan Mustafa talked about protection of minority rights.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/webinars-bring-experts-to-lu-colleges/articleshow/75705535.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Bhopal||Lockdown heroes wipe tears of migrants on highways||Bhopal: Moved by their plight and wanting to offer some solace to thousands of migrant workers - community kitchens, volunteers and NGOs are helping them with food, water and transport at the Vidisha Highway to help them reach home. These labourers were stuck in the city for over 45 days, without any source of income - surviving on the food donated by the social welfare organizations. Now that some means of public transport have been reopened, they are now taking the first ride home in buses, tractors, trucks, bicycles and on foot. According to the volunteers, around 10,000 labourers passed via Vidisha Highway on May 11 and around 5000 on May 12. Seema Kurup, coordinator of Jansampark samooh, a voluntary organization, has started a 'Majdoor Sahiyog Kendra' that is not only providing them with food and water, but much more. "Around 10000 migrant labourers crossed the Vidisha highway to reach other districts of MP on Monday and by Tuesday afternoon around 5000 had already crossed the highway. These are only the few who hitch-hiked on trucks, we do not have the exact number as several of them are also riding on bikes, bicycles or walking. We are trying to coordinate with district administrations to send buses or other means of transport and give them the permission to cross district borders. We are also providing them with slippers and shoes as they will have a long walk ahead. Some of them also need first aid as they have blisters on their feet from walking such long distances and others suffer from dehydration because of the heat. Food and water is also being provided to them for their journey," said Kurup. Sachin Jain, a noted right to food activist at Vikas Samvad, told TOI, "Most of the labourers are going towards Chattarpur, Damoh, Satna, Gwalior in Madhya Pradesh and there is another large group that is going to Banda in Uttar Pradesh. We are trying to coordinate with the district administration of the UP districts to arrange for inter-state transport facilities and permission for them to cross state borders.” A few organizations are supplying ready-to-eat kits to the labourers going back home so that they have enough supplies to last a few days, along with packets of cooked food from Saket Nagar Gurudwara. Roli Shivhare, of Aawaj foundation said, "We collected around 500 packets of khichdi form the Gurudwara and prepared 300 ready-to-eat food kits with things like sattu, bread, pickles, sachets of jams and ketchup, along with small packets of sugar and salt. We are supplying these kits to the labourers and the families with small children who will be walking for next few days. The kits also contain packets of oral rehydration solution and over the counter medicines for pain and fever." A few individuals in several localities also prepared food and distributed pouches of water to the labourers. Members of Katara Hills Corona Relief Group are volunteering at the Ayodhaya Bypass road to ensure that migrant workers leaving form the area to go to Vidisha highway have food and water while leaving. "We reached the spot around 9 am and came to know that some of the labourers had left the city at the break of dawn. We provided water pouches, packets of biscuits and a home-cooked food with pickles to them so that they could at least eat once and then have biscuits later," Prashant Parashar, a volunteer of the group said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/lockdown-heroes-wipe-tears-of-migrants-on-highways/articleshow/75703903.cms||Shuchita Jha
May 13, 2020||Goa||400 Goans to arrive from Delhi by train||PANAJI: The easing of lockdown measures is seeing Goans returning to the state in numbers with around 3,000 having entered the state till date. More are set to come back, with 400 arriving on the train that will leave Delhi for Goa on May 15, and 800 seafarers reaching MPT by June 5 on the cruise ship Carnival, chief minister Pramod Sawant said. Sawant said that Goa is the first state to test all persons entering the state for Covid-19 and that 500 tests are carried out every day. “We want to increase testing,” he said, adding that all returnees have been tested and sent home. With regards to those returning by train, Sawant said, “We will keep them at the Fatorda stadium till their test results come back.” The chief minister, who was interacting with the citizens of the state on social media, added that two more ships with Goan seafarers onboard are due to arrive in the country. To facilitate travel out of Goa, both collector offices are promptly disposing travel permit applications, Sawant said. Reacting to the viral photograph that showed people crowed in a KTC bus, the chief minister said that the government cannot strictly maintain social distancing on public transport. He urged private bus operators to commence in full force in a bid to reduce the load on KTC buses. “Even if they face losses, private bus owners should operate their buses,” Sawant said. Denying news reports of a lady’s death of suspected Covid-19, Sawant said that people should first confirm the news and not indulge in spreading rumours. After April 3 there has not been a single Covid-19 positive case in the state. Talking about giving the lockdown-hit economy a boost, he said that Goa is looking at labour and agricultural produce market reforms in a bid to attract multinational companies who want to exit China. The hotel sector will continue to be shut as other parts of the country are witnessing a rise in Covid-19 cases. “The state has completed harvesting 95% of its paddy crop and, for the first time, this has been done without migrant labour,” Sawant said even as he urged the sector to reduce its dependence on labour from other states. Asked about people not getting facilities at quarantine centres, Sawant said that the government is trying to provide them with the maximum possible.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/400-goans-to-arrive-from-delhi-by-train/articleshow/75705534.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Vadodara||Vadodara: Man held for spreading rumours about Amit Shah’s health||VADODARA: A man was arrested in Desar taluka of Vadodara district for spreading rumours about the health of Union home minister Amit Shah on Monday. Accused Abdul Hamid Makrani was nabbed after a BJP worker in Desar complained to police about him. BJP worker Chandrakant Parekh, who also works as a photographer, said he and several others had received a message from Makrani on WhatsApp about the health of the Union home minister. The message claimed that Shah was suffering from cancer. Based on Parekh’s complaint, Makrani was booked at Desar police station for promoting enmity and hatred. After Makrani’s arrest, he was produced before a local court from where he was released on bail. Cops have, however, seized his mobile phone and are going to send it to FSL to know the source of message. “Prima facie it seems that Makrani had himself typed the message and sent it to everyone. Forensic investigation of the phone will confirm it,” said a police official. Over the last few days, there has been buzz on social media about Shah’s health condition. Following this, the minister had even issued a statement on Twitter stating that he was perfectly fine. A few days ago, a Congress worker was arrested in Vadodara city for spreading similar rumours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/man-held-for-spreading-rumours-about-amit-shahs-health/articleshow/75702522.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Centre’s power bill harmful to states, will oppose it, says CM K Chandrasekhar Rao||HYDERABAD: Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao, who has been a strong advocate of more powers being given to states, is now planning on talks with like-minded chief ministers and heads of various regional parties over the proposed Electricity (Amendment) Bill, 2020. The bill, it is said, will affect governments as it plans to give subsidies to various sectors in the states. TRS also plans to raise the issue in Lok Sabha once sessions commence. “The Centre is planning to privatise the power sector by bringing in the new Electricity Bill, 2020. The BJP-led NDA government has slowly started encroaching upon state government powers. The state government will oppose the Bill tooth and nail as it is detrimental to the interests of not only Telangana but also other states,” Telangana power minister G Jagadishwar Reddy told TOI on Tuesday. “According to our information, even some BJP-ruled states are against this new Electricity Bill and have decided to convey their apprehensions to the Centre,” the minister added. There are currently 86 lakh customers including farmers, domestic and small-scale businessmen, according to the minister who said that, as per the bill, beneficiaries have to pay the electricity bill and the government can transfer the subsidy benefit into their bank accounts under direct benefit transfer (DBT). “The state government has been implementing schemes like Rythu Bandhu to give input subsidy to farmers for two agriculture seasons. Going by the current tariff, each farmer has to pay Rs 5,000 per month. How can a normal farmer pay the bill?” Jagadish questioned. The minister went on to say that there were 23 lakh agriculture connections in the state and all of them needed metres which he added was highly improbable. “Similarly, a domestic consumer who has been paying Rs 70 a month may have to pay Rs 350 a month and those from SC/STs backgrounds, consuming less than 100 units a month would be badly affected by this new law,” he said. Jagadish said that in other sectors too like education and health, Centre had encroached upon powers of state. “Centre has proposed to open new sub-licensing system, which is nothing but privatising power sector. Private firms can procure power from anywhere and sell it to any state,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/centres-power-bill-harmful-to-states-will-oppose-it-trs/articleshow/75705025.cms||Koride Mahesh
May 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Cong to approach SC over Krishna water sharing||Hyderabad: Former legislator T Ram Mohan Reddy on Tuesday said the Congress will approach the Supreme Court over the issue of sharing of Krishna river water between Telangana and Andhra Pradesh. According to him, despite three meetings having taken place between the chief ministers of the two Telugu states, the AP government has been releasing government orders (GOs) for withdrawal of more water from Krishna river. “We are not confident about the relations between Telangana and AP governments when it comes to sharing of river water. The AP government should immediately withdraw GO-203,” Ram Mohan Reddy said. Meanwhile, former Congress MP Konda Vishveshwar Reddy welcomed CM K Chandrasekhar Rao’s move to approach the apex court against AP government and demanded the TRS-government take up projects for supply of water to Vikarabad and Rangareddy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cong-to-approach-sc-over-krishna-water-sharing/articleshow/75705177.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Delhi||Day 1: Nearly 3,500 on home stretch||NEW DELHI: Mukhlesur Rahman had come to Delhi for clearance of his resignation in the company he worked for when the Covid-19 lockdown was announced. For two months, he was left biding his time in the capital. The 28-year-old was among the visibly relieved people boarding 4.45pm train to Dibrugarh taking him to his home city of Guwahati. Three special trains took around 3,500 stranded people to their homes from New Delhi Railway Station on Tuesday. Besides the Assam train that Rahman boarded, one left at 4pm for Bilaspur in Chhattisgarh and another at 9.15pm for Bengaluru. On the first day of the resumption of rail services, no train arrived in Delhi, though five — from Howrah, Patna, Bengaluru, Mumbai Central and Ahmedabad — have departed for the capital and will arrive on Wednesday. The passengers had been instructed to arrive at the station at least 90 minutes in advance of the journey. Many were there hours before the departure time. At the station entrance, they were asked to produce their ticket and then split into two queues, one for Bilaspur, the other for Dibrugarh. At the security check point, each passenger was subjected to thermal screening and allowed to proceed only if they showed no symptoms of Covid infection. Northern Railway revealed that not a single passenger was turned away after the thermal screening. The New Delhi-Bilaspur Special Rajdhani had an occupancy percentage of 137%, while the New Delhi-Dibrugarh Special Rajdhani was booked 122% and the Bengaluru train 165%. Given that social distancing required occupancy restricted to four passengers per section instead of the normal eight, the figures appear excessive. However, railway explained that these reflected the total number of passengers travelling, both those who disembarked at stations on the way for their places to be taken by others. VK Yadav, Railway Board chairman, and S C Jain, divisional railway manager, Delhi, inspected the platform before the first set of passengers arrived. The station was sanitised once the earlier trains left and around 7pm, the travellers to Bengaluru were allowed in. For the New Delhi-Bilaspur Special Rajdhani train, 1,531 tickets had been issued,1,200 of these boarding at New Delhi Railway Station. It will reach its 1,502-km destination in 20 hours. Rahman’s train will take 39 hours to complete its 2,294-km journey to Dibrugarh, but he will get down at Guwahati on Wednesday evening. Zeeshan Khan, 23, came to Delhi to take his student sister home, but got stuck in the city. The two returned home on the Bilaspur train. “After the lockdown, we stayed in our uncle’s house. We had no second thoughts about booking our tickets when the resumptions of trains was announced,” Khan told TOI at the station. KBT Sundari, a 70-year-old artisan who was in Delhi for an exhibition, was similarly stranded. She too took the first opportunity to leave the capital. “We stayed at the crafts museum after our exhibition was cancelled. I have been impatient to go home,” said Sundari, flashing a ticket for the train to Bengaluru.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/day-1-nearly-3500-on-home-stretch/articleshow/75705564.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
May 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Mallannasagar reservoir wet run successful, says Irrigation department||HYDERABAD: In another milestone for the Kaleshwaram Lift Irrigation Project (KLIP), the irrigation department on Tuesday started the wet run at Mallannasagar, the project’s biggest man-made reservoir, to release Godavari water from the Komuravelli-Mallannasagar pump house, one of the crucial phases of the project. Godavari water released from Ranganayakasagar reached the Mallannasagar surge pool on Tuesday evening. The Mallannasagar reservoir, with a water storage capacity of 50 tmcft, is one of two important reservoirs built by Megha Engineering and Infrastructures Limited (MEIL). The other one being the Kondapochamma reservoir. The wet run at Mallannasagar was kicked off at low-key event by officials. As part of this exercise, water was released from the first machine. Irrigation department engineer-in-chief Hare Ram and advisor Penta Reddy declared the wet run as successful. As per the initial plan, after filling the Mallannasagar, water should be released to Kondapochamma. With work on Mallannasagar reservoir still under way, the water was released from the Tukkapur pump house’s delivery cistern. This water first reaches a pump house in Akkaram before reaching Kondapochamma. The water also goes through Markuk pump house. A majority of the KLIP’s ayacut falls under Mallannasagar reservoir which will also feed the Baswapur reservoir. Nalgonda district will also receive Godavari water from the reservoir. The Mallannasagar pump house has eight machines with 43 megawatt capacity. The water discharge capacity is 248.500 cusecs. Over 1.25 lakh acres of ayacut in Siddipet and neighbouring districts will get irrigation water from the reservoir. All tanks on the way to Kondapochamma will also be filled with Godavari water.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/mallannasagar-reservoir-wet-run-successful-irrigation-dept/articleshow/75705130.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana to amend labour rules to ease up hiring on contract||HYDERABAD: The Telangana government is all set to amend rules related to labour laws, allowing companies to hire a large number of workers on contract basis. “This amendment will benefit all units with more than 100 workforce and which are already in operation,” a senior official privy to the development, told TOI. The amendment would allow units to roll out voluntary retirement scheme (VRS) for its employees also. A notification would be issued soon to seek public opinion on the proposed amendment. Already, the ease of doing business rules are in place, fast tracking permissions to begin a unit. While Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh have already decided to suspend all labour laws for 1,200 days to 1,400 days (three to four years), a few other states have decided to make 12-hour shifts in industrial units. However, these changes could come into force only after amendments in the central laws. If states want to make changes, they have to issue an ordinance and seek President’s assent for it. A few states have already taken steps in this direction. There are about 40 central labour laws. Of them, 22 were directly dealt by the labour department like the Industrial Disputes Act, Workmen Compensation Act etc. The states have power in enforcing three legislations, including the Shops and Establishment Act and the Welfare Fund Act. The labour department was asked to look into the provisions of the central laws. The central government had asked states like Gujarat and Telangana to be prepared to take advantage of the flight of capital from China post the Covid-19 situation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-to-amend-labour-rules-to-ease-up-hiring-on-contract/articleshow/75705003.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
May 13, 2020||Lucknow||Undertrial found hanging in Lucknow prison||LUCKNOW: Barely a week after a 20-year-old undertrial was lodged in Lucknow jail, he was found hanging in his barrack on Tuesday morning. Though no suicide note was recovered, police suspect the lovelorn youth hanged himself after sinking into acute depression. His body was sent for autopsy after prison brass informed police. An inmate, Sushil, spotted the undertrial, Aman Agarwal, hanging from a bed-sheet tied around his neck in the washroom and raised an alarm at around 10am. Aman was thrown behind bars on charges of rape and abduction of a minor and forcing her into marriage. He was also booked under stringent sections of POCSO Act, though Aman told police on day of his arrest on May 5 that the girl had turned a major. Since his incarceration, Aman stopped eating and barely spoke. Aman eloped with his lady love, a resident of Cantonment area in January and lived in anonymity with her in Madiaon, till he was tracked down by police six days ago after the girl’s parents moved SGPGI police. Two days after the youth was arrested, the girl who was sent back to her parents fled home and was later traced and sent to Nari Niketan. Speaking to TOI, SHO, Gosaiganj, Dheerendra Khushwaha, said, preliminary inquiry suggests Aman sank into depression after being separated from the girl, whom he claimed to have secretly married. He was lodged in a barrack with only two inmates, in keeping with social distancing norms. “Inmates who told us that Aman would starve and kept to himself,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/undertrial-found-hanging-in-prison/articleshow/75705545.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Trichy||Two held for narcotic sale||Police arrested two people for sale of banned tobacco products in Trichy on Monday. Woraiyur police arrested R Murali, 26, of Nachiarkovil Street in the city for selling banned tobacco products near a petty shop close to the vegetable market at Woraiyur on Monday. Police also seized 23 packs of tobacco products from him. In another incident, Woraiyur police rounded up K Manickam, 47, of Kavalkara Street on Monday night. On a tip-off, police picked up Manickam who is in the possession of 23 packs of tobacco items from Pandamangalam Road. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/two-held-for-narcotic-sale/articleshow/75705547.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Goa||FIR against those drinking in public: Goa cops||PANAJI: Goa police have decided to file FIRs against those found consuming alcohol in public places despite the lockdown being in force. “We will book offenders under section 188 IPC (violation of lockdown orders),” North Goa superintendent of police, Utkrisht Prasoon, told TOI. He said he has directed all police stations to take stringent action against people drinking in public places. Liquor shops in the state opened on May 4 after the Union government relaxed some guidelines for districts in the Green Zone. Meanwhile, Prasoon said 2,271 challans were issued to those found without face masks and 1,905 challans for spitting in public places, totalling Rs 4.1 lakh. “All such violators are fined. Fines collected for not wearing face masks and spitting in public places have totalled to Rs 4.1 lakh so far,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/fir-against-those-drinking-in-public-cops/articleshow/75705548.cms||Murari Shetye
May 13, 2020||Goa||Goa: Proposed duty hike scrapped for feni, 25% cut for IMFL||PANAJI: The state government on Tuesday completely scrapped the duty hike on feni it proposed in the state budget in February, as well as substantially reduced the hike on Indian Made Foreign Liquor (IMFL). The excise department effected the rest of the proposals from the budget in a notification issued on Tuesday. After the state issued the notification modifying the budget proposal to some degree, an official said that the reduction on IMFL and some other variants of spirits could be around 25%. However, industry insiders feel that the relief offered is only superficial. After the budget in February — chief minister Pramod Sawant’s first — various bodies involved in the liquor trade approached the government seeking relief, as the hike was perceived to be a major one compared to previous years. Sawant had proposed to make alcohol and property more expensive in Goa. The increase in tax rates was expected to yield Rs 250-300 crore additional revenue, finance department officials said. However, now, with tourism shut and with some excise duty reduced due to pressure from industry, they said that a fresh revenue assessment will have to be done. An official said that over the past two financial years, the government did not hike excise duty on IMFL and other segments, and thus the department was unduly criticised after the 2020 budget, when the duty was hiked by a higher percentage. The budget had also added a new segment — in addition to a fixed license fee, the licensee was also liable to pay fees proportionate to the area under his activity. While the fixed component now remains unchanged, the duty charged for the operating space has been brought down by 50%, the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/proposed-duty-hike-scrapped-for-feni-25-cut-for-imfl/articleshow/75705542.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Ahmedabad||48 new Covid-19 cases in western part of Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: The city of Ahmedabad reported 267 fresh Covid-19 cases on Monday. Of these, 48 were from the west of the Sabarmati. Of these, 15 were from the Satellite, Jodhpur, Gurukul and Thaltej areas. A fresh case has also been reported from Paras Bungalows in the Prernatirth Derasar area. The city also saw fresh cases from Satyamev Elysium in the Science City area, near Himalaya Mall, Venus Parkland in Vejalpur, Prathna Lavish in Bodakdev, Sarthak Tower in Ramdevnagar, Kanak Kalak Kala Society on Anandnagar Road, Surji Apartments in Thaltej, Nandanvan Society in Satellite and from the Narmada Awas in the Sindhu Bhavan area. Four fresh cases were reported from the Jodhpur area and one from Avani Row Houses. Two cases were reported from the area near Ramji Mandir and one from Jodhpur Gam. Four fresh cases were reported from the Gurukul are of which three were from Shreeji Tower and one was from Vipul Complex near Subhash Chowk. Of the three cases from Shreeji Tower, two are from a family and one was their neighbour. Nine cases were reported from Vejalpur and Jivraj Park areas and one case was reported from Skylon Tower in Panjrapol. The western part of the city now has 690 active cases, with 406 cases in the Stadium, Naranpura, Ghatlodia, Paldi and Vasna areas. The North and South West Zones have reported 111 and 173 cases, respectively. The South West Zone, including Jodhpur, Sarkhej and Makarba, had 157 cases on May 10. Of the 21 deaths in the city due to Covid-19, two were at SVP, 17 at Civil Hospital and one each at Sola Civil and a private hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/48-new-cases-in-western-part-of-city/articleshow/75704917.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Hyderabad||T moves KRMB against Andhra||Hyderabad: A day after Telangana CM K Chandrasekhar Rao announced that his government would fight against AP government’s proposed Rayalaseema lift irrigation project to draw 3 tmcft water from Pothireddypadu head regulatory scheme (HRS) from Krishna river, Telangana on Tuesday officially lodged a complaint with the Krishna River Management Board (KRMB) against the neighbouring state. Principal secretary, irrigation, Rajat Kumar wrote a letter asking KRMB to prevent AP from going ahead with the project. “AP’s proposed project is illegal and is in contravention of section 84 of the AP Reorganisation Act, 2014. Such projects can be initiated or taken up only with the prior approval of the apex council,” the principal secretary said in his letter. With the proposed new project, Telangana alleged that AP was trying to enhance the total drawl capacity of water up to 8 tmcft daily from Srisailam reservoir, which would adversely impact the interests of the state. “Srisailam reservoir being a common project, AP cannot plan or initiate any additional diversion of water without consulting Telangana. The state is dependent on water from Srisailam reservoir for drinking water to Hyderabad and Mission Bhagiratha (drinking water scheme) in erstwhile Mahbubnagar, Nalgonda and Rangareddy districts apart from various irrigation projects under Krishna river such as Kalwakurthy lift irrigation scheme, Palamuru-Rangareddy LI scheme and Dindi lift and other schemes,” Rajat pointed out. He said in the absence of telemetry at Pothireddypadu HRS, AP was indiscriminately diverting water outside the basin without accounting for it. The Telangana government had been asking KRMB to install a telemetry system since 2016, but in vain. The principal secretary said the AP government was resorting to clandestine diversion of water outside the basin through Pothireddypadu by suppressing facts before KRMB. Meanwhile, Telangana ministers T Harish Rao and V Srinivas Goud and TRS spokesperson Karne Prabhakar in separate press meets announced that the government would do everything to stall the project and protect the interests of the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-moves-krmb-against-andhra/articleshow/75704892.cms||Koride Mahesh
May 13, 2020||Hyderabad||This Telugu surgeon globetrots flying jet to deliver med supplies||Hyderabad: On the frontline of the pandemic, Dr Venkataramana Vijay has his battles cut out both in the ICU and in the cockpit. The New York-based surgeon and pilot has been delivering medicines from across the globe as cases continue to rise in the US. The Telugu-American heart surgeon now pilots a Boeing-747 jumbo jet. “Earlier I used to spend half the month flying and half in the operation theatre. But now, I have been travelling to China, Japan and Malaysia to help get medical requirements for the country to help during the pandemic,” says Vijay. The US Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) currently regulates cargo operations which includes the operations of Sky Lease Cargo, for whom Vijay works. He has so far flown over 500 tonnes of medical gear such as masks, gloves, PPE equipment, testing kits and ventilator parts to the US.“In China, we land in Changsha and Zheng Zhou, very close to Wuhan, because central China is the manufacturing hub even for medical supplies,” said Vijay, adding that even if one person falls sick, all four pilots would be quarantined. For Vijay, coming to the US was a forgone conclusion in 1989, considering the opportunities and his family’s academic background. Being a doctor, was a result of not being great at maths, he laughs. But being a pilot was a passion — as his class 2 teacher wrote in his report card — which he pursued after establishing himself as surgeon. Vijay says seeing hospitals such as Mount Sinai, where he works, teeming with patients reminds him of trauma following 9/11. “I treated patients suffering from asbestos inhalation at that time. As a healthcare provider you realise that the physical wounds can be treated, but one has to hand hold a patient through mental trauma.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/this-telugu-surgeon-globetrots-flying-jet-to-deliver-med-supplies/articleshow/75704880.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Thane||On way to Jaunpur from Thane in auto, woman-daughter duo killed in accident||KANPUR/JANUPUR: A 32-year-old woman and her six-year-old daughter from Thane who were heading towards their Jaunpur home in their auto-rickshaw, were killed when their vehicles was hit by a container truck in Fatehpur on Tuesday. The woman's husband, who was driving the auto-rickshaw, son and brother-in-law, were critically injured and admitted to district hospital. News of the woman and her daughter's death led to commotion at their Mokalpur village under Saraikhwaja police station area of Jaunpur district as hundreds gathered at their place. According to police, Rajan Yadav 38, his wife Sanju Yadav, their son Nitin Yadav (8) and daughter Nandini, besides his brother Guddu Yadav, left Thane on Saturday evening to reach their native village in Jaunpur district, 1500 km away in the auto-rickshaw which Rajan used to drive in Thane. They were part of a group that had left Thane on autos and motorcycles for their respective villages in UP and Bihar after they exhausted their savings during one and a hald months of lockdown. After almost 60-hour journey when they reached a toll plaza near Mahicha temple on Kanpur-Fatehpur-Allahabad highway, a container truck hit their auto-rickshaw following which it skidded off the road and fell into a road-side ditch. The woman and her daughter died on the spot, the official said. Her husband, minor son and her brother-in-law, who were trapped under the auto, were rescued and rushed to hospital by the passers-by and local police. "The accident report has been registered and further investigation was under way. Bodies were sent for post mortem," said circle officer, Khaga, Anshuman Mishra. Their relative Bhole Shankar, along with his minor son Manish, was also accompanying them on his two-wheeler from Mumbai. He told TOI that as their money got exhausted and also due to fear of corona spread, besides extension of lockdown, they had decided to return to their native place in Jaunpur. "While leaving Mumbai, we were not alone but there were around 100 to 150 auto wallahs, who had left with their families in autos for their native homes," he said. Those accompanying Rajan informed his father NP Yadav in his village. His family members in Jaunpur told TOI that they had left Mumbai for Jaunpur on May 9.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/on-way-to-jaunpur-from-thane-in-auto-woman-daughter-duo-killed-in-accident/articleshow/75708060.cms||Rajeev Dikshit
May 13, 2020||Hubballi||ASHA worker dies at work, kin demand Covid-19 insurance cover||Ballari/Bengaluru: Bheemakka, 50, an Accredited Social Health Activist (ASHA) worker, died on Sunday en route to the district hospital in Ballari. The health worker had collapsed during her data collection work at Badanakatte village the previous evening. Demanding that she be paid the insurance amount promised for Covid-19 frontline workers, her family members and other ASHA workers are staging a protest in front of the district hospital in Ballari. Her body is yet to be moved out of the the hospital premises. Bheemakka is the mother of three and a resident of Badanahatti village in Kurugode taluk of Ballari district "She is a frontline worker who collapsed when she was at work. She died the next day en route to the hospital. She was working as an ASHA worker earning a meagre amount, but working for community health. The state government and the district administration has ignored the issue and her body is yet to be taken for post mortem," said Varalakshmi S, president, ASHA Workers union. Dr B. Devanand, sirector, VIMS said her results for the coronavirus were negative. "We have requested her family to conduct her last rites with dignity and recalling her good service. If they refuse to take the body, we will report to the deputy commissioner and act as per their order," he added. When TOI contacted Karnataka’s Covid-19 spokesperson S Suresh Kumar, he said that the woman died due to cardiac issues and she was not at work when she died. "She was brought dead to the hospital. She had tesed negative for Covid-19," he said. However, the minister’s reply disappointed ASHA workers who are demanding that the state government consider Bheemakka’s case for Covid-19 insurance benefits as she had died at work. "The minister has ignored the fact that she collapsed while at work. The state government should not ignore the death of a health worker who has worked since 2012 taking all risks. Chief minister B S Yedyurappa must look into the matter and help the bereaved family with chief minsiter’s compensation fund," said Varalakshmi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/asha-worker-dies-at-work-kin-demand-covid-19-insurance-cover/articleshow/75703938.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat records 362 new Covid-19 cases, 24 deaths in 24 hours||AHMEDABAD: Gujarat on Tuesday recorded 362 positive cases and 24 deaths in the 24 hours ending 5 pm. The state also saw the discharge of 466 Covid-19 patients. It is the highest single-day number of discharges for the state and second time when where 400-plus patients have been discharged in a day. With the new cases and deaths, the tally of Gujarat has reached 8,904 whereas the death toll is now 537. As on Tuesday evening, Gujarat is second only to Maharashtra in terms of total deaths and cases in India. Of the new cases, Ahmedabad acounted for 74% of the cases (267). Surat and Vadodara were second and third with 30 and 27 cases. Of the 24 deaths, 21 were recorded in Ahmedabad while one each were recorded from Surat, Vadodara and Rajkot. Amid the rise in cases, Jayanti Ravi, principal secretary (health and family welfare), on Tuesday claimed that the epidemic is ‘under control’ in Gujarat. “The condition in Ahmedabad is stable, Gujarat is stable. The situation is absolutely under control,” she said in her brief. Ravi said Gujarat’s discharge rate has increased from 6.3% on April 21 to 36.5% on May 12. So far, 3,246 persons have been discharged in Gujarat. After the new discharge guidelines three days ago, Gujarat discharged 1,155 or 35.5% of the total number of discharged patients. She defended the discharge policy citing national and international studies. Under the new discharge protocol, asymptomatic patients can be discharged after 10 days without RT-PCR tests to ascertain viral load. “The rules were formed by the high-powered committee with experts such as Niti Aayog member Dr Vinod Paul, DG of ICMR Dr Balram Bhargav, two senior professors from AIIMS and others based on research. The research showed that if there are no symptoms such as fever, after seven days the virus doesn’t grow even when presence is detected,” said Ravi. Ravi also defended the testing rate of Gujarat, saying that the state is doing adequate tests. Among the four Indian states with highest total Covid-19 cases, Gujarat is carrying out least tests per million people. Against its capacity of 3,200 tests a day, Gujarat on Tuesday carried out 3,066 tests. The state has carried out more than 5,000 tests in a day earlier. “We are carrying out widespread testing and are also conducting intensive tests in a cyclical manner in different districts of Gujarat. For example, more tests were conducted in Devbhoomi Dwarka, Mehsana and Bharuch in the past 24 hours,” said Ravi. “We have not set any targets for testing.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/state-records-362-new-cases-24-deaths-in-24-hours/articleshow/75704919.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Kanpur||On way to Jaunpur from Thane in auto, woman-daughter duo killed in accident||KANPUR/JANUPUR: A 32-year-old woman and her six-year-old daughter from Thane who were heading towards their Jaunpur home in their auto-rickshaw, were killed when their vehicles was hit by a container truck in Fatehpur on Tuesday. The woman's husband, who was driving the auto-rickshaw, son and brother-in-law, were critically injured and admitted to district hospital. News of the woman and her daughter's death led to commotion at their Mokalpur village under Saraikhwaja police station area of Jaunpur district as hundreds gathered at their place. According to police, Rajan Yadav 38, his wife Sanju Yadav, their son Nitin Yadav (8) and daughter Nandini, besides his brother Guddu Yadav, left Thane on Saturday evening to reach their native village in Jaunpur district, 1500 km away in the auto-rickshaw which Rajan used to drive in Thane. They were part of a group that had left Thane on autos and motorcycles for their respective villages in UP and Bihar after they exhausted their savings during one and a hald months of lockdown. After almost 60-hour journey when they reached a toll plaza near Mahicha temple on Kanpur-Fatehpur-Allahabad highway, a container truck hit their auto-rickshaw following which it skidded off the road and fell into a road-side ditch. The woman and her daughter died on the spot, the official said. Her husband, minor son and her brother-in-law, who were trapped under the auto, were rescued and rushed to hospital by the passers-by and local police. "The accident report has been registered and further investigation was under way. Bodies were sent for post mortem," said circle officer, Khaga, Anshuman Mishra. Their relative Bhole Shankar, along with his minor son Manish, was also accompanying them on his two-wheeler from Mumbai. He told TOI that as their money got exhausted and also due to fear of corona spread, besides extension of lockdown, they had decided to return to their native place in Jaunpur. "While leaving Mumbai, we were not alone but there were around 100 to 150 auto wallahs, who had left with their families in autos for their native homes," he said. Those accompanying Rajan informed his father NP Yadav in his village. His family members in Jaunpur told TOI that they had left Mumbai for Jaunpur on May 9.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/on-way-to-jaunpur-from-thane-in-auto-woman-daughter-duo-killed-in-accident/articleshow/75705557.cms||Rajeev Dikshit
May 13, 2020||Bhopal||‘Not just lung tract, Covid hits other organs too’||Bhopal: It is not just respiratory damage, Covid-19 infection also leads to skin inflammation, clots, renal damage, strokes and multi-organ failures. Kids going into toxic shock with inflammation of coronary arteries and blood vessels is a new challenge for the medical community. Medical experts in Bhopal since 1984 gas leak have learnt to look for uncommon symptoms in gas victims; they may be leading the way in having a better understanding of Covid patients across the country. Progression in +ve patients Professor, department of medicine, Gandhi Medical College, Dr JL Wadhwani, said that coronavirus needs a ‘receptor’ to enter a human host. That receptor — ‘angiotensin-converting enzyme II’ or ACE 2 — is found in lung tissue, in oral and nasal mucus, kidneys, testes and gastrointestinal tracts. “We have been finding abnormal clotting, known as thrombosis, in our Covid patients and seeing clots everywhere including arteries. It is impacting multiple organs and not mere respiratory failure,” said pulmonologist and Covid-19 team lead, Chirayu Medical college, Dr Krishna Singh. Director, Dr Ajay Goenka, has been advocating that Covid patients respond best with high flow oxygen. Interventionist cardiologist, J K hospital, Dr GC Gautam, said that Bhopal’s medical fraternity is highly skilled to deal with crisis. “But we need to ensure safety of these corona warriors by providing them with proper protective gear (PPE suits) and other facilities,” he said. Skin rashes & ‘Covid’ toes Skin legions and inflammation of skin is witnessed in Covid patients. “When the area gets less of oxygen,” said assistant prof, dept of dermatology, GMC, Dr Nitin Pandya, “Covid patients show rashes, which seem to be consistent with what’s called a viral exanthema, which is a term for a general rash. In extreme cases the red, to blue skin vasculitis can lead to ulcer and can be very painful.” Findings in children Instances of rashes are reported in positive children. We are not sure if it is due to vasculitis or something else,” said HoD paedrictics, GMC, Jyotsana Shrivastava. Paediatric multisystem inflammatory syndrome is being observed in Covid-positive children, said director in-charge paediatrics ICU, Miracles hospital, Dr Rakesh Mishra. “These kids have blue toes and fingers, without apparent reason. This happens because the small blood vessels get blocked,” he added. Long-term impact As per data, about 3 to 9% patients face renal failure; 30% had proteinuria, wherein protein leaks through urine. It is the kidney manifestation of Covid-19,” said nephrologist and kidney transplant specialist, Bansal hospital, Dr Vidyanand Tripathi. Doctors in Bhopal are grappling with one open question — what would be the long-term effects for the survivors? Will we see decrease in heart, lung and kidney function that is long-lasting and permanent. “This makes situation worst for gas victims,” said Dr Wadhwani. Director, AIIMS Bhopal, Dr Sarnam Singh indicated that chronic effects of Covid would be known after June.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/not-just-lung-tract-covid-hits-other-organs-too/articleshow/75703939.cms||Jamal Ayub
May 13, 2020||Nagpur||Toxic CO2 falls for first time in 4 decades||Nagpur: For the first time in four decades, the emissions of toxic carbon dioxide have declined in the country — thanks to an economic slowdown, growth of clean energy and the lockdown due to Covid-19 pandemic. This was revealed in the latest analysis done by Lauri Myllyvirta and Sunil Dahiya of the Centre for Research on Energy and Clean Air (CREA). According to the analysis, CO2 emissions in the country fell by around 15% in March, and are likely to have fallen by 30% last month, year-on-year. Using the latest consumption data for coal, oil and gas, the analysts concluded that CO2 emissions fell by 30 million tonnes in the financial year 2019-20 compared to the previous fiscal. As per analysts, power and transportation sectors are the major contributors of CO2 pollution in the country. TOI earlier reported that the thermal sector spewed out nearly 929 million tones of CO2 in a year. “The fall in the consumption of fossil fuels has led to the decline in CO2 emissions,” said Dahiya. The analysis, which is based on government data from various ministries, stated that power generated from coal-fired plants fell by 15% in March, and 31% in the first three weeks of April. “In contrast, renewable energy (RE) generation increased by 6.4% in March, and saw a slight decrease of 1.4% in the first three weeks of April,” it added. In an earlier study last year, Myllyvirta and Dahiya had predicted a sharp fall in the growth of CO2 emissions due to slowdown in the expansion of coal-fired electricity generation. Not just coal, consumption of oil too has witnessed a decline. The already-slow demand in growth of oil consumption fell by 18% this March, compared to the previous year. “The consumption during 2019-20 fiscal grew at 0.2% — the slowest in last 22 years,” the analysis stated. Consumption of natural gas, which increased by 5.5% in the first 11 months of the fiscal year, is expected to fall by 15-20% during the lockdown. On government’s response on the downfall, the analysis considers three possible scenarios post the lockdown — reinvigoration of the country’s renewable energy programme, necessitating bailouts in the power industry due to plummeting energy demand, and more momentum to efforts against the air pollution crisis. Highlighting that the Indian government had already started talking about support for renewable energy as a part of the recovery, the analysis stated: “One reason for this continued support is the fact that solar already offers far cheaper electricity than coal. The ministry of new and renewable energy also extended the timelines for renewable energy projects to be completed for the period of the lockdown and the following 30 days. This will safeguard renewable energy developers from penalties arising due to delays from their committed schedules.” The ministry has also written to various states in recent weeks to give a “major push” to domestic renewable manufacturing capacity. “Increased domestic supply will strengthen the renewable energy programme by strengthening supply chains and political weight for the industry,” it added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/toxic-co2-falls-for-first-time-in-4-decades/articleshow/75705579.cms||Manka Behl
May 13, 2020||Lucknow||‘Extend lockdown but open industry’||Lucknow: “Extend lockdown till May 31 but allow industry and retail” is what UP cabinet ministers have recommended. In a meeting with CM Yogi Adityanath on Tuesday, the ministers said that while precautions are required, especially in light of the returning migrant workers, it was crucial to open up industry and retail to set the economy rolling. Sources said the CM took suggestions and feedback from all ministers and the proposal to extend the lockdown till May 31 was almost unanimous. “Finally, we will do what the Centre and health ministry recommend. However, from the point of view of industry, I recommended that, if possible, we should reduce the containment zones. In Noida, for instance, if we shut down everything in a 1km radius around a confirmed case, then it affects a lot of industries,” said industries minister Satish Mahana. Another minister said that to create demand and thereby provide a push to the economy, it was equally important to restart retail businesses. He said that while keeping schools, cinema houses and restaurants closed, shops could be allowed to open. A minister also proposed that to ensure distancing and prevent crowds, shops could be opened in a staggered manner or allotted numbers corresponding with the day of the week and allowed to open then. Ministers also discussed the arrival of migrant workers from other states, accepting that while everyone was welcome and efforts would be made to find them employment, the number of Covid-19 cases would also probably see a rise over the next few days. “The coming 10-15 days will be crucial as cases will probably go up. Already we are seeing the infection prevalent in those coming from outside. However, the state is prepared and after the first two weeks, the situation should settle down,” said one minister.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/extend-lockdown-but-open-industry/articleshow/75705565.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Pune||Pre-operation Covid-19 tests for all general patients illogical, unethical: Experts||PUNE: Forty-year-old Abhishek, an IT professional from the city, was asked to take a Covid-19 test before a minor kidney stone surgery. He was surprised. “I did not have any symptoms. And except for radiating pain, I was absolutely fine,” he said. “But doctors insisted I be tested before surgery. The test cost me Rs 4,500 at a lab; I emerged negative for Covid-19.” Many private hospitals nationwide are insisting on Covid-19 tests before any surgery or procedure — essential or otherwise. Their decision is despite a directive from the Centre, which told states and hospitals not to make Covid-19 tests compulsory before treatment. The Ministry of Health and Family Welfare had also asked hospitals to stick to guidelines laid out by the Indian Council of Medical Research. The ICMR’s instructions are clear: Test the symptomatic and those who have had contact with lab-confirmed Covid-19 cases. Experts TOI spoke to described the practice of mandatory tests before treatment as “illogical” and “unethical”. Sanjay Patil, a former president of the Indian Medical Association, said: “Pune is one of the worst-hit districts of the country. So doctors should just look at every patient as someone ‘potentially positive’ and adopt all infection control measures. Insisting that general patients, and those who don’t fit the ICMR criteria, take Covid tests violates ICMR's norms.” A central argument against mandatory testing is Covid-19’s incubation period — time between exposure and onset of early symptoms. Even if a patient has contracted the infection, he or she is likely to remain illness-free for as many as 14 days, studies show. “A negative test does not completely rule out infection,” said infectious diseases expert Mahesh Lakhe of the Columbia Asia hospital in Pune. “There is always a chance of an electively operated patient with a negative test emerging positive later. There are chances of false-negatives as well.” A negative test then could bring in a sense of false security among hospital staff. “It’s possible the operating doctors and nurses may drop their guard. We should maintain the highest levels of infection control, irrespective of test results,” Lakhe added. But there are hospitals in the city that are insisting on Covid-19 tests before procedures. At Jupiter hospital, authorities confirmed they have made the test a part of the pre-operative protocol. “We have included the Covid-19 test, along with the other viral marker tests, for patients getting admitted for any surgery or procedure. This is to ensure that infection is detected at the right time,” a spokesperson for the hospital said. Doctors said facilities that are steadfast on test-before-treatment are only concerned about a spread within hospital premises. “Hospitals that ask for pre-procedure Covid-19 tests are worried about staff contracting infection. These centres will stop insisting on the test once they have a more mature response to the outbreak,” said Dhananjay Kelkar, the medical director of Deenanath Mangeshkar hospital. But Kelkar insisted that doctors should not rely on test results for total safety. “Negative results could make hospital staff complacent. All patients should instead be treated as asymptomatic carriers and universal Covid-19 precautions should be enforced.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pre-op-covid-19-tests-for-all-general-patients-illogical-unethical-experts/articleshow/75705567.cms||Umesh Isalkar
May 13, 2020||Ahmedabad||Trains to Delhi full, return empty||Ahmedabad: While people from Gujarat are making a beeline for Delhi, it seems that Gujaratis settled outside the state, especially in Delhi, are not returning at this time. The only train from Ahmedabad to Delhi is booked till May 19, but for the train coming from Delhi to Ahmedabad, bookings are full only till May 13. However, first-class AC tickets — on both Delhi and Ahmedabad legs — have been booked till May 19. A scan of the booking charts reveals that 80% of the 1AC tickets have been booked in several groups of four. Only a few 1AC tickets are available and they are usually the last to get booked, because their prices are nearly 70% higher than those of 2AC tickets and 140% higher than those of 3AC tickets. “But it seems that in the times Covid-19, 1AC is becoming the first choice of many passengers,” said a senior officer. “For 1AC, a passenger has to pay Rs 3,465. The fare for 2AC is Rs 2,060, and for 3AC, it is Rs 1,460.” The officer said that if a person has four tickets, he or she gets the entire coupe and has no interaction with any outsider once the door is slid shut. In 2AC, there are six passengers including two in the side berths. The number in 3AC is eight. The officer said that looking at the bookings, it was clear that entire families or group of friends/associates were travelling together. The rush to leave Gujarat, according to railway officials, can be explained by the fact that many engineers and other senior officers employed in Gujarat are uncertain about their companies resuming full-fledged operations. Hence they are heading back home to Delhi or nearby areas. The officer said that Gujarat has sent 250-odd Shramik special trains to Bihar and Uttar Pradesh. The trains carried about 1,200 passengers but on their way back to Gujarat they all returned empty. “Very few Gujaratis are employed as labourers outside the state, especially in north India, and hence this was the sole reason why Shramik special trains returned without passengers.” said Vipul Mittra, additional chief secretary, labour and employment. “Even outside Gujarat, the people of the state are job providers.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/trains-to-delhi-full-return-empty/articleshow/75704936.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
May 13, 2020||Ahmedabad||An unholy nexus and a quid pro quo: Gujarat high court||AHMEDABAD: While dealing a blow to the Gujarat law and education minister Bhupendrasinh Chudasama by cancelling his 2017 assembly election victory in the Dholka constituency, the Gujarat high court observed that the minister operated through the returning officer, Dhaval Jani. The HC further pointed out in its order that the minister later tried to reward the officer with a promotion, because it was payback time. The court order said, “The unholy nexus ultimately turned out to be a quid pro quo arrangement between the returning officer and respondent No.2 (Chudasama).” The court said that it was Jani who violated the Election Commission of India’s (ECI) code to secure Chudasama’s victory. It was Jani’s decision to exclude postal ballots from counting, even though they numbered more than the victory margin. Jani was summoned by the court. Justice Paresh Upadhyay found him shielding Chudasama in court too. Jani protested the court’s decision to bring postal ballots to court and provided limited camera footage to the court. “This shows that the returning officer was doing everything for the furtherance of the prospects of respondent No.2 even before this court in the trial. This is no less than an unholy nexus of the returning officer and respondent No.2 which further fortifies the findings of this court qua corrupt practice,” the HC said. The court also noted in detail how Chudasama favoured Jani with a promotion, though the ECI had asked the chief secretary to initiate proceedings against Jani for alleged misconduct in the election. The HC said that after the election victory, Chudasama became a cabinet minister again with the portfolios of education, law, parliamentary affairs and civil aviation, “and now there was time to pay back the returning officer”. Jani’s promotion from the post of deputy collector to that of additional collector was in the pipeline, but the government ignored the ECI order for proceedings against him and granted the promotion in October 2019. It was withdrawn when HC took the government to task. The HC went on to say that Jani’s actions would have attracted charges of “Sections 191 & 192 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860, punishable under Section 193 thereof”. But the court refrained from stretching things that far and limited itself with the observation that Jani allowed himself to become a tool of Chudasama. Jani is now posted at Civil Hospital, managing operations of the Covid-19 facility.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/an-unholy-nexus-and-a-quid-pro-quo/articleshow/75704921.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Coimbatore||Test visitors from Chennai: Villagers||Udhagamandalam: Residents of Aliyur village near Kotagiri in the Nilgiris protested on Tuesday seeking mandatory quarantine for a group of people who had arrived from Chennai and were staying close to their village. A group of 10 people from Chennai came to the Nilgiris on May 11 and were staying in a cottage close to Aliyur village. While they were out on a morning walk on Tuesday, the villagers suspected them as outsiders and informed health officials. Soon, around 100 villagers gathered and staged a protest. “Officials should be careful and alert when people from hotspots like Chennai visit the hills. They should be tested and quarantined,” one of the villagers said. The Kotagiri police rushed to the spot to calm down the villagers. Subsequently, revenue and health officials visited the area. Kotagiri tahsildar Mohana told TOI, “A group of 10 people had come from Chennai with an e-pass and were staying in a cottage in Aliyur village. As per demand of the villagers, they have now been home quarantined for 14 days. Samples will be lifted from them for Covid-19 tests.” Some villagers also alerted health officials about the arrival of actor Radha Ravi and his family from Chennai. The actor’s family is put up at a cottage near M Kaikatty in Kotagiri taluk. Revenue officials said they came from Chennai on May 10 with an e-pass and have been home quarantined for 14 days. Deputy director of public health P Balusamy said, “Test is required for only symptomatic cases. Anyway, samples will be drawn from these visitors as a safety measure.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/test-visitors-from-chennai-villagers/articleshow/75704933.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Lucknow||Migrants back in UP to get ration cards||LUCKNOW: To ensure that everyone in the state has access to food, chief minister Yogi Adityanath has directed all district magistrates to identify people who have slipped through the net of ration card holders and issue them cards at the earliest. “The CM has said that even those who have returned from other states or those who did not have ration cards earlier should be identified and issued ration cards immediately,” said additional chief secretary (home) Awanish Awasthi. Between May 1 and 11, the first cycle of the month of May for ration distribution, 3.28 crore families consisting of 13.6 crore people have been distributed foodgrain. Officials said that in this period, 7.55 lakh tonnes of ration was issued to beneficiaries. “We have issued ration to 95.91% of the total beneficiaries registered till now. Antyodaya card holders, labourers and workers are getting ration for free so about 35% of the total ration distributed was for free,” said an official. From May 15 up to May 25, the second phase of food distribution will start in the state in which 5kg rice and 1kg chana dal will be given to beneficiaries under the PM Garib Kalyan Yojna for free. Officials said that since the lockdown began, 5.69 lakh new ration cards have been made, largely for daily wage workers and MNREGA workers. In case of beneficiaries under the disabled category or those living in lockdown areas, the distribution of ration was carried out through doorstep delivery. Ration has been distributed like this to 8,552 families.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/migrants-back-in-up-to-get-ration-cards/articleshow/75705573.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: Hospitals flouting treatment price cap to face action||PUNE: State health minister Rajesh Tope has said stern actions would be taken against private hospitals flouting the rate structures released by the government on May 1 for the treatment of Covid-19 patients. The minister told TOI that a number of private hospitals in the city and Mumbai were not following the government’s orders and complaints were there about a few health hubs charging anything between Rs50,000 and Rs1 lakh for a day’s treatment of a coronavirus patient. “The local administration has been given the charge of taking necessary action against such private hospitals,” Tope said. The Pune district administration has issued notices to two private hospitals in the city and sought explanation on the charges of flouting the price and also not admitting patients. Pune district collector Naval Kishore Ram on Tuesday told TOI that he has appointed officials to keep a check on all private hospitals to ensure strict adherence to the government’s rules. “We are awaiting the explanations from the two private hospitals . If we find the explanations invalid, we can even cancel their licence for operations,” he said. Ram said, “The state government has made the rules to ensure that no health hub can violate the government’s rules and regulations in this difficult time. The administration will soon seek death audit reports from the private hospitals. A similar death audit was carried out for the Sassoon General Hospital.”  Tope said the state had made an agreement with the General Insurance Public Sector Association (Gipsa) and the private hospitals in Pune and Mumbai could charge only as per the government’s rates, irrespective of the size and facilities of a ward or room. For the rest of the state, a third-party agreement was to be made and the general ward rates were to be charged in accordance with the standard formats. On May 1, the state government released a notification telling the hospitals to follow the Gipsa rates. The hospitals without any agreement with insurance companies have to follow the scheduled rates prepared by the government. Officials said several hospitals have been accused of overcharging. A major component of the bill, they said, were that of the personal protective equipment (PPE) kits. The stat has capped charges of PPE from a patient at not more than 10% over and above the cost of such a kit to the hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/hosps-flouting-treatment-price-cap-to-face-action/articleshow/75705577.cms||Nisha Nambiar
May 13, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: Trucker offloads migrants after taking Rs 4,000 per head||PUNE: For a 100 migrant workers from Bhadohi in Uttar Pradesh, stuck for two months in Chakan near Pune without jobs or money, a trucker’s assurance of taking them home came as a blessing. Read the entire story on TOI+If cost of journey didn't hit them, "paid quarantine" will||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/trucker-offloads-migrants-after-taking-rs-4k-per-head/articleshow/75705569.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Mangaluru||Govt appoints 7 doctors at BRS Mother & Child Hosp||Udupi: The health and family welfare department appointed seven doctors at Government Koosamma Shambhu Shetty Memorial Haji Abdullah Mother and Child Hospital, Udupi, after BR Speciality Hospital & Research Centre authorities appealed for help, citing their inability to run the centre. As a result, the health department appointed seven doctors on May 5. After businessman B R Shetty’s assets were frozen due to an alleged scam at NMC Health in UAE, it has adversely affected his institutions in India. Most of the employees at Bengaluru, Udupi, Bhubaneswar, and Thiruvananthapuram accused that the institution orally asked them to resign. Udupi MLA Ragupathi Bhat said, “The hospital gets a bill of Rs 18 lakh every month as it is centrally air conditioned, and the government cannot afford it. However, for the benefit of patients, we are cooperating with the institution.” Deputy commissioner G Jagadeesha said, “We are managing the hospital as per the chief secretary’s advice. Now the process is on to appoint doctors and provide free medicines. Maintenance of the facility is going on. We will wait for the government’s instructions on other matters”. “The hospital should not be added to the failed list, and before that happens, the government should take over. Let them first remove the central air conditioning and run the hospital normally. However, before that change the hospital’s name to Hajji Abdullah Mother and Child Hospital,” demanded Iqbal Manna, president of Hajji Abdulla trust.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/govt-appoints-7-doctors-at-brs-mother-child-hosp/articleshow/75703971.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Bhopal||With 30 new cases, Bhopal Covid tally crosses 800 mark||Bhopal: Thirty people tested positive for Covid-19 in the state capital on Tuesday. In the month of May, 278 people have tested positive. With an average of 23 positive patients per day in May, the total number of positive cases in Bhopal has crossed 800 mark. More than 50 per cent of the positive cases have recovered. Till now, 460 patients have been discharged from hospitals after getting timely treatment in Bhopal. There are 310 active Covid-19 cases in the state capital, according to health bulletin. While the state capital reported about 23 new cases per day in first 12 days of May, there have been 28 deaths due to Covid in the same period. As on Tuesday, there were two critically-ill patients. Twelve more patients were admitted to AIIMS Bhopal on Tuesday. The hospital has 40 cases under treatment for Covid. Thirty-Nine positive patients are receiving treatment and are said to be stable, one patient is in ICU and critical.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/with-30-new-cases-bhopal-covid-tally-crosses-800-mark/articleshow/75703978.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Pune||Seven more die, record 165 test positive in 24 hours in PMR||PUNE: Seven more Covid-19 patients died, while 165 tested positive for the contagion in Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) on Tuesday, taking the case and casualty counts to 3,134 and 168, respectively. It took two months and three days for the case count to breach 3,000-mark since the first two persons tested positive in Pune on March 9. If we talk about time taken in doubling of the cases in PMR, it took just 13 days to breach 3,000 as the total case count had crossed 1,500-mark on April 29. Civic health officials said increase in swab collection, rigorous contact tracing, repeated screening of people from the containment areas had led to surge in the number of positive cases. About 989 swab samples were collected on Tuesday and were sent for testing. The deceased included a 75-year-old man from Yerawada, a 75-year-old woman of the Bibvewadi area, a 64-year-old man from the Yerawada area, a 75-year-old man from Tadiwala Road, a 57-year-old woman from Nana Peth, a 59-year-old man from Nana Peth and an 86-year-old man from Hadapsar-Malwadi. Survey of 1,650 houses and 47,819 people was conducted in the PCMC limits on Tuesday. (With inputs from Siddharth Gaikwad)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/7-more-die-record-165-test-positive-in-24-hours-in-pmr/articleshow/75705584.cms||Sarang Dastane
May 13, 2020||Lucknow||Issue mining lease to increase revenue: CM||Lucknow: Looking at means to increase the state’s revenue, chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Tuesday said that mining lease should be issued at the earliest in order to increase the state’s revenue. This will also make raw material available for the construction activity which the government has been pushing to get started. On Monday, chief secretary RK Tiwari directed the district administration to allow the construction work in the green and orange zones. No work, however, be permitted in the lockdown areas. The government has increased its focus on the construction work not just as a means of kickstarting the economy, but also to meet the CM’s direction for generating 20 lakh employment opportunities by the end of the month. Several government projects had come to a standstill during the Covid-19 lockdown, like expressways, which have now been started. Additional chief secretary (home) Awanish Awasthi said the CM’s directions were to issue the mining lease ahead of the monsoon. “He said that not only will this help in generating revenue but will also provide raw material which can be used for the constriction activity,” he said. Currently, 734 continuous process industries and another 1,09,43 MSME units are functioning in the state. Permission has also been given to open hardware shops in areas outside hotspots Starting of economic activity, the government says, will help in employment of lakhs of migrant workers who have come into the state. Already, around five lakh migrant workers have returned to the state in the past week, travelling by train, bus or private transport. So far, 233 trains have brought 2,81,400 workers to different parts of the state while permission has been granted to another 190 trains, expected to carry 2.24 lakh persons back. Awasthi said that 44 stations were functional in various districts to receive passengers. A train was also being started from Jhansi to take passengers arriving at the border to their native districts. “We have received 144 trains from Gujarat, 31 from Maharashtra and 38 from Punjab among others. On Tuesday, more than 12 trains arrived in UP. Medical check-up of those who are returning by trains is being done at the stations itself and after this they are being sent for home or institutional quarantine,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/issue-mining-lease-to-increase-revenue-cm/articleshow/75705590.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Bhopal||‘Made it to Bhopal, but how do we reach home from here’||Bhopal: Ever since special trains were announced from Delhi to different parts of the country, the biggest concern for the passengers is, how to reach home. District administration is yet to decide on how to transport the passengers who would reach the city in special Rajdhani trains. First special Rajdhani New Delhi-Bilaspur arrived in Bhopal late night on Tuesday. And those who are travelling soon, are obviously worried. “I have to travel from Delhi to Bhopal on Wednesday. However, there is no information from the authorities as to what will happen once I land at Bhopal station. I think biggest challenge is reaching home from Bhopal station. I’m not sure if anyone from my family or friends can come and pick me up from station in such a situation. There is no clarity if a special pass is needed for that,” said Aneesh Khan, a Bhopal-based businessman. Absence of porters at the railway station is another issue that the passengers will have to deal with, especially when they are carrying a lot of luggage. “I have been waiting to come back home for past two months after lockdown was imposed. I have to bring lot of luggage with me as I will not go back to New Delhi soon. I do not know how will I take this stuff with me. I can’t even ask my family members to pick me up from station during lockdown. I am completely in dark,” said Vikas Sahu, a private firm employee. Passengers are also worried how they will travel to other cities from Bhopal. “I live in Obaidullahganj. As train will stop at Bhopal station, it is an opportunity for me to go back home. However, I have not made up my mind as I do not know how to reach home from Bhopal station,” said Yasin Hasan, a vendor. When contacted, district administration also admitted that transport is a big concern. “We are working on it. As of now, nothing has been decided about it,” said PRO, Bhopal collectorate, Arun Rathore. District administration has made it clear that all passengers will be screened at station. “Samples will be taken of those who are found with Covid like symptoms,” said Rathore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/made-it-to-bhopal-but-how-do-we-reach-home-from-here/articleshow/75703990.cms||Ramendra Singh
May 13, 2020||Pune||1,100 apply for 177 posts of doctors in Pune civic body||PUNE: The Pune Municipal Corporation has received over 1,100 applications for filling up around 177 posts of doctors on a temporary basis for management of Covid-19 outbreak. They will be appointed on a three-month contract. The applicants include general practitioners as well as specialists. Once appointed, they will be deputed at municipal hospitals as well as flu clinics. The state government had given a green signal to the PMC in March to fill the vacant posts in municipal health services. As per PMC officials, the health department could recruit 1,086 employees in the first phase. Vacancies in fire brigade and solid waste management would be filled in the days to come. "Since these posts are permanent in nature, approval of the PMC general body is necessary. So, for the time being they will be recruited for a short period. The advertisement for it was issued following approval from the state government," said a PMC official. Along with Covid hospitals, doctors will be required in mobile clinics too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/1100-apply-for-177-posts-of-doctors-in-civic-body/articleshow/75705580.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Ahmedabad||Bhupendrasinh Chudasama’s political future uncertain||GANDHINAGAR: Uncertainly looms over the political future of state education and law minister Bhupendrasinh Chudasama, after the Gujarat high Court on Tuesday cancelled the 2017 Dholka assembly election result. Chudasama had then won the seat by a little over 300 votes. While it is certain that Chudasama ceases to be a MLA after the HC order, the political leadership can continue with him being a minister in the Vijay Rupani government until a byelection is held for the seat. While the BJP government has thrown its weight behind the beleaguered minister, it stopped short of making an unambiguous statement that Chudasama will continue in government. State government spokesperson and senior BJP leader Nitin Patel, terming the HC verdict “shocking”, said that it will be challenged in a higher court. On the crucial question of whether Bhupendrasinh Chudasama will continue in government, Patel did not offer a direct answer, but said, “The CM, our state president and other leaders will discuss the issue and make a representation to our party’s central leadership and thereafter decide the course of action.” Patel said the HC order was “very sad news for the BJP, as Bhupendrasinhji is our leader since Jan Sangh days and a favourite of our lakhs of workers”. Patel said that Chudasama will challenge the HC order in the Supreme Court and seek an immediate stay on the HC order. Expectedly, Bhupendrasinh Chudasama said he was in touch with his lawyers and will challenge the verdict in the Supreme Court. He did not clarify if he intended to continue as a minister in the government. Congress candidate Ashwin Rathod, who had challenged Chudasama’s election win, said he was happy with the order but his prayer was for the recounting of votes. “If counting of votes was done properly, I would have won. I will file a caveat in the SC,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/bhupendrasinh-chudasamas-political-future-uncertain/articleshow/75704946.cms||Kapil Dave
May 13, 2020||Patna||Seven from Patna among 81 new Covid cases, tally up to 830||PATNA: The state on Tuesday crossed the 800 mark with 81 people testing positive for Covid-19. The total number of coronavirus cases in Bihar now stands at 830 with six deaths reported so far and 383 recoveries. There are currently 441 active cases in the state. Seven of the new cases are from Patna, including six from BMP-14 Khajpura and one from Belchchi. Cases on Tuesday were reported from 19 districts of the state, with top five districts being Khagaria where 15 people had tested positive, followed by West Champaran with 14 people testing positive and 13 from from Rohtas and nine from Begusarai and six from Patna State health department principal secretary Sanjay Kumar said, “Primarily most of the cases are of migrants and they are in quarantine centre.” He further stated that there was no fear of community transmission as almost all the cases were known ones. “Community transmission is when there is no clear source of infection in a new community. It happens you can no longer identify who became infected after being exposed to someone who interacted with people from the originally infected communities,” read a part of his tweet posted on Tuesday. Sanjay also said 190 migrants who reached between May 5 and May 11 have tested positive for the virus. In this same period, total 232 positive cases have been reported. According to him, maximum positive cases are of migrants who have returned from Delhi with 55 of them testing positive, followed by migrants from Gujarat with 46 of them testing positive, 44 from Maharashtra, and 16 from West Bengal. Top five districts with maximum number of positive migrants includes, Begusarai with 26 of them reporting positive, Nalanda with 13, Bhagalpur with 13 positive cases, Patna with 11 migrants testing positive and Khagaria with 10 migrants testing positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/7-from-patna-among-81-new-covid-cases-tally-up-to-830/articleshow/75704018.cms||Sheezan Nezami
May 13, 2020||Mangaluru||Karnataka: The voice behind Covid-19 caller tune busy answering calls, messages from Keralites||MANGALURU: Delhi-based Tintu Mol Joseph, the voice behind Covid-19 caller tune in Malayalam, is busy answering calls and messages she has been receiving from Keralites across the world. Tintu Mol also has a Kannada connection. Her parents, TV Joseph and Alice had migrated from Kottayam in Kerala to Sullia taluk in Dakshina Kannada district 24 years ago. A voice-over artist for past four years, she told TOI, “It was professor Purushotham Bilimale, also from Sullia, who introduced me to Srikrishna Bhat, a Kannada voice over artist in 2016. After my schooling in Kadaba and Modankap, Bantwal and graduation (BA) from St Agnes College, Mangaluru, I moved to Delhi hoping to clear civil service exams. I joined Jawaharlal Nehru University for postgraduation in International Relations and later Bilimale suggested that I take up a few voice over assignments to support myself.” “Though I was hoping for Kannada voice over assignments, I got more offers in Malayalam. I did a couple of English and Hindi assignments too,” she added. In mid-March, she got a call from the studio that records for the ministry of health and family welfare offering Covid-19 precaution voice over assignment. “I took it up like any other assignment. I was selected for Malayalam. The same message was recorded in 22 Indian languages. The first recording ws taken at the studio and went well, but after the lockdown, the second and third versions were recorded from home,” she said. “Initially, only my family and a few friends knew that I was the voice behind the Malayalam caller tune. Those who did not know, even complained that such a lengthy caller tune was a hindrance especially when you are in a hurry to speak to someone. But things changed after a journalist in Kerala found out that it’s my voice, she said. “Now, Keralites from across the world are appreciating my contribution. And I am humbled by their love. Even in these desperate times people are making the effort to appreciate my work and that gives me joy,” added Tintu, who has been the voice over artist for several government television commercials and radio programmes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/the-voice-behind-covid-caller-tune/articleshow/75704006.cms||Deepthi Sanjiv
May 13, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Sale of vegetables, fruits, grocery items allowed from May 15||AHMEDABAD: The Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) has decided to commence sale of grocery items, fruits and vegetables from May 15.  The sale of these commodities will be from 8am to 3pm. The online delivery of the items will also commence from the same day between 10am and 5pm. Vegetable vendors will have to use a special tray for cash transactions, if they do not offer digital payment option. The decision to restart sale of vegetables was taken at a meeting held in Ahmedabad on Monday. Rajiv Gupta, additional chief secretary (ACS), forest & environment, who has been appointed as overall incharge of activities to control further spread of Covid-19 pandemic in Ahmedabad said the vegetable, fruit and the grocery shop owners will be allowed to operate only if they have the health card issued by the corporation. The vendors and shop keepers will have to ensure social distancing. Gupta said the vendors will be allowed to operate only in the area mentioned in their health cards. The card, which will be issued for seven days, will have to be revalidated after the expiry of the period. Gupta said that during the meeting it was decided that the shopkeeper will not be allowed to have any staff from the containment zones. AMC had made it compulsory that every staff in the shop will have to wear mask, gloves, and a cap and will also have to keep a bottle of sanitizer which they will give to the customer for use.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/sale-of-veggies-fruits-grocery-items-allowed-from-may-15-but/articleshow/75704995.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Pune||Rs 60 lakh traffic fines collected in Pune||PUNE: The traffic branch of the city police has recovered over Rs 60.4 lakh in pending fines from 13,349 offenders since April 19. The violators were caught at 13 nakabandi points during the lockdown and pending fines were recovered after checking their past records. They were issued e-challans after they were caught on CCTV cameras for violating norms across the city. Senior inspector Anil Patil (administration) from traffic branch of city police said, “We recovered Rs60,40,936 from the offenders. The primary reason was to prevent people from using their vehicles in the lockdown.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/rs-60l-traffic-fines-collected/articleshow/75705601.cms||Asseem Shaikh
May 13, 2020||Nagpur||Survey all migrants in 3 days, provide food kits: HC||Nagpur: Coming to the rescue of thousands of stranded migrants, the Nagpur bench of Bombay high court on Tuesday directed Maharashtra government to survey within three days all such poor and needy persons requiring food grains for survival. Justice Madhav Jamdar also directed the government to rope in staff currently not reporting for duties due to Covid-19 pandemic in this work to be carried out on a mass scale. “After such persons are identified, both stranded and moving, a provision should be made to hand over a packet of food grains to them. This will include 10kg wheat and rice, one kg sugar, one litre edible oil, salt and other products,” the HC said. Flaying the government for failure to popularize its schemes, the judge further asked all committees constituted as per the government resolution (GR) of March 29 to take steps to give wide publicity to its policy of providing free food grains and water to all poor and needy persons, in print as well as electronic media. “The authorities are also directed to review the entire situation once in three days, so that poor and needy citizens are quickly identified and food kits supplied to them. They should keep complete record of all such persons and also take utmost care while distributing food packets so that hoarding of ration is avoided,” the HC said. While adjourning hearing on a plea by Grahak Panchayat through counsel Smita Deshpande, justice Jamdar stressed that the directives are required to protect right to life as guaranteed by the Constitution of India for persons coming from lower strata of society, who require food packets for survival. Earlier, additional government pleader Nivedita Mehta informed that government was providing all help to the migrants and also paid Rs7.25 lakh towards their railway, buses and private vehicle fares. “It was informed that one food packet would be sufficient for a family for a month. The Food Corporation of India (FCI) has also informed that there is sufficient food stock. Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) clarified that they are supplying ration to even those persons not possessing ration card. The GR of March 29 clearly states that all poor persons should be supplied the ration, but it wasn’t fully implemented or given wide publicity,” the judge said. While applauding role of all authorities, including the government, corporations and local civic bodies, for doing commendable role in this unprecedented crisis, the judge however expressed disappointment over lakhs of migrants travelling to their native places. “All the authorities haven’t looked into this issue as an adversarial litigation and are assisting the court in passing the orders,” justice Jamdar observed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/survey-all-migrants-in-3-days-provide-food-kits-hc/articleshow/75705625.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
May 13, 2020||Jaipur||Containing virus spread in villages after migrants return big task: Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot||JAIPUR: Preventing the spread of coronavirus in rural areas following the return of lakhs of migrants will be the next big challenge for the state government, chief minister Ashok Gehlot said on Tuesday. During an interaction with MLAs and MPs of Jaipur and Ajmer divisions through a video link, Gehlot said nearly 19 lakh migrants have registered to return home. Calling on the lawmakers to make sure migrants are welcomed, he said they would have to be quarantined after their return to ensure the virus does not spread to villages. Gehlot urged MLAs to help the local administration in arranging quarantine facilities for the labourers besides providing some sort of employment, which will be the next big challenge, he added. The chief minister said it was also time to focus on livelihood. He said in some states even paying salary of employees had become difficult. He said Rajasthan was comparatively better as it had not yet availed overdraft facilities. The MLAs raised the issue of drinking water scarcity and farmers facing difficulties in transporting vegetables and milk. The mandi tax subject was also raised. Some MLAs demanded waiver of power and water bills which has been deferred. They stressed that the economic activities must be revived so that the government gets revenue and the people get income. Jaipur MP Ramcharan Bohra raised the issue of inconvenience caused to workers as the ESI hospital at Sodala has been converted in to a quarantine centre. He said because of that, ESI beneficiaries were finding difficult to avail OPD facility. The chief minister said the quarantine centre is being shifted from the ESI hospital. Opposition leader Gulab Chand Kataria said because of the 2% mandi cess, the farmers in the Udaipur region are shifting towards Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh to sell their produce which threatens the survival of grain mandis there. Congress chief whip Mahesh Joshi suggested distribution of fortified atta and oil to people to take care of their nutritional requirement while at the same time calling for amending the municipal law to restrict the number of people to be given on rent. He said in some places 100 to 150 people were living in a rented accommodation making it difficult at the time of pandemics. Rajsamand MP Diya Kumari demanded permission for marble transportation should be given immediately to the local businessmen in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/containing-virus-spread-in-villages-after-migrants-return-big-task-cm/articleshow/75705611.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Ahmedabad||244 Indians, mostly students, arrive from US, Philippines||AHMEDABAD: As many as 244 stranded Indians, most of them students, arrived back in Gujarat during the early hours of Tuesday. The state government has made institutional quarantine arrangements for them, after which they will be allowed to go to their homes. Two flights —from New York and Manila — arrived in Ahmedabad on Tuesday morning. Most of the students were happy to be back in Gujarat. The office of the DDO, which has been entrusted with the task of receiving persons coming from abroad, conducted health check-up of all the passengers, before ferrying them in special buses to various quarantine facilities in neighbouring districts. Wearing both face shields and masks, the passengers emerged out of the planes and were ushered to a health check-up facility before being taken to hotels of their choice as well as other quarantine facilities put into place by the state government. Mahesh Kumar, a student who arrived on the flight from Manila said he was thankful to the government to have arranged their travel back to India. “Our college has been closed for close to two months and we were eager to return back to India,” he said. Viram Chaudhary from Radhanpur in North Gujarat said that he and other students were put up in their rooms for about two months. “It feels good to be back to India. I will get to meet my family members soon. The government has been very helpful in getting us back home,” he said. Another student Mehul Dave, a medicine student in Makati city of Philippines, said that the Indian embassy was extremely cooperative in arranging for their return to the country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/244-indians-mostly-students-arrive-from-us-philippines/articleshow/75704982.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: As first regular train leaves, 41 with fever turned back||AHMEDABAD: As the first train to leave Sabarmati station in nearly 50 days left for Delhi, a total of 41 would-be passengers were left behind, as they were found to be suffering from fever. The first train, which left Ahmedabad in the evening, was fully booked and had 1,250 passengers booking tickets.  The railways ensured that except the passengers, no one was permitted entry into the sanitized Sabarmati station. Officials said that those dropping passengers off had to leave the compound immediately. “We screened each passenger and only then allowed them to board the train.”  In the screening, 41 passengers had fever and were then isolated. These 41 passengers were later told to go back home and get themselves treated and checked for Covid-19,” said the officer. Deepak Kumar Jha, divisional railway manager, Ahmedabad, said that this was the first normal passenger train in 50 days. This train will run on a regular basis and is a fully airconditioned. Jha said that food was optional and those who want some can get it from the pantry car. He said that due to the virus situation, bed rolls, mattresses and curtains were not provided on the train. The train was sanitized before the trip. Jha appealed to passengers to refrain from travelling if they have a fever or even a cough. Jha said that this was the first regular passenger train, distinct from the Sharmik Express trains which were being specially run by the railways.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/as-first-regular-train-leaves-41-with-fever-turned-back/articleshow/75704984.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Pune||Pune: More shops to reopen outside 69 sealed zones||PUNE: The Pune Municipal Corporation late on Tuesday night decided to permit some more types of shops, including laundries and furniture stores, to operate in non-containment zones. The civic administration issued an order in this regard, effective from Tuesday midnight. The Pune municipal commissioner, Shekhar Gaikwad, said barring the 69 containment zones, more shops would open in all other areas. He said the first decision to open some shops was taken on May 6. “Now, the list of the shops that can operate has been extended,” said Gaikwad. The time table for which type of shops will remain open on which day of the week has been issued. Laundries will be open on Monday, Wednesday and Friday. Shops of vehicles’ spare parts would operate on Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday. The fresh order states that the social distancing norms and other precautionary measures must be followed at shops.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/more-shops-to-reopen-outside-69-sealed-zones/articleshow/75705586.cms||Prasad Kulkarni
May 13, 2020||India||Disappointed with PM’s lack of concern for migrants: Congress||NEW DELHI: Congress said the country was disappointed with the PM’s “lack of concern for poor migrants” and dubbed his address to the nation an event for national headlines. “Dear PM, what you said today gives the country and the media a headline. When the ‘blank page’ is filled with ‘heartfelt help of people’, the nation and Congress party will respond,” Congress spokesman Randeep Surjewala tweeted after a meeting of senior party functionaries on Tuesday. “The mammoth, heart-breaking human tragedy of migrant workers walking back home needed compassion, care and safe return. India is deeply disappointed by your utter lack of empathy, sensitivity and failure to address the woes of millions of migrant workers,” he added. Earlier, Rahul Gandhi had said in a video message that “mother India” was crying for the tragedy of its hapless migrant children walking the highways and had urged the PM to address the issue by announcing measures for their return home and Rs 7,500 to each of them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/disappointed-with-pms-lack-of-concern-for-migrants-congress/articleshow/75706669.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Jaipur||CRPF officer from Jaisalmer suspects coronavirus, shoots self||JAISALMER: A 56-year-old CRPF sub-inspector from Jaisalmer shot himself with his service rifle in Jammu and Kashmir’s Anantnag district fearing that he might have been infected with Covid-19. Sub-inspector Fatah Singh was posted in the Mattan area of the Anantnag district. He was rushed to the hospital where doctors declared him brought dead, CRPF sources said. He left behind a suicide note saying that, “I am afraid I may have corona. No one should touch my body. I am afraid I have corona”. A CRPF spokesman said, “There is no evidence that he had corona infection. We are now waiting for the test report”. (With inputs from agencies)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/crpf-officer-suspects-corona-shoots-self/articleshow/75705659.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata students in Singapore desperate to return||KOLKATA: Thirty-odd teenagers from Kolkata studying in various colleges in Singapore have been stuck on campuses that emptied out three weeks ago. The parents, most of them businessmen in Kolkata, have appealed to both the state and the Centre to rescue their daughters and sons, who they say, are in a precarious mental state. Riddhimaa Gupta, a second-year student at the National University of Singapore, is desperate to return home and apparently breaks into sobs every time she is on Facetime with her parents. “I cannot continue like this any longer. The university will not open until August. There is hardly anyone on the campus. Some of the Indian students who were here took Delhi-bound flights. But we were not allowed on the flight. The Indian high commission office in Singapore is unable to tell us when there will be a flight to Kolkata,” Riddhimaa said. Some of her friends in other colleges have been undergoing anxiety bouts and mood swings, while others have been suffering from loss of appetite and insomnia, ostensibly all classical symptoms of depression. The parents, who are trying to counsel them and even arranging for professional counselling over phone, are anxious to get their kids back. “We can even agree to charter a flight to get our children back if the Indian government allowed it,” said Riddhimaa’s father, Ravi Gupta. Vikas Tibrewal is concerned about both his daughter, Vanshika who studies at Singapore Management University, and wife Sonal’s mental health. “The tension is unbearable. Vanishka is alone in Singapore amid a lockdown, with no direct access to friends or classmates. Despite knowing that the Covid-19 curve is on the rise in India, we would like to have her back with us. This situation is taking a mental toll on both my daughter and wife,” he said. Ritu and Manoj Jain, too, are spending sleepless nights, worrying about their daughter Urvi, a student of LASALLE College of Arts in Singapore. “My daughter’s second-year studies are over. She had internship scheduled in Singapore but that has been cancelled due to the lockdown. Third year’s classes will begin only on September 7. She does not want to stay put alone for such a long time,” said Ritu. Some students though are in a dilemma over whether to return to India or stay put in Singapore despite being homesick. With authorities in Singapore making it clear that students who leave the country will have to seek permission for return, these youngsters fear their four-year student visa may not hold good and that they might have problems rejoining their institutions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/students-in-spore-desperate-to-return/articleshow/75704956.cms||Subhro Niyogi
May 13, 2020||Indore||Barwani, Burhanpur districts free of coronavirus for now||Barwani/Ujjain: After reporting of 26 positive cases in Barwani, a ‘good news’ came from district as all patients been discharged after recovering. According to official information, a 46-year-old Sendhwa resident, who was admitted to the isolation ward of Ashagram (Barwani), was discharged from hospital on Tuesday after receiving the second report negative. Currently, there is no Covid-19 positive in the district. Chief medical and health officer (CMHO) Dr Anita Singare said that an infected person from Dhar district has also received a negative report and has been discharged from the isolation ward of Ashagram. “Now, there is no corona positive person under treatment in isolation ward of Barwani district,” she said. Similar news came from Burhanpur during the day, when 13 patients were discharged. During the day, one death was reported in the district. At the time of discharge from hospital, the patients expressed gratitude towards health department and local administration for taking good care of them and rendering treatment to help them recover and return home. Outside the hospital, collector, SP, local MLA, public representatives and staff clapped for the cured patients. Some relief from Covid-19 menace was also reported in Ujjain, where 16 patients got discharged from RD Gardi Hospital while a decline has also reported in death rate in the district. According to senior health officials, total 132 patients have so far returned home after defeating the disease and 87 patients are currently admitted in hospital for treatment. In last four days, total 45 patients have tested positive while only one death has reported in last nine days. So far, total 45 deaths among total 264 positive cases have reported in the district. Meanwhile, Neemuch district, which had not reported any case during lockdown phase-I and II, has started reporting new cases daily. On Tuesday, total seven new cases were reported taking total patients to 34. Under Indore division, Khandwa on Tuesday reported total 21 new cases including one death while three new cases were reported in Khargone district. Besides, five new cases were reported in Mandsaur. “Ujjain division on Tuesday reported as many as 39 positive cases while no death reported in any of seven districts” the regional joint director (health) Dr Laxmi Baghel told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/barwani-burhanpur-districts-free-of-coronavirus-for-now/articleshow/75704029.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Lucknow||CBI team to visit Mumbai to quiz DHFL officials||Lucknow: The city’s anti-corruption unit of Central Bureau of Investigation will soon send a six-member team to Mumbai to question DHFL officials. Among other issues the CBI team will seek answers to a set of 50 questions that the investigators have asked from two IAS officers being probed for the Rs 2,268 crore UPPCL provident fund scam. The CBI is probing circumstances in which over Rs 2,200 crore of power employees' provident fund was invested in a private company despite the fact that there was no provision for such an investment. A source privy to the probe disclosed that earlier also a team was sent to Mumbai, but was forced to return following the lockdown. The CBI will question at least 20 members of the DHFL in connection with the case. The CBI is sending a team to cross-verify answers of 50 questions that were asked from the two IAS officers during their questioning. It will check data entry records made by the arrested DHFL employees of Lucknow office. The team will also record statements of the then regional head of DHFL who had retired now. The CBI has already grilled then UPPCL MD AP Mishra along with then secretary of trust PK Gupta and then director, finance, Sudhanshu Dwivedi. Currently all the three are languishing in jail. The agency will simultaneously probe the role of DHFL officials in forming shell companies to re-route the money into accounts of the arrested UPPCL officials. Earlier, on November 3, 2019, the state government had asked for a CBI probe into the PF scam and simultaneously instructed the economic offences wing (EOW) of the UP police to conduct a separate investigation. The CBI lodged an FIR in the case on March 5 against PK Gupta and Sudhanshu Dwivedi. The CBI has booked the duo under charges of breach of trust, cheating and forgery.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cbi-team-to-visit-mumbai-to-quiz-dhfl-officials/articleshow/75705623.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Hubballi||1,452 migrant workers to depart for Raj in spl trains today, tomorrow||Hubballi: As many as 1,452 Rajasthan-based migrant workers will go back home in two special trains, which will leave for Jodhpur from Hubballi on Wednesday and Thursday, said officials in the district administration. The special trains will leave Hubballi at 12 pm on both days, and passengers need to be present at the railway station at least 90 minutes prior to departure. Health screening of the passengers will be mandatory, and will begin from 6 am on Wednesday and Thursday. A total 15 special counters have been established at the station, to screen the passengers. The passengers need to avail health certificates and tickets, after they are screened, to board the train. Those who have not availed e-passes, may avail it at the special counter established at the parking lot of the station in the morning, stated the DC in a release.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/1452-migrant-workers-to-depart-for-raj-in-spl-trains-today-tomorrow/articleshow/75704952.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat to announce stimulus package too||GANDHINAGAR: After Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s announcement of a Rs 20 lakh crore stimulus package to jump-start the economy which has taken a beating because of the prolonged lockdown, the Gujarat government has decided in principle to announce a package so that the benefits to various sections of the society will be doubled. Chief minister Vijay Rupani, while speaking to TOI said, “The PM’s announcement of a Rs 20 lakh crore package for the country has come as a big morale booster. We have, in principle, decided to match every benefit announced in the Centre’s schemes, so that various sections of the society can have double benefit. After the details of the central government’s plan are announced, we will review it and provide maximum benefit to the people.” “We have also decided to provide significant relaxation in cities like Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara and Rajkot along with strict social distancing and safety measures if the Centre permits. There is strong feedback from the people that economic activities ought to resume,” the CM added. Rupani, on Tuesday, held a video conference with ministers, senior secretaries and top officials of cities and districts to work out a strategy to lift lockdown restrictions post May 17. The video conference was also attended by municipal commissioners, police commissioners and district collectors, who provided feedback on whether or how restrictions should be eased in different parts of the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/guj-to-announce-stimulus-package-too/articleshow/75704993.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: BJP loses second seat in legal battle||AHMEDABAD: The annulment of the 2017 assembly  in Dholka constituency by the Gujarat high court is the second seat the ruling BJP has lost following a legal battle, the first being the Dwarka constituency. On April 12, 2019, Justice Paresh Upadhyay invalidated the election victory of six-time BJP MLA Pabubha Manek from Dwarka, for submitting a defective nomination form. A mistake committed by a supporter cost Manek his seat with the high court concluding that it was a material error because the nomination was not in the manner prescribed by the election code. Dwarka and Dholka are two seats for which the high court has delivered its verdict by scrapping the victories of BJP candidates. In fact, there were multiple litigations initiated after the 2017 assembly polls, because it was a closely contested election between the BJP and the Indian National Congress. As many as 24 election results were under challenge before the high court, mostly on seats won by very low vote margins. Winners from both the parties faced litigation on various grounds, from mistakes in filing nominations to malpractice in polling and counting. Most of these election petitions are yet to be decided.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/bjp-loses-2nd-seat-in-legal-battle/articleshow/75704954.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Ahmedabad||FIR filed for theft of Covid victim’s things||Ahmedabad: Shahibaug police on Tuesday registered an FIR of theft in connection with the case in where jewellery and a mobile phone of a Covid-19 victim was stolen by an unknown person, based on a complaint filed by the deceased’s husband. According to FIR filed by Shivpujansinh Rajput, a resident of Amraiwadi, his wife’s jewellery including a nose ring, earrings, cellphone and charger were stolen by an unknown person. DCP, Zone 4, Niraj Badgujar said that a complaint has been filed in this case. On whether the accused had been identified from CCTV footage, he said the investigation is still on. Amraiwadi councillor Jagdish Rathod has also written to the civil hospital superintendent raising the issue. He marked copies to the CM, the health minister and the city police commissioner. Stating that it was unfortunate that such a thing happened with the body of a Covid-19 patient, Rathod added that the act was unpardonable and the person responsible should be dealt with severely.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/fir-filed-for-theft-of-covid-victims-things/articleshow/75704979.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Jaipur||Jaisalmer: Ex-MP’s wife files plaint over fake Facebook account||JAISALMER: Former MP Manvendra Singh’s wife Chitra Singh has lodged a complaint with Barmer police about a fake Facebook account in her name. She has sent her complaint to Facebook as well and has asked for details about this account. Barmer police have not registered the case and are waiting for Facebook’s response to initiate action. Barmer SP Anand Sharma confirming the complaint said that Chitra on Tuesday submitted a complaint which said that a fake Facebook ID is being managed in her name and since the last few days, this page was being updated with objectionable posts and that immediate action should be taken.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/ex-mps-wife-files-plaint-over-fake-fb-a/c/articleshow/75705660.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: ‘Let me stay at hotel or declare me Covid-19 negative’||AHMEDABAD: It could have been a moment of elation for Hardik Shah. He is a cashier with a nationalized bank. The management of a hotel in western Ahmedabad told him that he would be going back home after 25 days of hospitalization and isolation following a positive test. Instead, Shah is requesting the authorities to allow him stay at the hotel. Shah’s final test was not conducted, and he fears that he could be a carrier for the viral infection for his three-year-old daughter or his father-in-law who is in his late seventies. Under new national guideline for discharge of Covid-19 positive patients, a record 466 patients were discharged on Tuesday including 392 from Ahmedabad. Carrying out tests on asymptomatic patients is not necessary now as the persons have to follow self-isolation for seven days. “I developed fever on April 7 and it continued for a week. I then got myself tested and got to know that I was Covid-19 positive,” said Shah. “I got admitted to SVP Hospital where I got tested on April 19, 26 and 29. As I did not have any symptoms, I was advised to get shifted to Samras Hostel. But I decided to move to a hotel as Covid-19 positive patient.” His two subsequent tests — on May 5 and 7 — also turned out to be positive. “I was to be tested again this week, but I was told that under the new guidelines if I have spent 10 days without symptoms, I can go home,” he said. “I told the AMC officials that social distancing is not possible as I live with my aged father-in-law, wife and daughter in a one-bedroom house and I don’t have a separate toilet.” Shah said that he doesn’t want to become a carrier. “Stigma towards Covid-19 is still high and I don’t know what will happen if I go to the society without the assurance that I am not positive. I have requested the authorities to let me stay at hotel or conduct a test,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/let-me-stay-at-hotel-or-declare-me-ve/articleshow/75704966.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Pune||Pune: Man, 34, dies at Sassoon hospital for want of B-positive blood||PUNE: Rigdeb Banerjee from Kolkata was admitted to the Sassoon general hospital on Sunday evening after he complained of feeling uneasy and extremely weak. Less than 24 hours later, the 34-year-old died at the hospital allegedly for want of B-positive blood. Rigdeb’s shell-shocked father Ratnadeb also blamed the lackadaisical attitude of the staff for his son’s death. “A colleague brought Rigdeb, who worked at a Hinjewadi-based hotel, to the hospital around 6pm on Sunday. He was unable to eat and had been vomiting. But even till late Monday morning, the staff had not given my son any food or water. He wasn’t even allowed to go to the washroom,” he said. Murlidhar Tambe, acting dean of Sassoon hospital, said, “The patient had severe anaemia and required B-positive blood, which was not available in the blood bank. Usually, resident doctors and medical officers donate blood. However, only a third of the staff is working with non-Covid patients and the load is tremendous. Normally, friends or family members manage to arrange blood through donors but, due to the lockdown, there is a shortage at the blood banks. Unfortunately, the patient passed away.” Ratnadeb said, “Rigdeb had called to say he had been given an injection in the hospital and was feeling sleepy. He later called to say he had carried only one bottle of water and a pack of biscuits to the hospital but had now run out of food and water,” he said. Ratnadeb managed to speak to a medical intern, who said Rigdeb’s haemoglobin level had dropped to 2.8d/gL. His blood sample was sent for testing and the report was expected at 2am. “When I called again, the intern told me that the blood transfusion would begin soon. I again called a little later and was told that the doctor had gone to check the blood group. I wanted to know why it was taking them so long to start the treatment,” he said. When Ratnadeb spoke to Rigdeb around 9.30am on Monday, he said no doctor had come to visit him and he hadn’t eaten anything either. Two hours later, when Ratnadeb again called, Rigdeb begged to be taken away from the hospital as things “did not seem right”. By this time, everyone in the Banerjee household was trying to get in touch with any medico at the hospital but to no avail. “Sometime around noon, Rigdeb answered my call and said there wasn’t even a fan in the room. ‘Baba, I cannot move’, he said,” recalled Ratnadeb. Soon after, the family could not get in touch with Rigdeb as his cell phone had run out of charge. The hospital staff told the father that he was sleeping. However, Ratnadeb’s sister-in-law, who was also calling the hospital officials, informed him that Rigdeb had passed away. “The last we spoke over the phone was around noon and his words were, ‘I am sinking, dad! Please take me out of this place.’ Then, I was informed that he had died. This, despite the fact that his endurance was very high. He was a fitness freak,” said the father. Ratnadeb said he gave permission to an acquaintance for Rigdeb’s last rites, which were performed at 7pm on Tuesday. He is working out how to reach Pune even as lockdown restrictions continue. He claimed the hospital hadn’t even informed him about his son’s death and Rigdeb was being treated as an unidentified person. Hospital officials said the incident was unfortunate. It was only due to the lack of the required blood group that the patient had succumbed and the hospital had no contact details of the family, the staff stated. Tambe said, “The hotel manager dropped the man to the hospital on Sunday. There was nobody with him after that. He had become violent and had even removed the IV tube and catheter. We don’t have the contact details of the family members or his address. We also contacted the hotel manager who brought him here. Now, it has become a medico-legal case and the police will proceed with the matter.” MP Supriya Sule, who was contacted by Rigdeb’s relatives hoping for an intervention, said, “I received a call through an MP in West Bengal. I have spoken to the authorities and ordered a detailed inquiry. I will be able to comment once I get a report from the hospital.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/man-34-dies-at-sassoon-hosp-for-want-of-b-blood/articleshow/75705633.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
May 13, 2020||Ahmedabad||Guj industries move SC against orders to pay, not fire workers||Ahmedabad: A federation of industries from Gujarat have moved the Supreme Court on Tuesday against the governments’ orders to continue to pay workmen during the lockdown, and demanded relief for workers akin to how the British government is offering a package to its workers during the Covid-19 pandemic. The petitioner, Federation of Industries and Associations, has cited the United Kingdom’s relief package for workers and sought SC directions to the governments to subsidize wages of workers to the tune of 70%-80% for the lockdown period by using funds collected by the Employees’ State Insurance Corporation (ESIC) or the PM Cares Fund. It explained how the UK government announced the Coronavirus Job Security Scheme before the lockdown to cover 80% of employees’ monthly wage costs, up to 2,500 pounds a month. The federation, a representative of 150 associations of nearly 2 lakh industrial units of Gujarat, has sought to quash the central and Gujarat government orders and advisories to employers to not to resort to lay-offs and to continue to pay workers during the lockdown. It termed the diktat as arbitrary, illegal, irrational, unreasonable and contrary to constitutional provisions. The petition filed before the SC says that production facilities are closed and there is no income for employers to sustain the workers. Moreover, the government has made it clear that the money given to workers during the lockdown period would not be considered as corporate social responsibility activities. The present directives has put the owners of industries in extreme financial stress and they will not be able to bear this burden. Hence, such orders must go, the petition says. The petitioner’s advocate, Purvish Makan, said that the apex court is likely to hear the plea on May 15.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/guj-industries-move-sc-against-orders-to-pay-not-fire-workers/articleshow/75704990.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Indore||Corona waste of Indore swells to 85,000 kg||Indore: Indore has generated over 85,000 kg of Covid-19 waste as on May 10 from various hospitals and quarantine centres. According to data compiled by Madhya Pradesh Pollution Control Board, around 85,857 kg of Covid-19 waste has been collected and sent for incineration from March 25 to May 10. PCB Indore regional officer RK Gupta said, “Covid-19 waste from Indore has reached 85,000 kg. Daily collection that has started from 500 kg has surged to 4,000 kg due to increase in number of patients and treatment centres.” On May 10, collection of Covid-19 waste from Indore stood at 3,655 kg. Regional team of pollution control board also carried out inspections at hospitals of Barwani to check collection and disposal of such waste. The special cell of the board inspected facilities at government hospital Barwani, primary health centres in Thikri and Mritunjay hospital. The board directed hospitals to dispose and segregate Covid and non-Covid waste in separate bins. As per board, total generation of Covid waste at Barwani has touched 1,227 kg from March 25 to May 10. Covid waste at Khandwa during the same period was recorded at 1,672 kg, Khargone at 1,809 kg and Burhanpur at 1,071 kg.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/corona-waste-of-indore-swells-to-85000-kg/articleshow/75704036.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Mysuru||Ex-ministers trade barbs||Mysuru: A war of words has erupted between former ministers S R Mahesh and A H Vishwanath over the demand for creation of a separate Hunsur district. S R Mahesh, a JD(S) MLA, on Tuesday questioned Vishwanath’s demand for a separate district. Vishwanath on Monday reiterated his demand of a separate district, stating that it is his ultimate goal in life. He had expressed his ire against his former colleague Mahesh for questioning his views. “Who is he to question my opinion?” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/ex-ministers-trade-barbs/articleshow/75704033.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Kolkata||50 days later, first train leaves Howrah for Delhi||KOLKATA/HOWRAH: The Rajdhani Express clone, officially called the 02301 Howrah-New Delhi AC Special, left Howrah station at 5.05pm on Tuesday, with a full capacity of 1,028 passengers. This was the first train to leave Howrah for Delhi ever since all long-distance, suburban and Metro services were suspended by Indian Railways from March 24. All precautions were taken and passengers were screened before being allowed to board the train that started its journey from Platform 8. Passengers entered the station premises through the old complex cabway gate. Railway Protection Force (RPF) and Government Railway Police (GRP) personnel manning the gate ensured that only those with tickets stepped in after sanitizing their hands. Passengers had been asked to report one-and-a-half hours before departure but many arrived soon after 2pm. Times ViewThe last-mile transport solution is as important as the trains shuttling between states. There may be some amount of chaos but the last few weeks’ experience should help government agencies in managing the rush.On entering the station by following social distancing norms, they underwent medical screening; some passengers initially displayed slightly higher body temperature than stipulated and were asked to rest for a while. “Finally, nobody was detected with fever. Sometimes, the atmospheric heat can cause a human body to display higher temperature but this comes down after people rest in the shade. This is what happened,” said Kannan, superintendent of railway police, Howrah. To prevent overcrowding, separate pathways were created to escort people to their designated coaches. Pointing out that it felt like boarding a flight, Suman Pattanaik, who works at a refinery in Panipat, said, “What with all the attention, I felt like a VIP. I came to Kolkata to visit our ancestral property and got stranded due to the lockdown. Now, I can return to Panipat via New Delhi.” Pratibha Yadav, a Kendriya Vidyalaya teacher, had come to visit her daughter in Barrackpore. She sounded relieved to be able to return home at Dwarka in Delhi. “It is like being released from a cage after a long time. I just hope the journey is smooth,” said Reshma Bowana, who was visiting her aunt’s place in Tamluk. Among those who monitored the proceedings were the divisional railway manager of Howrah, along with Eastern Railway staff as well as senior Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC) officials. Tickets for the train were booked through the IRCTC website on Monday evening. No meals will be served on the train but IRCTC will sell tea, coffee and snacks. Beddings will not be provided. This remains the only connectivity between Howrah and Delhi till Wednesday evening, when the rake starts its return journey from the capital. From Wednesday, a pair of trains will operate between the two stations daily. “It felt good when senior railway and IRCTC officials clapped as the train pulled out of the platform. It seemed we are finally beating the virus gradually. We can’t let this fear grasp our minds,” a passenger said. While the railways has been running Shramik Specials for migrant workers since May 1, this was the first train for people to buy their tickets. Railway officials in Kolkata want more such trains to and from other locations to ease the rush.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/50-days-later-first-train-leaves-howrah-for-delhi/articleshow/75704969.cms||Jayanta Gupta
May 13, 2020||Agra||24 more tested Covid-19 positive, Agra district tally increases to 794||AGRA: At least 24 fresh Covid-19 positive cases were reported in Agra till Tuesday evening, taking the district tally to 794. Majority of the new cases were primary contact of people tested positive earlier. According to sources, the number of cases doubled in 14 days. On an average, one positive case was reported every hour in last one week. These include two sons of a 65-year-old infected person who had died last week. A 43-year-old woman who was under treatment at SN Medical College was also tested positive. Earlier, a relative of the woman was tested positive. Besides, two family members of an infected grocery seller were also tested positive. The localities in which Covid-19 positive cases were reported in the last two days include Khandari, Shahaganj, KK Nagar, Vjay Nagar Colony, Noori Darwaza, Gokul Pura, Gudari Mansoor Khan, Nagla Padi and village Badobara in block Shamshabad. Chief medical officer RC Pandey said, “All the new Covid-19 patients have been shifted to an isolation facility. A team of doctors is attending to them. People are being screened in the area around their house and the places they had visited. Their contacts are being identified.” “So far 361 people have been cured of the infection and discharged from hospital. All the people who had come in contact with any Covid-19 patient are being screened. We are doing massive sampling in hotspot areas to identify all the infected patients and send them to institutional quarantine,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/24-more-tested-covid-19-positive-agra-district-tally-increases-to-794/articleshow/75704034.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Indore||Burnt Rs 2000 & Rs 500 notes floating in pond fuel panic||Indore: Notes of Rs 2,000 and Rs 500 were found floating in a pond in Pandhana tehsil of Khandwa district leading to rise of curiosity as well as panic among locals. A young fisherman had first seen the money and taken it home, from where police seized the notes valuing worth around Rs 20,000. The investigating officials have started search for two unknown persons, who had allegedly came in a four-wheeler and threw ‘something’ in the water body minutes before the incident. According to DSP and Pandhana police station in charge Ketan Adlak, a young fisherman of Aarud village, who had gone to catch fish in a local pond on Monday morning, when he noticed the notes of Rs 2,000 and Rs 500 scattered on shallow water. “The youth, Mukesh, collected the notes and took it home. Meanwhile, villagers informed police at Pandhana police station, who in turn approached the fisherman and seized the notes after sanitizing it,” said Adlak adding that health condition of Mukesh and his family members have been screened while his entire house has been sanitized. According to TI, a local villager Rishi Kanade claimed to have noticed two unknown persons, who had come in an SUV and threw ‘something’ in the pond minutes before the incident. “Rishi, who was on morning walk, claimed to notice the unknown persons but he did not pay attention. He later came to know about the notes and informed the police about the information he had,” Adlak said, adding that all the seized Indian currency notes are partially burned and thus are of no use. “We have constituted a team for search persons who came in the four-wheeler,” said Adlak adding that if notes are not found related to Covid-19, a case will be lodged of damaging Indian currency.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/burnt-rs-2000-rs-500-notes-floating-in-pond-fuel-panic/articleshow/75704049.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Agra||Agra: 85-year-old prisoner with breathing difficulty dies at SNMC||AGRA: An 85-year-old convict of Agra central jail who was suffering from low blood pressure and breathing problem died while undergoing treatment at the Sarojini Naidu Medical College (SNMC) on Tuesday morning soon after being admitted to the emergency ward. Doctors at the hospital have collected sample of the deceased for Covid-19 testing. According to a senior prison official, the prisoner who died on Tuesday was lodged in the same barrack as the 60-year-old Covid-19 positive prisoner who died on May 9 during the course of his treatment. On May 10, at least 12 prisoners of Agra Central Jail were confirmed Covid-19 positive. A resident of Moradabad district, the convict was found guilty under IPC section 302 (punishment for murder). He was shifted to Agra Central Jail on November 5, 2013. Talking to TOI, deputy inspector general (prisons) Luv Kumar said, “Since May 8, the convict was under medical supervision at the hospital inside the jail premises. He was a patient of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. On Tuesday morning, his condition deteriorated further. He slipped into a semiconscious state after suffering from low blood pressure. At around 9:30am, he was shifted to the emergency ward of SNMC. Doctors tried their best but could not save him. He died during his treatment.” Senior superintendent of Agra Central Jail VK Singh said, “Around 11am, we were informed by the SNMC administration about the prisoner’s death. We have informed the higher authorities about the matter. Doctors have collected sample of the prisoner for testing. We have sought directions from higher authorities whether postmortem of the prisoner should be conducted or not.” “As a precautionary measure, we have isolated 14 inmates who had come in contact of the infected prisoner who died on May 9. Besides, 16 staffers have been home quarantined. We are ensuring regular sanitization in all the barracks and other parts of the jail premises. Cleanliness is being maintained and social distancing protocol is strictly followed,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/85-yr-old-prisoner-with-breathing-difficulty-dies-at-snmc/articleshow/75704040.cms||Deepak Lavania
May 13, 2020||Pune||440 Pimpri Chinchwad cops test negative||PUNE: About 440 personnel, including 32 officers, of the Pimpri Chinchwad police tested negative for the coronavirus contagion during a precautionary check-up drive. The police had arranged for the medical check-up for their personnel at four private hospitals. For non-Covid-19 medical issues, arrangements were made iin a separate private hospital. “The Pimpri Chinchwad police commissionerate bears the cost of the tests. Till date, a total of 440 personnel have been tested and their results have come negative,” said Sudhir Hiremanet, the deputy commissioner of police of Pimpri Chinchwad. “We are even allowing if any of our police officer or policeman wants to undergo the Covid-19 test on his own will,” said an officer from the Pimpri Chinchwad police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/440-pimpri-chinchwad-cops-test-negative/articleshow/75705635.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Agra||Agra: Couple walks over 10 km with unwell infant as ambulance fails to show up, six-month-old dies||AGRA: A six-month-old boy, suffering from stomach ache, fever and other medical complications, took his last breath in his mother’s arms on Tuesday, as the victim’s parents were forced to walk more than 10 km to reach the state-run hospital. According to the family, both the 108 ambulance service and police failed to show up despite repeated calls. The incident took place in Agra district on Tuesday morning, just half a km away from the emergency ward of S N Medical College. Later, the heartbroken parents walked back home with the infant’s body and buried him. The family hailed from Nagla Anandi of Tapaa gram panchayat under Malpura police limits. The victim’s father Surender Jatav said, “My son, Mangal, had been ill since Sunday night. Due to the lockdown, I sought help from gram pradhan Rajendra Singh, but he did not help us. Later, with the help of my neighbour, we first dialled 112 on Monday night. The police team offered to take the child to any nearby clinic but as there was none, they asked me to contact the 108 ambulance service.” “At 9:18 pm, we dialled the ambulance service. We were told that all ambulances in the district were busy in attending other medical emergency cases, but one will be provided to us in the next 20 minutes. We waited till 1 am on Tuesday, but the ambulance never came. At dawn, my wife and I policemen on duty near Dhanauli and we begged them to help us, but they asked us to continue walking till we reach the hospital,” said Jatav. “Around 10 am, Mangal succumbed in my wife’s arm. Later, we walked back with his body to village and buried him.” The victim’s father, who works as a cobbler, is impoverished after the lockdown took away his daily earnings. The couple with their other six children live a rented house. Agra chief medical officer Dr RC Pandey said, “I am not aware of the incident. According to the protocol, the 108 ambulance has to reach the patient within 18 minutes of the call. I will inquire into this. Strict action will be taken against those found responsible for the negligence.” Chief development officer J Reebha said, “It is very unfortunate that the child could not be saved. I will ensure that the family gets ration and other essential items. Besides, the entire issue will be investigated.” (With inputs from Deepak Lavania) Watch Agra: Unwell infant dies as ambulance, cops fail to show up||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/couple-walks-over-10-km-with-unwell-infant-as-ambulance-fails-to-show-up-six-month-old-dies/articleshow/75704060.cms||Arvind Chauhan
May 13, 2020||Ahmedabad||Quarantine must for those coming from abroad: DGP||Ahmedabad: Gujarat DGP Shivanand Jha on Tuesday warned people coming from abroad to strictly follow the norms of the health department and to stay quarantined to avoid the spread of the novel coronavirus. They will face stern action for not adhering to norms, he said. “People who have landed here from abroad must stay quarantined at their homes as instructed by the state health department,” said Jha. “Police will also keep watch over such persons and if they are found breaking norms of self-quarantine, legal action will be taken against them.” Jha added that relatives of such people are advised not to meet them before the quarantine period of 14 days ends.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/quarantine-must-for-those-coming-from-abroad-dgp/articleshow/75704985.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Lucknow||Aarogya Setu tracks 2,723 Covid suspects, 10 test +ve||Lucknow: State health department officials said, Aarogya Setu app alerts were being followed up earnestly by surveillance teams. “At least 2,723 alerts on suspected Covid-19 cases in the state were generated by the app. District-specific data was forwarded to chief medical officers, who swiftly acted on cues and took samples. As many as 10 coronavirus positive persons have been identified through the app,” said principal secretary, health and family welfare, Amit Mohan Prasad. Health officials informed while some were isolated, those who tested negative have been asked to follow isolation protocols for next two weeks. Aarogya Setu app is a state-of-the-art smart phone application that unites people across India in a resolute fight against covid-19. “It enables people to assess themselves on the risk of infection. The calculation is based on interaction with others using cutting-edge bluetooth technology, algorithms and artificial intelligence,” said an officer in the state surveillance team. “The easy and user-friendly app detects other devices that come in the proximity of that phone. It can calculate the risk of infection based on sophisticated parameters if any of these contacts tested positive,” an official release said. Recently concerns were raised about security of the user’s information, but government officials claimed personal data collected by the app is encrypted with state-of-the-art technology and stays secure on the phone till it’s needed for facilitating medical intervention. Available in 11 languages, the Aarogya Setu App is ready for pan-India use from day 1 and has highly scalable architecture.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/aarogya-setu-tracks-2723-covid-suspects-10-test-ve/articleshow/75705644.cms||Shailvee Sharda
May 13, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan government plans to restart intra-state bus service||Jaipur: The state government is planning to restart bus services, with intra-state buses the first to begin operations. Many standard operating procedures (SOPs) for protection against coronavirus infections will be followed by bus conductors, drivers as well as passengers during operations. “We will first start intra-state movement of buses. All buses will ply with 50% passengers of the total capacity. Vehicles will be sanitised before leaving for destinations. All conductors will be equipped with thermal scanners to screen passengers," said transport minister Pratap Singh Khachriyawas. He added that the government was not in a hurry to start bus services in red zones. “Passengers will be required to wear masks and carry sanitisers. We will not allow hawkers and food vendors inside the buses.” ‘Every passenger will have to follow rules’He said the railways has started some trains as many people were stranded in the state. Rajasthan State Roadways Transport Corporation (RSRTC) authorities said only 50% passengers of the total capacity would be allowed in super luxury Volvo buses. A team of officials of the transport department is chalking out SOPs that would be mandatory for passengers and the operating staff of the RSRTC. However, authorities said the final call on this would be taken by chief minister Ashok Gehlot. “We are trying to start bus services on or after May 17, but there would be restricted movement of buses and every passenger will have to follow certain rules and regulations,” said a transport official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/raj-govt-plans-to-restart-intra-state-bus-service/articleshow/75705643.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Indore||Family going home to UP on foot looted of Rs 500 by addicts||Indore: A migrant family on way to Uttar Pradesh on foot was looted by unidentified persons in Kishanganj. The migrant workers from Uttar Pradesh walking towards their home via Kishanganj were looted of Rs 500 which was all they had for the journey. Kishanganj police station in charge Shashikant Chourasia said that he had received information from one Ram Milan, a resident of Fatehpur and he said that he was on his way from Gujarat to UP, when the incident took place in Tihi village of Kishanganj late on Monday. The incident took place late night on Monday, when some drug addicts stopped the migrants and threatened to stab them if they resist the robbery. The family members were stopped by two bike-borne men, who snatched the purse of complainant and took away the cash. As soon as he raised alarm, other migrants immediately ran behind the accused. The migrant workers decided to fight back and chased one of the robbers and thrashed him. Later, police arrested the two accused Akash and Hariom and initiated actions against them. The migrant workers reached the police station and were helpd by the officials. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/family-going-home-to-up-on-foot-looted-of-rs-500-by-addicts/articleshow/75704065.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: Strict monitoring ‘a must’ with new discharge policy||PUNE: Leading health experts have said the new national Covid-19 discharge policy needs to be supplemented with active monitoring of patients through telemedicine and strict quarantine protocols. The new policy, out last Friday, states patients who are mild, very mild, or pre-symptomatic can be discharged after 10 days of symptom onset and if there’s no fever for three days. A patient, in this case, will be advised home isolation for seven days after discharge. The policy also eliminates testing before discharge. The state president of the Indian Medical Association, Avinash Bhondwe, said while the move will indeed reduce case load for hospitals, there needs to be a follow-up system in place. “How will we ensure those discharged are not moving about? What if they develop problems? This is why we need a system that can monitor individuals,” Bhondwe said. The IMA’s national president, Rajan Sharma, said those who have been discharged will have to keep surroundings clean and stay isolated from family. A health expert, who did not wish to be named, said there still were concerns of stigma and recurrence of infection. A family is at risk if infection persists.. The policy states a patient will be admitted again if his or her oxygen saturation dips below 95%. Experts added that the new discharge policy will not help states with a low number of Covid cases. “The new policy can help Gujarat, Maharashtra and Delhi. But in states that do not have many cases, discharging confirmed cases without tests may not exactly help,” a health specialist from West Bengal said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/strict-monitoring-a-must-with-new-discharge-policy/articleshow/75705648.cms||Nisha Nambiar
May 13, 2020||Agra||NSA on Kafeel Khan extended by another three months||AGRA: The Uttar Pradesh government has extended the detention of controversial Gorakhpur paediatrician Dr Kafeel Khan under the National Security Act (NSA) by another three months. The period for which the NSA was applied on Khan earlier was due to expire on Tuesday. With the extension, Khan will continue to be detained under NSA till August 12. Confirming this, Khan’s lawyer Irfan Ghazi said that he has challenged the UP advisory board’s order of Khan’s “illegal detention” in the Allahabad high court. The hearing is scheduled on May 16. Dr Khan was booked by Aligarh police on December 13 for delivering a provocative speech in Aligarh Muslim University (AMU) during an anti-CAA protest on the campus a day earlier and was arrested from Mumbai airport on January 29 by UP Police’s special task force. He was remanded to judicial custody for 14 days on January 30. He was slapped with NSA hours before he was expected to walk free from Mathura jail. Khan’s elder brother Adeel Ahmad Khan said, “How can Kafeel disrupt peace and harmony during lockdown? He is only being targeted for political reasons.” He alleged that Dr Kafeel who is suffering from cardiac ailments has not been given proper treatment even after several requests by him. He raised concern for Dr Kafeel’s safety, saying that some Agra jail inmates were recently found Corona infected and jails in Mathura are overcrowded much above their capacity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/nsa-on-kafeel-khan-extended-by-another-three-months/articleshow/75704054.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Agra||After 2 Covid deaths, curfew imposed on 3 Aligarh city areas||Agra: Aligarh district administration has imposed a week-long curfew in three major areas of the city from Wednesday after two patients from these localities succumbed to coronavirus on Tuesday. The toll of Covid-related deaths in the district has gone up to five now. According to an administrative official, the curfew was imposed in Sasni Gate, Delhi Gate and Kotwali areas as a precautionary measure to prevent possible community transmission in the area. A few positive cases, with no apparent contact with infected patients, have been discovered in these areas. The decision to impose the curfew was taken after the death of two patients, including a woman who was undergoing treatment at Delhi’s hospital. Another deceased, who was a real estate businessman, breathed his last at Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College Tuesday morning. He was admitted to hospital a day earlier with complaint of breathlessness along with high fever. He was put on a ventilator on Monday night but could not survive. According to health department, the deceased had organized a religious ritual at his residence two days ago after the death of his mother. Several local residents, including politicians, had participated in it. The administration is preparing a list of the people who attended in order to isolate them. The businessman’s body will be cremated as per Covid guidelines, said a health official. Talking with TOI, district magistrate CB Singh, said, “We have decided to impose a complete lockdown in these areas as a large number of cases have been reported from there.” Around 200 samples were collected after the death of the two patients and all have been asked to quarantine themselves at home till their report comes. Till now, 60 patients have tested positive for coronavirus in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/after-2-covid-deaths-curfew-imposed-on-3-aligarh-city-areas/articleshow/75704047.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Ahmedabad||Trade body seeks to ease restrictions||Ahmedabad: Gujarat Traders’ Federation (GTF) has sought to ease the curbs on trade across Gujarat after May 17. In a video message, president of GTF, Jayendra Tanna, mentioned that the businesses and traders have suffered major losses during the first three phases of lockdown. “During the first three phases, the trade and industry have supported the government and its initiatives. However, traders have suffered major losses on account of the lockdown. Small traders have not been given any relief from the government as well. All we want is that the traders and businesses be allowed to resume operations. We will abide by all social distancing norms as framed by the government and local authorities,” said Tanna.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/trade-body-seeks-to-ease-restrictions/articleshow/75704989.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Agra||Four armed robbers loot over Rs 21 lakh from Aryavrat Bank in Mathura||Agra: Four armed youths allegedly looted over Rs 21 lakh in cash from Aryavrat Bank in Mathura’s Shanti Nagar area on Tuesday, just after the lunch hours, even as the district remained under lockdown. According to police, the four bike-borne youths arrived at the bank at around 2.30pm, when three employees were present in the branch. The masked men demanded cash and collected over Rs 21 lakh from them, said police. SSP Gaurav Grover said the matter is being investigated and CCTV footage from the area is being screened.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/four-armed-robbers-loot-over-rs-21-lakh-from-aryavrat-bank-in-mathura/articleshow/75704067.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Mangaluru||89% at NIT-Karnataka get job offers despite Covid outbreak||MANGALURU: The global slowdown due to coronavirus pandemic could not prove to be a dampener at the recently-concluded placement drive at National Institute of Technology-Karnataka, Surathkal. This season, pre-placement offers (PPOs) increased by about 10% as compared to last year, wherein about 165 students got placed. At the end of March 2020, 89% of the 665 undergraduate students and 60% of postgraduate students at the institution got placed by various companies. The highest domestic package is Rs 49 lakh offered by Atlassian from Bengaluru which visited the campus for the first time. A total of 256 companies visited the campus till March 15, said Vijay Desai, chairman of Career Development Centre. He said that another 20-25 companies that had lined up for visit could not make it due to the pandemic. “However, a few of them are doing the process online. Offer revocations by six companies due to Covid-19 affected 16 students,” he added. PPO, a recent trend in campus placements, has seen a jump of around 35% at NIT-K. “Placements through internships are an attractive proposition for both the company and students. It represents the future trend of hiring,” he said, adding that companies are looking for six-months long internships and students can intern after the completion of second year of the course. Desai said this year, the campus witnessed visits from PSUs like IOCL, GAIL, HPCL, CDAC and ITI for recruitment. The best part was ISRO visiting the campus and offering placements to three students each from BTech mechanical and electronics courses. “All the high value and branded companies from IT core, IT service sector and core engineering visited the campus. Some of these companies, including PSUs like BEL CRL, have indicated that they may continue the placement for the 2020 batch once the issues pertaining to Covid-19 are resolved,” he said. CS/IT clock 99 % Nearly 99% of the students from the computer science and information technology branches were placed with an average annual package of Rs 16-18 lakh. Electrical, electronics, mechanical, metallurgy and chemical branches saw about 86-90% of placement. Civil branch recorded about 70% placement. The average package for all the nine BTech branches is around Rs 10.7 lakh. About 89% of MCA students were placed. The placement of PG students saw a major increase with CSE and IT departments having nearly all students placed. Desai said had all the companies visited the campus, NIT-K would have witnessed 94-95% placement. About 50 UG students opted out of placement as they are going for higher studies. “Over 95% companies who made job offers have honoured the offers. Based on business cycle a few companies have shifted the joining dates by about 2-3 months,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/89-placement-at-nit-k-despite-covid-19-outbreak/articleshow/75704077.cms||Kevin Mendonsa
May 13, 2020||Agra||Hathras police books cancer patient, son for hiding Covid information, kin refute charge||AGRA: Hathras health department has lodged an FIR against a 62-year-old cancer patient, who tested Covid positive, and his son for allegedly hiding his medical status from officials. However, the family members have refuted the charge and claimed that they had provided the information immediately to the Covid cell after they received the report from a private hospital in Noida that was treating him. The cancer patient and his son were booked under section 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of IPC along with section 51 of the Disaster Management Act, 2005 and section 3 of the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897 at Hathras Kotwali police station. Talking to TOI, the cancer patient’s nephew, who also tested positive, said, “We are being harassed mentally by the Hathras administration. Our 10 family members have been infected due to the delay in isolating us in time. I had sent the Covid report, given by the Noida hospital to epidemiologist Dr Pawan Kumar, who looks after the District Covid Cell and now they are accusing us of hiding this information.” The family members told TOI that they had gone to Noida’s private hospital on April 21 for chemotherapy of the cancer patient, but the doctor refused to do it until he was tested for Covid-19. “We came back to Hathras and got the Covid test done at district hospital on April 23. Four days later, the report came negative. We immediately rushed to the Noida hospital for further treatment but the doctors there did not accept that report and asked us to get a second Covid test done from there.” “A day later, on April 29, we received another report on WhatsApp, which showed him positive. Immediately, the health officials were informed about it and they asked us to visit them again with the patient. After taking the sample for Covid, the health officials did not isolate him and they sent him back to our house,” the cancer patient’s nephew said, adding that now 10 members of the family have also been infected. When contacted, Hathras chief medical officer Brijesh Rathore said that all allegations are part of the investigation and whether the patient’s relatives informed Dr Pawan or not will be probed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/hathras-police-books-cancer-patient-son-for-hiding-covid-info-kin-refute-charge/articleshow/75704075.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
May 13, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: Assembly, JMC buildings light up to honour nurses||JAIPUR: To express gratitude towards thousands of nursing staff working during the pandemic, Vidhan Sabha and Jaipur Municipal Corporation (JMC) buildings were lit up on Tuesday on the occasion of ‘Nurses Day’. Thousands of nursing staff involved in the fight against coronavirus have been working 24x7 while staying away from their family members. Many of them are involved in door-to-door random testing wearing PPE kits. The protective gear prevents them from eating or drinking for seven hours at a stretch. Many times, nurses have complained of low blood pressure due to not eating in the heat of May month. Medical staff are sent on home quarantine for a week after performing their duties. Many cases have emerged where nurses were found infected with coronavirus. Speaker of Rajasthan Assembly C P Joshi congratulated the nurses on the occasion. “During the pandemic, selfless duties performed by the nursing staff in the state are worth praising. Their role is important during the time of crisis and we want to express our respect towards them,” said Joshi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/assembly-jmc-buildings-light-up-to-honour-nurses/articleshow/75705655.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Lucknow||Tehsildar sacked for changing title of land||Lucknow: Chairman of the revenue board Deepak Trivedi dismissed a revenue officer (tehsildar) from service on Tuesday for manipulation in land records and conspiring to benefit a land owner. The state government had ordered an inquiry against Santosh Kumar Sonkar, tehsildar of Manjhanpur tehsil in Kaushambi, for allegedly converting lease of a non-transferable land to a category under which it can be transferred. The inquiry report said that the SDM Manjhanpur had rejected the lease of less than a hectare land of Indrapal, a resident of Manjhanpur, as it was wronglfully allotted to him by the village panchayat. The land lease was granted in 1971 in favour of Indrapal, but later after the constitution of the town area, the lease was cancelled by then SDM who had ordered for transferring the land to the village panchayat. However, the land owner had challenged the matter in the court of additional commissioner, Prayagraj. Meanwhile, the tehsildar of Manjhanpur, keeping the SDM and the court of additional commissioner in the dark, changed the land title from a non-transferable category to the transferable category to benefit Indrapal without seeking reports from the lekhpal or revenue inspector. Later, following a complaint against Sonkar, disciplinary proceedings were initiated, leading to his termination from service for manipulation of records, hatching a conspiracy and not discharging his duty honestly. Earlier, Trivedi, in the capacity of additional chief secretary, appointments, had terminated two PCS officers from the service.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/tehsildar-sacked-for-changing-title-of-land/articleshow/75705656.cms||Subhash Mishra
May 13, 2020||Udaipur||Udaipur: Firm gets notice for laying off 175 staff during lockdown||UDAIPUR: The joint labour commissioner has sent a notice to Jumio India Pvt Ltd over complaints that it has terminated 175 of its employees. Another 175-200 personnel have been reportedly kept in reserve, who have been asked to continue work but they won’t be paid for some time. The company deals with identity verification work. The Udaipur-based union has claimed that the firm’s decision to lay off employees and keep some of them in the unpaid category effective from May, violates a Central government order not to cut salaries or lay off people during the lockdown. Assistant manager Mahipal Singh Rathore told TOI that of the 800 employees of the company, 175 persons were served termination orders on May 5. “Soon after the lockdown in Rajasthan, all of the employees have been working from home and things had improved with business volume also faring well since last month. We were always assured by the management that our jobs are secure and we need not worry about salaries either, but they issued the termination letters suddenly,” Mahipal Singh Rathore, assistant manager of Udaipur branch office said. He further said that most of the people terminated were receiving Rs 15,000-18,000 per month and around 35 of them are women. The employees on Tuesday too, met the labour commissioner who assured them of appropriate action against the management.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/firm-gets-notice-for-laying-off-175-staff-during-lockdown/articleshow/75705663.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Pune||Pune: Three-day lockdown begins in Khadki||PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: A three-day lockdown began in the Khadki Cantonment Board (KCB) limits on Tuesday to contain the spread of covid-19 contagion. The lockdown will continue till May 14, said Shuja James, office superintendent, KCB. “Shops can sell milk from 6am to 10am only. Petrol pumps, ATM kiosks and hospitals will remain open as usual,” she said. She said mohalla clinics had started in different wards for early detection of persons with Covid-19 symptoms. Cantonment teachers will bring residents to the clinics and maintain a record. The seven clinics have tested 1,355 people in two days. Meanwhile, two people tested positive for Covid-19 in Khadki on Tuesday, taking the tally to 29. Of them, 18 have been discharged. Four active patients have been admitted in cantonment hospital and another as many in hospital outside the cantonment limits. Swab samples of 4 high-risk contacts patient from Khadki bazaar area have been sent for analysis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/3-day-lockdown-begins-in-khadki/articleshow/75705653.cms||Siddharth Gaikwad
May 13, 2020||Indore||Beware of fake calls offering free D2H recharge||Indore: Crime branch of Indore police have received cases, where the accused are trying to dupe people by promising them D2H recharge. People have been receiving messages from a number, where they are offered a discount on a D2H recharge with a link for the same and when the unsuspecting victims click on the links, they are directed to a payment option where they are duped. Crime branch officials have been receiving similar complaints from the locals acting on which they issued an advisory on Tuesday asking the locals to avoid clicking on any links received on messages. ASP Rajesh Dandotiya said that people should avoid putting in bank details into the google forms provided by accused online. “Even if you receive cashback or reward points on doing a recharge, one should not enter the UPI details in it if asked,” he said. Dandotiya also added that he has been receiving complaints from people who claimed that they were duped by people in the name of prime minister’s loan scheme for Covid-19. The people who are found clicking on links or calling on the numbers given in the fake messages, are duped by the accused. The accused first take all the documents from the victims online and then demand money for registration and GST and in this way promise money to the victims and keep demanding cash. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/beware-of-fake-calls-offering-free-d2h-recharge/articleshow/75704087.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Nagpur||Day of recovery for Vidarbha: 16 new coronavirus cases, 46 discharged||NAGPUR: On Tuesday, 46 Covid-19 patients in Vidarbha recovered and were discharged from hospitals in Nagpur, Amravati, Akola, Yavatmal and Bhandara. This number is nearly three times the number of new patients (16) reported from Nagpur, Yavatmal and Akola. All other districts in the region did not record any new patient. With six new patients, including three pregnant women from Covid-19 hotspot Mominpura, Nagpur surpassed the 300 mark of Covid-19 cases on Tuesday. On the same day, six patients recovered and were discharged in the city and this completed a century of discharged patients. Now, out of 304 patients in Nagpur, 102 have recovered. Many of the rest are on the road to recovery and if the district adopts new discharge policy of Union health ministry, more than 170 could go home in the next three days. Districts coming under Amravati division have already adopted the new discharge policy. Due to this, 25 patients were discharged in a day from Amravati, nine from Yavatmal and five from Akola. In Bhandara, the only patient, a 45-yr-old woman, admitted in the isolation ward recovered on Tuesday. As she is a TB Patient, she was not discharged from hospital. Her TB treatment will continue now. In Amravati, 25 patients recovered and 24 of them were discharged from Covid hospital. Only one, a kidney patient, was shifted to a different ward for dialysis. With this, the number of recovered patients has gone up to 46, leaving another 26 active cases in Amravati. The district has to date recorded 12 deaths. In Wardha, Covid-19 test report of 23 out of 28 people who came in close contact with a coronavirus infected deceased woman of Hiwara (Tanda) in Arvi Tehsil came negative on Tuesday. Throat swab samples were tested at Mahatma Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (MGIMS), Sewagram. Civil Surgeon Dr Purushottam Madavi said, “This is a relief for the district that all 23 reports came negative. However, all these persons would be in quarantine for next 14 days.” There is a positive indication to ensure Yavatmal becomes a Covid-19 free district soon. With nine patients discharged on Tuesday, total 53 have been discharged from the isolation wards till date. Some 45 patients are there in the active positive category while a total of 55 are in the isolation wards of GMC Yavatmal. On Tuesday, father of positive tested pregnant woman from Indira Nagar also tested positive. Both of them are now in isolation ward. Violation of social distancing in Yavatmal On Monday, the collector relaxed the lockdown in Yavatmal and permitted all shops, excluding those in malls and supermarkets, to operate with set norms. However, neither shopkeepers nor customers were seen observing Covid distancing, which was a mandatory requirement for running businesses. Taking cognisance of the blatant violation of social distancing, collector MD Singh has rescheduled the operation of shops. A similar picture was seen in Chandrapur. No new patient was recorded on Tuesday, but people rushed to the markets thwarting all the regulations of social distancing as lockdown curbs were eased from Monday. The new regulations allow shops of essential commodities to open between 7am and 2pm, while other shops have been allowed between 10am and 2pm. All kind of intra district travelling has been allowed in the day, with restriction of only riders on two-wheelers; driver and 2 passengers in four-wheelers, and only two passengers in autorickshaws. The district and state borders, however, remain sealed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/day-of-recovery-for-vidarbha-16-new-cases-46-discharged/articleshow/75705681.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Jaipur||Curfew lifted from 4 areas in Kota district||KOTA: The district administration on Tuesday withdrew curfew from four localities of the city and extended the same in seven other areas. It enforced fresh curfew in Jai Hind Nagar of Borekheda area. Kota collector Om Kasera issued order to revoke curfew and zero mobility from Gori House in Anantpura, Chotuji Ki Bawadi in Bhemganjmandi, Aakashwani Kendra in Nayapura and Shivpura in Dadabadi area of the city. The decision to withdraw curfew and zero mobility was taken after receipt of the reports and recommendations from officials of the concerned police station, chief medical and health officer and commissioner of Kota Municipal Corporation. Curfew and zero mobility would continue to be enforced in seven other localities, including Makbara, Rampura, Mahavir Nagar extension, Kaithunipole areas of the city. Kasera ordered to enforce curfew and zero mobility on Monday in Jai Hind Nagar of Borekheda area till 6 am on May 15 after Covid positive case detected in the area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/curfew-lifted-from-4-areas-in-kota-dist/articleshow/75705662.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Goa||Mauvin’s plan to hire buses opposed||Panaji: Bus operators held a meeting on Monday with transport minister Mauvin Godinho to discuss the non-viability of plying buses at just 50% capacity. Godinho presented a proposal saying the government would hire the private buses through the KTC. Operators on Tuesday decided against the proposal. “This could create legal problems since many operators are still paying bank loans taken at the time of purchasing the buses. We cannot have an agreement with another party when banks have financed our buses. The vehicles are hypothecated to the bank,” All Goa Private Bus Owners’ Association, general secretary, Sudeep Tamankar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mauvins-plan-to-hire-buses-opposed/articleshow/75565062.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Kolkata||Tolly post-production outside containment zones gets nod||Kolkata: Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday announced that post-production work of film and television units, located outside the containment zones, would be allowed in the state. On Monday, a letter signed by the representatives of Federation of Cine Technicians and Workers of Eastern India (FCTWEI), Eastern India Motion Pictures Association (EIMPA), Welfare Association of Television Producers (WATP) and The West Bengal Motion Picture Artists’ Forum was sent to the government to allow post-production work in non-containment zones. Banerjee said, “Currently, we have decided to allow post-production work like editing, dubbing and mixing outside the containment zones. As far as shooting is concerned, we will have to wait for some more days.”  In a memo addressed to FCTWEI's president Swaroop Biswas, clearance was given to start post-production activities provided that the norms of social distancing and health and hygiene protocols are maintained. “We are happy that the permission has been granted,” Biswas said. According to Firdausul Hasan, president of Film Federation of India, post-production work has already started in Tamil, Telugu, Kannada and Malayalam film and television industries. Welcoming the CM’s move in Bengal “whole heartedly”, Hasan said, “It will take us forward to restart the film industry.” A still from ‘Tanshener Tanpura’ Producer Mahendra Soni of SVF wants to finish the post-production work of Srijit Mukherji’s ‘Kakababur Protyaborton’. “I am happy with the decision of allowing post-production work by our state government. This really helps us begin some work. Our utmost priority is health and safety of our crew and we will follow all guidelines laid down by the government and take care of every safety measure,” Soni said. Prosenjit Chatterjee, who plays the lead character in ‘Kakababur Protyaborton’, called it a “good decision”. “We are all keen to return to work,” he said. Soni is also looking at starting post-production work of the web series titled ‘Tanshener Tanpura’ and Anindya Chattopadhyay’s film titled ‘Prem Tame’. Chattopadhyay said, “The entire post-production work of my film is pending. I want to start work on the dubbing. But everything depends on when the studios open.” A still from ‘Prem Tame’Chatterjee, however, added that the technical team will be coming from different parts of the city and even outside. “While social distancing will be maintained at the studios, I wonder how other things including hygiene will be taken care of. Such factors need to be verified by experts since we do not have the expertise in this field,” said the actor. Piya Sengupta, president of EIMPA, felt this challenge can be negotiated. “While dubbing needs a maximum of five people, editing requires the editor and the director. With so few people, it won’t be difficult to start operation,” said Sengupta. Studios, like EditfX, are planning to start operations early next week. Harcharan Singh, director of Editfx Studios, said post-production of seven Bengali films was done at his studio before lockdown. “We will maintain social distancing. The only challenge is to rope in technicians who may reside in containment zones,” Singh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/tolly-post-production-outside-containment-zones-gets-nod/articleshow/75704998.cms||Priyanka Dasgupta
May 13, 2020||Jodhpur||Farmer shot dead in sleep in Jalore||JODHPUR: Unidentified men shot dead a farmer in Jalore when he was sleeping at his farm on Monday night. Police are investigating the matter. According to Bhinmal police, Hemaram Choudahry (58) was sleeping at his farm in Dantiwas village alone after having his meal when assailants pumped four bullets into him. “On information, police reached the spot and found him dead. We have come to the conclusion there were two persons who parked their vehicle at a distant place and walked to his house at his farm to shoot him,” police said. Hemaram had some altercation with his family and had been staying at his farm alone. He was a well off active Congress worker and was engaged in finance business at a local level.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/farmer-shot-dead-in-sleep-in-jalore/articleshow/75705661.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Delhi||More liquor vends or online sale? Delhi HC says decide now||NEW DELHI: Delhi high court on Tuesday asked the AAP government and the Centre to swiftly take a call on allowing liquor sale online or increasing the number of open vends. “We are afraid that any delay... can exacerbate the problem of crowding outside liquor shops and would defeat the purpose, inasmuch as more the delay, more will be the number of persons outside liquor shops, each day, who will come in close contact with each other, increasing the probability of spread of Covid-19,” a bench of Justices Rajiv Sahai Endlaw and Sangita Dhingra Sehgal noted while disposing of a batch of petitions seeking online sale of alcohol as a temporary measure. The high court underlined that the threat due to the crowding wasn’t “of a permanent nature, solution whereof can be devised at leisure... once the patrons of alcohol are satisfied that there would be no further closure, the crowding outside liquor shops is likely to disappear”. It asked the governments to take a decision at the earliest “so that more damage than has already been done is not caused and so that the decision taken serves the need of the hour”. Expressing concerns about home delivery of alcohol through food delivery platforms, the bench said it would be “fraught with security and safety issues” as there was a possibility of alcohol being snatched during transit or being adulterated. “It appears that transit of alcohol from home to home would have to be in the same manner and style as transit of cash between banks and between banks and ATMs,” it pointed out, taking note of the suggestion that all authorised liquor vends could be opened to avoid pressure. Delhi government standing counsel Ramesh Singh said the government was looking into how to implement online sale of liquor as it was not permitted under the excise law and rules. The government has instructed liquor vends to ensure social distancing by having separate queues for those with e-tokens and the rest, Singh added. However, the court said it had learnt that the e-token system had not met with much success as the token holders were still required to spend considerable time at the shop leading to crowding. “We have inquired whether at the time of applying for e-token, the patron is able to make a choice of brand of alcohol desired to be purchased, to know the availability thereof and to make payment thereof. We are of the opinion that for e-tokens to effectively reduce the time spent at the liquor vends, these factors are essential,” it said. The high court also doubted the government’s claims on social distancing, adding the instructions were issued “without regard to the location and position of the liquor vends”. Considering these two factors, it said, “it is not possible to maintain social distancing as has been prescribed and the instructions... will not serve any purpose and will remain on paper only”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/more-liquor-vends-or-online-sale-hc-says-decide-now/articleshow/75705673.cms||Abhinav Garg
May 13, 2020||Jodhpur||Second train brings 1,484 Rajasthan migrants from Pune to Jodhpur||JODHPUR: A train carrying 1,484 Rajasthani migrants from Pune reached Jodhpur on Tuesday evening. They departed for their respective districts in roadways buses from here. These passengers belonging to 14 districts were sent to their respective destinations in 31 buses provided by Rajasthan Roadways, which were ready outside the railway station. Commissioner (Jodhpur Municipal Corporation) Suresh Kumar said like before, all passengers were called out of the train district-wise where their screening was done and were directed to their respective buses after matching their records with the information provided by both the state governments. All the passengers, while alighting from the train, heaved a sigh of relief that they had finally reached home. Shri Ram Dewasi from Sojat City in Pali said that he used to work in Pune as a daily wage worker and had been jobless since the lockdown. “We had some money which we had exhausted but we were provided monetary assistance by Maharashtra government. But we wanted to come home as the situation there was getting very difficult,” said Dewasi, who came back with his family of five. Atmaram Suthar from Jaisalmer district also share a similar tale. He had been working in Pune as a carpenter and with the lockdown, all the business activities got stalled and he was left jobless. “We waited for some time but when the situation kept on worsening, we were desperate to reach home. Thankfully, we were provided transportation,” said Suthar, who has returned with his wife and two children. This is the second train bringing migrants of Rajasthan from other states. Before this, a train carrying 921 migrants from Telangana had arrived at Jodhpur’s Bhagat ki Kothi railway station on May 7. On Wednesday, a train is likely to ferry migrants from Jodhpur to Ballia. These labourers, who were working in different industries, had been demanding to be transported to their home states since long and many of them had left for their destinations on foot seeing no response to their pleadings. DCP (west) Priti Chandra informed that 1,400 migrant labourers have registered for this train, which will depart from Jodhpur on Wednesday afternoon for Ballia. Only migrants from Ballia would be allowed in the train.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/second-train-brings-1484-raj-migrants-from-pune-to-jodhpur/articleshow/75705677.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Red Road Eid prayers await govt sanction||KOLKATA: Eid prayer on Red Road will be held only after the Centre and state government grant permission for public congregation. The decision was taken at a meeting of the Khilafat Committee on Monday. At Nakhoda Mosjid on Zakaria Street, the Eid prayers will be held without public attendance, unless both the Centre and state government provide the go-ahead, specifying it is safe for devotees to assemble for prayers. “We will abide by the instructions of the Centre and state government,” said Qari Fazlur Rahman, who leads the Eid prayers on Red Road every year. The prayers are attended by over 3 lakh people from the city and its suburbs. “We had a tele-conference on Monday in this regard and it was unanimously decided that safety of every citizen is of paramount imp;ortance. We will follow the orders issued by both the Centre and state regarding the prayers,” said Sakir Randerian, president of the Calcutta Khilafat Committee, which organizes the prayers on Red Road.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/red-road-eid-prayers-await-govt-sanction/articleshow/75705007.cms||Zeeshan Javed
May 13, 2020||Lucknow||UP teachers’ recruitment results: Over 1.4 lakh qualify||LUCKNOW: The results of Assistant Teachers’ Recruitment Test (ATRE), a qualifying exam for appointment of 69,000 teachers in primary schools of UP, were announced on Tuesday. A total of 1,46,060 candidates have qualified — 36,614 general category, 84,868 OBCs, 24,308 SCs and 270 STs. ATRE saw 4,31,466 registrations, of whom 4,09,530 appeared for the test. The results were declared by UP’s Examination Regulatory Authority (ERA). ERA secretary Anil Bhushan told TOI that results will be uploaded on the website atrexam.upsdc.gov.in on Wednesday. To avoid controversy over three ‘wrong’ questions asked in the question paper, the Exam Regulatory Committee decided to award common one mark for each of these three questions to all candidates. Course-wise, 97,368 BEd candidates have qualified, followed by 38,610 candidates who hold Diploma in Elementary Education (DElEd), 8018 shiksha mitras (para teachers) and 2,064 candidates from other courses. In a press release, basic education minister Satish Chandra Dwivedi congratulated the successful candidates and added that UP’s basic education is going to give employment to 69,000 people in the lockdown. Now, basic education department will prepare a merit list taking into consideration the candidate’s educational qualification and performance in ATRE, which was held on January 6, 2019. The answer key was uploaded on January 18, 2019 for objections. Close to 22,000 candidates had raised objections on 142 questions out of 150 asked in the test. After scrutiny, experts found three out-of syllabus questions asked in the test. The recruitment process was stalled after some candidates moved the high court challenging state government’s decision of raising the cut off for general and reserved category applicants from 45% and 40% to 65% and 60%, respectively. On May 6, 2020, the high court upheld the state government’s decision and set the ball rolling for recruitment of 69,000 assistant teachers in the state. After HC order, CM Yogi Adityanath had asked basic education officials to declare the results in a week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/teachers-recruitment-results-over-1-4l-qualify/articleshow/75705684.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: 3 JMC staff, 2 vegetable sellers test Covid-19 positive||JAIPUR: Three employees of Jaipur Municipal Corporation (JMC) and two vegetable vendors tested positive for coronavirus on Tuesday. Chief sanitary inspector is among the infected. These people were tested on Sunday and their reports came on Tuesday. Around 350 people were tested on Sunday, including 250 vegetable vendors and 100 JMC staff. On Monday, samples of 361 JMC workers and vegetable sellers were collected. The reports will be released by health department on Wednesday. Since two JMC civil defence employees tested positive last week, the health department has increased the frequency of testing. On May 4, the duo complained of fever and weakness. The JMC officials tested them and sent them on leave. On May 8, their reports came positive. Two people who came in contact with them were also sent for home isolation. Special camps were set up in zonal offices for testing. The infected persons including the chief sanitary inspector were part of civil defence team involved in sanitisation work in the city. They probably got infected while working on field. A dozen vegetable vendors also tested positive in the city so testing them is now a priority of JMC.On Tuesday, tests were conducted at Civil Lines zone and on Wednesday Mansarovar zone, Sanganer zone and the head office will be covered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/3-jmc-staff-2-vegetable-sellers-test-positive/articleshow/75705664.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan government relaxes norms for private warehouses to operate as mandis||JAIPUR: The state government has relaxed norms for private warehouses to operate as mandis. As part of the move, they will not be required to pay licence fees. Also, the stipulation of areas has been removed. Rajasthan Agriculture Marketing Board administrator Tarachand Meena said the government through amendment in the Warehouse Development and Regulatory Authority has relaxed the provision of minimum of five hectares requirement to declare a private warehouse into subyard for temporary grain mandi. This will help the agriculture development to declare more such warehouses as temporary grain markets. Similarly, the warehouses had to deposit a license fee of Rs 15 lakh to be converted into a grain mandi. He said this provision has also been removed. The government took the decision as some traders had been on a strike in protest against the 2% mandi cess imposed by the government to mobilise funds towards the Kisan Welfare fund. Meena claimed that Rajasthan was the first state providing such relaxations. He said the warehouse would issue electronic receipts which the farmers could use to avail loans from banks and also sell the produce at competitive prices.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/govt-relaxes-norms-for-pvt-warehouses-to-operate-as-mandis/articleshow/75705674.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Locusts enter interior districts, minister orders special girdwari||JAISALMER: The locust menace is back to haunt the state and it is becoming frightening with each passing day. The ‘flying terrorists’ which crossed the Pakistan border to enter Jaisalmer and Sriganganagar have now started entering other districts in interior Rajasthan. A day after entering Barmer, Jaisalmer, Jodhpur and Pali, the swarms reached Barmer, Nagaur, Pali, Ajmer up to Pushkar. With the government yet to swing into full action to drive the pests away, locals are using traditional methods such as bursting crackers and beating utensils to drive them away. Currently, these insects are flying on 2sq km area in Nagaur and once they land, the process of crop destruction will increase. Sources said till now the locusts have destroyed 14,300 hectares in Jodhpur, Phalodi, Barmer, Sriganganagar, Nagaur, Ajmer, Pali and Jaisalmer. People living in the areas hit by the swarms said if the Centre failed to take proper action on time, it will not be long that the insects will fly into other parts of the country causing massive agricultural losses. Locals said that the swarms were entering the country from Baluchistan, Punjab and Sindh provinces of of Pakistan and currently there are no checks in place to contain their spread. Cattle raisers in various districts of Rajasthan are the most worried lot as these locusts are destroying fodder. State revenue minister Harish Chaudhary reviewed the losses and had ordered a special girdwari for the farmers. Locust control department director Dr KL Gurjar blamed Pakistan for miserably failing to control the locusts due to which large number of hoppers turned into adults and entered India. Sources said the origin of the locusts was in Iran from where they fly to Pakistan before entering India. Gurjar said currently 50 teams — 45 in Rajasthan and 5 in Gujarat — were working round-the-clock to control the insects in both the states.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/locusts-enter-interior-districts-minister-orders-special-girdwari/articleshow/75705676.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: SMS Hospital to deploy doctors at RUHS for care of Covid-19 patients||JAIPUR: A team of doctors from Sawai Man Singh (SMS) Medical College inspected Rajasthan University of Health Sciences (RUHS) on Tuesday regarding preparations for shifting of Covid-19 patients from SMS Hospital. While shifting the patients, the SMS Hospital will take measures for sanitization after wards are vacated. The SMS Medical College is aiming to start routine services in SMS Hospital from June 1. Headed by SMS Medical College principal and controller Dr Sudhir Bhandari, the panel inspected the RUHS hospital to make it a dedicated Covid-19 treatment centre. “Gradually we will make SMS Hospital a non-Covid hospital and RUHS a Covid centre,” said Bhandari. He said it will be done over the period of three weeks. The team of SMS Hospital doctors and healthcare staff will be deployed at the RUHS to take care of the Covid patients. “The work for making the SMS Hospital free of Covid has been started and it will be done on a priority basis for normal functioning of the hospital like it was earlier before pandemic,” said Dr Ajit Singh, additional superintendent, SMS Hospital. The SMS Medical College will deploy doctors from medicine and paediatrics department and doctors for care of female patients at RUHS for Covid-19 treatment. Besides, directions have been issued to all superintendents of attached hospitals to submit action taken report for starting non-Covid services on medical emergencies, routine surgeries, social and physical distancing, canteen arrangements, OPD in Dhanwantri and Charak Bhawan of SMS Hospital, investigation facilities, queue system for patients and separate ward for suspected Covid patients. Besides, SMS Medical College faculty members have suggested to the authorities that they will start preparing for increasing non-Covid services and try to build up as before taking all precautions. Department of ophthalmology has already given a representation for early resumption of services at Charak Bhawan where Covid patients are kept. All head of the departments of the hospital have been asked to give their complete plan to restart their services. Besides, Rajasthan Medical College Teachers Association of Rajasthan University of Health Sciences demanded that the state government should immediately create a post of superintendent and deputy superintendent and additional superintendent at RUHS hospital. They pointed out that chief minister Ashok Gehlot had inaugurated the RUHS hospital recently.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/sms-hospital-to-deploy-docs-at-ruhs-for-care-of-covid-patients/articleshow/75705685.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Jodhpur||Stuck in Jodhpur for 2 months, 50 Gujarat migrants head home||JODHPUR: Fifty migrants from Gujarat were sent back to their homes in a Rajasthan Roadways bus on Tuesday. They were stuck in Jodhpur for two months due to the lockdown and had exhausted all their resources. SHO (Nagauri Gate) Jabbar Singh said that these migrants had come to Jodhpur to sell toys and other items in the famous Sheetla Mata fair in March but due to lockdown, they could neither do business as the fair was cancelled nor go back home. “All these persons from different parts of Gujarat were dependent on local charitable organisations for food as they ran out of whatever reserved money they had,” said Singh, who arranged to accommodate them in a community hall in the area, close to the hotspot of the city. TOI had reported the plight of these people on Tuesday. The people had applied online with the help of the police and had been waiting for permission to leave for their homes. On Tuesday, they were granted permission, their screening was done, bus was arranged by state roadways and e-passes were issued by the administration. In a bizarre turn of events, the district administration failed to arrange for the bus, while the driver of a private bus, which had been arranged by the police with the help of the philanthropists, could not be reached on Tuesday. Under such conditions, the Rajasthan Roadways was approached and a bus was provided by the roadways administration. All the passengers were provided with food packets and biscuits for children for the journey. Besides this, 20 people from Jaipur were also sent back to their homes. A mini bus was arranged by the police for them. These persons had also come with swings for the fair. “We are thankful for all the assistance provided by the police. We have left some labourers and our swings in Jodhpur and will be back after the lockdown to collect the material and reclaim our security deposit with the municipal corporation,” said one Waheeda Bibi from Jaipur. Yet another group of over 100 labourers working with the goldsmiths in Jodhpur left for Maharashtra in four buses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/stuck-in-jodhpur-for-2-mths-50-guj-migrants-head-home/articleshow/75705682.cms||Ajay Parmar
May 13, 2020||Hubballi||SSLC classes go online in Chikkodi||Belagavi: Determined to improve rankings, the Chikkodi education department is conducting online classes for the benefit of SSLC students of government and aided schools so they fare well in their examinations next month. Chikkodi division, which had been maintaining top position for several years, slipped to the eighth position in the academic year 2019-20. As many as 300 teachers, who have been roped in to prepare the students, have created multiple WhatsApp broadcasts for the virtual classes. The department has managed to reach out to over 40,000 students. Everyday, the teachers send question papers to students so they can answer them and reply to their mentors in a day. The majority of students use their parents’ smartphones to work on groups “Practice Madu” (practise well) and “Perfect Agu” (strive for perfection). The department is using about 50 podcasts for classes in various subjects. Mentors WhatsApp their YouTube links to the students, while their parents ensure they make the best use of screen time. Gajanan Mannikeri, deputy director of public instruction department, said that 40,822 children will appear for the exam. “Apart from WhatsApp classes and podcasts, a helpline has also been helping them with different subjects. The students dial the number and seek clarification. By rotation, the teachers will do the needful.” SSLC student Sujata Patil said online classes and interaction on helpline have been enhancing her subject knowledge. “Online classes are like an edutainment for us. We will excel in exams and not let our teachers down,” a student said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/sslc-classes-go-online-in-chikkodi/articleshow/75704115.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Kolkata||Calcutta HC extends KMC board term till July 20||KOLKATA: The Calcutta High Court, on Tuesday, ordered that a board of administrators headed by mayor Firhad Hakim will act as the Kolkata Municipal Corporation’s caretaker board till July 20. A division bench comprising justices I P Mukerji and T Ghosh extended the term of the caretaker board till July 20. On May 7, a single bench had directed that the board of administrators, appointed by the Bengal government following completion of its five-year term, would function for four weeks. In an interim order on May 7, Justice Subrata Talukdar had stated that the caretaker board would look after the civic body’s daily operations for a month to ensure its smooth functioning during the present situation arising out of the Covid-19 pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/hc-extends-kmc-board-term-till-july-20/articleshow/75705021.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Rain & dust storm bring temperatures down||JAIPUR: Mercury took a dip across the state on Tuesday when majority of the places witnessed rainfall and dust storm in the morning. There was an average dip of 5°C in the minimum and maximum temperatures. However, Jaisalmer remained hottest in the state where a maximum temperature of 42.5°C was recorded. People in Jaipur woke up amid showers and cloudy conditions. Rainfall was witnessed in almost every part of the city, except some on the outskirts. Due to overnight rainfall, Jaipur witnessed a minimum temperature of 24.5°C, almost 5°C below the normal notch. It was followed by lesser warmer afternoon as a maximum temperature of 37°C was recorded. Jaipur Met office said that rainfall and dust storm will continue in the state till May 15 due to the prevailing western disturbances and upper air cyclonic circulation. Other places in the state witnessed maximum temperatures below 40°C which provided them relief from the scorching heat. “This year in May the revival of western disturbances is quite frequent which is the reason why in a gap of three to four days many places in the state are witnessing rainfall, dust storm and hailstorm,” said an officer with the Jaipur Met office. Jaipur Met office said that after May 15, the temperatures in the state will start increasing. “The factors including upper air cyclonic circulation will vanish from May 15 onwards. Thus mercury will take an upward swing,” the officer added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rain-dust-storm-bring-temp-down/articleshow/75705686.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Nagpur||NMC’s innovative steps led to fewer Covid deaths, +ve cases: Report||Nagpur: The central government’s Rapid Response Team (RRT) has credited innovative steps of Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) for lesser mortality and less number of severe Covid-19 cases in the city. In its detailed analysis of the situation in the district, the team said the administration is preparing a whopping 24,258 beds in case of a sudden spike in corona positive cases, as projected by the central and state government between May 15 and 31. In last 63 days, number of positive cases in the district is 304, of which 269 (88.48%) were from Mominpura and Satranjipura. The team appreciated the mass quarantine model of NMC, which is the first-of-its-kind in the country. The district witnessed four deaths, of which reports of two deceased came positive after death, while 102 have been discharged. Though the city stands at third place in the state for population and area, it is at the 10th place in case of Covid-19 mortality and 7th place as far as positive cases. Mumbai and Pune are far ahead of the district. Municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe, chief medical officer Dr Yogendra Savai, additional chief medical officer Dr Praveen Gantawar and zonal medical officer Dr Minakshi Mane have planned mass quarantine model and implemented it in an effective manner. Over 1,900 were quarantined from Satranjipura, of which 117 tested positive. At Mominpura, number of quarantined is over 800, of which 152 came positive. RRT report stated, “NMC innovated appropriately to mass quarantine in Satranjipura. All residents of containment zone were moved to quarantine, samples were collected and tested. The action effectively broke the chain of transmission in the area. NMC also innovated in early testing. Instead of testing contacts between 5-14th day, NMC tested them on day-1 leading to early detection, prompt treatment and isolation. This might have led to lesser mortality and less number of severe cases in Nagpur,” RRT observed. As per Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), one positive person can transmit disease to 406 if not isolated. The 290 positive persons traced by NMC are a result of aggressive containment zone system and pro-active measures. NMC had to face resistance from people, severe criticism from public representatives, communities, and also some petitions in courts. However, Mundhe and his team with the help of divisional commissioner Sanjeev Kumar and police department have continued the innovations that were appreciated by RRT. The centre had appointed RRT for all Red Zones to report on the situation at ground-level and give recommendations for containing Covid-19. AIIMS-Nagpur has been given the responsibility of Nagpur and Yavatmal districts. A two-member RRT of Dr Prashant Joshi and Dr Pradeep Deshmukh visited Mominpura and Satranjipura containment zones, MLA Hostel Institutional Quarantine Centre, IGGMCH, GMCH, NKP Salve Medical College, and Datta Meghe Medical College between May 5 and 7. They also interacted with top officials working to contain Covid-19. In recommendations for containment zones, RRT said death audit of all cases should be conducted using National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) format, as it can help block chain of transmission at the earliest. “To ensure Covid distancing of recoveries in containment zones, NMC should use cured cases as volunteers. Community needs to be proactively involved in community management. Rogi Kalyan Samiti, Mahila Arogya Samiti may be involved,” RRT recommended. For centres now being used for institutional quarantine, and that can be converted into Covid Care Centre (CCC) in case of spike in cases, RRT has recommended multipara monitor to measure oxygen saturation, heart rate, blood pressure. Also, RRT advised infrared thermal scanner, blood pressure apparatus, pulse oximeter, glucometer with strips, basic medicines, oxygen cylinder and fully equipped ALS ambulance. The RRT report has seen sent to office of divisional commissioner, collector, NMC, IGGMCH and GMCH for implementation of recommendations, which are in line with government guidelines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nmcs-innovative-steps-led-to-fewer-covid-deaths-ve-cases-report/articleshow/75705045.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
May 13, 2020||Jaipur||‘Drive for issuing job cards to migrants’||JAIPUR: After the MLAs from Jaipur and Ajmer expressed concern over the return of migrant labourers from other states to Rajasthan during a video conference with Chief minister Ashok Gehlot, the state’s MGNREGA department on Tuesday, as per the directions of deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot, decided to launch a two-month special drive to issue job cards to the migrant labourers who have come back to the state. The special campaign to enrol more and more migrant labourers in the rural areas in MGNREGA work will continue till June 30, starting on Wednesday. Deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot on Tuesday instructed the officials of the department to start a special campaign in the state. “Employment will be provided by making the migrant labourers, who have returned from other states and are willing to work, fill ‘form-6’ through a special campaign across the state. New job cards will also be issued to them as per requirement for work,” he Pilot. “At present, Rajasthan is at the top position in the country in providing employment under MGNREGA to more than 25 lakh people (on May 12),” he added. “As per popular demand of MLAs to issue job cards to migrant labourers who are returning to villages, we have decided to launch a special drive. During the two-month programme, it will be monitored how many job cards have been issued to them. The cards will be issued within 15 days of submitting the application,” said state MGNREGA commissioner P C Kishan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/drive-for-issuing-job-cards-to-migrants/articleshow/75705687.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Jaipur||Better late than never: Ashok Gehlot; Vasundhara Raje calls it ‘a positive step’||JAIPUR: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot welcomed Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s announcement of a Rs 20-lakh-crore package to revive the economy. Gehlot, however, said the package was announced very late. In a tweet he said, “The financial package announced by PM Modi ji was much awaited. Better late than never, der aaye durust aaye. We welcome this. Now when details emerge, we would know exactly how different sectors would benefit.” “The Prime Minister said the package is about 10% of the GDP which is welcome step. We have been demanding a package to the states and to industry for a long time,” said the chief minister. He said the earlier package of PM Garib Kalyan was only repackaging the existing schemes. “I hope the new package will be different,” said Gehlot. The financial package announced by PM Modi ji was much awaited. Better late than never, देर आए दुरुस्त आए. We welco… https://t.co/syh5SUNwEK— Ashok Gehlot (@ashokgehlot51) 1589299671000Former CM Vasundhara Raje termed the economic package a positive step towards helping the nation get back on its feet. In her official Twitter handle, Raje said, “The Modi govt’s announcement of a Rs 20-lakh-crore economic package is a positive step towards helping the nation get back on its feet. PM Shri @narendramodi ji stressed on the need to build an #AatmanirbharBharat and this financial boost is sure to aid in achieving this goal.” The Modi Govt’s announcement of a Rs. 20 Lakh Crore economic package is a positive step towards helping the nation… https://t.co/Rc2qNCmdqq— Vasundhara Raje (@VasundharaBJP) 1589297577000||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/better-late-than-never-gehlot-raje-calls-it-a-positive-step/articleshow/75705688.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Udaipur||Covid-19 cases cross 4,000 mark in Rajasthan, spike in Udaipur continues||JAIPUR: Covid-19 positive cases in the state crossed the 4,000 mark on Tuesday with 138 more persons found infected. This took the total tally to 4,126. Four persons also died on the day, making it 117 mortalities in the state. The deaths were reported from Jalore, Jaipur, Nagaur and Bikaner. It was the first death due to Covid-19 in Jalore. A 45-year-old man, resident of Sanchor of Jalore who was rushed to MDM Hospital in Jodhpur, was declared brought dead by doctors on Monday. He tested positive on Tuesday. A 37-year-old woman, resident of Nokha of Bikaner, was also found infected on May 10. She died on Monday while undergoing treatment at PBM Hospital in Bikaner. Her test report showed that she was positive. She had co-morbid condition of chronic kidney disease. In Jaipur, a 35-year-old man from Ghat Gate area was admitted to SMS Hospital on Monday. He died on the same day. He had suffered head injury in a road accident. Besides, one 68-year-old woman from Basni of Nagaur tested positive on Sunday. She died while undergoing treatment at MGH Hospital in Jodhpur on Tuesday. She had co-morbid condition of rheumatic heart disease and hypothyroidism. The districts which reported new cases are Udaipur (42), Jaipur (34), Jodhpur (25), Churu (6), Nagaur (6), Kota (5), Jhunjhunu (4), Ajmer (3), Dausa (3), Jaisalmer (3), Sikar (2), Pali (1), Chittorgarh (1), Bikaner (1), Rajsamand (1) and Hanumangarh (1). In Jaipur, three Jaipur Municipal Corporation staff, three Zanana hospital employees including a doctor and two persons at the hospital mess, while one more healthcare worker of Zanana hostel was found infected. The places which reported cases in the state are Jaipur Municipal Corporation (3), Zanana hospital (3), Zanana hostel (1), Chandpole (3), Kalyan Nagar (2) while one each case was reported from Agarwal hostel, Vaishali Nagar, Kalwad Road, Ajeet Nagar, Adarsh Nagar, Jagatpura, Durgapura, Sanganer, Phagi, IBS hotel at Civil Lines, Indira Gandhi Nagar, Pratap Nagar, Nahari Ka Naka, Agra Road, Kalyan Nagar on Tonk Road, C-Scheme, Jhotwara, Jorawar Singh Gate, Road No.11, Panch Batti, Murlipura, Khatipura and one case from a private university.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/cases-cross-4k-mark-in-raj-spike-in-udaipur-continues/articleshow/75707434.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Jaipur||Covid-19 cases cross 4,000 mark in Rajasthan, spike in Udaipur continues||JAIPUR: Covid-19 positive cases in the state crossed the 4,000 mark on Tuesday with 138 more persons found infected. This took the total tally to 4,126. Four persons also died on the day, making it 117 mortalities in the state. The deaths were reported from Jalore, Jaipur, Nagaur and Bikaner. It was the first death due to Covid-19 in Jalore. A 45-year-old man, resident of Sanchor of Jalore who was rushed to MDM Hospital in Jodhpur, was declared brought dead by doctors on Monday. He tested positive on Tuesday. A 37-year-old woman, resident of Nokha of Bikaner, was also found infected on May 10. She died on Monday while undergoing treatment at PBM Hospital in Bikaner. Her test report showed that she was positive. She had co-morbid condition of chronic kidney disease. In Jaipur, a 35-year-old man from Ghat Gate area was admitted to SMS Hospital on Monday. He died on the same day. He had suffered head injury in a road accident. Besides, one 68-year-old woman from Basni of Nagaur tested positive on Sunday. She died while undergoing treatment at MGH Hospital in Jodhpur on Tuesday. She had co-morbid condition of rheumatic heart disease and hypothyroidism. The districts which reported new cases are Udaipur (42), Jaipur (34), Jodhpur (25), Churu (6), Nagaur (6), Kota (5), Jhunjhunu (4), Ajmer (3), Dausa (3), Jaisalmer (3), Sikar (2), Pali (1), Chittorgarh (1), Bikaner (1), Rajsamand (1) and Hanumangarh (1). In Jaipur, three Jaipur Municipal Corporation staff, three Zanana hospital employees including a doctor and two persons at the hospital mess, while one more healthcare worker of Zanana hostel was found infected. The places which reported cases in the state are Jaipur Municipal Corporation (3), Zanana hospital (3), Zanana hostel (1), Chandpole (3), Kalyan Nagar (2) while one each case was reported from Agarwal hostel, Vaishali Nagar, Kalwad Road, Ajeet Nagar, Adarsh Nagar, Jagatpura, Durgapura, Sanganer, Phagi, IBS hotel at Civil Lines, Indira Gandhi Nagar, Pratap Nagar, Nahari Ka Naka, Agra Road, Kalyan Nagar on Tonk Road, C-Scheme, Jhotwara, Jorawar Singh Gate, Road No.11, Panch Batti, Murlipura, Khatipura and one case from a private university.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cases-cross-4k-mark-in-raj-spike-in-udaipur-continues/articleshow/75705694.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Nashik||Nashik: Two killed in road accident, three held||NASHIK: The Panchavati police arrested a driver and two others for allegedly knocking down two people including a woman near Peth Road on Monday. The duo died on the spot while crossing the road. The suspects are identified as Shubham Sonawane (22) of Phule Nagar, Sanil Pidole (22) and Subham Gallole (23) both from Tapovan. The police said that the identity of the two deceased persons could not be ascertained. The trio initially escaped from the scene after knocking down the duo. The police said all the three arrested had consumed alcohol.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/2-killed-in-road-accident-3-held/articleshow/75702783.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad records 32 new cases, district’s tally reaches 659||AURANGABAD: As many as 32 new cases of Covid-19, including three in new localities, were reported in Aurangabad city on Tuesday, taking the district’s tally to 659. Also, 67 patients were discharged from different facilities across the district after recovering from the infection. Those who tested positive on Tuesday included 5 from Sanjay Nagar-Mukundwadi, 4 each from Cidco N-7 and Kiradpura, 3 from Babar Colony and 2 each from Pundalik Nagar, Bhimnagar, and Beghumpura. One case each was reported from Cidco N-8, Ram Nagar, Prakash Nagar, Chikalthana, Pushpak Garden Chikalthana, Badhkal Gate, Shahnoormiya Dargah, Naregaon, Gandhi Nagar, Roshan Gate, Bhawani Nagar and Baijipura. Of these, Cidco N-8, Shahnoormiya Dargah and Pushpak Garden areas saw their first Covid-19 cases. "Subsequently, the process of turning these areas into containing zones has been initiated," civic health officer Nita Padalkar said. The throat swab sample collection for testing of coronavirus reached 7,000 on Tuesday. A total of 276 patients are under treatment at five Covid care centres and 87 are placed in institutional quarantine at 5 facilities run by the Aurangabad Municipal Corporation. "As on Tuesday afternoon, 53 Covid-19 positive cases were under treatment at the GMCH of which 49 are stable and 4 are critical," nodal officer for media interaction at GMCH Arvind Gaikwad said. "63 patients undergoing treatment at different AMC facilities — Qile Ark and Padampura Emergency Operations Centre — were discharged on Tuesday," Padalkar said. Four patients were discharged from district civil hospital, taking the total number of patients sent home on Tuesday to 67. All these patients have been advised to quarantine themselves at home for 7 days. Of the total 659 cases, 192 have recovered and discharged, while 15 have died. The remaining patients are under treatment at district civil hospital, GMCH, Aurangabad Municipal Corporation’s Covid Care Centres and private hospitals. As a measure to contain spread of coronavirus, all vegetable markets under the jurisdiction of Aurangabad Municipal Corporation are not allowed to remain open on evens date when restrictions have been relaxed from 7 am to 1 pm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/city-records-32-new-cases-districts-tally-reaches-659/articleshow/75702782.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Why Covid-19 tests only at government hospitals, HC asks Telangana government||HYDERABAD: The Telangana high court on Tuesday further cornered the state government on Covid-19 tests, wondering if it has powers to ask people to undergo tests only at particular hospitals designated by it. The court, however, reserved its orders on a PIL which challenged the decision of the government to confine the diagnostic tests and treatment to state-run hospitals. A bench of Justice MS Ramachandra Rao and Justice K Lakshman observed that corporate hospitals have better facilities when compared to government hospitals like Osmania and Gandhi. It also posed several questions to the government while hearing the PIL filed by Ganta Jai Kumar of Nacharam, who wanted the court to direct the government to allow eligible private hospitals to conduct Covid-19 tests. Peri Prabhakar, counsel for the petitioner, said people have freedom and choice to choose their hospital and doctor. “Asking them to go to a particular government hospital only amounts to infringement of their rights,” argued Prabhakar. “Those who can afford treatment in private hospitals and diagnostic labs should be allowed to go,” he said, reminding the court that ICMR had allowed 12 private labs in Telangana to conduct the tests. At this point, advocate general BS Prasad informed the court that the government was conducting Covid-19 tests for free and in a safe environment. “If we allow the private hospitals to do these tests, there is a danger of these hospitals and labs becoming prime sources for spreading Covid-19,” the AG argued. He reminded the court that these hospitals also deal with non-Covid-19 patients. He said if the government feels the need, it would certainly invite the private hospitals with a rider they must run exclusive Covid-19 hospitals and not admit non-Covid-19 patients. Stating that test kits were limited, he said the government received samples from the private hospitals and conducted 2,000 tests for them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/why-covid-19-tests-only-at-govt-hosps-hc-asks-t/articleshow/75705079.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Pune||Pune: Lanes and bylanes sealed in Kondhwa||PUNE: All lanes and bylanes within the containment areas in Kondhwa have been sealed to prevent the movement of people and check the spread of Covid-19. The move follows the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC)’s order, imposing restriction on the operation of all shops, barring hospitals and clinics, in the containment areas from May 11 to 17. The PMC has declared 69 containment zones, including seven in Kondhwa. The PMC’s zonal medical officer, Dinesh Bhende, said, “The lanes and bylanes under the jurisdiction of Wanowrie, Hadapsar and Yeolewadi ward offices in Kondhwa have been sealed.” Assistant municipal commissioner Kunjan Jadhav from the PMC Wanowrie-Ramtekdi ward office said, “We have sealed more places at Shivnerinagar, Bhagyodayanagar and Kondhwa Khurd.” Senior inspector Vinayak Gaikwad from the Kondhwa police said, “The shops in non-containment zones here will be open between 7am and 7pm.” Corporator Haji Gafur Pathan said, “The lanes and bylanes will remain sealed till May 17. But the residents are upset with the civic body’s decision because no time was given to them to purchase essential commodities. Complaints are coming from residents that water tankers and garbage vehicles are not reaching their localities.” Activist Tanaji Lonkar said, “The PMC has taken help of local corporators, social activists and NGOs for sensitising residents to take preventive measures to avoid coronavirus infection.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pune-lanes-and-bylanes-sealed-in-kondhwa/articleshow/75705693.cms||Asseem Shaikh
May 13, 2020||Mysuru||Reaping machines stuck on border, paddy crops in Shivamogga faces threat||SHIVAMOGGA: The paddy crops in Shivamogga district, especially on the banks of Tunga river, is facing threat as reaping machines from Tamil Nadu are stuck on Karnataka border. Since harvesting time has started with pre-monsoon showers, the crop is getting affected. Though the state government has said that it would facilitate agricultural activities during lockdown, no help has reached the farmers. In fact, many farmers have lost their crops in the past five years due to scarcity of rain in summer and floods in rainy season. Currently, 60% of summer paddy is yet to be harvested on the banks of Tunga. Last year, chain harvesting machines from Tamil Nadu had arrived before the harvesting season. This year, the machines are stuck on Karnataka-Tamil Nadu border. Speaking to TOI, Maheshwarappa, a farmer from Hanasavadi village in Shivamogga, said they had paid Rs 2,200 per hour for TN's reaping machines last year. However, this time people are ready to pay Rs 3,200 but the machine is not available. The paddy crop is drying in the field and has fallen to the ground, he said. So far, some 50 to 100 machines have entered Karnataka after getting permission. They have harvested in Davanagere district too. Speaking to TOI, Dr Kiran, joint director of agriculture, Shivamogga, said machines from Tamil Nadu are permitted to enter Karnataka. “We have issued nearly 280 passes some 15 days ago. Some machines will be arriving soon. We have 12,000 hectares of paddy in Shivamogga. The average yield in summer is 20 quintal per acre. We expect nearly 6 lakh quintal output this year,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/reaping-machines-stuck-on-border-paddy-crops-faces-threat/articleshow/75704137.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Jodhpur||Covid-19 cases cross 4,000 mark in Rajasthan, spike in Udaipur continues||JAIPUR: Covid-19 positive cases in the state crossed the 4,000 mark on Tuesday with 138 more persons found infected. This took the total tally to 4,126. Four persons also died on the day, making it 117 mortalities in the state. The deaths were reported from Jalore, Jaipur, Nagaur and Bikaner. It was the first death due to Covid-19 in Jalore. A 45-year-old man, resident of Sanchor of Jalore who was rushed to MDM Hospital in Jodhpur, was declared brought dead by doctors on Monday. He tested positive on Tuesday. A 37-year-old woman, resident of Nokha of Bikaner, was also found infected on May 10. She died on Monday while undergoing treatment at PBM Hospital in Bikaner. Her test report showed that she was positive. She had co-morbid condition of chronic kidney disease. In Jaipur, a 35-year-old man from Ghat Gate area was admitted to SMS Hospital on Monday. He died on the same day. He had suffered head injury in a road accident. Besides, one 68-year-old woman from Basni of Nagaur tested positive on Sunday. She died while undergoing treatment at MGH Hospital in Jodhpur on Tuesday. She had co-morbid condition of rheumatic heart disease and hypothyroidism. The districts which reported new cases are Udaipur (42), Jaipur (34), Jodhpur (25), Churu (6), Nagaur (6), Kota (5), Jhunjhunu (4), Ajmer (3), Dausa (3), Jaisalmer (3), Sikar (2), Pali (1), Chittorgarh (1), Bikaner (1), Rajsamand (1) and Hanumangarh (1). In Jaipur, three Jaipur Municipal Corporation staff, three Zanana hospital employees including a doctor and two persons at the hospital mess, while one more healthcare worker of Zanana hostel was found infected. The places which reported cases in the state are Jaipur Municipal Corporation (3), Zanana hospital (3), Zanana hostel (1), Chandpole (3), Kalyan Nagar (2) while one each case was reported from Agarwal hostel, Vaishali Nagar, Kalwad Road, Ajeet Nagar, Adarsh Nagar, Jagatpura, Durgapura, Sanganer, Phagi, IBS hotel at Civil Lines, Indira Gandhi Nagar, Pratap Nagar, Nahari Ka Naka, Agra Road, Kalyan Nagar on Tonk Road, C-Scheme, Jhotwara, Jorawar Singh Gate, Road No.11, Panch Batti, Murlipura, Khatipura and one case from a private university.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/cases-cross-4k-mark-in-raj-spike-in-udaipur-continues/articleshow/75707435.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Ajmer||Covid-19 cases cross 4,000 mark in Rajasthan, spike in Udaipur continues||JAIPUR: Covid-19 positive cases in the state crossed the 4,000 mark on Tuesday with 138 more persons found infected. This took the total tally to 4,126. Four persons also died on the day, making it 117 mortalities in the state. The deaths were reported from Jalore, Jaipur, Nagaur and Bikaner. It was the first death due to Covid-19 in Jalore. A 45-year-old man, resident of Sanchor of Jalore who was rushed to MDM Hospital in Jodhpur, was declared brought dead by doctors on Monday. He tested positive on Tuesday. A 37-year-old woman, resident of Nokha of Bikaner, was also found infected on May 10. She died on Monday while undergoing treatment at PBM Hospital in Bikaner. Her test report showed that she was positive. She had co-morbid condition of chronic kidney disease. In Jaipur, a 35-year-old man from Ghat Gate area was admitted to SMS Hospital on Monday. He died on the same day. He had suffered head injury in a road accident. Besides, one 68-year-old woman from Basni of Nagaur tested positive on Sunday. She died while undergoing treatment at MGH Hospital in Jodhpur on Tuesday. She had co-morbid condition of rheumatic heart disease and hypothyroidism. The districts which reported new cases are Udaipur (42), Jaipur (34), Jodhpur (25), Churu (6), Nagaur (6), Kota (5), Jhunjhunu (4), Ajmer (3), Dausa (3), Jaisalmer (3), Sikar (2), Pali (1), Chittorgarh (1), Bikaner (1), Rajsamand (1) and Hanumangarh (1). In Jaipur, three Jaipur Municipal Corporation staff, three Zanana hospital employees including a doctor and two persons at the hospital mess, while one more healthcare worker of Zanana hostel was found infected. The places which reported cases in the state are Jaipur Municipal Corporation (3), Zanana hospital (3), Zanana hostel (1), Chandpole (3), Kalyan Nagar (2) while one each case was reported from Agarwal hostel, Vaishali Nagar, Kalwad Road, Ajeet Nagar, Adarsh Nagar, Jagatpura, Durgapura, Sanganer, Phagi, IBS hotel at Civil Lines, Indira Gandhi Nagar, Pratap Nagar, Nahari Ka Naka, Agra Road, Kalyan Nagar on Tonk Road, C-Scheme, Jhotwara, Jorawar Singh Gate, Road No.11, Panch Batti, Murlipura, Khatipura and one case from a private university.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/cases-cross-4k-mark-in-raj-spike-in-udaipur-continues/articleshow/75707436.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Nagpur||Migrants happy to go home, do not wish to return for work||Nagpur: Migrants going back home in MSRTC buses to their home states like neighbouring Chhattisgarh and Madhya Pradesh have said that they do not want to come back. Most people travelling in ST buses were stranded labourers. “Even if the situation improves, we won’t leave our hometowns,” said migrants while speaking to TOI at Ganeshpeth bus stand from where they travelled back to their hometowns. “We would prefer to work either in our hometowns or nearby places within the state,” they said. On Day 3, MSRTC plied 80 buses and dropped around 1,700 migrants to interstate borders of Chhattisgarh and Madhya Pradesh, divisional controller Nilesh Belsare told TOI. Sanju Panchshwar, a native of Patlon village in Chhindwara district, said he had been working in Nagpur as a construction labourer since five years. “As there was no work in our native district, we had left with no other option but to come to Nagpur to earn bread,” he said. But since the lockdown, Panchshwar has been stuck in a rented room in Gopal Nagar. “I spent my entire savings in the last 40 days. Now, I am going back to my native place and will not return. I will do whatever job I get,” he said. Shiv Kumar, a native of Raipur district, along with 21 people had somehow managed to come to Nagpur from Hyderabad. “We had left our home and reached Hyderabad to work in a construction firm. Since lockdown was announced, we first lost our jobs and then our landlords asked us to pay the rent or vacate our shanties,” said Saraswati Kosaria, a resident of Rajnandgaon. TOI also spotted four Bengali-speaking youths from Betul district at the bus stand. They too were working in a tyre factory in Hyderabad as contractual workers. “It took almost five days for us to reach Nagpur from Hyderabad. We travelled atop trucks and also walked hundreds of km to reach Wanjra toll plaza on Wardha Road,” said Sanjay Majhi. From there, they were brought to ST bus stand and are now travelling back to Chhattisgarh border, said divisional controller. Belsare said that since May 10 when the MSRTC launched free of cost bus service to drop stranded people of other states, it dropped 2,177 passengers in 102 buses in just two days. Besides, MSRTC is also providing buses at tehsil places to transport stranded people to the neighbouring state borders. “On Tuesday, I got a call from Kamptee tehsildar to drop 60 stranded people of Chhattisgarh and MP and we fulfilled the demand,” he said. MSRTC has made elaborate arrangements like medical check-up desk which is being operated by Nagpur Municipal Corporation and Indian Medical Association. TOI also spotted Vaibhav Moon of Udhhar Bahuddeshya Sansthan providing free of cost food to the travellers. Dilip Kharwade, a decorator, provided free of cost cooler, fan and lighting arrangements there.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/migrants-happy-to-go-home-do-not-wish-to-return-for-work/articleshow/75705076.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
May 13, 2020||Nagpur||1st 100 +ve in 45 days, 2nd in 11 and 3rd 100 in 6 days||Nagpur: Six more persons from the city tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday taking the district’s total to 304 in two months. What is more scary is the fact that the latest 100 positive cases came in just six days ringing the alarm for the state’s second capital. The only silver lining is that only 5.25% persons tested for Covid-19 turned positive and recoveries increased to 102 on Tuesday. Since the first case on March 11 in the city, 5,786 persons have been tested of which 304 turned out to be positive. It took 45 days for first 100 cases, between March 11 and April 24. Second 100 cases came in 11 days between April 25 and May 6. Of the district’s 304 cases, the city’s tally is at 299, two are from Nagpur Rural with one each from Kamptee and Kanhan. From remaining three, two are from Chandrapur and one from Warud in Amravati district but added to the district tally as they were admitted and tested positive here. On Tuesday, 562 samples tested negative, probably highest of the district in a single day. Continuing proactive measures to contain spread of Covid-19 and give treatment to positive persons from the initial stage, municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe and his team led by Dr Yogendra Savai and Dr Praveen Gantawar held a special camp to test swab samples of antenatal care (ANCs) at Mominpura containment zone, city’s second hotspot, on Monday. Three of the 45 ANCs had tested positive and admitted to isolation wards. One 50-year-old woman who brought her daughter-in-law at the camp was also tested and she turned out to be positive. A 52-year-old woman also from Mominpura got admitted to IGGMCH complaining fever and tested positive. Thus, the number of cases from Mominpura surged to 152 which accounts for 50% of the district’s total cases. Sixth positive person is a resident of Satranjipura. He has been tested positive in second samples. TOI on May 3 had reported about one of two persons, who had returned from Mumbai on foot as well as hitchhiking at least 10 trucks, testing positive after reaching the city. Second person (42) had tested negative and quarantined at Wathoda. The person developed cough and sore throat and was tested again to come positive. Now, the tally of Satranjipura, city’s first hotspot, is 117. Total cases, as of now, in the two hotspots are 269 which also mean 88.48% of district’s total corona positive. On Tuesday, six positive persons, all from Satranjipura, were discharged after full recovery. Four were discharged from GMCH and two from IGGMCH. With this, the number of recoveries has increased to 102, which is 33.55% of the district’s total cases. District had registered only four deaths of which two died in isolation wards and remaining two’s samples had tested positive after death. As on date, 198 positive patients are undergoing treatment at IGGMCH and GMCH. Sources from public health department told TOI, “Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray in video conferencing meeting accepted request from all officials of the district to continue treatment of asymptomatic positive persons in isolation wards to avoid community transmission. The officials said city was having sufficient capacity to take care of positive patients in isolation wards as well as those tested negative in institutional quarantine centres,” sources said. Officials from the district are likely to hold a meeting on Wednesday and take a concrete decision. Some tension was reported from NMC’s Bezonbagh Primary Health Centre. A group of four persons came to the centre for health check-up for travel to other states. They were identified from Mominpura. The staff at the centre denied check-up and asked how they could come out of containment zone. After creating ruckus, the group left the centre as staff called police control room. Six from Mominpura were found staying at the house of a relative in Kalamna a couple of days ago. Two women from Mominpura got admitted in private hospitals and tested positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/1st-100-ve-in-45-days-2nd-in-11-and-3rd-100-in-6-days/articleshow/75705073.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
May 13, 2020||Vadodara||Man torched in Padra over land dispute||Vadodara: Clash over a piece of ancestral land in Ranu village of Padra taluka turned ghastly on Monday night when a man was set ablaze alive. The victim Mubarak Shah Dewan was taken to SSG Hospital in a critical condition after accused Hussain Chauhan and his family members not only beat him up following a heated argument, but also set him afire. According to police, Dewan’s uncle Ahmed Shah had sold a plot of land to Chauhan before lockdown without giving Dewan his share. Dewan complained to the sarpanch and the talati about the sale deed which was approved by the gram panchayat. On Monday, Chauhan had parked his bike on the empty piece of land and Dewan allegedly moved it away. Chauhan reached there at the same time and an argument ensued. Chauhan then called his relatives, who came and started to thrash Dewan. In midst of this, someone also poured inflammable liquid on Dewan and set him ablaze. On hearing Dewan’s cries for help, his wife and other villagers came to his rescue and doused the fire. He was first taken to health centre in Padra from where he was referred to SSG Hospital in Vadodara. An offence of attempt to murder and rioting was registered against six persons including Chauhan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/man-torched-in-padra-over-land-dispute/articleshow/75702537.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Delhi||Delhi CM seeks feedback on future relaxations||NEW DELHI: A day after Prime Minister Narendra Modi asked Delhi and other states to submit suggestions on lockdown relaxations after May 17, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal invited suggestions from people of Delhi on how to ease the restrictions. The government will discuss these with doctors and experts and submit a detailed roadmap to the central government. Delhi government wants to strike a balance between fighting the novel coronavirus and saving lives and rejuvenating the economy and livelihoods. Suggestions can be sent on the toll-free number 1031, WhatsApp number 8800007722 or by email to delhicm.suggestions@gmail.com by 5pm on May 13. Within hours of the CM’s invitation at a press conference on Tuesday, hundreds of suggestions started pouring in. An official said in seven hours, three lakh WhatsApp messages and 5,000 emails were received, while 25,000 people called on the phone number released by the government. Some market associations sought the reopening of markets on an odd-even basis, while some traders have demanded allowing public transport with all precautions and strict social distancing. At the press conference Kejriwal said, “The PM wanted to know from the states the level of relaxations and restrictions they desired and asked them to send their suggestions to the central government by May 15, based on which it will decide on activities post-May 17.” The Covid lockdown had earlier been extended up to May 17. “I want the views of Delhi’s people on lifting the lockdown. The coronavirus is spreading and full removal of lockdown will not be a good idea,” Kejriwal said. “I want your suggestions on the tenure and level of relaxations, on the sectors that should get relaxation, and whether buses, autorickshaws and Delhi Metro should begin.” He also wanted to learn whether Delhiites thought markets and industrial areas opening was acceptable. He, however, cautioned, “If the restrictions are lifted, we have to maintain social distancing, wear masks and follow precautions. While it is a time to stop the spread of Covid-19, there is also a need for resume economic activities.” Kejriwal clarified that there would be no “voting” on the suggestions collected by Delhi govenrment. The ideas submitted by the people would be discussed with medical and other experts and a set of recommendations prepared for submission to the Centre by May 15. The 50 days of closure have hit the economy and livelihoods in Delhi. Kejriwal’s view has been that all economic activities should be allowed with the necessary precautions, including social distancing, in non-containment zones, because a prolonged freeze would cause severe damage to businesses and livelihoods. Kejriwal had recently stated that the novel coronavirus was here to stay and it was time people learnt to live with it. The city currently has 81 coronavirus containment zones. Watch Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal invites suggestions from people||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cm-seeks-feedback-on-future-relaxations/articleshow/75705705.cms||AlokKNMishra
May 13, 2020||Pune||Pune: Residents remove barricades elsewhere||PUNE: Residents removed bamboos and tin sheets barricading several internal roads in non-containment areas like Eradnwane, Kothrud, Sinhagad Road, Deccan, Aundh and Katraj. The TOI on Tuesday found many roads blocked for motorists for about 48 days in Katraj, Dhankawdi, Sinhagad Road, Erandwane, Kothrud, Deccan and Aundh open. The bamboos and tin sheets used to block the roads lied on the roadside. Different police stations had blocked these roads after the lockdown was announced on March 24. After the Pune municipal corporation (PMC) issued orders specifying containment and non-containment zones for the city, people dislodged the barricades. A senior police officer said, “Police opened some of the roads, while the others were opened by people themselves. It is not a crime but ideally, people should not take such actions. It is difficult to pinpoint who removed these barricades.” Senior inspector Nandkishor Shelke of the Sinhagad Road police said, “Residents removed the barricades in the past two days as they had to travel about 5-6km extra.” Senior inspector Pratibha Joshi of the Kothrud police said, “Many people walked into the police station requesting to remove the barricades. But the police did not remove them. Residents themselves dislodged barricades from three roads in our jurisdiction in the past two days.” The police said if strict lockdown orders are issued again, these roads would be barricaded again.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pune-residents-remove-barricades-elsewhere/articleshow/75705697.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan tests 2,467 samples per million for Covid-19 daily||JAIPUR: Rajasthan now tests 2,467 persons per million for Covid-19 infection, a major increase from just 80 samples till March 31. “Having tested more than 1,85,000 samples till date, the average has reached 2,467 samples per million, one of the highest in the country,” said Rohit Kumar Singh, additional chief secretary (health). While antibody-based rapid test, which was advocated by the Indian Council for Medical Research, failed in the state allegedly due to “faulty” rapid kits, the state government focused on expanding its RT-PCR testing facilities at 20 major centres. On March 2, there was no dedicated laboratory in the state to give confirmatory Covid-19 test results. At that time, the health department had to send the samples to National Institute of Virologyin Pune. “We have made tremendous progress as far as the RT-PCR based testing capacity is concerned. From zero as on March 2 when the first case was detected, we can now test about 10,500 samples a day,” said Singh. While expanding testing facilities in the state, the health department had faced initial hiccups due to short supply of RT PCR kits, but now the supply has been streamlined. To expand it further, the government is starting testing samples of suspected patients in Jhunjhunu from Wednesday. “We have received permission from ICMR and also received a nod from AIIMS, Jodhpur for quality control. We will start tests at our centre,” said Dr SK Kaler, principal medical officer, Jhunjhunu district hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/raj-tests-2467-samples-per-million-for-covid-daily/articleshow/75705696.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Madurai||Miscreants loot computers||As many as five computers and a laptop were looted from a government school in Virudhunagar district during the late hours of Monday. The government higher secondary school situated at P Pudupatti village near Kariapatti had remained shut since the lockdown came into effect. On Tuesday morning, the police officials received an information that some miscreants had gained entry into the school and had stolen some valuables. Police said that the miscreants broke into the office room and staffroom and decamped with the computers and a laptop besides damaging a laptop, printer and UPS. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/miscreants-loot-computers/articleshow/75705059.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Madurai||Guidelines for disposal of med waste||Virudhunagar: The Virudhunagar district administration has issued guidelines regarding disposal of medical waste by people under home quarantine and quarantine camps. In a statement, Virudhunagar collector R Kannan said that medical wastes, generated from people who are placed under home quarantine and those at quarantine camps should be collected in a separate container or bags. People could handover such wastes to the sanitary workers after obtaining permission from the concerned local bodies. He said that masks and gloves should be kept in a paper bag for 72 hours before being disposed of. They should be cut into pieces before disposing them to ensure that they are not reused. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/guidelines-for-disposal-of-med-waste/articleshow/75705061.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Bhopal||Biz buzz should start in lockdown 4.0: CM||Bhopal: Dropping a hint on how lockdown 4.0 would be, chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan stressed that while continued efforts must be made to break the chain of corona infection and treat the affected patients, economic activities must kick-start to bring normalcy in people’s lives. Reviewing the Covid situation in the state on Tuesday, Chouhan said the state governments have been asked by the Union government to prepare an outline for the next lockdown by May 15. The states should themselves decide on the measures needed as per local needs. Chouhan said according to our planning, lockdown will be maintained to prevent corona infection, but in a different form. “We would like to continue with the night curfew. All normal activities must be allowed in the green zones,” he said. Similarly, in red zone economic activities can continue except in the infected areas and buffer zone. He said that nobody will sleep empty stomach and move on foot to reach home in the state. Stating that the work of repatriating migrant labourers to the state is in full swing. As many as 31 trains carrying labourers have reached the state while nine trains will arrive on Tuesday. More trains would ferry the stranded workers. “We have made arrangements in the state that no labourer sleeps empty stomach and move on foot to reach his/her destination. Labourers of other states are being dropped at the state border by buses. For this, buses have been put in service,” he said. The chief minister said that the state has made vast changes in the labour laws keeping in view the interests of labourers and have given various facilities to the industries. Now, instead of different types of registers, factories will get facility to keep one register, file one return and facility of single window. These reforms will help in attracting industries in Madhya Pradesh. He said that the number of active patients of corona in the state is continuously declining. Patients in great number are making recovery and going home than the number of positive patients being found in the state. The number of active patients in the state is between 1700 and 1800. Arrangement of 35 thousand beds has been made in Covid hospitals of the state, which is being increased to 85,000. The situation is under control, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/biz-buzz-should-start-in-lockdown-4-0-cm/articleshow/75704154.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan HC won’t interfere in government’s decision to open liquor shops||JAIPUR: A division bench of Rajasthan High Court on Tuesday refused to interfere in the case challenging the opening of liquor shops in the state under the lockdown for Covid-19 outbreak. The bench comprising Chief Justice Indrajit Mahanty and Justice SK Sharma dismissed the PIL of Nikhilesh Katara and others on Tuesday, saying that the Supreme Court had already dismissed the petition in a similar case. Also, the state government in its reply maintained that efforts have been taken to ensure social distancing at liquor shops. “We are strictly adhering to the guidelines of the Central government in this regard and are strictly maintaining social distancing,” the state government said in its reply before the high court. During the hearing, Advocate general MS Singhvi said that the Supreme Court had dismissed the petition on May 8 in a similar case. “We have not given approval to open liquor shops in the curfew area and areas identified as hotspots. Proper social distancing is maintained and excise guards have been deployed at these shops to maintain order while customers come for the purchase,” Singhvi maintained in the reply. On the other hand, the applicants claimed that the state government has opened liquor shops in the red zone areas and this is a violation of the Central government’s guidelines. “Social distancing is not being practised at liquor shops and crowds gather. This will lead to the spread of Covid-19. Therefore, liquor shops should be closed until the corona crisis ends,” the petitioner said in the PIL.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/hc-wont-interfere-in-govts-decision-to-open-liquor-shops/articleshow/75705699.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Nashik||Malegaon to get north Maharashtra’s biggest quarantine facility||NASHIK: Malegaon Municipal Corporation (MMC) has started the process to set up the biggest quarantine facility in north Maharashtra for suspected novel coronavirus patients in the textile town of Nashik district. This new facility would be located on the outskirts of the town and would be similar to the one developed at the Bandra Kulra Complex ground in Mumbai. MMC commissioner Deepak Kasar told TOI that there would be separate Covid care centres (CCCs) for men and women. “Initially, each of these centres would have 1,000. If needed, the number can be increased to 5,000. MMC would ensure that people who stay at the centres are not inconvenienced,” the civic chief added. The work to set up the centres has already started and they would be ready within the next eight to 10 days. Kasar said those quarantined at these centres for 14 days would be provided with proper food. The centres would have proper toilets. Each bed has been placed keeping in mind the social distancing norms. “We have also planned provisions at the centres to offer namaz. There will be medical staff, including nurses to look after the patients. Even doctors would examine them at regular intervals,” MMC officials said. Civic body sources said the decision to create this new facility on the outskirts of the city was taken to segregate the high-risk contacts of confirmed patients. “Although MMC has set up quarantine centres within the city, it is becoming increasingly difficult for the authorities to enforce the physical distancing norms. The new facility on the outskirts would help us isolate the suspected patients,” the officials said. Moreover, a section of residents are apparently unhappy with the facilities at some of the quarantine centres. But the civic administration is confident that there would have no room for complains in the new facilities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/malegaon-to-get-n-mahas-biggest-quarantine-facility/articleshow/75702815.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra permits home delivery of liquor, online portal on cards||PUNE: Liquor in Maharashtra can be delivered to homes now as per the latest excise department order issued by state principal secretary, excise, Valsa Nair Singh. According to the order, the state government has permitted liquor shops and beer shoppees to deliver Indian Made Foreign Liquor — spirits, beer, mild liquor and wines — to permit holders. The delivery is subject to a few conditions such as the delivery men wearing masks and using hand sanitizers. Speaking to TOI, Singh said the order is applicable to all districts in the state where the respective collectors have permitted liquor shops to stay open. She said her department was also developing an online portal to help consumers find the nearest liquor shops in their area, the stocks available and the prices. Singh said, “The decision to allow home delivery of liquor was taken to ensure that there is no crowding at liquor stores and social distancing protocols are maintained.” The Maharashtra Prohibition Act, 1949, bans soliciting the use or consumption of alcohol, which is why home delivery of liquor has not been allowed all these years. However, the state government has the power to issue a special order overriding provisions of the Act. A senior state excise department official told TOI, “We are still awaiting guidelines from the state excise commissioner which will explain how home delivery modalities such as protocols in the case of containment zones, how customers should place the order and how the payment is to be made. These guidelines should come latest by Wednesday afternoon.” However, a top liquor retailer in the city said, “Almost 80% of housing societies do not allow delivery men due to the Covid-19 situation. If we are to deliver, then those who place the order will have to come to the society gate to pick their liquor, which some people find embarrassing. Also, even though this is a temporary order till the lockdown continues, some licencees may take advantage of the situation and continue with home delivery even later.” Another retailer said liquor stores are already short staffed after the divisional commissioner and district collector issued orders restricting the number of employees in each shop to four. “With just four employees, we have to sanitize the premises and manage the crowds, among other things. Add home delivery to this and we are staring at a severe manpower shortage. Another aspect that needs to be considered is the possibility of online home delivery liquor frauds, which have already increased during the lockdown,” he said. A regular tippler told TOI, “Queues in liquor shops have already come down to 20% of what they were when the stores reopened a few days back. I went bought my liquor within minutes on Tuesday. The home delivery order should have come on the first day when the shops were reopened.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/state-permits-home-delivery-of-liquor-online-portal-on-cards/articleshow/75705701.cms||Neha Madaan
May 13, 2020||Madurai||Cargo movement resumes at Madurai airport||Madurai: Cargo movement at Madurai airport resumed on Tuesday after SpiceJet came forward to operate cargo flights for six days. It has been 20 days since the last cargo flight landed in Madurai airport. Ever since lockdown came into force, cargo movement came to a standstill at the airport. Although there is a ban on commercial passenger movement through air, there in no such restriction in the movement of cargo flights. However, with road transport and other connectivity coming to a standstill, air cargo became unviable. Traders and cargo agents were affected due to disruption in movement. In this backdrop, SpiceJet has come forward to operate cargo flights connecting various cities. Airport authorities said that the airline would operate on Coimbatore - Madurai, Madurai - Chennai and Madurai - Bengaluru routes in the next six days. Officials said that although there was not much inquiry for Tuesday, they are expecting a good response on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/cargo-movement-resumes-at-madurai-airport/articleshow/75705078.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Madurai||Citing SC order on limitation, HC refuses bail to an idol thief||Madurai: A few days after a single judge of Madras high court had granted bail by default to a person, as police could not lay chargesheet within the mandatory 90 days, another judge took a different stand on a similar case. Both judges referred to a same order by the Supreme Court, which had extended limitation period for all cases, in view of the national lockdown, with effect from Mar 15. Citing the extended limitation period until further orders, police had argued the last case saying the 90-day mandate to file chargesheet would not apply to police. Late last week, Justice G R Swaminathan said the apex court order would not cover filing of chargesheet, and granted bail by default to a man facing robbery charges. On Tuesday, however, another judge, Justice G Jayachandran accepted the police argument and allowed them beyond the mandatory period to file chargesheet, saying the order of the apex court eclipses all provisions prescribing period of limitation until further orders, including the time prescribed under Section 167(2) CrPC. He said an accused cannot take undue advantage of the situation and seek bail. “Currently, the state has restricted free movement of the public and the law enforcing agencies are directed to ensure complete lock down. Courts gates are closed. All judicial proceedings are conducted through video conferencing. Administration wings of the court are yet to resume the physical functioning. In such a circumstance, the wings of the investigating agency are clipped; their legs are tied. They are unable to conduct the investigation and complete the same. Even if they complete the investigation, courts are not open to receive it. This is not their fault. Covid-19 situation is the cause for not completing the investigation within the time fixed under the statute,” observed the judge. Justice G Jayachandran was dismissing the bail plea S Kasi, arrested on February 21 by Samayanallur police in connection with an idol theft case reported in 2015. When his counsel said Kasi was under judicial custody for 92 days, the public prosecutor submitted that police officials were not able to proceed with the investigation due to lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/citing-sc-order-on-limitation-hc-refuses-bail-to-an-idol-thief/articleshow/75705074.cms||Kaushik Kannan
May 13, 2020||Nashik||Truck carrying migrant workers overturns, 21 injured||Nashik: At least 21 people, including a month-old baby girl, were injured as a mini-truck in which they were travelling overturned on the Kalyan-Vishakhapatnam national highway at Pathardi taluka of Ahmednagar district around 9am on Tuesday. Police said that 11 of the injured, most of whom are migrant workers, were sent to the district civil hospital at Ahmednagar city while the rest were released after first aid. Police sources said that some of the injured who have been taken to civil hospital have suffered fractures on their limbs. However, the condition of the injured was stated to be stable. “A group of 48 people, including migrant workers and their family members, were returning to their villages in Parbhani district from Chembur in Mumbai. The vehicle suddenly overturned near Kharwandikasar village at Pathardi taluka as the driver lost control,” said police officers. Mandar Jawale, the SDPO, said police have seized the vehicle and arrested the driver for allegedly flouting the lockdown rules and plying without travel pass. Soon after the accident, locals in the area rushed to the spot and carried out a rescue operation before police arrived at the spot. Movement of vehicles on the road was disrupted briefly. Police made immediate arrangements to shift 11 of the injured to the civil hospital. Jawale said that the remaining members of the group were shifted to the nearby shelter home established by the district administration. “The entire group was provided food and medically examined at the shelter home. The administration would take a decision about the movement of these labourers to their villages later,” said police officers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/truck-carrying-migrant-workers-overturns-21-injured/articleshow/75702808.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Jaipur||40 buses ferry stranded workers to Bharatpur||JAIPUR: The state government been continuously facilitating stranded migrant workers of other states since the first lockdown began. Going an extra mile, the state government on Tuesday arranged for nearly 40 buses to ferry the migrant workers from Uttar Pradesh to the camp situated at Bharatpur. At least 1,600 migrant workers who were seen walking on the roads with their families were given free bus ride upto Bharatpur.  A team of IAS officers led by additional chief secretary Subodh Agarwal has been monitoring the movement of the migrant workers. He requested RSRTC to arrange for buses from its Jaipur and Dausa depots. “We saw them walking from Transport Nagar in Jaipur and on Jaipur-Dausa and Dausa-Bharatpur highway. Thus, we sent our buses and gave them free ride upto our Bharatpur situated camp,” said Naveen Jain, chairman and managing director (CMD), RSRTC. Agarwal asked RSRTC not to charge a penny from these migrant workers. “We have not charged them. At least 1,600 of them who were moving with their families including women and kids were dropped at Bharatpur camp. When we get a nod from Uttar Pradesh government, they will be sent back to their homes,” Jain added. Not only that, the government is also arranging for their food and water. “They are compelled to walk like this. The best we could do is lighten their burden,” said an IAS officer on the condition of anonymity.  Transport minister Pratap Singh Khachariyawas had received criticism when he decided to offer RSRTC buses to the migrant workers almost a month ago. “Let’s treat them as humans. It is our responsibility to ensure that no migrant worker should walk like this. In future too, if needed we will give them the services of RSRTC buses,” he said. Likewise, a group of 27 workers who left on foot for their homes located in Katni district and other places in Madhya Pradesh on Monday afternoon along the Jaipur-Kishangarh-Ajmer route were given bus facility till the camps set up at Chhabra on Madhya Pradesh border. Chief minister Gehlot has appealed to all such workers not to walk on foot as vehicles were being arranged for them by the government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/40-buses-ferry-stranded-workers-to-bharatpur/articleshow/75705706.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Pune||Pune: FTII starts first online course||PUNE: The lockdown has prompted the Film and Television Institute of India (FTII) to launch its first-ever online course as a pilot from May 15-18. The course will be on the introduction to the film production process and will comprise online classes for three hours in the morning for each of the three days.TII will not charge a fee for this online course. The course is admitting 25 students on a first-come-first-serve basis. “Within three hours of the announcement on Sunday, we got nearly 300 applications, including some from Saudi Arabia and Kenya. We had to close the application process,” FTII director Bhupendra Kainthola said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/ftii-launches-firstonline-short-course/articleshow/75705708.cms||Shiladitya Pandit
May 13, 2020||Pune||Pune university sets up grievance redressal cells in three districts||PUNE: The helplines set up by the Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) were ringing off the hook on day one of operations with students asking questions about the status of examinations and change in test pattern. SPPU started the helplines to address the large number of students, teachers and principals confused about conduct of examination for final year students. The helplines have been set up at different colleges in Pune, Nashik and Ahmednagar. Four such centres will be functional in Pune at HV Desai College, Smt Kashibai Navale College of Pharmacy, Arts, Science and Commerce College Indapur and JSPM Imperial College of Engineering at Wagholi. Rajendra Kalapure, examination officer at Dr Vikhe Patil College of Engineering said, “I have been fielding calls since morning. Most calls are from students, who have failed in a subject in the previous exam. The SPPU officials have said that they will issue a statement about the conduct of examinations.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pune-university-opens-grievance-redressal-cell-in-3-districts/articleshow/75705710.cms||Ardhra Nair
May 13, 2020||Madurai||Probe on into WhatsApp message on sexual abuse||Madurai: City police have invited complaints from victims, if any, after a WhatsApp message emerged alleging that a group of three youths are abusing girls studying in a particular school and college in a locality near Tallakulam. The message, which has been shared by many via WhatsApp, left many parents in shock. The police released numbers of deputy police commissioner (law and order) E Karthick number 94981 29498, Anti Human Trafficking Wing inspector Hema Mala number 83000 17920 and Serious Crime Squad inspector Srinivasan number 97905 99332 to facilitate complaints from victims. A city police officer said that a team has launched an inquiry into the message and its authenticity. Though they have not ascertained the authenticity of the message, they can take up an inquiry when there is a complaint filed from a victim. Secrecy of details of complainant will be maintained, the official assured. Police said that WhatsApp message complaining against three people, who are running a restaurant and a mobile phone recharge centre, went viral recently. The WhatsApp information carried the names and phone numbers of youths allegedly involved in sexual exploitation. Meanwhile, the youths have approached the city police with a petition seeking action against unidentified people who circulated the message with the intention of defaming them. The WhatsApp message claimed that the trio would first get the mobile number of girls, start friendly talks and make them fall in love with them. After filming their obscene videos, they would force them into prostitution. Meanwhile, representations have been made by the school and college authorities to police to ensure that steps are taken without affecting their reputation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/probe-on-into-whatsapp-message-on-sexual-abuse/articleshow/75705092.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Hubballi||Aarogya Setu app is bug-free, says expert||Mysuru: The central and state governments want all citizens to download Aarogya Setu app as part of an effective fight against Covid-19. It has been made compulsory for all people during lockdown 3.0. However, the biggest concern among the public is that downloading this app may lead to surveillance which was echoed recently by Congress leader Rahul Gandhi. However, noted security researcher from the city, Ehraz Ahmed, who has helped tech majors to rectify their security lapses, said the app has no security concerns. He stated that the app is bug-free. “I had a look at their application. It transfers information such as device geo location and bluetooth for tracking the usage of the application. And the chatbot for self-assessment works if the conditions match for Covid-19. The information containing geo location, symptoms, age is sent to the server for alerting the health authorities,” he said. “There is no bug in this application,” he added. “Privacy is a concern, but I think they are using the information for good,” said the Mysuru-based researcher. “This app will help the government identify infected people and also alert nearby users who are using this application within a one kilometre radius of the infection,” he said. On the improvements in the app, he said if the app uses Dp-3T (Decentralized Privacy-Preserving Proximity Tracing), it will solve all privacy issues. Also, the app should increase the security of the application, as the user installations are going to rise. “Dp-3T is a system that aims to minimize privacy and security risks for individuals and communities,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/aarogya-setu-app-is-bug-free-says-expert/articleshow/75704162.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Chennai||Chennai containment zones go up from 90 to 690 in a month||CHENNAI: From just 90 in mid-April, the city has, as on Tuesday, 690 containment zones, data released by Greater Chennai Corporation shows. The number of containment zones is likely to increase after the city recorded 510 more Covid-19 positive cases on Tuesday evening, as announced by the state health department. A containment zone is an area where one or more residents have been found to be infected with coronavirus. Currently, the civic body follows a policy of barricading all entry and exits of such a zone preventing movement. The data released by the corporation has some surprising insights. For instance, Thiru-Vi-Ka Nagar has the maximum number of containment zones (124) and recorded 590 cases. However, Kodambakkam zone has just 10 containment zones, but has recorded 713 cases, which is the second highest among zones in the city. In fact, Adyar has more number of containment zones (23), but has only a third of the cases in Kodambakkam. The Royapuram zone has the maximum number of cases (742) spreading across 116 containment zones. Koyambedu market falls under the Kodambakkam zone. A look at the containment zones in the area shows that five of these are in ward 127 which covers Koyambedu. Though exact data has not been released by the corporation, it can be assumed that a majority of cases from the zone are from this ward. Commissioner of revenue administration and special Covid officer deputed to the corporation, J Radhakrishnan, had a few days ago mentioned that around 119 of the 200 wards in the city have reported less than 10 cases, while in more than 60 wards, the number of cases ranged between 10 and 30. One ward in Thiru-Vi-Ka Nagar recorded more than 200 cases, which has now been brought under control, officials said. Corporation sources said that this meant they have been able to contain most of the cases to specific pockets of the city. However, a glance at the containment zone maps shows the spread of containment streets to hitherto untouched parts of the city, like in south Chennai. Radhakrishnan in a meeting on Monday indicated that there would be some kind of relaxation in containment zones. For instance, if cases were found from residents living in one apartment complex in a street, only that would be barricaded, thereby allowing free movement of other residents. Also, in all the containment zones, reusable cloth masks would also be distributed to the public to avoid the spread of the disease.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/chennai-containment-zones-go-up-from-90-to-690-in-a-month/articleshow/75705090.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Move to decongest jails will give 40sqft to each prisoner||MUMBAI: A committee tasked with keeping crowded jails in Maharashtra from being overrun by Covid-19 cases, has decided to temporarily release nearly half the prisoners in the state on parole or bail. Of the 35,239 incarcerated across jails in Maharashtra, around 17,000 prisoners will now enjoy a burst of freedom for up to 45 days or till the lockdown ends. The move comes in the wake of an outbreak at Arthur Road Jail, one of the biggest and most crowded penitentiaries in the state. Over 5,000 have already been released since the lockdown began while 3000-odd are in the process of securing bail and another 9,500 approximately are waiting for applications to be filed. Prisoners booked for serious offences like rape, murder, bank frauds, or serving long sentences for such crimes will not qualify for the reprieve. Similar paroles have been announced in Delhi, TN, UP and MP, but prisoners released by them were fewer. The decision is in line with the SC’s directive urging states to decongest prisons against the spread of coronavirus. Maharashtra’s decision to send half its prison population out on parole is based on the recommendations of a high-level committee which included a Bombay high court judge and two senior officials. In its report, the committee has said most jails were overcrowded and that every jail be brought to its actual sanctioned strength. “Every inmate should get an area of 40 sq ft and he will be able to maintain social distance,” a jail department officer said, citing the report. The panel, basing its decision on recommendations by additional director general (prisons) Sunil Ramanand, has said “All undertrial prisoners booked for such offences attracting maximum 7 years’ jail, barring certain exceptions, shall be released for 45 days or till lockdown ends whichever is earlier...” Exceptions include offenders in cases of serious offences such as waging war against the state, kidnapping, rape, dacoity with murder, forging of currency, bank frauds or major financial scams, as well as special laws linked to terrorism, money laundering, drug trafficking and hijacking. The committee rejected the contention of advocate S B Talekar who had argued that the concession be extended to those booked under special laws as well. The state’s jails have 1,340 inmates over the age of 60. Many like activists Shoma Sen and Sudha Bhardwaj, both arrested in the Elgar Parishad case, Rakesh Diwan and other directors of the PMC bank, Yes Bank’s founder director Rana Kapoor are charged with serious offences. The panel headed by Bombay high court Justice Amjad Sayed and with additional chief secretary (home) Sanjay Chahande and director general (prisons) S N Pandey, in Maharashtra, said the order will apply to senior citizens who are not facing serious charges. The fate of others will have to be decided by respective courts, where their cases are being heard. The panel’s order said, “In any event, prisoners charged/convicted under the Special Acts including MPID Act cannot claim to be released from prison as of right.” It added, “The object was only to release some of the prisoners, not all.’’ The panel had directed Talekar to make a representation on the issue after converting suo motu his letter to the Chief Justice to not discriminate against those accused of economic offences. Talekar contended that a blanket exclusion was arbitrary and defeats the thrust of the Supreme Court order of March 23, which had suggested interim release of prisoners during the lockdown to ensure their rights are protected. The panel, however, reiterated that the SC had directed that each state shall “determine which class of prisoners can be released on parole or interim bail,’’ and had left it” to states to decide “depending on the nature of offence… and its severity.’’ Many officers said the decision was justified, given the potential for the infection to spread. “Around 80% inmates found Covid positive in Arthur Road jail are asymptomatic. 20% positive inmates have mild symptoms. A team of doctors visits jail every day and they give medicines to these prisoners,” said the source. Arthur Road had stopped taking inmates since mid-March and was sending all new convicts to Taloja jail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/state-to-free-nearly-half-its-prisoners-till-lockdown-ends/articleshow/75705734.cms||Swati Deshpande
May 13, 2020||Delhi||Respond by May 25 or face action, land agency tells Gymkhana Club||NEW DELHI: Facing the heat from the Centre over alleged mismanagement, the elite Delhi Gymkhana Club is also being probed for unauthorised construction on its premises. The Centre’s land owning agency, Land and Development Office (L&DO), on Tuesday informed the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) that the club had been given a final opportunity till May 25 to respond to its February notice for alleged violations, failing which action would be taken for violating the lease deed. NCLT is hearing the Centre’s petition seeking management control of the facility and earlier issued notice to the club and the general committee managing its affairs. The government, in an urgent petition filed through the corporate affairs ministry during the Covid-19 lockdown, has alleged “fraudulent and rampant mismanagement” by the general committee, besides others, and sought to take over the management control under sections 241 and 242 of the Companies Act, 2003. In an affidavit, L&DO said it had conducted an inspection of the club premises in January after the ministry flagged construction-related violations. The affidavit says the ministry report drew L&DO’s attention to various construction activities “for which required approval might have not be obtained” or which suspected to have deviated from the approved plan. The ministry added that the leasehold land had been given “to promote the object of the company i.e. promoting sporting activities. Instead it appears the club is primarily used for the recreational purpose of the members. Further, being situated in a high security zone, the club should desist from organising private events”. L&DO has subsequently found one commercial misuse of installation of tower for private companies and 52 unauthorised constructions, including various pucca constructions, pota cabins, tin sheds, a swimming pool and a gymnasium in aqua spa. Earlier, the club claimed the government had acted in a hurry and termed the plea a “misconceived petition” by a disgruntled official seeking its membership. The government has argued that the club had 5,505 permanent members in 2019, 5,333 green card holders — children of existing members waiting for membership — and another 2,878 in the ‘use of club premises’ categories. Including the 1,663 ‘lady subscribers’, the government argued, the number of members exceeded the limit prescribed in the articles of association (AoA). Through general committee meetings, the company created more memberships such as eminent members and NRIs, it said. Citing these reasons, the ministry plea said “fraudulent and rampant mismanagement of the affairs” of the club by its general committee is a “great detriment of significant public interest”. One of the members in the committee is the urban development ministry, whose colonial predecessor granted the club 27.3 acres on Safdarjung Road in 1928 on a perpetual lease.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/respond-by-may-25-or-face-action-land-agency-tells-gymkhana-club/articleshow/75727081.cms||Abhinav Garg
May 13, 2020||Madurai||Beware, thieves may be back in biz: Cops||Madurai: The city police has warned residents to be extra-cautious in safeguarding themselves from thefts and snatching incidents, as criminals may get back to business using the crowd movement. Police have also warned that a new set of criminals may flourish as many have been deprived of their livelihood due to lockdown.In this connection, police have issued an advisory on the do’s and don’ts to prevent crimes and loss of valuables. They have asked people going on morning and evenings walks to begin after 6am and end before 8pm. They also have been asked to use busy stretches. Similarly, women have been asked not to come out of their houses to draw kolam before 6am. Residents have been asked not to carry more cash than required and not to wear costly wrist watches and gold chains. Residents should make sure they use quality locks to safeguard their homes. People should consider keeping gold jewellery in bank lockers than in houses, the advisory said. Youths should play their role in keeping their area safe by being extra vigilant in the coming days. People should come forward to install CCTV cameras in their house with at least one camera facing the street. Those going out of their houses should look around for suspicious movement and should be wary of people asking for hitch-hiking. People can install city police app, which can be used to send SOS and also save police WhatsApp number 8300021100 in their mobile phones.A higher police officer said not many crime incidents were recorded in recent past due to police deployment and restricted movement of people. But, now with crowds increasing on the roads, criminals may target valuables.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/beware-thieves-may-be-back-in-biz-cops/articleshow/75705083.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Nagpur||Wine shop owners confused about home delivery||Nagpur: The state government may have allowed home delivery of liquor but don’t expect to get your favourite tipple at your residence so soon. There is complete confusion among local liquor shop owners regarding the order and they expect local officials to issue certain instructions regarding the system. Nirbhay Jain, deputy municipal commissioner, said that Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) would issue an order for the city on Wednesday. State excise officials had not officially received the order till Tuesday evening. The wine shop owners are not clear how they will deliver liquor at home. One of them said that it would be done on a pilot basis in Pune and then implemented in rest of the state. Vinod Johri of Johri Wines said that it was not possible for liquor shop owners to use their staffers for home delivery. “We can’t leave the shop as someone may loot it. You can’t take the risk. The administration will have to suggest us ways,” he told TOI. Rohit Vanjani of Vasan Wines said that Maharashtra wine shop owners would probably follow the Chhattisgarh model where a mobile application was being used for home delivery. “The picture would be clear in a day or two,” he added. Excise officials do not expect online sale of liquor so soon. “Initially it will be through telephonic orders as the liquor shop owners will have to tie up with some payment gateway. This will take time. However, it is up to the owners to find a solution. That is not government’s job. Whatever they do, they must follow all rules and regulations,” said an official. The order issued by excise secretary states that those involved in home delivery of liquor should wear proper masks and not have cough and cold. This is to ensure that customers do not get infected from delivery boys.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/wine-shop-owners-confused-about-home-delivery/articleshow/75705099.cms||Ashish Roy
May 13, 2020||Pune||Lots of thunder, but scanty rainfall till Sunday in Pune: IMD||PUNE: The city and the district can see some thundery activity over the next few days, but not much rainfall, according to the latest Met department forecast on Tuesday. “Till May 16-17, we could see cloudy skies thundery activity in the afternoon. Rainfall, if any, will be light. However, a system will form over the Bay of Bengal and its movement will determine the thundery activity,” an IMD official said. The official attributed these weather conditions to local heating in combination with conditions created by another weather system — a line of discontinuity from south interior Karnataka to Madhya Pradesh. However the amount of moisture available is quite less to translate into rain, the official said. On Tuesday, Shivajinagar experienced a high of 39.1°C, Lohegaon saw 40.1°C. Meanwhile, parts of Madhya Maharashtra and Konkan have been recording above-normal day temperatures, while places in Marathwada and Vidarbha have seen mercury below normal. On Tuesday, Malegaon, Jalgaon, Solapur and Lohegaon were the warmest locations in Madhya Maharashtra, with day temperatures crossing 40°C.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/lots-of-thunder-but-scanty-rainfall-till-sunday-imd/articleshow/75705715.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Nagpur||HC rejects demand to stop quarantining suspects from containment zones||Nagpur: In a respite to municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe and collector Ravindra Thakare, the Nagpur bench of Bombay high court on Tuesday rejected the demand to suspend their ongoing drive to put suspected citizens from containment areas, particularly from Sataranjipura and Mominpura, into quarantine facility. Justice Anil Kilor, however, directed both to constitute an expert committee led by deputy director for health within two days to seek their opinion on petitioner’s apprehensions regarding quarantine centres at MLA hostel and VNIT. Indian Medical Association (IMA) city president and civil surgeon here would be other members on the panel. “The committee shall submit its report in two days. On its receipt, both respondents would take a fresh decision within three days on whether to continue those institutional facilities or shift them,” the judge said. While directing the registry to list the PIL by Mohammad Nishat, through counsels Tushar Mandlekar and Rohan Malviya, before regular bench, the HC told respondents to ensure that the quarantined persons have enough supply for their basic needs, which must be provided as early as possible. The petitioner had challenged Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s (NMC) move to “detain” over 1,400 persons from Satranjipura and its similar plans for Mominpura residents on the pretext of quarantining them. Two more intervention applications were filed by the Mominpura resident Mohamed Shahid through counsel Firdos Mirza and Shankar Nagar Nagrik Mandal through lawyer Shantanu Ghate. Justice Kilor further directed the respondents to keep the quarantined persons updated by providing them necessary information pertaining to the Covid-19 disease and their health condition. “Maintain hygiene at all institutional quarantine centres and provide sufficient toilets to quarantined persons. Also, expedite the process of submitting test reports of such persons and try to get their results within 48 hours,” the judge said, while asking the authorities to strictly follow government’s guidelines/policy on Covid-19 patients’ discharge. He added that if the situation demands and the extreme outbreak of contagious disease is established by the authorities, mass quarantining is permissible in the interest of larger society. “Time is of the essence in a quarantine situation, perhaps the best way in the present unprecedented situation. To balance conflicting interests between individual’s rights and public health, immediate quarantine should be allowed for preventing spread of contagious and infectious Covid-19. The respondents have a strong basis to take such measures for restrictions as means of protecting public’s health,” justice Kilor said. The judge noted that had the measures of institutional quarantine not been taken by the civic administration, the number of coronavirus positive persons might have gone far up as Sataranjipura and Mominpura hotspots are highly congested and densely populated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/hc-rejects-demand-to-stop-quarantining-suspects-from-containment-zones/articleshow/75705108.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
May 13, 2020||Bareilly||45 days & counting, 12 Jamaat followers still languishing in quarantine centre in Lakhimpur Kheri||Bareilly: The quarantine period of 12 followers of Tablighi Jamaat seems to be “never ending” even after 45 days, as after spending 14 days in a temporary jail of Lakhimpur Kheri they were again sent to an isolation centre. With no word from the top, the district administration is yet to take a call on their fate. The 12 men from Bihar had attended the Delhi’s Nizamuddin congregation and three of them had tested positive for Covid-19 in Dhaurahra area of the district. They were booked under the Epidemic Diseases Act on March 31, and were quarantined. After a month there, they were produced in a court which sent them into 14 days judicial custody. Now, after spending 14 days in temporary jail, all of them were “forcefully” quarantined at a school in Dhaurahra as the district administration has not received any instructions from government regarding further action. District magistrate Shailendra Singh told TOI, “All of them belong to Bihar and don’t have any relative here. We have kept them at a shelter house like other migrants from other states. They may be sent back home when Bihar government will start calling their people back.” Aged between 19 to 60 years, most of them are skilled workers like tailor and masons. A senior official, on condition of anonymity, said, “We cannot release them as their security in the state is our responsibility. We will ensure that they are sent back to their home in Bihar from here. Also we have not received any official word from government about the steps to be taken after the completion of their remand period.” While SDM of Dhaurahra, Sunandu Sudhakaran told TOI, “As per instructions from district administration, we have shifted all the 12 men at a centre in Government Inter College, Dhaurahra. Thermal screening of all of them was done and they all were found fit. They will remain here until we receive further instructions from government.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/45-days-counting-12-jamaat-followers-still-languishing-in-quarantine-centre-in-lakhimpur-kheri/articleshow/75704192.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
May 13, 2020||Chennai||Signs of reboot in Tamil Nadu, 1.5 lakh industrial units obtain passes||CHENNAI: In a sign of industries resuming activity, some 1.5 lakh units in the state have obtained e-passes from the state government for movement of their employees. In the past eight days, the state has granted passes to 5.9 lakh individuals, groups and industries; 9,000 applications were awaiting clearance until Tuesday evening, including 5,000 from industries. Ahead of relaxing restrictions, the state had launched http://tnepass.tnega.org on May 2 for travel passes. While passes for movement within and between districts are given by collectors or Greater Chennai Corporation (for Chennai), interstate passes are given by the control room of the Tamil Nadu e-governance agency. "Industries applied for 1.5 lakh passes. Since it is an integrated portal for all kinds of movement, the industries alone can apply for the worker. Each industry would have applied for 20 to 100, or 500 employees. It is a sign of revival of business," said a senior government official. The portal crashed on May 3, but since then has been working without a glitch. Individual passes are given for movement in non-containment areas for medical emergency, marriage and death. Following complaints of delay in many districts, the e-governance agency on Monday launched a system wherein collectors get an SMS if an application does not get clearance in an hour. According to sources, about 1,300 requests for interstate travel are pending clearance from other states. "The reason is that the other states insist that we should not allow the individuals to travel until they give permission. Now the portal has been modified, and we insist that applicants get the consent of their home state. There is no problem with Maharashtra and Rajasthan, since they conveyed that they need not wait for approvals and send their people," said an official. Around 1.82 lakh e-passes were granted for inter-state movement until Tuesday, most being to Rajasthan (48,071) until Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/signs-of-reboot-in-tn-1-5l-industrial-units-obtain-passes/articleshow/75705105.cms||Julie Mariappan
May 13, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: Constable found hanging from ceiling bar||PUNE: A 30-year-old constable attached with the Baramati city police was found hanging from a ceiling bar in his house in Baramati police colony on Monday. The police suspect it to be a case of suicide based on the circumstances in which the constable Tushar Sanap was found. However, no suicide note was found at the site. “We are ascertaining the possible reason for his death,” a police officer said. Sanap was staying alone as his wife had gone to her parent’s house after she delivered a baby around a fortnight ago. “On Monday after his duty, Sanap went home and it is suspected he hanged himself from the ceiling,” the officer said. Sanap was posted at the Baramati city police station for the last two years, the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/constable-found-hanging-from-ceiling-bar/articleshow/75705732.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra equals its 1-day death record, Mumbai sees most so far||MUMBAI: For the seventh day in a row, Maharashtra recorded more than 1,000 new Covid-9 cases. With 1,026 cases listed in the state update for Tuesday, the total number of cases has crossed the 24,000 mark to reach 24,427. Maharashtra reported 53 deaths on Tuesday, equalling its previous day’s highest on May 10. The toll has now breached the 900 mark and reached 921. Mumbai recorded 28 deaths, its highest single-day addition,taking the toll to 556. Since May 6, the state has added a total of 8,902 cases. It had taken 50 days earlier to reach its first 8,000-plus cases. The firstcase in the state was reported on March 9, and the tally reached 8,590 on April 27.Mumbai recorded 426 cases on Tuesday, its lowest count in the last 11 days and a drop of nearly 46% compared to the 782 cases recorded on Monday. The total number of cases in Mumbai now is 14,521. The city, too, has added over 5,000 cases in the past one week. It had taken 48 days for Mumbai to add those many cases initially after the first case reported here on March 11. The BMC, however, said the dip was more because of bookkeeping than a real shift in the disease trend. “As per the Centre’s instructions, the reporting time has been made from 12am to 12am as is the protocol followed by the Indian Council of Medical Research,” said the civic body in a statement. The case fatality rate of the state was 3.77% on Tuesday, and it was a bit higher at 3.82% in Mumbai. About the deaths, the BMC said that out of 28, 17 patients had co-morbidities. “We are seeing uncontrolled diabetes and hypertension in many of the patients who are becoming critical and dying. Many have a tendency to ignore the initial symptoms, thinking it’s nothing to worry about. We urge everyone to consult the fever clinics or any healthcare facility near them,” said Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner. Of the deceased, four were below the age of 40 years, 10 deaths were of those above 60 years old, and 14 deaths were of those aged between 40 and 60. Commenting on frequent changes in guidelines, Kakani said that the civic body was not bringing in any more changes and merely compiling all the revisions in one document to rule out any confusion. “There is no ambiguity in testing symptomatic patients. As for asymptomatic patients who are high-risk contacts, they would be tested once between 5-14 days mandatorily before leaving he quarantine centre. And the change in testing policy for patients to be discharged has already been widely circulated,” he said. While the state bulletin recorded two deaths from Thane, the local administration confirmed five deaths, taking the virus toll figures to 34 there, while 44 fresh cases were detected within 24 hours, taking the total count there to 796.“The five deaths included four men and a woman, all in the age-group of 56-71 years with comorbid conditions,” said Dr Ram Kendre, in charge for coronavirus cases in Thane. Panvel city reported six deaths, and six deaths were reported in Pune too. Five deaths were reported in Jalgaon, three in Solapur and one each in Raigad, Aurangabad and Akola. The revised discharge policy laid down by the Centre and adopted by the state has led to an increase in the number of patients being sent home. On Tuesday, 339 patients were discharged, taking the total number of patients discharged so far to 5,125. Of the 53 deaths in the state, 29 were men and 24 women. 21 of them were aged over 60 years, 27 were from the age-group of 40-59, and 5 were aged less than 40 years. 35 out of the 53 patients (66%) had high-risk co-morbidities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/state-53-equals-its-1-day-death-record-city-sees-most-28-so-far/articleshow/75705749.cms||Bhavika Jain
May 13, 2020||Madurai||Atrocities against dalits on rise: NGO||Madurai: As many as 28 cases under the SC/ST Prevention of Atrocities Act had been filed during the 35 days of the lockdown, said executive director of Evidence, an NGO, A Kathir. He also demanded to set up helpline numbers to address atrocities against dalits in the wake of the continuing lockdown. In a press statement, he said that communal violence leading to killings, police atrocities and sexual harassments and humiliating dalits had been continuing even during the lockdown period. He said that the chief minister had failed to take action on such cases. While, there were helpline numbers to tackle crimes against women and children, it was not available for dalits. These helpline numbers could at least help to address the problems being faced by dalits to some extent. The rule has it that the accused in atrocity cases could seek bail only after informing the complainants. But, the court has ruled that informing the complainant was not needed during the lockdown period. This has led to many offenders get bail easily and interfere in the investigation. As experts have predicted that the Covid-19 crisis would continue for another four months, the state government should take a stand that those accused in such cases would not be granted bail. The CM had not convened a meeting of district collectors and superintendents of police, to review cases booked under the SC/ST Prevention of Atrocities Act. As many as 28 cases of atrocities against dalits were registered in the state in the last 35 days, which include murder cases. Two dalits were murdered in Tuticorin on May 8 for asking a non-dalit money lender to return their property document that they had pledged for a sum of Rs 40,000. Similarly, a 20 year old dalit was murdered in Kanyakumari on May 2 over a dispute.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/atrocities-against-dalits-on-rise-ngo/articleshow/75705114.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Madurai||Bharathiraja roped in to create awareness||Madurai: The Theni district administration which has launched a special messaging system to help people obtain permission to come out in public, has roped in renowned film director Bharathiraja to spread the message. District collector, Pallavi M Baldev, said they are taking many steps to ensure that the district was free of Covid-19. While people coming from outside the district were being screened at checkposts, the prolonged incubation period of the virus, made it dangerous for people to move freely in public spaces, as they could get infected from an asymptomatic person. In order to restrict unwanted movement of people from their homes, the district administration has said that people should obtain permission by sending an ‘SMS’ with details of their need to go out, to mobile number 9488056600. The number of the vehicle being used for the journey has also to be specified. Or they could give a missed call to 08045936055 following which they would receive a number which they would have to produce when checked. If the person is out for more than three hours, he would be booked. This message has been dubbed by Bharathiraja as he is a native of Theni and is widely circulated. This dictate would not apply to people going to work, farmers, traders and those in essential services.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/bharathiraja-roped-in-to-create-awareness/articleshow/75705124.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Chennai||18 trains operated from Tamil Nadu, only one from other states has arrived||CHENNAI: Tamils stranded outside the state are growing impatient over not being able to return home. Several organizations and activists claim Tamil Nadu is not responding to requests from authorities in other states in this regard. A senior government official, however, said passes had been given to 275 buses including 112 from Maharashtra and 43 from Rajasthan, each carrying a maximum of 30, into the state. "We are making all efforts to bring our people home. Since they are scattered and not in huge numbers, it is difficult to arrange trains for Tamils." Another official said the Koyambedu cluster of Covid-19 cases is holding back the TN government. "We will not be able to extend quarantine facilities to people coming from outside the state," he said. The fact that so far, 18 special trains have ferried more than 20,000 guest workers, patients, their caretakers, students and pilgrims from TN to Bihar, Jharkhand, Odisha, West Bengal and the northeast irks Tamils in other states. "The CM (Palaniswami) has assured guest workers in TN that his government will take all efforts to send them home, but why is his government not taking the same efforts to bring us home," asked Kandasamy, a Tirunelveli native, who runs a tiffin centre with his wife in Surat, Gujarat. He added that 422 people from Tirunelveli had registered with the Gujarat government. There are 1,000 Tamils living in surrounding areas. A Maharashtra government official said they were planning to send 1,175 Tamils from Pune to Trichy or Tirunelveli and were awaiting TN’s consent. Ramesh of Ariyalur, who with 420 others is stuck in Ratnagiri, said, "Whenever we call officials here, they say the TN government is yet to respond to their communication." A TN government official, on condition of anonymity, said less than one-fourth of Tamil labourers registered. "Many who are not educated and don’t have smartphones are in limbo."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/18-trains-operated-from-tn-only-one-from-other-states-has-arrived/articleshow/75705121.cms||Shanmughasundarm j
May 13, 2020||Lucknow||UP: Migrants to be mobilised to build rural roads||LUCKNOW: After lining up employment opportunities through Mahatma Gandhi Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MNREGS), the UP government is in the process of hammering out a plan to engage migrants in construction of 10,000km roads, essentially in rural areas under PM Gram Sadak Yojana (PMGSY). According to sources, the rural development department is in the process of finalizing the proposal, which will be sent to the Centre for approval. “We had planned to lay 17,000km of road, but after a review by executive engineers, the department zeroed in on a blueprint for 10,000km,” said chief executive officer, PMGSY, Sujit Kumar, while speaking to TOI. He said, work on rural road network would begin after the Centre’s nod. The department has already drafted a plan for construction of 6000km of roads, of which more than 3000km are proposed to be constructed by rural engineering department (RED), while the rest by the public works department, PMGSY data show. A maximum of 42 roads will be built under the PM’s flagship scheme in Deoria district, followed by Amroha with 35 new roads. Officials said, the scheme could well be used to provide employment to hundreds of migrants who are in the process of reaching UP. Around 9 lakh migrants are already on their way back, following the pandemic-triggered lockdown. PMGSY was launched by the Centre to provide connectivity to far-flung habitations as part of the poverty-alleviation strategy. The Centre has also been endeavouring to set uniform technical and management standards and facilitate development and planning at the state-level to ensure sustainable management of rural road network. A unit under this programme comprises a habitation, not a revenue village or panchayat. A habitation is a cluster of population, living in an area, the location of which does not change with time. PMGSY guidelines suggest every road project should be part of the core network and keeping connectivity in mind, preference should be given to roads that serve other habitations too. However, there should be no compromise on basic objective of covering 1000+ habitations first and 500+ habitations next and 250+ habitations where eligible. But, preference should be given to constructing roads which serve a larger population.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/migrants-to-be-mobilised-to-build-rural-roads/articleshow/75705746.cms||Pankaj Shah
May 13, 2020||Goa||Over 150 seamen set to arrive in Goa this week||PANAJI: More than 150 Goan seafarers from two vessels anchored at Mumbai port and expected to arrive in the state this week, will be quarantined in South Goa. After a long wait, 86 crew members from Karnika and 71 from the Norwegian cruise liner Seven Seas Voyager, that has just arrived, will disembark its crew in Mumbai and send them by road to Goa. “We have granted NOC to Karnika on Tuesday. Now it’s their responsibility to bring them back as fast as possible. They will have to manage the transit permit from the Mumbai police,” ports secretary P S Reddy told TOI. The government is also likely to issue an NOC on Wednesday for the return of 71 crew members of Seven Seas Voyager. “They have applied for an NOC. We will issue it on Wednesday. In the meantime they are getting other clearances,” Reddy said. The Norwegian cruise liner has around 160 Indian crew including the crew from Goa. The vessel slow steamed to India to complete 14-day quarantine period at sea, but the crew will undergo 14-day paid quarantine in the state. The crew of both the vessels will be quarantined for 14 days on their return to Goa. “They are passing through red zone so they will be tested and quarantined. We have given the companies options in South Goa and they’re identifying them,” Reddy added. Meanwhile 60 crew members from Marella Discovery breathed a sigh of relief on Wednesday as they returned to their families after completing 14-day quarantine at a hotel in Patto. They will have to undergo home quarantine for 14 days and their hands were stamped before leaving. They were all tested negative for COVID-19 on arrival at the quarantine facility two weeks ago. Sixteen crew from domestic cruise Angriya who arrived in Goa on Monday began their 14 day quarantine at the company’s resort at Chorla Ghat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/over-150-seamen-set-to-arrive-in-state-this-week/articleshow/75705804.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: Four booked for roaming in Lonavla||PUNE: The Lonavla city police have booked four men from the containment zone of Gultekdi for roaming around in Lonavla on Monday evening. “These men had travelled to the hill station a couple of days ago without any legal permission. They travelled to Lonavla in a car and were staying in a bungalow. They also ventured out of the bungalow for sightseeing,” an officer from the Lonavla city police said. Some villagers came to know about their presence in the area and informed the police. “We have served them notice and they have been sent back to Pune city,” the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/four-booked-for-roaming-in-lonavla/articleshow/75705741.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Nagpur||259 convicts to be released from Central Jail on parole||Nagpur: Around 259 convicts are set to be released from Central Jail in the city on 45-day parole leave following a government notification issued last week to de-congest prisons in view of the coronavirus pandemic. The decision was taken following the observations from a high power committee entrusted to oversee and ensure fair administration in the prisons. The decision to release the convicts came in the wake of substantial number of inmates and officials of Arthur Road Jail in Mumbai having tested Covid positive. Around 12,000 convicts are set to be released from different jails across the state in next few days. Convicts, not found guilty of serious crimes, have been made eligible for parole. It’s learnt that convicts undergoing more than seven years of imprisonment, who have been twice allowed leave and have reported back on time on both the occasions, will benefit from the move. Convicts undergoing punishment of less than seven years would be eligible for leave without any criteria of having returned on time in the past. State home minister Anil Deshmukh said the high incidence of Covid-19 cases in Arthur Road Jail has prompted the decision to release the inmates who have been convicted with a jail term of either less than or over seven years. “In the past, the state government had released around 5,000 undertrials and now another 12,000 convicts would be released,” said the home minister releasing a video clip of his statement. “The convicts of serious cases like rape, bank frauds, Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act (MCOCA), Maharashtra Protection of Interests of Depositors (in Financial Establishments) Act (MPID), and such offences have been kept out of the scheme,” he said. Superintendent of jail Anup Kumar Kumre said 119, including one woman, undertrials have been released on interim bail from March 28 till now as they are not eligible for parole. “We have already released 30 convicts on Sunday, 41 on Monday and 27 on Tuesday. The rest would be released soon as per the criteria,” he said. “The first leg of the leave is for 45 days but it may extend for another month if the Covid threat remains as potent as it is at present,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/259-convicts-to-be-released-from-central-jail-on-parole/articleshow/75705119.cms||Soumitra Bose
May 13, 2020||Nagpur||Migrants walking thousands of kms in scorching heat inhuman: HC||NAGPUR: Expressing anguish over lakhs of migrants walking thousands of kilometres to their native places with families and kids without food and water, the Nagpur bench of Bombay high court termed their conditions as an “inhuman” and directed the government to immediately make arrangements so that they shouldn’t walk anymore. After a marathon hearing that lasted for over two hours, justice Madhav Jamdar directed all municipal corporations and councils along with zilla parishads across the state to provide food and drinking water for aggrieved migrants and also ensure that they shouldn’t have to walk till their destinations. While adjourning the hearing on a suo motu plea till May 15, the court permitted amicus curiae Deven Chauhan to add railways in the list of respondents and directed it to file a reply before that. The bench also asked Maharashtra State Regional transport Corporation (MSRTC) to keep their buses ready at all district places and highways to transport migrants to their destinations in state and till the border of other states. “Wherever they (migrants) are sighted, the corporation commissioner, ZP and municipal council chiefs should ensure that they should be stopped in their jurisdiction. They should be medically screened and provided sanitizers and masks before being allowed to board the buses while strictly maintaining health distancing,” the judge said. Before allowing various suggestions submitted by the amicus, the judge applauded his role in drafting a comprehensive petition highlighting the plight of poor migrants who’re “forced” to move to their native places due to unprecedented crisis. “The government is free to take the help of various social and charitable organizations in this task to help the poor migrants in every possible way,” justice Jamdar said. Earlier, Chauhan submitted a ticket of a migrant pointing out that he paid money for it despite the fact that railways had assured to bear 85% cost of their tickets. He also requested to add Directorate of Medical Education and Research (DMER) as a respondent. He suggested MSRTC and Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) to keep buses at major accumulation points on highways to pick up such migrants, who’re passing from the city from various southern states to their native places in northern states. “The situation at Panjri toll naka on Nagpur-Jabalpur highway is dangerous. Thousands of migrants are crossing the place every day and are climbing the passing trucks and even cramping the buses without caring for distancing. Despite best of facilities and food offered by the NGOs, they’re unwilling to stay and badly want to reach their native places,” Chauhan said. What HC said Add railways in list of respondents & it should be directed to file a reply MSRTC should keep its buses ready at all district places & highways for migrants They should be transported in Maharashtra or till border of other states Wherever migrants are sighted, civic bodies should stop them in their areas They should be medically screened & provided sanitizers & masks They should be allowed to board buses while strictly maintaining distancing||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/migrants-walking-thousands-of-kms-in-scorching-heat-inhuman-hc/articleshow/75705127.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
May 13, 2020||Madurai||Kuruvikkaran salai bridge to remain shut from today||.Madurai: The Kuruvikkaran Salai bridge will be closed for traffic movement from Wednesday as reconstruction work is set to begin on it. The Madurai Corporation has asked commuters to use the temporary road laid across the Vaigai river till the construction work is completed. The temporary road, which has been laid for a 7.5m width on the western side of the existing bridge, can be used by vehicles categorised till light commercial. Heavy vehicles have to use alternative bridges to cross the river. The existing bridge, which was constructed around 50 years ago, acted as one of the major connecting bridges between south and north Madurai. With the bridge losing stability, a new bridge was proposed with funding from town and country planning infrastructure and expansion programme. The new bridge is planned at a cost of Rs 23.17 crore. It will be 1.5m higher than the existing bridge and will be little wider at 17.5m including two-metre-wide pedestrian pathway on either side. The total length of the bridge will be 223.20m. The bridge construction work is expected to be completed in a year’s time, officials said. Although the project work was supposed to started a couple of months ago, it was delayed due to the lockdown. The alternative road was also completed long back. Officials said the project will be completed on time. There were no issues like land acquisition for this project as existing space was adequate enough. So, chances of the project facing litigations are also slim. The city police have been informed on closing of existing bridge. Traffic personnel will be manned to guide commuters to use temporary road, officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/kuruvikkaran-salai-bridge-to-remain-shut-from-today/articleshow/75705150.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Madurai||1,345 guest workers take train to Bihar||Madurai: In all, 1,345 guest workers from the southern districts left for their home states Of Bihar and Odisha by a Shramik special train on Tuesday from Tirunelveli junction, with the biggest batch of 1,025 from the Kudankulam nuclear power plant, another 265 from Tuticorin and others. The Tamil Nadu government has taken steps to ensure that the guest workers, employed in various industries in the state, leave for their homes based on their willingness. Help desks were set up in the districts, which had already taken stock of the number of such workers within their limits. Tuticorin district identified about 8,700 workers out of which 4,170 expressed their willingness to return to their states. The first batch of 265 workers was given a send-off on Tuesday with district collector Sandeep Nanduri seeing them off. All the 265 were employed in a private power plant and were from Bihar. They left for Tirunelveli on 10 buses on Tuesday morning and by train from Tirunelveli railway junction at night. There were 30 workers on each bus and they were made to sit ensuring social distancing and given medical inspection before being allowed on the journey. Nanduri said that another batch of 140 workers will leave for Jharkhand on Wednesday and another 240 for Uttar Pradesh on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/1345-guest-workers-take-train-to-bihar/articleshow/75705134.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Mask, Covid app must for bus travel?||NEW DELHI: Wearing a mask and having the Aarogya Setu app on your phone might become mandatory for travelling in buses, which are likely to run at 50% capacity to ensure social distancing. Delhi government is working on a standard operating procedure (SOP) for buses and para-transit vehicles to resume public transport. “Sanitisation and social distancing will be the two terms around preparation of the SOP. For resumption of taxi and autorickshaw services, the directions of the central government will be followed,” said a Delhi government official. The government has finalised that there will be no standing passengers in any Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) or cluster scheme bus. After each trip, the bus will be thoroughly sanitised. “Discussions are still on regarding seating arrangements. Ideally, there should be 50% occupancy with one person in every alternate seat on far corners. However, that would mean the requirement of a large number of buses, particularly during peak hours. We are yet to zero in on the number of passengers per bus,” the official said. An awareness campaign would be carried out for staff deployed in buses and at depots as well as passengers on the protocol for sanitisation, social distancing and other dos and don’ts. To minimise physical contact, use of common mobility card would be encouraged for payment of fares. However, cash payment from passengers who don’t have smart cards won’t be refused. It is also likely that route rationalisation would be implemented to cater to the high demand areas and according to peak and non-peak hours. “The entire DTC and cluster scheme fleet will operate during peak hours. People waiting at queue shelters will be informed about the next bus in case there isn’t enough space,” he said. Other modes of para-transit vehicles, such as Gramin Seva, Phat Phat Seva, Eco-Friendly Seva, etc might not be allowed to operate soon. “We feel that any form of shared mobility should be discouraged at this point of time as such operators have the tendency to overload and there is no way to keep a check on them,” said the official. “Cabs and autorickshaws are preferable as they are hired by one or two passengers for point-to-point travel,” he added. The final SOP or guidelines would be issued only after directions from the Centre and Delhi government. Delhi Metro Rail Corporation said that it was in a state of readiness even during the lockdown. It would commence services as soon as it was directed by the government. It would follow all guidelines stipulated by the government regarding resumption of its services.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/mask-covid-app-must-for-bus-travel/articleshow/75705766.cms||Sidharatha Roy
May 13, 2020||Bareilly||Hundreds of workers take to streets in Moradabad, demand repatriation to Bihar||Bareilly: District administrative and police officers caught off guard when nearly 500 migrant workers with their belongings thronged the streets in Moradabad, demanding the authorities to send them back home in Bihar. Seeing a large number of migrant workers coming out of Galshaheed area — a hotspot — the anxious district authorities rushed additional city magistrate Rajesh Kumar to pacify them. Kumar said, “We are in constant touch with the Bihar government and as soon as we get a nod, the workers will be sent to their destinations by special train. In the meantime, we have made all necessary arrangements for them.” Police, meanwhile, stopped the workers and made them sit on the road maintaining a safe distance and pacified them. District magistrate RK Singh said, “They (migrant) should first get themselves registered on the Bihar government website. Once the Bihar government permits, they will be sent to their destinations.” The migrant workers, mostly associated with brass industry and hotels, rendered jobless after the lockdown was imposed and ever since they had been demanding the district administration to make arrangements for sending them back home. The workers gathered at Aslatpura locality under Galshaheed police station, which is a hotspot and nobody is allowed to move outside the area. Ishtiyaq, a migrant labourer, said, “We have no money and food left with us. All we want now is to go back home.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/hundreds-of-workers-take-to-streets-in-moradabad-demand-repatriation-to-bihar/articleshow/75704220.cms||Pankul Sharma
May 13, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata police, KMC introduce buffer zone concept in Park Street area||KOLKATA: Civic officials and police officers have defined Park Street as a buffer zone, the first area to acquire such a nomenclature in the city that has been categorized red with several high-risk Covid pockets. The clarification came a day after Park Street featured on the list of containment zones, sparking concerns among citizens residing at the tony address as no Covid cases had been reported on much of the 3km-stretch of the city’s most prominent boulevard. Indeed, containment rules, including stringent lockdown that prohibits residents from stepping out of their homes to buy essentials or plying of cars, were not enforced on Park Street. “Only one Covid-19 positive case has been reported in the eastern end of Park Street near the Mullickbazar end. A 200-metre stretch in this section has been barricaded with space beyond it for cars to ply. The rest of Park Street is not a containment zone,” a KMC official said. The entire length of Park Street has instead been categorized as buffer zone after several Covid-positive cases were reported from adjoining localities, including Collin Lane, Elliot Road, Short Street, Lord Sinha Road and Mirza Ghalib street. Similarly, Camac Street, Loudon Street, Rawdon Street, Shakespeare Sarani and Tottee Lane were also brought under the buffer zone to ward off the virus threat in the prime commercial and heritage zone that is dotted with prominent academic, commercial and government institutes. “The zone lies in between two affected areas, and hence the extra precaution,” said a senior officer. A buffer zone is demarcated to also curb the virus’ spread by urging everyone to exercise extreme caution while going about their lives. The health department can also carry out random swab tests in this locality from time to time to confirm that Covid cases haven’t breached the containment areas that lie inside the buffer zone. “A buffer zone is usually set up to ring-fence a containment zone and stop the virus from spreading. Setting up an external perimeter beyond the containment area provides a safety net,” a health official explained. Police said there was no additional restriction on movement of cars beyond the lockdown rules at Park Street or stop offices and shops from functioning. “At least 12 offices with reduced staff strength are already operating. The only establishments that we have not allowed to open are located on Short Street,” said an officer. TOI had, on Tuesday, reported that vehicle movement would continue unrestricted on Park Street and had also cited KMC ward 63 councillor Susmita Bhattacharya’s concern after Park Street figured on the list in containment zones. She had brought the matter to the notice of the civic brass. Police, meanwhile, met senior officials at offices operating in the area to check if the staff strength rule was not being flouted. “Everyone is following social distancing norms,” an officer said. Local resident Anil Punjabi, who lives in an apartment complex off Park Street, said senior citizens had panicked when they learnt that the entire area had become a containment zone. “The clarification was necessary,” said Punjabi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/police-kmc-introduce-buffer-zone-concept-in-park-st-area/articleshow/75705136.cms||Saikat Ray
May 13, 2020||Nashik||Highway sees steady flow of migrants||Nashik: A heavy stream of migrant workers travelling by trucks, tempos, auto-rickshaws and taxis continued to flow in from the Mumbai side towards Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Madhya Pradesh on Tuesday. Officials of the highway police said that it is nearly impossible to check the travel passes of everyone due to the large number of migrants and comparatively very few police personnel. “While many people have passed, others are sneaking past the checkpoints on the Mumbai-Agra highway due to the heavy rush of vehicles.” The Chandwad police too have intensified patrolling in the ghat section which is prone to accidents. The highway police at Kasara Ghat said that the rush is mainly during the night hours and continues till the afternoon. A senior officer of the highway police said that on Thursday and Friday nights, there was a huge rush on the highway. Apart from those travelling by trucks, tempos and taxis, there are many migrants walking towards the Dhule side to proceed towards MP, UP and Bihar. Senior officials of the Chandwad police station said that they have intensified patrolling in the ghat section following Monday’s accident that left 16 migrants injured. Officials of the National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) said that there has been a heavy stream of vehicles from the Mumbai side at the Ghoti, Pimpalgaon and Chandwad toll plazas for the last three to four days. Vijay Kharat, DCP Zone II, of the city police commissionerate, said that they were keeping a strict vigil at the Vilholi checkpoint to ensure that only those with travel passes are allowed. However, many motorists said their passes were hardly checked by the police at checkposts. Kishore Ahire, a member of group of people comprising IAS, IPS officers, and those working in private sectors said that that have distributed 27,000 bottles of cold drinks in the past three days at Kasara Ghat. “We are group of 40 to 50 of the 2000 batch of State Institute of Administrative Career. After getting to know about the problems of migrant labourers of Mumbai wanting to return. API Amol Walzade of the Kasara highway post has made the necessary arrangement to distribute the cold drink bottles at Kasara,” said Ahire. More than 5,000 bottles of cold drinks were also distrbuted by the group at Kasara on Tuesday as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/highway-sees-steady-flow-of-migrants/articleshow/75702880.cms||Santosh Sonawane
May 13, 2020||Pune||Pune: Appeal to feed animals||PUNE: The Commissionerate of Animal Husbandry, Pune, has written to all district collectors, police chiefs, and the Society for Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (SPCAs) in Maharashtra to take necessary action to prevent starvation of animals by co-operating with animal feeders during the lockdown in the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak. The Commissionerate o in its letter referred to the various Animal Welfare Board of India orders and said any pet-owner should make provisions for fodder, animal feed, food and water for it. It said that the AWBI has now issued detailed instructions in this regard.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pune-appeal-to-feed-animals/articleshow/75705756.cms||Neha Madaan
May 13, 2020||Nagpur||HC notice to ESIC over plea by 20 industrial units||Nagpur: The Nagpur bench of Bombay high court on Tuesday issued notice to Employee State Insurance Corporation (ESIC) over a petition filed by over 20 industrial units operating in and around the city. Before adjourning the hearing till next date, justice Madhav Jamdar directed ESIC to reply before it. The petitioners knocked judiciary’s doors seeking a direction to ESIC to decide on their representation to extend sickness benefits to hundreds of their employees insured under the ESI Act. According to their counsel Atul Pathak, the petition is based on a communiqué by ESIC on April 20. It mentioned that the employees insured under the ESI Act, who are not able to attend the workplace in view of the lockdown due to Covid-19, should be treated as sick. “Therefore, the benefits of sickness which comes to about 70% of the average daily wages for the lockdown period should be paid to such workers,” the communiqué mentioned. Normally, ESIC extends healthcare benefits to employees having salaries below Rs21,000 through its designated hospitals. In case a worker is not able to attend work due to illness, it pays 70% of the wages for that period.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/hc-notice-to-esic-over-plea-by-20-industrial-units/articleshow/75705146.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Nagpur||Young doctors managing both Covid hospitals||Nagpur: IGGMCH and GMCH — two government medical college hospitals in city — have converted a major part of their premises into ‘Covid Hospitals’ in last three weeks, making more than 1,100 beds available for Covid-19 patients. While the machinery is set quite meticulously at Covid hospitals, planning for the men behind the machinery is also equally meticulous. As senior doctors having comorbidities like diabetes, hypertension etc cannot be appointed in Covid Hospitals; the entire responsibility is on the shoulders of young doctors — mostly below 45 years of age. They include Group-A specialist doctors, residents of all specialties, lecturers taking MBBS classes, and also on-contract doctors working in the hospitals. Apart from doctors, major responsibility of asymptomatic patients in Covid hospitals is on trained nurses, health workers, and sanitary staff. Teams have been formed in such a way that no one has to work for more than eight hours a day. Teams are led by Group-A specialist doctors. A team includes PG residents of different faculties teamed together so that they can use their expertise. Further, trained nursing staff, health workers and sanitary staffers are deployed to help medical teams. Doctors work in shifts. After working for 14 days, they undergo home quarantine for next seven days. After this period, they are appointed to non-Covid duty or at some other places for next 14 days. “Even if all beds in GMCH are occupied with patients, we will not face any crunch of health workers or doctors,” said Dr Mohd Faizal, nodal officer of GMCH Covid Hospital. At present, there are 114 patients admitted in the Covid-19 facility in GMCH against its capacity of 475 beds. After completing their duties, doctors live separately in a facility made available by the hospital, and some of them also avail benefit of the free stay given by Hotel Centre Point. Similarly, at IGGMCH, doctors and health workers to handle entire 600 bed capacity are available. “More than 1,800 doctors, nurses, and staff are s trained for treating Covid-19 patients. Doctors are pooled from all departments,” said Dr Sagar Pande, nodal officer of Covid Hospital at IGGMCH.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/young-doctors-managing-both-covid-hospitals/articleshow/75705143.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
May 13, 2020||Kolkata||IT sector sets a modest goal: 10%-15% to WFO||KOLKATA: As the city completes 49 days of lockdown and is gearing up for a staggered resumption of services, several IT and corporate firms at Salt Lake Sector V and New Town are in the process of resuming office but with a bare minimum workforce. According to sources, just around 10% to 25% of their workforce will work from office (WFO) while the rest will continue working from home. An accounting and auditing firm with multiple offices in Sector V and New Town has already sent mailers to its employees, asking most of them to continue working from home and has engaged a skeletal emergency team to work from office, that too at separate bays on one floor. “We have been told that post lockdown 3.0, only one floor of one of our office buildings will remain functional for emergency purpose only. The other three facilities will remain closed and we have been asked to strictly work from home,” said a senior executive of the firm. Tata Consultancy Services, too, has been preparing themselves for a major change in work alignment, stressing on work-from-home for most employees. “After careful consideration, we are resuming operations in a phased manner in select offices with minimal capacity and are taking into account civic authority and state government orders. We are not in a hurry to open offices and currently, less than 1% of our employees are working out of TCS offices in India,” said a TCS spokesperson. Other business firms in the satellite township are also preparing to slowly resume operations but following the “new normal”. “Barely 10% offices have resumed operations. Most companies are likely to ask a major share of its employees to work from home as it saves expenditure in terms of office maintenance. Further, the Sector V and New Town office hub is still not a containment zone but there are several employees who come here from high-risk areas. This is further prompting offices to stress on work from home,” said Kalyan Kar, the vice-president of Sector V Stakeholders’ Association. According to Bidhannagar Commissionerate sources, there was a sudden rush of queries and applications from companies after some relaxations were announced for the IT sector in the middle of the second phase of the lockdown. But the flurry has slowed down, an official said. “We, however, have strict instruction to ensure that none of the offices operates with anything more than 33% of workforce and ensure social distancing norms inside the offices as well as in vehicles that ferry employees to and from offices,” said the officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/it-sector-sets-a-modest-goal-10-15-to-wfo/articleshow/75705161.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
May 13, 2020||Lucknow||‘Industry’ status for UP warehousing sector||LUCKNOW: In a bid to attract industries to set up in the state, UP government has decided to accord the status of ‘industry’ to the warehousing and logistics sector. This move, said officials, will help in bringing about a drastic reduction in the cost of setting up warehousing and logistic parks. Last week, UP had suspended most of the labour laws to give more operational flexibility to the existing and new industrial units of the state Industries minister Satish Mahana said that this sector has immense potential to create jobs, required in large numbers due to the return of lakhs of migrant workers to UP from other states during the Covid-induced lockdown. The move, he said, will make UP one of the most favoured destinations for investment. Infrastructure and Industrial Development Commissioner Alok Tandon explained how the cost of setting up parks would come down. “At present, change of land use from agriculture to commercial is charged at 150% of the circle rate. This will now be only 35% of circle rate,” he said. “Now industrial land-use charges will be applicable to warehousing and logistics sector units and parks in Uttar Pradesh,” he said. Principal Secretary, Infrastructure and Industrial Development, Alok Kumar said that henceforth, warehousing and logistics park activities will be considered for ‘industrial’ land use in all industrial development authorities of the state in line with the provision of the UP Warehousing and Logistics Policy-2018. “Warehousing and logistics units will pay 1.5 times of the industrial rate to industrial development authorities for allotment and land use of areas reserved for industrial activity but this is substantially lower than what they were paying under commercial charges. At present, land available to warehousing and logistics sector costs an average of Rs 40-60,000 per sqmt but now it will be reduced to around Rs 15-20,000 per sqmt,” he added. Orders have been issued to all industrial development authorities to adopt this provision by amending their master plans and building by-laws immediately.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/industry-status-for-up-warehousing-sector/articleshow/75705776.cms||Neha Lalchandani
May 13, 2020||Hubballi||Stranded Rajasthan workers to travel home on special trains||Hubballi/Dharwad: At least 1,452 migrant labourers from Rajasthan, who are stranded in Dharwad district, will travel home on two special trains that will leave Hubballi for Jodhpur on Wednesday and Thursday. The trains (07301) will leave Hubballi railway station at 12 noon on both the days, according to district officials. The passengers will be provided health certificate and journey ticket after undergoing medical test at the railway station. The authorities have set up 15 counters, which will start working from 6am on both the days, to screen the passengers. The district administration said that those who have not received e-pass even after registration on the Seva Sindhu portal, can register themselves at the health check-up counters to obtain tickets for travel. The trains will reach Miraj at 5pm, Pune at 10pm, Vasai Road at 1.50am the next day, Vadodara at 6.30am, Ahmedabad at 8.10am, Palanpur at 10am and Jodhpur at 2.30pm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/stranded-rajasthan-workers-to-travel-home-on-special-trains/articleshow/75699139.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Bareilly||Now, random pool tests for migrant workers||Bareilly: With scores of migrant workers returning to Bareilly, the health department has started conducting random pool tests for Covid-19 among them. After they return to Bareilly, a health team screens them and then, they are sent to shelter homes. Now, mobile medical units have been deployed at these shelter homes to collect random samples for pool test. According to officials, when a migrant worker reaches Bareilly, a medical team screens them. The suspected cases are quarantined while the remaining asymptomatic people are sent to temporary shelter homes or are home quarantined. The district administration has selected 11 centres as shelter homes for lodging them.. Chief medical officer, Dr Vineet Shukla, said, “On the order of state government, we have started conducting random pool tests of migrant workers. On Monday, we sent mobile medical units to an education institute which has been turned into a shelter home for migrant workers. Pool samples were collected of 30 people and they all tested negative for Covid-19 on Tuesday. Besides, two mobile medical units were sent to two centres and random pool samples were collected.” Ved Ram, a native of Naugawan Thakuran village under Aonla sub-division whose pool sample was collected for Covid-19 test, said, “My wife and I along with our four children returned to Bareilly from Gujarat in a special train. We were taken to a shelter home, where our health screening was done. My sample too was collected for Covid-19 test. We were later sent to our village and have been told to follow home quarantine.” He added, “I used to work at a brick kiln in Gujarat but after the lockdown, there was no work. We were forced to return home. Once the lockdown is lifted, we will go to some neighbouring state in search of work so that we remain close to home.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/now-random-pool-tests-for-migrant-workers/articleshow/75704250.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
May 13, 2020||Madurai||Social distancing thrown to wind in standalone shops||Madurai: The district administration may be taking all steps to ensure that markets in the city and outskirts comply with the norms to prevent the spread of Covid-19 by maintaining social distancing and people wearing masks, but many standalone shops in the city have been flouting them. On Tuesday, district collector Dr T G Vinay ordered the immediate closure of 44 shops that failed to maintain social distancing. These shops selling potatoes and onions had been shifted in the past one week to a 3.5 acre vacant plot outside the main Paravai market along with many others to ensure social distancing. Social distancing and wearing of masks had been made a strict rule in the market. However, a team of 40 officials who inspected the market on Monday midnight found that the 44 shops had not complied with the collector’s orders and remained in the ‘A’ block within the market. Hence, all of them were sealed using tin sheets and poles early on Tuesday morning. Two more shops where loadmen were found to be crowding without reason were also sealed. The market administration has been asked to ensure that identity cards are distributed to all members and workers operating in the market. Those without identity cards would not be allowed into the premises. Sanitizing and handwashing for all those who came to the market were a must and had to be ensured by the market administration. Even as officials give extra attention to the functioning of markets, many standalone shops in the city are not complying with the rules. While customers are found wearing masks, that is not the case with the traders. Fruit stalls in K K Nagar had the seller without masks. ``We would die if we wear masks in this weather,’’ said a shopkeeper outside the Milan mall. Shops like Reliance Fresh stores, which monitored body temperature and distributed sanitizer to the buyers, were open to all and there was no monitoring of any kind. ``It is getting scarier now as shops are just allowing people in and only concentrating on their business and not social distancing,’’ said T Saravanan of Iyer Bungalow. Shopkeepers forget that social distancing and monitoring are more important with the easing of lockdown, and officials should monitor it, said Kumaran R of Vilangudi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/social-distancing-thrown-to-wind-in-standalone-shops/articleshow/75705158.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Coimbatore||27 Assam students head home after 50-day wait||Coimbatore: Twenty-seven women students from Assam pooled Rs 1.5 lakh, hired a bus and started their journey home from the city on Monday night. The women are studying in various colleges in the city. They were cooped up at a private hostel in Saibaba Colony for about 50 days after colleges were closed due to the lockdown. They earlier approached the Coimbatore district administration to get a pass to travel to their home, but were denied permission as the district was in the red zone. After the Union government relaxed lockdown rules across the country, the students pooled the money and approached the Assam government seeking permission to travel home. Officials in the government contacted their counterparts in the district administration, who helped the students to hire a bus on Monday. “Though the travel expense would be around Rs 3.5 lakh, we only managed to pool Rs 1.5 lakh. The Assam government promised to foot the rest of the cost,” said Kashmiri Saikia, one of the students, adding, “It will take at least three days to travel 3,000km to reach home.” During the lockdown, some of the students were struggling to get grocery items and sought help through Twitter. The district administration noticed it and helped the students by giving them essential items. The students thanked the district administration and the Assam government for helping them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/27-assam-students-head-home-after-50-day-wait/articleshow/75705164.cms||A Subburaj
May 13, 2020||Madurai||Daily wager kills mother||Usilampatti town police arrested a 20-year-old daily wager for murdering his mother around midnight on Monday. V Mayakannan from Vadugapatti in Madurai district killed V Selvi, 50, by attacking her with a sharp weapon on her neck. Police said the accused often quarrelled with his mother demanding money for his expenses. A similar incident happened on Sunday night after which she went to sleep. However, Mayakannan did not stop with that and murdered her. He later walked into the police station and surrendered. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/daily-wager-kills-mother/articleshow/75705163.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra allows home delivery of liquor, Mumbai must wait||MUMBAI: Tipplers will be allowed to get liquor home-delivered from retail outlets in their neighbourhood during the Covid-19 lockdown, said an order issued by the state government on Tuesday. The city and a few urban districts like Thane, Aurangabad and Nagpur were left out of the order for now, but sources said it might be extended to the city in three to four days given the excise revenue expectations. As liquor shops were still closed in the city, Thane, Aurangabad and Nagpur in view of the rising Covid-19 cases, the order was not made applicable here immediately, but an official said allowing home delivery in these big consumption centres was being looked at as an effective solution. The state became the fourth in the country after West Bengal, Punjab and Chhattisgarh to allow home delivery of liquor. A system based on phone calls and online orders would avoid crowding at liquor shops while augmenting excise revenue. It is likely that shops will need at least two days to arrange for delivery boys and transport, so the actual deliveries will start from Thursday or a little later, said excise officials. The order signed by principal secretary (excise) Valsa Nair Singh said the permission was granted by the state in exercise of the powers conferred by Section 139 of the Maharashtra Prohibition Act, 1949. The order allowed home delivery of IMFL spirits, beer, mild liquor and wines to drinking permit holders as long as certain safety conditions were met. Liquor shop owners in the city opposed the entry of e-commerce companies in home deliveries, though. Sumit Chawala of the Association of Progressive Liquor Vendors welcomed the excise decision, but said leaving scope for e-commerce chains in the upcoming rules will hurt the industry. Bar owners in the city requested the excise department to allow them to sell the stock they had bought before the lockdown. “Bars and hotels across Mumbai region have around Rs 10 crore worth beer stock that may expire very soon if it is not allowed to be sold and consumed,” HRAWI and AHAR office-bearers said. The department also asked liquor shops to look at a system of e-tokens. The shops may issue token numbers with fixed timings to consumers over phone or an app, as developed by wholesalers for Pune and Nashik. Consumers will then collect their stock in the given time slot. “The system can continue alongside, especially for those who can’t avail home delivery,” Nair Singh said. Excise commissioner Kantilal Umap said it was mandatory for delivery boys to have a medical certificate and identity cards. “It is the responsibility of owners to ensure that no contagious diseases spread through the boys, besides ensuring proper storage during transport,” he said. The order also said the store should sell only that which it is licensed to sell from IMFL spirits, beer, mild liquor and wines “from within the area of the licensed premises and on the day and during the hour as specified”. The timings in force stipulate that shops should close for the day by 6 pm. “The order shall be in force and effective until the orders of lockdown issued by the government from time to time under the Disaster Management Act, 2005, or any other act are in force in the state,” the order said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/state-allows-home-delivery-of-liquor-city-must-wait/articleshow/75705785.cms||Chittaranjan Tembhekar
May 13, 2020||Coimbatore||Unidentified man murdered, body set on fire||Coimbatore: A charred body of an unidentified person was found under the bridge at Naickenpalayam here on Tuesday. The body was first spotted by Srinivasan, of Naickenpalayam village, and he informed the Periyanaickenpalayam police, who sent that to Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital for postmortem. Police have found blood stains on the bridge. They suspect the murderers to have killed the man by banging his head on the bridge and set the body ablaze after dousing that with fuel. His skull was completely damaged. Police have recovered a pair of sandals from the crime scene. An officer said the murder might have taken place three days ago. The Periyanaickenpalayam police have registered a case under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code against unidentified murderers and formed two special police teams to nab them. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/unidentified-man-murdered-body-set-on-fire/articleshow/75705173.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Madurai||‘No need to panic over infection rate’||.Madurai: With the district recording higher rate of Covid-19 infections since mid-April, concerns have been raised about the way the cases have been spiking. However, district officials assured that there is no reason for panic. The district has been seeing a steady rise in doubling of Covid-19 cases since the first case was reported on March 23. While only six cases were reported between March 23 and 31, it became more than twice as much during the first 10 days of April, reaching up to 19. While the next 10 days also saw a similar increase by 20 cases, between April 20 and 30 the numbers had again nearly doubled, reaching as many as 38 within the time period. So far, May is also witnessing similar figures, and as of Tuesday, 37 Covid-19 cases were reported. Officials maintained that the rise in cases was mainly due to imported cases. “There was an increase because of people returning from other districts like Chennai testing positive, including those who were not from Koyambedu,” said district collector Dr T G Vinay. According to health officials, around 300 people are being tested a day at present in the district. All primary and secondary contacts of Covid-19 positive patients, all expectant mothers, ILI and SARI respiratory illness cases in containment areas and non-containment zones are mainly being actively tested. Further, another concern was that the number of containment areas which were close to 25 in mid-April had risen to 68 now. Out of these, 51 zones are active containment areas while 17 are old ones. “As per the new guidelines for containment zones, we had had to revise them. That is why it mainly appears as though the number has drastically increased,” said the collector. At the same time, the district’s total discharged Covid-19 cases are nearly double the current active cases. With lockdown slowly being relaxed across the state including in the district, health officials said it was not likely for Covid-19 to be completely eradicated. “Lockdown cannot be continued endlessly. Madurai’s numbers are still very much less as compared to some other districts. Thankfully, we do not have a point of infection like the Delhi conference or Koyambedu. Most Covid-19 patients here have been asymptomatic as well and recovery rate has been good,” said a city health official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/no-need-to-panic-over-infection-rate/articleshow/75705172.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
May 13, 2020||Madurai||Sloth bear driven back into wild||Forest department personnel drove a three-year-old sloth bear back into the forest after a two-and-a-half-hour operation which strayed into Kalyanipuram village in Tirunelveli district on Tuesday afternoon. Kadayam range officer C Nellai Nayagam said that the animal was harmless. “Villagers alerted the forest department around 12.30 pm and a team of 10 forest department staffs rushed the spot to drive him back to the forest,” he said.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/sloth-bear-driven-back-into-wild/articleshow/75705165.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Bareilly||Three commit suicide in separate incidents in Kheri||Bareilly: Three people, including a married woman, allegedly committed suicide by hanging themselves in separate incidents in Lakhimpur Kheri district on Tuesday morning. The SHOs concerned are trying to find out the reason behind their taking the extreme step. The bodies were, meanwhile, sent of the autopsy. The first incident was reported from Bhader village in Gola area, where 35-year-old Chandrabhan was found hanging from a tree. Chandrabhan was an alcoholic and had been missing since Monday evening, said police. The second incident was reported from Fardhan area, where Amar Singh (30) was found hanging from a tree. Singh, a resident of Magahi village of Mitauli, had been missing since May 9 and his family members had lodged a missing complaint, said police. Fardhan police station SHO Vimal Gautam said, “It appears to be a case of suicide. Further action will be taken after we receive the autopsy report. The victim’s family has not lodged a complaint in this connection.”The third incident was, however, reported from the Sadar area of Lakhimpur city, where a married woman allegedly committed suicide after a tiff with her husband. Sadar kotwali SHO Ajay Mishra said, “An FIR will be registered after we receive a complaint.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/three-commit-suicide-in-separate-incidents-in-kheri/articleshow/75704257.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
May 13, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Burrabazar may follow Park Street example||KOLKATA: From Wednesday, Kolkata Police will try to ensure a stricter lockdown in the Burrabazar-Posta area, along with other containment zones, from where fresh Covid-19 positive cases are being reported at regular intervals. According to sources, it has been decided that a buffer zone will be created at the wholesale business hub. The decision was taken in a meeting between Firhad Hakim, the chairperson of the board of administrators governing the Kolkata Municipal Corporation board and city police commissioner Anuj Sharma on Tuesday. According to sources, Hakim has asked the commissioner to keep a close vigil on Burrabazar — the city’s business hub. Hakim, during his visit to different containment zones in Burrabazar on Monday, was taken aback to see that lockdown norms were wilfully violated by a section of traders and local residents. According to a senior KMC official, the special focus will be on Raja Katra and Mechhua fruit market. According to a KMC source, operations won’t be shifted out of Posta as of now. But KMC and cops will decongest the wholesale market to ward off virus threat. The police brass has held extensive meetings at the KMC headquarters to decide on the next step to try and implement some of the ideas. “We will have to create buffer zones in the Burrabazar-Posta-Bowbazar area. That will mean restricting the market timings and imposing social distancing, but more importantly stop the flow of outsiders. We will need to set up thermal scanners at all markets and limit the entry of people within a specified time,” said a senior cop acknowledging that shifting the Posta markets is now “practically impossible.” “These areas, essentially, are also business hubs. These zones are essential thoroughfares for many. As such, establishing access control at all these containment zones will be our first priority,” said a senior IPS officer. “We will only allow those shops to open which have the requisite permission,” he said. This apart, stricter lockdown norms will be extended to all other high-risk zones, including vast stretches of boroughs VI, VII and XV. There will zero tolerance around hospitals, markets and large housing complexes as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/burrabazar-may-follow-park-st-example/articleshow/75705170.cms||Saikat Ray
May 13, 2020||Nagpur||Lockdown may crash cabbie’s ‘big school’ dream for son||Nagpur: Each time the lockdown gets extended, cab driver Rahul Sharma sees his dream of providing “big school education” to his son crashing. Without any income since mid-March, Sharma is terrified at even the thought of his son being kicked out of a big brand CBSE school where the annual fee is almost Rs50,000. “I worked day and night, went on lot of outstation trips to make extra money. All of this I did to ensure that unlike me, my six year-old son should get every opportunity possible to study in a big school,” said Sharma who purchased his cab in 2015. His son Satvik could not secure a seat under free RTE quota but that did not deter Sharma. “I want him to study in the best possible environment and do something big in his life. I hope he becomes a big shot engineer, makes the best of the opportunity we are trying to provide him,” said the 34 year-old Sharma. But the lockdown has turned Sharma’s life upside down, as he is sole earning member of the family. Hours upon hours of daily driving was helping the family of five adults and two children survive. “My sister has also moved back and she, my wife and father don’t have any source of income. Mother used to do odd stitching jobs from home but that also stopped since March,” said Sharma. He fears the extended lockdown more than the virus itself. “Savings are almost finished and if this keeps on extending, I cannot survive this financial crisis as it is beyond me. Groceries, utility bills, car insurance etc will pile up to hefty amount very soon. We have heard cab aggregators will give preference to company-owned vehicles thus leaving most of us in the lurch,” said Sharma. Even if he manages to pay up those bills, a big question mark still remains on how he will arrange for the school fee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/lockdown-may-crash-cabbies-big-school-dream-for-son/articleshow/75705169.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
May 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Cops intervene, shrink size of Khairatabad Ganesh idol||Hyderabad: A day after the Khairatabad Ganesh Utsav Committee announced it will build a 66-foot Ganesh idol, and said it has readied plans for Chaturthi celebrations, police on Tuesday held a meeting with its members and said no mass gathering will be allowed and only a token puja can be performed. Following this, the committee has decided to build a one-foot idol and perform a token puja without any gathering. This was confirmed by TOI with the president, Khairatabad Ganesh Utsav Committee, S Sudarshan on Tuesday. “The committee has decided to cancel works for the preparation of Khairatabad Ganesh idol. As per announcement, the committee was supposed to begin the works to build a 66-feet idol from May 18,” Sudarshan told TOI. On Tuesday, the committee members had approached deputy commissioner of police, Central zone, for seeking permission to build the idol. They had raised objection citing there will be no mass gathering for the next three to four months, he said. After the lockdown ends on May 29, the committee will approach chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao, and seek permission to build a 66-feet height idol. In case it is not possible, we will build a one-foot idol, said Sudarshan||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cops-intervene-shrink-size-of-khairatabad-ganesh-idol/articleshow/75705181.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Madurai||Relief, worry after release of Class X exam timetable||Madurai: While there is general relief that the Class X board exam timetable has been released in advance for students to be well-prepared, both teachers and students are also worried about how the exams will pan out. Many teachers feel that June 1 is far too early to hold the exams as Covid-19 cases continue to rise across the state. “We’re relieved that the time table has been released. We still have more than 15 days to be prepared though already we had so much extra time. Moreover, we just want to be done with the exams,” said Tamil Selvi N, Class X student at a private school. Teachers also welcomed the exams being completed in 10 days rather than dragging on. “We have been in touch with our students, pushing them to not lose focus and were even giving them practice tests via WhatsApp, so we are confident they’ll be able to do well. It will be good for the students to finish it soon as possible,” said Uma R, a Class X science teacher. However, many teachers, especially of government schools, are worried whether the lockdown will affect students’ performance. “We still don’t know if we’ll be able to open the school and at least take special classes for Class X students alone for a few days before the exams. The students, especially from the rural areas, would have definitely lost touch in the past 45 days. Despite our persistent efforts to check on them, surely most of them would not have been able to concentrate on studies at home. It is very worrying and with many districts still being in the red zone, it is too early to conduct the exams,” said the headmaster of a government higher secondary school. Further, teachers are also sceptical about conducting the exams when public transport continues to be suspended amid the lockdown, making it difficult for the students to reach exam centres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/relief-worry-after-release-of-class-x-exam-timetable/articleshow/75705176.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Madurai||Efforts of nurses amid Covid-19 outbreak hailed||Madurai: ‘World Nurses Day’ was observed at Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH) in Madurai district on Tuesday. The hospital staff nurses held a candlelight vigil and took oath in front of the statue of Florence Nightingale, the founder of modern nursing. This year was extra special for nurses as it was the 200th birth anniversary of Florence Nightingale and the World Health Organisation (WHO) had declared 2020 to be the ‘Year of the Nurse’. “During the Covid-19 pandemic, the service and dedication of nurses have been exceptional. Many nurses are volunteering themselves and have not hesitated to come for duty in Covid-19 wards,” said Kaleeswari, Grade I matron, GRH. For nurses, the job is a way of life. “I’m immensely proud to be a nurse and wanted to be nurse since childhood. All nurses are naturally dedicated and provide motherly care. But, nursing was often considered a thankless job. In the past, many families did not welcome a woman working as a woman. But, times have changed. We are always ready to serve and it feels good to get some kind of recognition,” said Sorubarani G, who has been in service as a nursing staff for 23 years. On the other hand, members of Tamil Nadu MRB Nurses Empowerment Association organised a protest seeking equal pay for those employed by the government on consolidated pay and submitted a petition to district collector Dr TG Vinay. The nurses alleged that though they did all duties, their pay has been considerably less. The nurses wore black cards on their uniforms which read, “Need pay equal to the work we do. Equal work. Equal pay.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/efforts-of-nurses-amid-covid-19-outbreak-hailed/articleshow/75705179.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal government adds 7 bus routes, to operate 13 services||KOLKATA: The state government on Tuesday added seven more routes to its existing six bus services that have been operational during the lockdown. The scaling up of the services will support people, who have started travelling to their workplaces, from 7am to 7pm, said a transport department officer. “The skeletal bus service will be scaled up, connecting the nodal points of Kolkata and the adjoining areas, for use in emergency purposes or for the frontline workers,” said transport minister Suvendu Adhikari. However, not more than 20 people can board a bus at a time. West Bengal Transport Corporation (WBTC) was the first state transport undertaking (STU) to keep alive the lifeline of the city by running services onnecting hospitals, markets, medicine hubs and crematoriums. When most of cities got crippled because of complete suspension of public transport, the skeletal bus service was of immense help for health workers, emergency service providers and vegetable vendors. Gradually, this model was extended in districts towns of north and south Bengal. The STUs have collectively ferried over 72,000 people during this lockdown. “We are trying to support emergency services during this demanding time,” said WBTC MD Rajanvir Singh Kapur. The STU will ensure all safety standards are followed to keep its employees as well as commuters safe, he added. The bus routes have been designed keeping mind all major retail hubs, health facilities, IT hubs, major terminal railways stations and transit points so that people do not suffer due to lack on last-mile connectivity. For instance, the bus services will connect railway terminal points Howrah and Sealdah, business and banking districts of Dalhousie-Esplanade, all major medical colleges and the private health district off EM Bypass.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/govt-adds-7-bus-routes-to-operate-13-services/articleshow/75705178.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
May 13, 2020||Bareilly||Walking to Bihar, 15 starving migrant labourers reach Bareilly DM’s office, beg for food||BAREILLY: Walking for two days, 15 starving migrant labourers on their way home to Bihar from Aligarh and Kasganj districts in Uttar Pradesh reached the Bareilly district magistrate’s office on Tuesday afternoon and begged for food. The labourers, including a woman who was carrying an infant in her arms, said they were working in factories in Aligarh and Kasganj but lost their jobs during the lockdown. “Our owners in Aligarh and Kasganj told us that there was no clarity on when the units would be restarted. They said that they couldn’t feed us anymore. Left with nothing for our subsistence, we started marching towards our native villages in Bihar. When we reached Budaun, a UPSRTC bus accommodated us and dropped us in Bareilly,” said Nadeem Akhtar, a young migrant worker. “Without food, rest and a change of clothing for days, we did not know where to go. Besides, it was a new city for us we were not familiar with the city ways. The DM’s residence was close to the spot where the kind-hearted bus driver had dropped us. We walked into the DM’s house and begged for food,” Akhtar said. Officials with the district administration, meanwhile, said all workers were provided with food and water and were shifted to shelter homes later. Bareilly district magistrate Nitish Kumar said they would contact the Bihar government so that the migrant workers, who hail from Purnia, Araria and Madhubani districts, could be sent to their destinations as soon as possible. Talking to TOI, the DM said, “After providing them food, we shifted them to a shelter home, where a medical team is examining them. Since the workers are from another state, we will contact their home districts to send them back at the earliest. If we don’t get a positive response from the Bihar government, we will drop them at the state’s border, so that they could reach their homes easily.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/walking-to-bihar-15-starving-migrant-labourers-reach-bareilly-dms-office-beg-for-food/articleshow/75704290.cms||Pankul Sharma
May 13, 2020||Vijayawada||Krishna sees 4 new cases, focus now on containment||Vijayawada: Four new Covid-19 cases were registered in Krishna district on Tuesday, taking the number of people who have tested positive in the district to 346. With 155 active cases, Krishna district is still a red zone and the district administration is focused on containing the spread of the novel coronavirus. Krishna district in-charge minister Peddireddy Ramachandra Reddy on Tuesday conducted a review meeting with district authorities and legislators and enquired about the measures taken to tackle the pandemic. Krishna district collector A Mohammed Imtiaz explained that the district administration was providing treatment at two Covid-19 centers within the district and said that most of the patients were stable. He said that all close contacts have been sent to quarantine centres. Ramachandra Reddy expressed satisfaction over the measures taken by the district authorities. “Preparedness of district authorities has helped contain the spread of coronavirus. We are prepared to face any kind of situation and have directed officials to arrange at least ten isolation beds at every village. Around 500 beds and 87 ventilators are available at Vijayawada government general hospital alone,” Ramachandra Reddy said. He added that special measures have been taken to shift migrant workers to their home towns and around 5,000 migrant workers were sent to their home towns in special trains. At present, 1,134 migrant workers are staying at 23 camps arranged in the district. Meanwhile, 42 patients who recovered from Covid-19 were discharged. “We are happy with the recovery rate in the district. Of the 346 positive cases, 182 patients have ben discharged to date and only 150 patients still have the virus. More than 50 per cent of the patients have recovered. Around 30 patients will be discharged on Wednesday. We hope that recovery rate increases further and district becomes corona-free soon,” collector Imtiaz said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/krishna-sees-4-new-cases-focus-now-on-containment/articleshow/75702953.cms||Venu Lanka
May 13, 2020||Hubballi||Woman collects samples from grave in Haveri, shunned||HAVERI: A lab technician with a taluk hospital, who collected throat swab samples of a deceased man from his grave moments before his last rites were performed on Monday, has earned the wrath of villagers and her family members. The incident occurred in Hiremugadur village of Savanur in Haveri district, which has reported two Covid-19 cases. Shobha Channappanavar, who works with Savanur taluk hospital on a contract basis, claimed she was directed by higher-ups to visit the graveyard for sample collection. When she told her family members about it, they reprimanded her and shifted to their relatives’ house. District health officer Rajendra Doddamani has ordered an inquiry to ascertain who ordered Shobha to do so. “I was misguided by senior officers, who asked me to visit the graveyard to get samples of the deceased man. I’ve been isolated by my family,” rued Shobha. Shashidhar Kanavalli, a villager, said the 75-year-old man was bedridden. His family neither had contact with any infected persons nor travel history. Doddamani said samples should be collected within 3-4 hours of a person being declared dead. “I will initiate action against the errant officials,” he said, adding instructions have been given to collect throat swab samples of deceased persons if they die of respiratory problems, have travel history or primary/secondary contact with an infected person. In a nutshellThe senior citizen died in Hiremugadur village at 2am on Monday. His family informed taluk health officers through an Asha worker in the morning, saying the final rites would be conducted at 11am. However, health officers did not turn up for swab collection on time. Finally, the family took the body to the graveyard, where the technician showed up at 2.45pm. Donning a PPE kit, she collected the samples from the catacomb.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/lab-worker-collects-mans-samples-from-grave-shunned-by-her-family/articleshow/75704305.cms||Basavaraj Maralihalli
May 13, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Active Covid-19 cases in Kurnool district down to 270||TIRUPATI: The people of Kurnool district finally got some good news, with the tally of patients who have been discharged surpassing the number of active Covid-19 patients in the district. Kurnool still has the highest number of positive cases in Andhra Pradesh. The number of new cases every day has been in single digits for the past few days, while those being treated successfully and discharged is in double digits. Nine new cases were reported in the district in the last 24 hours and the total number of cases in the district shot up to 584 on Tuesday. With 14 patients—including an 82-year-old woman and a three-year-old girl—being discharged from various Covid-19 hospitals in the district by Tuesday evening, the number of patients discharged in the district went up to 298, while the number of active cases in the district has now come down to 270. So far, the district has reported 16 Covid-19 deaths. District collector G Veerapandian appreciated the efforts of the doctors, paramedic staff, sanitation staff and the police department in containing the outbreak of the virus in the district. Meanwhile, the central public health team officials held inspections and reviewed the Covid-19 scenario at Nandyal in Kurnool district on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/active-cases-in-kurnool-district-down-to-270/articleshow/75703004.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
May 13, 2020||Mangaluru||Journalist Seethalakshmi passes away||Mangaluru: Seethalakshmi Karkikodi, who worked as a senior sub-editor in the Mangaluru bureau of ‘Vijay Karnataka’ passed away on Tuesday. She was 44. She hailed from Karkikodi near Honnavar in Uttara Kannada district, and was ailing for some time. She is the daughter of senior writer Vi Ga Naik and Shyamala Karkikodi, and a recipient of several awards in the field of literature, including the Bannanje Ramacharya Award. Having obtained her primary education in Adyanadka, she later completed her degree from Vivekananda College, Puttur. She obtained PhDs from Hampi Univeristy and the University of Mumbai. An accomplished writer, she left her mark in the world of literature.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/journalist-seethalakshmi-passes-away/articleshow/75702975.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Nagpur||Termination notice to 16 reinstated civic staffers||Nagpur: The general administration department on Monday issued termination notices to 16 employees appointed by overlooking rules in Nagpur Municipal Corporation. Following political pressure, NMC had in 2019 reinstated the 17 employees (one of them has already passed away), who had been dismissed for being appointed despite irregularities in recruitment process. The office of deputy municipal commissioner (general administration department) issued a letter to all 16 employees, including library assistant Subhash Ghate, and asked why their services should not be discontinued over their appointments violating recruitment rules. As per the GAD letter, Ghate was first appointed in NMC as a driver and now he is holding charge of assistant librarian. However, NMC had bent rules to appoint Ghate and 16 others. Actually, NMC had invited applications against 161 posts of different cadres in 1993. The general body had approved the proposal to appoint 152 candidates on August 21, 1997. Following revelations of irregularities in recruitment process, NMC had sacked 17 employees. Due to pressure from a senior BJP leader from East Nagpur, and protests by the 17 sacked employees, they got back their jobs in June 2019. But their excitement could not last long as they have all received show cause notice now. The letter sought their reply within seven days on why their services should not be terminated for being appointed by irregular means.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/termination-notice-to-16-reinstated-civic-staffers/articleshow/75705194.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Aurangabad||Two booked for violating quarantine||Aurangabad: Police have booked two people on the charges of violating home-quarantine orders. Offences against the two people have been registered at Vedantnagar and Mukundwadi police stations, respectively. In one of the cases, a 27-year old man, a resident of Banislalnagar, recently returned from Madhya Pradesh. After going through screening, the man was asked to be in home-quarantine till May 18. “When police paid a surprise visit to his house on Monday, he was not at home. On checking his whereabouts, he was found roaming around in the city and violating home-quarantine orders,” said assistant police inspector Amol Satodkar. On Tuesday, a team from the crime branch paid a similar visit to the house of a person, who recently returned from Pune and was asked to be in home-quarantine, in N-2 Cidco, New Aurangabad. The team did not find the man in the house and found him moving around the city. In both the cases, offences have been registered under sections 188 (disobeying orders duly promulgated by authorities), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and section 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of the IPC. In addition, they duo have also been slapped with relevant sections of the National Disaster Management Act. 2005 and The Epidemic Diseases (Amendment) Ordinance, 2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/two-booked-for-violating-quarantine/articleshow/75702983.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Coimbatore||DMK man assaults youths, held||Coimbatore: The city police on Tuesday arrested DMK urban youth wing organizer Kottai Abbas for allegedly assaulting two youths and later released him on station bail. Police said Abbas’ relative daughter had eloped with a youth a few days ago and got married. Abbas visited the youth’s house on Monday and assaulted two youths. One of the youths lodged a complaint with the Ukkadam police, who registered a case against Abbas under sections 294 (b), 323 and 506 (i) of the Indian Penal Code and took him to the station for inquiry. However, Abbas was later released on station bail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/dmk-man-assaults-youths-held/articleshow/75705200.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Bhubaneswar||No social distancing, Bapuji Nagar market shut||Bhubaneswar: The Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Tuesday shut one of the biggest markets of the city at Bapuji Nagar after enforcement squads reported violation of social distancing norms. The BMC has not set any date for reopening of the shops. The Bapuji Nagar market houses stores on electronics appliances, furniture, sanitary fittings, mobile phones and other non-essential items. Although the capital city is still a red zone, the BMC had allowed opening of standalone shops selling non-essential items but continued to put restrictions on market complexes, where five shops coexist. Bapuji Nagar has several standalone shops from Rajmahal square to Sishu Bhawan square and the place was witnessing huge crowd. “The shops had to be closed because had they been allowed to operate then a different message would have gone to the people that there is now no threat of coronavirus. That would have gradually made people reckless. So, in order to restore the social distancing norm, the market was closed. However, the ones dealing in essential items like medicines and grocery will continue to do business in the same market,” said BMC deputy commissioner Anshuman Rath. Besides Bapuji Nagar, the city saw several big vegetable markets being relocated to different places for second time in a row because of overcrowding of people. The vegetable markets from Indradhanu Market, Unit-IV and other places had been relocated from the usual places in April soon after the first-phase lockdown. As the authorities saw those places also witnessed crowd swelling, the markets were relocated again to other places, where the vegetable vendors will sit in a long row far away from each other. Even after lockdown is lifted, the markets won’t be allowed to go back to their usual places as there will be congestion, said a BMC officer. Meanwhile, the authorities have been keeping a close watch on the non-essential shops, which have been allowed to open. The BMC squads and police have been monitoring the areas, where there are clusters of shops, market complexes and malls. In the city now, autorickshaws are off the roads but cabs ferry patients and persons associated with medical duties. Barber shops, spas and salons as usual are not allowed to open. In case of vehicles, four-wheelers are allowed with two passengers including the one at the wheel. Private offices can open with 33% employees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/no-social-distancing-bapuji-nagar-market-shut/articleshow/75703017.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Goa||CM Pramod Sawant echoes Modi, calls for self-sustenance||PANAJI: Chief minister Pramod Sawant said the state will prepare a strategy for Lockdown 4.0 which will commence from May 18. “The state will decide as to what to start and what not to start, considering the requests from various business sectors and keeping in mind the ministry of home affairs (MHA) guidelines,” he said. The chief minister echoed the Prime Minister’s words and urged the people to be self-sustainable to recover from post-lockdown effects. He also urged people to contribute to the Covid fund and adopt precautionary measures like maintaining social distancing, wearing mask, etc. Sawant appealed to the people to volunteer to be Covid warriors and work to make Goa a Corona-free state. Sawant said 7,000 people, including labourers have left for their native places which has created shortage of manpower for any work. “This is therefore the time for Goans to rise and set an example to self-sustain for the future. The Goa government has provided adequate and standard facilities to the people at shelter homes,” he said Sawant said the government has set up a committee to analyse and prepare village-to-village survey on the availability of manpower, available resources in a village, work force. “This report will help to create jobs for Goans,” Sawant said. Sawant said 95% of industries, especially pharma industries, have started full-fledged. However, he admitted that some industries are facing problems to being operations or operate at full capacity due to scarcity of labourers. “Any company desiring to bring their employees from outside will have to seek permission and follow proper procedure or otherwise they have to wait till May 17 for the decision of the MHA,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sawant-echoes-modi-calls-for-self-sustenance/articleshow/75705833.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Rajkot||Except hotspots, Rajkot back to business||RAJKOT/GANDHINAGAR: Chief minister minister Vijay Rupani on Tuesday, took a key decision towards relaxing lockdown restrictions in Rajkot, his hometown. Providing operational details, secretary to the CM, Ashwani Kumar said, “All businesses will be allowed to resume in Rajkot from May 14, provided they do not fall in the containment zones, approvals of which will be provided by the district collector. The city has not registered any new Covid-19 cases for the past one week.” However, shops and business establishments are advised to follow all safety protocols like observance of social distancing, using masks and sanitisers, health screening of workers and timely sanitisation of the work place among other health safety measures. In addition to that, owners are advised to prevent crowding of workers during office hours and advised staggered working hours as well as to provide adequate time for lunch breaks. The government decision was welcomed by the business and industry people who are ready to comply with the few safety restrictions in accordance to the the set protocols. Parth Ganatra, vice president of Rajkot Chamber of Commerce and Industry (RCCI), which had already made a representation to the government to allow business and industry to function, said, “All the industry will now be function inside corporation area, but we have to remain more cautious and follow the rules strictly.” President of Rajkot Engineering Association, Paresh Vasani, said, “We welcome this decision, as the economy will be back on track now. There are currently no orders in engineering now, but as work starts we hope to get orders.” The government had earlier allowed industries outside the corporation jurisdiction in industrial estate like Shapar and Lodhika to function. However, with their vendors inside the corporation jurisdictions, these units could not start functioning normally. It will now allow even these vendors to open shutters within the corporation limits.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/except-in-hotspots-govt-allows-business-in-rajkot/articleshow/75703008.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Bareilly||Father, son booked for attempting to outrage modesty of Dalit girl||Pilibhit: Police on Tuesday morning booked a father and his 24-year-old son for “applying criminal force on an 18-year-old Dalit girl to outrage her modesty”, in a village under Jehanabad police station. The attack was carried out at 3.30pm on Monday, when the girl was on her way to the village market adjacent to her home, to buy food items. The two accused also assaulted the victim’s father when he rushed to his daughter’s rescue. According to the written police complaint of the victim’s father, the key accused, Arif (24), of the same village, was the first to attack the girl. Within minutes, he was joined by his father, Aqil Ahmad. The two also insulted him and his daughter with casteist remarks and beat him up, when he tried to intervene to protect his daughter, he said. They also threatened to kill the father and daughter if he took the matter up with police, he further alleged. SHO Harish Gautam said both accused were booked under sections 354 (outrage modesty), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 504 (intentional insult to provoke breach of peace), 506 (criminal intimidation) of IPC, and appropriate sections of the SC/ST Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/father-son-booked-for-attempting-to-outrage-modesty-of-dalit-girl/articleshow/75704329.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Hubballi||Mobile vans to collect throat swab samples in Dharwad||Hubballi: The Dharwad district administration has decided to scale up Covid-19 testing by utilising mobile sample collection vans in buffer zones and sealed-off areas. The focus will be collection of throat swab samples of pregnant women, senior citizens and those with co-morbidities or considered at the high risk of infection. The administration has decided to two provide two sample collection vans. Trained professionals should be used for the purpose, said DC Deepa Cholan on Monday evening. She said that doctors have assured cooperation for the task. Deepa also instructed officials to test those who purchased tablets for cough, cold, fever and acute respiratory problems.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/mobile-vans-to-collect-throat-swab-samples-in-dharwad/articleshow/75698030.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Bhopal||‘Singham’ cop fined Rs 5,000 after viral stunt video in Madhya Pradesh||BHOPAL: The Damoh superintendent of police has slapped a fine of Rs 5,000 on a sub-inspector after a video of him doing Singham-style stunts went viral. The uniformed young cop, wearing dark glasses, was seen with his legs stretched atop two cars that were moving slowly. An inquiry has revealed that the video was shot three months back while the cop was undergoing a training. A popular Bollywood film, Singham’s theme tune was being played in the background while the cop, Manoj Yadav, was shown doing the stunts Yadav is posted at the Narsinghpur chowky of Damoh district. Superintendent of police, Hemant Chouhan, took note of the stunt after the video went viral and ordered an inquiry by city superintendent of police, Mukesh Abidha. The CSP said that the video was shot when the cop was undergoing a training in Indore. After he submitted his report to the SP, Yadav was fined Rs 5,000. He was also posted at the police lines as a punishment posting. Watch MP cop fined Rs 5,000 for 'Singham' stunt||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/singham-cop-fined-rs-5k-after-viral-stunt-video/articleshow/75704325.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad: Two couples booked for anniversary celebrations on road||AURANGABAD: Two couples celebrating their marriage anniversary with their friends and neighbours from their residential society were in for a surprise when the police joined them while they were cutting a cake on the road in the Pundaliknagar area on Monday night. Kailash housing society at Kamgar Chowk in N-3, New Aurangabad, is in the neighbourhood of an apartment, from where confirmed Covid-19 cases were recently reported. Head constable at Pundaliknagar police station L B Hinge said that a spare parts dealer and a staffer of a local news channel were celebrating their 15th and 19th marriage anniversary respectively on Monady night. Many people from the residential society had come out on the road to partake in the couples’ celebrations. A policeman privy to the investigation said that one of the residents from the society alerted the police about the celebrations. On receiving the information, a team from Pundaliknagar police station rushed to the residential society and reached there around 10pm. Police have got hold of a video where several of them can be spotted without masks—a precautionary measure to be taken at public places to prevent the spread of Covid-19 as has been promulgated, time and again, by government authorities. Many of them also failed to observe social distancing while attending the celebrations. “We have video evidence of the violation by these two couples and several others from the society,” said Pundaliknagar police station in-charge Ghanshyam Sonawne adding that it was highly insensitive on the part of the residents to step out with their children without any precautionary measures and violating lockdown norms. Pundaliknagar police took the couple and the people who had gathered for the celebrations in preventive detention. An offence was registered against a dozen of people under sections 188 (disobeying orders duly promulgated by authorities) and 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of the IPC. In addition, they have also been slapped with relevant sections of the National Disaster Management Act, 2005 and The Epidemic Diseases (Amendment) Ordinance, 2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/2-couples-booked-for-anniv-celebrations-on-road/articleshow/75703039.cms||Mohammed Akhef
May 13, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Excise cops bust arrack brewing facility, 6 held||VIJAYAWADA: The prohibition and excise department arrested six persons for illegally brewing arrack in an island between Kakinada and Yanam. The island is located at one of the confluence points of the Godavari with the sea. The area was covered with mangroves surrounded by water. Upon receiving specific intelligence about arrack being brewed on the Island, which comes under Tallarevu mandal, Kakinada excise deputy commissioner B Arun Rao planned the operation on Monday. The 11-member team headed by G Eswar Reddy found huge arrack brewing apparatus at two places in the island along with raw material. After noticing the excise officials approaching them, the perpetrators escaped in a boat. Officials seized large quantities of raw material used to brew arrack. At the first location, the excise department found 16,000 litre fermented jaggery wash and 400 litre arrack along with 1,000 kg black jaggery. At the second location, they found 8,000 litre jagery wash and 350 litre arrack. Since there was no transport facility, the officials destroyed all the material. The excise officials pursued the brewers and arrested six persons. Vineet Brijlal, IG, excise enforcement, said the investigation was on to nab all the people involved. He said the perpetrators had chosen the location nearer to the sea to evade the enforcement agencies. They have been transporting raw material and the arrack on boats through the sea, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/excise-cops-bust-arrack-brewing-facility-6-held/articleshow/75703029.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Cops must be up-to-date on Covid-19: HC to Telangana government||HYDERABAD: The high court on Tuesday directed the state government to keep its policemen informed about the Covid-19 situation and the relaxations being announced by the Centre and the state to various sectors. The bench of Justice MS Ramachandra Rao and Justice K Lakshman turned critical towards some incidents where the police acted in a rude manner with people during the current lockdown period. “It seems they are not kept informed about the gradual easing of norms. Scores of offices and sectors are permitted to open and function and police should know this,” the bench said. The bench cited the example of its own staff being prevented from attending to their duties. The bench was dealing with a plea filed by advocate Umesh Chandra, who wanted the court to restrain the police and punish the errant cops at Wanaparthy, where a father was beaten up by cops in front of his minor son. AG BS Prasad assured the court that he would brief the DGP about what the court said. The case was posted to May 26.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cops-must-be-up-to-date-on-covid-19-hc-to-t-govt/articleshow/75705202.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Bareilly||Dairy owner jailed for “derogatory social media post” on PM Modi, CM Yogi Adityanath||BAREILLY: Moradabad police have sent a dairy owner, Nazir Husain, to jail after arresting him from his Lajpat Nagar residence, after he allegedly posted a derogatory post on Facebook and shared the same message with a group on WhatsApp, following which an FIR was lodged against him. Area circle officer of Katghar, Poonam Sirohi, said Lajpat Nagar resident Husain had uploaded a post using derogatory words against a different community, along with a flag of Pakistan. “In his post, he used derogatory remarks against PM Narendra Modi and CM Yogi Adityanath. An FIR was lodged against him on the basis of a complaint by outpost in-charge sub-inspector Subhash Chandra.” The accused was produced before court on Monday and sent to jail, the cop said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/dairy-owner-jailed-for-derogatory-social-media-post-on-pm-modi-cm-yogi/articleshow/75704373.cms||Pankul Sharma
May 13, 2020||Hubballi||Institutional quarantine made mandatory for returnees in Dharwad||Dharwad: After nine people who had returned from Ahmedabad and were quarantined at the University of Agricultural Sciences (UAS) in Dharwad tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday, the district administration is not willing to take any chances, and has made it mandatory for all those returning from any part of the country, to the district, to undergo institutional quarantine. “There is no question of symptomatic or asymptomatic, everyone who has come from outside has to stay in government quarantine, and they have to undergo throat and nose swab tests thrice during their quarantine period,” said deputy commissioner Deepa Cholan. The people of Dharwad district had heaved a sigh of relief after Dharwad had come into the orange zone from the red zone, but now they are in a spot of bother, after nine migrants who returned to the district from Gujarat, tested positive on Tuesday. Though, the district had fared well in containing the spread of infection, due to some stringent measures being enforced and random checking, the spike in positive cases after the lockdown was relaxed, has sent shockwaves among the people. The district had 10 active cases before the lockdown was relaxed, but it has now surged to 21. The only good news is that seven people have been cured and discharged. Deepa said those entering the district from other states prefer to stay in hotels, which have been turned into government quarantine facilities, and that they have to bear the charges. Those preferring to stay in hostels or government schools which have been turned into institutional quarantine facilities, need not pay anything, and the district administration will pay for their food. 324 migrants return Officials at the reception counter at UAS, Dharwad, said that the return of stranded people from other states into the district started from May 7, and so far 324 migrants have returned to the district, and have been quarantined. All of them have availed e-passes from the Seva Sindhu portal, and have undergone screening. Of the people who have returned, 127 have been home quarantined, while 197 are in institutional quarantine. A majority of people have come from Maharashtra, which is a Covid-19 hotspot. So far, 109 people have come from Maharashtra, 73 from Goa, 44 from Gujarat, 33 from Telangana, 43 from Tamil Nadu, 13 from Rajasthan, seven from Andhra Pradesh and two from Kerala. Over 100 more people have registered on the Seva Sindhu portal to come back to the district, but are not too happy with being quarantined, and are hence reluctant to return, said an official. The travel history and medical status of the migrants is being monitored at six centres opened here,which is working round-the-clock. Dharwad superintendent of police Vartika Katiyar and the police department are working to ensure that the attempts made by people to enter the district illegally are foiled.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/institutional-quarantine-made-mandatory-for-returnees-in-dharwad/articleshow/75703052.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Bengaluru||With test kits fast running out of stock, Karnataka decides on pool-sample testing||BENGALURU: Faced with the dual challenge of scaling up daily tests for Covid-19 and depleting stocks of RT-PCR testing kits, the Karnataka government has started pool-sample testing in places where less than 2% of throat swab samples collected have turned positive. Karnataka currently has 55,000 RT-PCR kits. Having used 22,996 kits in the last five days, its current stock may not last more than 15 days, sources in the know said. Under pool-sample testing, the labs, instead of testing each and every sample, test five at a time by taking one drop from each of them. “Pool-sample testing can be done in places where infection prevalence is less than 2%. It cannot be done on all the samples collected from everywhere. This way we are not only able to speed up testing, but also use the testing kits appropriately,” said Dr CN Manjunath, nodal officer, labs and testing, Covid-19 taskforce of Karnataka. Nasal and throat swab samples are collected from an individual being tested and placed in a liquid medium in a tube. One drop each from five tubes of samples (from the same geographical area) is pooled and tested. “If the pool sample turns out negative, then there is no need to test the five samples individually. If it tests positive, then all five samples get tested. This way Karnataka is saving a minimum 1,200 testing kits or 15-20% of the total tests done daily,” said Dr Manjunath, adding that other states with huge case burden too have adopted this method. “We have been pool-sample testing for 10 days now. We noticed that 200-300 consecutive tests were turning out negative and a lot of effort was going waste. Karnataka has tested 1,11,595 samples and its positivity rate has only been 0.8%,” said Dr Manjunath. Karnataka currently has 35 labs testing Covid-19 samples. Pool-sample testing is now mostly being done in government labs in Bengaluru, Hassan, Mysuru and Belagavi. “The 2% prevalence cap appears arbitrary. Going by this, pool-sample testing can be generously done everywhere in Karnataka. However, it’s not being done wherever we are seeing a spurt in cases, for instance in Belagavi and Bagalkot,” said Dr Manjunath. A feasibility study of pool-sample testing was conducted at DHR/ICMR Virus Research & Diagnostic Laboratory (VRDL) at King George’s Medical University (KGMU), Lucknow, following which the Union health ministry issued guidelines for the method.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/fast-running-out-of-test-kits-ktaka-opts-for-pool-sample-testing/articleshow/75704392.cms||Sunitha Rao R
May 13, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Govt announces special JEE to fill up vacant engg seats||BHUBANESWAR: Fearing large-scale vacancies in engineering colleges across the state, the government on Tuesday announced that a special Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) would be held for admission of students to B.Tech courses in government and private colleges in Odisha. The date of the exam is yet to be finalised, but students can apply online for the test immediately. This special JEE will be held along with the second JEE (Main) of 2020 (the first one took place on January 6). Those who were unable to appear for the JEE (Main) for some reason can also sit for the special entrance exam. “During admission counselling, however, first preference will be given to JEE (Main) qualifiers,” said OJEE chairman, Sudeep Kumar Chand. The syllabus of the special exam will be similar to that of the JEE (Main). “Generally, OJEE is held in May every year and a second JEE is held in the second or third week of July to fill up the vacant engineering seats. Since JEE (Main) and NEET have been scheduled for the third week of July this time, it will not be possible to conduct a special seat-filling exam later,” he added. “Interested candidates can apply online from May 12 (Tuesday). The last date of application is May 31. The last date for deposit of fees is June 5,” he further said. The entrance examination will be held through Computer Based Test (CBT). Counselling for this merit list will be done only after counselling using the JEE (Main) merit list, official sources said. The last date for submission of online forms for all OJEE 2020 applications has also been extended up to May 31. The last date for fee payment is now June 5. A detailed schedule of the revised dates for downloading admit cards and the exam itself will be notified in due course of time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/govt-announces-special-jee-to-fill-up-vacant-engg-seats/articleshow/75703056.cms||Minati Singha
May 13, 2020||Aurangabad||Maharashtra: Gangapur villagers plan morcha amid lockdown||AURANGABAD: Residents from a group of villages in Gangapur taluka have threatened to take out a morcha on May 16 to press for their demand for water tankers. Notwithstanding the restrictions in place due to the current lockdown, the villagers have decided on a route of around 40km for the morcha. Ganesh Kasabe, a resident of Kadim Takli village in Gangapur taluka, said around 5,000 people were struggling due to water scarcity. “We have submitted a requisition for deploying tankers through proper channel way back on March 13. Even after two months, the government authorities have paid no heed to our demand,” said Kasabe. He added that Kadim Takli and nearby villages were dependant on a well and hand-pump, both of which dried up during summer. “While the government authorities are paying no heed to our demand for water tankers, the private lobby is supplying water to those who can afford it. The current pandemic has posed survival issues before the rural population at large. We cannot afford to spend money on water tankers,” said villagers. Communist Party of India (CPI) functionary Ram Baheti said, “It is an irony that the demand for water tankers goes unheard for two months. Hence, the villagers have decided to defy lockdown norms and participate in the morcha in large numbers to press the demand for water tankers.” When contacted, Gangapur tehsildar Avinash Shingate said his taluka was already supplying 29 tankers in the areas plagued by water-scarcity. “The remaining proposals are evaluated as per laid down norms. Some of the villagers from the taluka are still receiving water through taps as the water resources have still not dried up. All pending proposals for water tankers will be disposed of after reviewing the ground situation,” said Shingate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/gangapur-villagers-plan-morcha-amid-lockdown/articleshow/75703055.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Cuttack||Govt announces special JEE to fill up vacant engg seats||BHUBANESWAR: Fearing large-scale vacancies in engineering colleges across the state, the government on Tuesday announced that a special Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) would be held for admission of students to B.Tech courses in government and private colleges in Odisha. The date of the exam is yet to be finalised, but students can apply online for the test immediately. This special JEE will be held along with the second JEE (Main) of 2020 (the first one took place on January 6). Those who were unable to appear for the JEE (Main) for some reason can also sit for the special entrance exam. “During admission counselling, however, first preference will be given to JEE (Main) qualifiers,” said OJEE chairman, Sudeep Kumar Chand. The syllabus of the special exam will be similar to that of the JEE (Main). “Generally, OJEE is held in May every year and a second JEE is held in the second or third week of July to fill up the vacant engineering seats. Since JEE (Main) and NEET have been scheduled for the third week of July this time, it will not be possible to conduct a special seat-filling exam later,” he added. “Interested candidates can apply online from May 12 (Tuesday). The last date of application is May 31. The last date for deposit of fees is June 5,” he further said. The entrance examination will be held through Computer Based Test (CBT). Counselling for this merit list will be done only after counselling using the JEE (Main) merit list, official sources said. The last date for submission of online forms for all OJEE 2020 applications has also been extended up to May 31. The last date for fee payment is now June 5. A detailed schedule of the revised dates for downloading admit cards and the exam itself will be notified in due course of time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/cuttack/govt-announces-special-jee-to-fill-up-vacant-engg-seats/articleshow/75713569.cms||Minati Singha
May 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Four majestic city nurses get Royals’ applause||Hyderabad: The Royal Family greeted four nurses from the city on the occasion of International Nurses’ Day on Tuesday. In a tribute to their efforts, The Duchess of Cambridge, Catherine Middleton and The Countess of Wessex, Sophie greeted the nurses, acknowledging the crucial role they are playing during these tough times. The nurses Kavitha B and Ratna Kumari from Apollo Hospitals and Vijaya G and Yamuna from LV Prasad Eye Institute were part of this interaction, which was made available on the Royal Family’s Twitter account (@RoyalFamily). During the interaction, city nurse Kumari said they were happy to be serving patients. The nurses from LV Prasad said that they were celebrating the day with other nurses virtually. “It is amazing that you are able to still continue the support and care that you would normally provide under these pretty difficult circumstances,” said Middleton in response. Also appreciating their efforts, The Countess of Wessex said, “Thank you for what you are doing and the outcomes are so much better because of the interventions you are doing.” The virtual interaction was part of efforts by the Royal Family including The Queen, The Prince of Wales, The Duchess of Cornwall, The Duke and Duchess of Cambridge to pay tribute to the nurses working across Commonwealth nations in Australia, India, Malawi, Sierra Leone, Bahamas, Cyprus, Tanzania and the UK. “We were delighted that following HRH The Countess of Wessex’s visit a year ago to Hyderabad, she and HRH The Duchess of Cambridge chose eye specialist nurses from two of our close partners- Apollo Hospitals and LV Prasad Eye Institute- to engage with on occasion of International Nurses Day,” said Andrew Fleming, Deputy High Commissioner to Andhra Pradesh and Telangana. Varun Mali, Deputy Head of Mission, British Deputy High Commission, Hyderabad was present on the call. The calls were facilitated by Nursing Now, a global campaign to improve health by raising the status and profile of nursing, of which The Duchess of Cambridge is a patron.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/four-majestic-city-nurses-get-royals-applause/articleshow/75705206.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Goa||Recruitment for govt jobs to be done very soon: Goa CM||PANAJI: Chief minister Pramod Sawant said that the state government will start recruitment for government posts as soon as possible. TOI had reported that aspirants for government jobs will have to wait a little longer as the Covid-19 pandemic has delayed the recruitment of over 2,000 class ‘C’ employees through the Goa staff selection commission (GSSC). “We will recruit those posts as soon as possible,” he said. Class ‘C’ employees comprise positions at the level of clerks, peons, drivers, superintendents, police constables, ticket collectors, upper division clerks, etc. It is almost a year that the government has not had a major recruitment drive. Speaking on the report of the economic revival committee, Sawant said, “The state government is studying the report, and the committee has given suggestions. Once we discuss it with them (the committee) it would be implemented. The state’s economic revival committee, in its final report submitted to the government, had laid maximum thrust on boosting agricultural and allied activities to make Goa self-sufficient. It has recommended that taxi operators, who have been considerably affected due to the slump in tourism and the Covid-19 pandemic, be integrated with the agriculture sector to supply items to farmers and transport their produce to markets or horticulture outlets. Raising concerns that Goa had a migrant population of approximately three lakhs, the committee has recommended that the government finalise the state population policy at the earliest. “We need to carefully devise value chains of labour and ensure that no new influx takes place that will create immense pressure on the stressed social infrastructure besides creating a major impact on the state’s identity and demography,” the committee had reported. The committee also wants the government to urge the Centre to amend legislation for resumption of mining activities. Pitching for tourism in Goa to be made more inclusive, it has sought development of the hinterlands for eco-tourism, village, adventure, forest, cultural tourism, among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/recruitment-for-govt-jobs-to-be-done-very-soon-says-cm/articleshow/75705872.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Chennai||Govt mulls new strategy as eight die across Tamil Nadu, Chennai records 510 Covid-19 cases||CHENNAI: Public health authorities sat down to revise their urban containment plan on Tuesday after Chennai recorded more than 500 new cases for the third day running and the state’s Covid-19 count rose to 8,718 with 716 more people infected. Eight deaths were also reported taking the toll to 61. Chennai’s 510 new cases pushed its total to 4,882, forcing senior officials and members of the expert committee to brainstorm for a plan to ensure compliance inside containment zones in north Chennai and improve contact tracing and testing in emerging zones in south Chennai. For instance, the team decided to recommend cutting down the quarantine period for those testing positive from 28 days to 14 days as per international protocol. “It is easier to convince people to stay inside their homes and follow stringent quarantine measures when it is for two weeks,” said Greater Chennai Corporation special nodal officer J Radhakrishnan. They are also mulling whether to declare an area as containment zone only when at least five family (about 25 people) test positive. At present, the civic body paints the area red even if one person tests positive. While the residence of the positive person will remain the epicentre, the area will not be declared a “no-go” zone. “If there are many cases on the same street or area, people may feel the need to follow rules. Else violations will be rampant. It is a burden on the civic agency and police, besides putting people at risk,” he said. On Monday, the Chennai map spread out by officials at the Greater Chennai Corporation showed new cases in the southern parts of the city such as Maduvankarai, Adambakkam, Nanganallur and Velachery. “Many people who have adequate facilities have been allowed home quarantine but we have told patients to take utmost care to ensure it doesn’t spread within the family or the neighbourhood. They should be ambassadors for a social movement,” said health secretary Beela Rajesh, after the discussions at the state secretariat. Tamil Nadu continues to see an increase in the TJ and Koyambedu clusters. On Sunday, there were 1,350 people in the TJ cluster, which rose to 1,365 on Monday. The cases in Koyambedu cluster numbered 2,553 on Monday. Cases outside these two clusters went up from 3,558 to 4,084. The break-up for Tuesday was still being worked out, officials said. On Tuesday, the case list has a doctor from the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital, a staff nurse from Omandurar Multispecialty Hospital, policemen, and journalists. All eight deaths announced on Tuesday, occurred in the last two days in three government medical college hospitals in Chennai. While four deaths were in Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital, three were in Kilpauk Medical College Hospital and one was recorded at the Stanley Medical College Hospital. “All of them had serious co-morbidities. They were patients with advanced stages of blood cancer, lung or brain disease. Others had diabetes and hypertension,” said the health secretary. The state has received protocol for clinical trial using the antiviral drug Remdesivir. “We have collected plasma from volunteers. The trial for plasma therapy will be done by three government hospitals,” said a senior doctor. On Tuesday, the number of people who were tested for the viral infection came down to 11,632 from 13,833 on May 8, after the state revised the testing strategy. “This was expected because the testing is focused now . But we are quarantining suspected patients at home or facility quarantine centres,” he said. Of the 22 districts that recorded new cases on Tuesday, Chennai's neighbours Chengalpattu recorded 35, Kancheepuram 24 and Tirvallur had 27 cases. Among others, Ariyalur recorded 36, Perambalur 27 and Tiruvanamalai had 13. The other districts registered a single digit increase.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/govt-mulls-new-strategy-as-8-die-across-tn-city-records-510-cases/articleshow/75705223.cms||Pushpa Narayan
May 13, 2020||Nashik||More doctors, nurses won’t be needed in rural areas: Officials||Nashik: Senior officials of the divisional heath department has turned down a request for additional doctors and nurses for rural areas of Nashik district, saying that the number of coronavirus patients is very much likely to come down. The request was made by the Nashik ZP health department officials, who have said that around 20 doctors and 40 nurses have been sent to Malegaon for treating coronavirus patients and that they would have to be quarantined for two weeks after they return from there. According to the officials, another 25 to 30 doctors and approximately 50 nurses who are treating patients at the Covid care centres at the taluka-level would also have to be quarantined for 14 days. Mallikarjun Patanshetty, the deputy director of health services of Nashik division, said that the need for additional doctors and nurses would not be felt. “After the state government’s revised policy on discharging patients with very mild and mild symptoms of Covid-19, the number of patients who are currently admitted at different covid care facilities would drop significantly in the coming days. Thus the need for additional doctors will not be felt. Things in the rural areas would get streamlined soon,” he said. A total of 85 Covid-19 positive patients have been found in the rural areas of the district, most of them in Yeola. Till Monday, 47 positive patients were taking treatment at the covid care centres and dedicated covid health care centres. Meanwhile, Ashas, multi-purpose health workers, have been keeping a watch in rural areas to check if anyone is showing symptoms of coronavirus. These workers immediately refer people with symptoms to the covid care centre for a thorough medical check-ups.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/more-doctors-nurses-wont-be-needed-in-rural-areas-officials/articleshow/75703069.cms||Santosh Sonawane
May 13, 2020||Aurangabad||BSNL staffers raise Rs 1.75L for contract workers going without pay for months||Aurangabad: A group of employees and officers of the Bharat Sanchar Nigam Ltd (BSNL) has collected Rs 1.75 lakh for contract workers employed with the company as these workers have not been paid since the last several months.Incidentally, owing to the decision of the central government, as many as 50% staffers of the BSNL have opted for voluntary retirement scheme (VRS) leaving a major gap in the workforce. During such times, the contract workers engaged by the telecom service provider have proved to be saviours. These contract workers ensure that the telecom service of company is run without hurdles during lockdown. Finding fault in cables and wires and repairing it, tower maintenance, customer service and other operations and maintenance works are done by these workers on contract. Many people are required to go to houses of customers, thus exposing themselves to Covid-19 infection.In Aurangabad district, there are 140 such workers with many providing services in rural and remote areas. Through a WhatsApp group of employees and officers of BSNL, it was decided that the workers will be helped through contribution. Subsequently, 51 current and retired officers and employees pooled in Rs 1.75 to aid for the workers. The group said that 60% of the funds distribution has been done through cheques, online transfer and cash while the remaining will be done in another two-three days. The initiative taken by the employee group has been appreciated by Maharashtra circle chief general manager MK Mishra and Aurangabad general manager YK Bansod.The officers, who contributed for the cause, preferred not to reveal their identity stating that this was a temporary relief provided to the workers considering the lockdown conditions. The employee union has said that these workers are waiting for their payments for the last four months. The union said that their payments should be cleared at the earliest because they are the backbone of the service.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/bsnl-staffers-raise-rs-1-75l-for-contract-workers-going-without-pay-for-months/articleshow/75703087.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Coimbatore||Class X students, teachers seek more preparation time before board exams||Coimbatore: The government and corporation school students, whose parents have lost their livelihoods following lockdown, say appearing for Class X board exams on June 1 might be a tough task for them. School education minister K A Sengottaiyan on Tuesday unveiled the plans to hold the exams, which were postponed in the wake of Covid-19 outbreak and the resultant lockdown, from June 1 to 12. Earlier, the exams were scheduled to be held from March 27. Pointing out that many of them have so far been helping their families tide over the hard times, students in the city said it would be difficult for them to write the exams fully prepared as they have only a little more than two weeks to brush up their lessons. Teachers, meanwhile, said they needed at least a month to hold revision classes for students. They also raised concerns over the students’ safety in exam halls and during travel, as the situation was yet to return to normalcy fully. N Gokul, a Class X student of an aided school in the city, said his father, a plumber, was out of job due to lockdown. “All these days, I have been helping my family. With our family still struggling, we don’t have enough time to get back to studies and prepare for exams. There are several students like me, whose families are struggling to pay house rent and meet other expenses,” he said. Some students of the city schools are stuck in their hometowns. They said they were not sure whether they could reach the city to appear for the exams, as there won’t be proper transport facilities. B Mahalakshmi said she was at her native place of Pongalur, near Palladam in Tirupur, where her father works as a loadman at the railway station. In the city, she was staying with her grandparents. She said her family was financially struggling and that she was not sure whether there would be proper transport to reach the city. “My books and notes are at my grandparents’ house. I am unsure whether I’ll be able to get there in time and start preparing for the exams.” Students said they were expecting the state to cancel the board exams. They said they could have been given grades and promoted based on their performance in half-yearly and revision tests. The situation, they said, was more complicated with the new syllabus and lack of blueprint for question papers. Now that the state is determined to conduct the board exams, the students said, they should at least be given two more weeks’ time for preparations. Teachers too expressed a similar view. T Arulanandam, a schoolteacher and auditor of Tamil Nadu High and Higher Secondary School Graduate Teacher Association, said their primary demand was to call off the exams in this time of crisis. “There were hints from the state that the exams would be held only around July. But now it is planning to hold the exams in June. It’s too short a notice. If the state wants to hold the exams, it should give more time.” Teachers said they wanted to know the students’ situation and prepare them mentally for the exams, besides refreshing the lessons. “We need to gather the students back in schools, counsel them and prepare them for exams. Presently, we don’t know how prepared they are and how they would reach the exam centres,” Arulanandam said. Other teachers’ associations have also urged the state to postpone the exams. P K Ilamaran, president of Tamil Nadu Teachers’ Association, said Covid-19 has not been brought under control completely and that the exams should be held only after the situation completely returned to normalcy, considering the safety of students.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/class-x-students-teachers-seek-more-preparation-time-before-board-exams/articleshow/75704395.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Surat||Diamond units see silver lining in Maha relaxation||Surat: The export of polished diamonds from the Bharat Diamond Bourse (BDB) and the Special Economic Zones (SEZs) in Mumbai is set to commence with the Maharashtra government allowing the operation of the diamond, gems and jewellery business with 10% of workforce for fulfilling the export commitments.Industry sources said that the Maharashtra government’s decision is a significant move as Mumbai houses Bharat Diamond Bourse and SEEPZ, two of India’s largest jewellery export designated zones.It must be noted that the Surat Hira Bourse (SHB) is already facilitating the export of polished diamonds from Surat to Hong Kong via Mumbai. In the last fortnight, about Rs 3,000 crore worth of diamonds have been exported by the diamond companies based in Surat and Mumbai to Hong Kong.It is believed that Bharat Diamond Bourse have received export interest applications from the members worth $550 million from 1,673 consignment parcels and SEEPZ has exported $10 million worth of diamond from 50 units in the first week of May 2020.Pramod Kumar Agrawal, Chairman, Gems and Jewellery Export Promotion Council (GJEPC) said, “We are thankful for the decision. Bharat Diamond Bourse and SEEPZ in Mumbai are major centres which has a huge backlog of orders.”President of Surat Diamond Association (SDA), Babu Kathiriya said, “Surat’s diamond trade is connected with Mumbai. Since the diamond manufacturing is shut in Surat, diamond export can resume from Mumbai.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/diamond-units-see-silver-lining-in-maha-relaxation/articleshow/75703083.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Police move govt for dedicated Covid hospital for personnel||Bhubaneswar: The commissionerate police has sent a proposal to the state government to set up dedicated Covid care facilities for policemen with 6,000 personnel running a high risk of infection as they are engaged in Covid duty in Bhubaneswar and Cuttack. The commissionerate police is worried over the high rate of Covid infection among police personnel in Maharashtra, including Mumbai police. Till now, no Covid-19 case has been reported from among the Odisha police personnel. “We will again discuss the issue with our state police headquarters and request the government as we have now come to know that Mumbai police have such facilities for their personnel,” commissioner of police Sudhanshu Sarangi told TOI while speaking about the video conference with Mumbai police on Monday evening. “We wanted to gain first-hand information from Mumbai police about the reasons behind the alarming spread of Covid-19 among policemen. We held a video conference with Mumbai joint commissioner of police (admin) Nawal Bajaj. He suggested that we should set up our own Covid care facilities. But we have already moved the government for it,” Sarangi said. Several senior officers of the commissionerate police interacted with Mumbai police in the video conference. “Often, knowing the actual causes gives us a better understanding of the reality. We expect our officers to be aware and act responsibly. The interaction was mainly to create awareness,” Sarangi said. In the meeting, the commissionerate police apprised the Mumbai police of its preparedness. Segregation of personnel with comorbid conditions, decongestion of barracks, operation of fever clinics with infra-red thermometers provided to all police stations and deployment of medical officers to monitor health conditions of cops are the key precautions adopted by the commissionerate police to keep its force free of infection. Additional commissioner of police Anup Kumar Sahoo said police personnel, who are being exposed to Covid hospitals and containment zones, have been undergoing RT-PCR test. “We regularly sensitise our personnel to maintain social distance at work place, barracks, homes and on streets. Personnel, who come in direct or indirect contact with Covid patients, are being sent on home isolation,” Sahoo said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/police-move-govt-for-dedicated-covid-hospital-for-personnel/articleshow/75703109.cms||Debabrata Mohapatra
May 13, 2020||Mangaluru||Woman, son test positive in Dakshina Kannada||MANGALURU: Two more persons tested positive for Covid-19 in Dakshina Kannada after a gap of 48 hours. The infected are a 50-year-old woman (P-878) and her 26-year-old son (P-877). Though they are from Karkala taluk in Udupi district, the woman was undergoing treatment at First Neuro Hospital, a supervised isolation centre in the city. The woman had shared the same room at First Neuro Hospital with P-507, an octogenarian, who was being treated for neurological issues. Dr Ramachandra Bairy, district health officer said, “She had shared the room with P-507 for a week from April 21 and her swab reports came positive on Tuesday. She has been shifted from First Neuro Hospital to district Wenlock Hospital, designated Covid hospital as per protocol,” he said. Her son came in contact with not only P-507, but also P-432, who too was in the same room. With this, the total active cases in DK has gone up to 16.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/woman-son-test-positive-in-dk/articleshow/75703107.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad rural police begin patrolling along train tracks||AURANGABAD: To keep a tab on people attempting to walk along railway tracks, Aurangabad rural police have started patrolling all tracks passing through the limits of various police stations. To ensure strict vigilance, especially after the death of 16 migrant workers on the morning of May 8, Aurangabad (rural) superintendent of police Mokshada Patil has issued instructions to police teams to deploy drone cameras for the purpose. Following the accident, senior officials,including divisional commissioner Sunil Kendkrekar and Aurangabad range special IGP Ravinder Kumar Singal, advised the authorities to ensure patrolling on railway tracks which often remain unguarded, an officer said requesting anonymity. Sources said that the police station chiefs have been asked to co-ordinate with the railway police and the GRP for ensuring that people do not step on railway tracks. Railway tracks covering about 100 km pass through the limits of four police stations — Karmad, Chikalthana, Vaijapur and Sillegaon. Chikalthana police station’s assistant inspector Mahesh Andhale said, “As per the instructions, we have started patrolling the railway tracks at regular intervals.” Sources said that patrolling is being carried out during the day and extra vigilance is being maintained at night. Karmad police station, under whose limits the train accident took place, is found walking an extra mile to prevent any further tragic accident on the tracks. “Such serious accidents do not happen daily, but we need to take extra precautions that prevent even that one accident in future,” said an officer attached to the Karmad police station. To ensure that patrolling is carried out without any fail, senior officers have ordered maintaining a record of railway track patrolling similar to the one maintained by the beat marshals and police patrolling teams.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/police-begin-patrolling-along-train-tracks/articleshow/75703120.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Pregnant techie made to wait five hours for signature at border||BENGALURU: A pregnant techie from Bengaluru was forced to wait five hours allegedly for a local tahsildar’s signature at a Covid-19 testing camp at HD Kote taluk of Mysuru district on Tuesday soon after crossing the Bavali checkpost on Karnataka-Kerala border. This despite the woman having valid transit papers to enter the state. She finally reached Bengaluru after a 10-hour ordeal and was placed in quarantine along with her family members. Saritha and Nirmal (names changed), both software engineers who stay in Sarjapur, are awaiting their first child. The couple had travelled to Nirmal’s parents home in Thrissur, Kerala, on March 19 to share the news in person. But before they could drive back, the nationwide lockdown was announced. Finally, private firm employee Saritha, her husband and parents-in-law managed to obtain online passes from both the states and drove towards Bengaluru. On Tuesday morning, they crossed the Bavali checkpost in their SUV driven by Nirmal, only to be intercepted after a few kilometres at a temporary Covid-19 camp in HD Kote taluk. “Our temperature was taken, hands were stamped with a ‘home quarantine till May 26’ seal and we were asked to wait till the tahsildar arrived to sign our forms for movement towards Bengaluru,” the pregnant IT professional told TOI over phone at 11.05am. Shockingly, the authorities made Saritha and her family wait till 4pm, when the tahsildar finally arrived. “The long wait was traumatising. Luckily, I was carrying all my medicines. I’m extremely tired but will pull through as I want to somehow reach Bengaluru,” the woman said after the family was allowed to leave. The camp, a key entry point for people travelling from Kerala to Karnataka, lacks basic facilities, including food, water and adequate seating. It is not even disabled friendly, Saritha claimed. “I saw a physically challenged person struggling. He had no choice but to wait for the officer like us,” she added. Long wait a daily affairSources said the authorities are delaying civilian vehicle movement so that a larger number can be escorted by a single police vehicle from Bavali to the Bidadi border. There is no consideration for elders, children and pregnant women, who are forced to wait for hours at the camp every day. Even after leaving the camp, Saritha and her family didn’t have it easy as their vehicle was among 30-odd cars headed to Bengaluru and reached the Bidadi checkpoint after a gruelling four-hour drive. They were told to wait for the assistant commissioner of police, she said. An officer from Bengaluru finally arrived at the checkpoint at 9pm only to deny the woman’s plea for home quarantine. “We were shown a list of five-star hotels and told to pick one for quarantine. When I raised questions, the officer got furious and told me he would write a pass and we could all drive back to Kerala immediately,” lamented the techie, who chose a hotel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/pregnant-techie-made-to-wait-5-hours-for-signature-at-border/articleshow/75704403.cms||Petlee Peter
May 13, 2020||Nagpur||No off day for medical professionals, 50% pay cut instead||Nagpur: Be it regular weekly offs, gazetted holidays or routine leaves, several government hospital doctors, paramedics, civic medical officers as well as workers, public health department employees and officials requisitioned from other departments haven’t been able to avail a single leave in the last two months. The medical and health professionals are in fact clocking more than regular working hours, which sometimes extends up to 16 hours a day. Many have also not been able to meet their families since March 11 when the city recorded its first Covid-19 positive patient from Laxmi Nagar. The precedent of work without a break has been set right from the top. Divisional commissioner Dr Sanjeev Kumar, municipal commissioner Tukaram Munde, deputy director of health services Dr Sanjay Jaiswal, district collector Ravindra Thakre, civil surgeon Dr Devendra Paturkar, district health officer Dr Deepak Selokar, GMCH dean Dr Sajal Mitra, IGGMCH dean Dr Ajay Keoliya, GMCH medical superintendent Dr Aviansh Gawande and IGGMCH deputy medical superintendent Dr Sagar Pandey are among those at top level who have been working to control conronavirus spread round the clock. Almost the entire staff of Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s (NMC) health department led by Dr Yogendra Sawai has been busy in multiple tasks involving contact tracing, quarantining suspects, door-to-door surveys and containment drives. The NMC teams of medical officers have also been exposed to Covid-19 positive patients like government hospital doctors and paramedics. The exposure forced many of them like doctors and nurses either to stay away from their families at a private hotel, which opened its doors for Covid-19 warriors, or find alternate accommodation in their own locality. The fight against Covid-19 being a joint effort, the deputy medical superintendent from regional mental hospital too has been monitoring quarantine centres. Asked if they felt like taking a break, an NMC medical officer (MO) said, “There is no option. We have to work to ensure things do not go out of control.” Appearing short of rest and proper sleep, the MO said the mass quarantine drives would go on till 3am. A government hospital doctor said his family is disappointed as he has isolated himself. “I don’t go home any more as there is a risk of my family members catching the infection in case I get infected. I live in a small room near my home,” he said, adding that it is just to catch brief spells of rest. Amid the exacting occupational challenges, the government announced a 50% pay cut. “Our workload has increased manifold but we were handed a 50% pay cut. It does impact our mindset but ultimately the goal is to win the battle against corona,” said another medical officer. A public health department officer said there were a couple of public holidays and auspicious occasions. “While we have forgotten what a weekly off is, on public holidays too we couldn’t afford to stay away from work,” he said. Just like others, both the deans too remain in office till 10pm or even late, said officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/no-off-day-for-medical-professionals-50-pay-cut-instead/articleshow/75705222.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
May 13, 2020||Coimbatore||On buses, at stations, not much social distancing||Coimbatore: With train services resuming to their home states from Coimbatore and Tirupur, guest workers who are stranded in these districts are a happy lot. Now, the question is whether the district administrations are ensuring physical distancing among the guest workers while transporting them back home. Apparently, both the district administrations have been a failure in this front, if not fully. To ensure the safety of guest workers, seating arrangements in trains are made keeping in mind physical distancing norms. However, the norms are thrown to the wind while transporting them in special buses and at railway stations. On Tuesday, two more trains left for Bihar from the two districts and the scenario wasn’t any different. At least 10,400 guest workers have registered to travel back home from Tirupur, where they are staying in various parts of the district. On Saturday (May 10), 1,140 guest workers were brought to Jaivabai Municipal Girls’ Higher Secondary School in Tirupur by the district administration where they were screened by the health department. Later, they were provided food, water bottles and other essentials and taken to the railway station. In all these stages, there was no adherence to physical distancing norms. Another 720 guest workers had left for their hometowns in two private buses the same day. The seating arrangements were not in compliance with the norms. In the second phase, 1,464 guest workers were brought to the school in government buses and other vehicles on Tuesday morning. The physical distancing norms were not followed while ferrying them in buses. The situation wasn’t any different on the school premises and at railway station, where they moved around in close proximity. After the medical screening, the guest workers walked to Tirupur railway junction, from where they boarded the special train to Muzaffarpur in Bihar. Tirupur collector K Vijayakarthikeyan said the district administration was in the process to send the guest workers from Odisha, Jharkhand and Uttar Pradesh to their hometowns. “We are also taking steps to transport guest workers from Sikkim, Mizoram and Meghalaya to Chennai for a connecting train to their home states. Some guest workers are, however, staying back for work.” Pointing out that the district has moved to the orange zone from the red, Vijayakarthikeyan requested the public to cooperate with them in containing the spread of Covid-19. The district administration has organized a screening camp for volunteers, who fight against the novel coronavirus, at the Jaivabai Municipal Girls’ Higher Secondary School. The district administration in Coimbatore too has been bringing guest workers to the railway junction in government buses by throwing physical distancing norms to the wind. They were crammed into the bus, in which they were made to wait before their train departed from the city around 4pmm on Tuesday. Meanwhile, many guest workers, who haven’t registered online, gathered at the underpass at Lanka Corner in Coimbatore on Tuesday to catch a train back home. Police advised them to approach village administrative officers to register their names and asked them to disperse. However, the guest workers didn’t understand anything as the medium of language was Tamil. An official at the collectorate said, “The district administration and police should deploy Hindi speaking officials for proper communication. Only then, they could avoid such crowds.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/on-buses-at-stations-not-much-social-distancing/articleshow/75705235.cms||A Subburaj
May 13, 2020||Nashik||5 policemen suspended for negligence of duty||Nashik: Five policemen — three constables and two head constables — attached with Deolali Camp police station have been suspended for negligence of duty. According to police, these policemen have been held responsible for not keeping a watch on an externed criminal who was involved in a firing incident on Saturday night. Deputy commissioner of police (Zone II) Vijay Kharat said "The suspect, Sunny Kadam, was externed from the city on November 2019. However, he was involved in a shooting at a person in Hadola area of the city on Saturday night. Due to this we have suspended the five policemen." As many as four suspects have been arrested by Deolali Camp police for shooting at a 23-year-old man late on Saturday. “The victim, Yashodhan Pawar alias Bittu, is son of a former Deolali Cantonment Board (DCB) corporator and has been admitted to a private hospital where his condition is said to be stable,” a police officer said. “Around 10.30pm on Saturday, Pawar was roaming around near his residence in Hadola when four suspects came there and got into an altercation with him. The altercation escalated in no time following which one Sunny Kadam, an externed criminal, took out a country-made firearm and shot at Pawar. The four suspects were arrested by the police within four to five hours. Meanwhile, Pawar was rushed to a private hospital for the bullet injury on his thigh,” he added. On Sunday, the suspects were produced before a local court that remanded them in police custody till May 14. A senior police officer said they are taking strict action against criminals on police record and those with two or more criminal cases are externed from the city and district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/5-policemen-suspended-for-negligence-of-duty/articleshow/75703113.cms||Santosh Sonawane
May 13, 2020||Surat||Covid tracking app must for ‘outsiders’||Surat: About 29 new Covid-19 cases were recorded in Surat city on Tuesday which took their total number to 927. As many as nine cases were detected in Limbayat zone, a Covid-19 hotspot. Of the total 927 Covid-19 cases recorded in the city, this zone alone accounts for 361. Meanwhile, Vishnu Patel, 54, a resident of Bhatar, succumbed to the virus. This has taken the toll due to Covid-19 in the city to 39 even as seven more Covid-19 patients were discharged on Tuesday. “A total of 535 Covid-19 patients have been discharged until Tuesday, showing recovery rate in Surat city to be 57.7 per cent,’’ municipal commissioner Banchhanidhi Pani said.“People coming to Surat city from outside will have to adhere to existing guidelines and will be home quarantined. They will have to download SMC Covid-19 tracker app on their mobile phones and fill up necessary details asked by it,’’ Pani said.“If anyone is found hiding his or her health details, the civic body will take action against the violator. Police complaint will be filed against him or her,’’ Pani added.Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) officials said over 3,000 people have arrived in Surat city from other places in the past few days.“I request the presidents of all the residential societies to remain vigilant and inform on the civic body’s toll free number if any of their resident is found violating home quarantine rules,’’ Pani said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/covid-tracking-app-must-for-outsiders/articleshow/75703119.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Patna||We’ll take care of you: Nitish govt to shattered migrants||PATNA: Pramod Rai, a migrant worker from Daraudha in Siwan district, has vowed not to go back to Ahmedabad in Gujarat where he worked in a textile mill on a monthly salary of Rs 14,000. Rai, in his early 40s, reached home on May 3 with five others on three motorbikes after a harrowing 2,200km journey. “The factory will remain shut for six months and you will not be paid any salary without work,” Rai quoted the factory owner as saying after the nationwide lockdown was announced. They were asked to vacate the premises immediately. Humiliated, the six of them somehow survived on their meagre savings and decided to take the risk of taking the long ride home. It took six days for them to reach Siwan rom Ahmedabad on their motorbikes. “We were stopped by cops on the inter-state check posts but we somehow managed to convince them narrating our ordeal. Now, I don’t want to go back again,” Rai said. The group attributed their decision not to go back to the hardship after the lockdown, the ill-treatment and sheer neglect by their employers. “It is more because of the humiliation and untold hardship that changed our mind and we have now decided not to go outside the state again,” said Vinod Singh, (48), who returned to his village under Mahua sub-division in Vaishali district. Echoing similar views, Raman Shahi, (23), who returned from Kerala to his native Muzaffarpur, said, “Ab hamne bahar jane ka maja chakh liya hai (We have learnt a lesson). The Bihari migrants are looked down upon by employers despite their contribution in their economic growth.” There are hundreds like them, who are now unwilling to return to their places of work even after the lockdown ends. “No place is better than home. I will prefer to die here but not go outside the state in search of a job again,” said Harivansh Chaudhary of Darbhanga, who returned from Mumbai on foot walking for nearly a month. Till Monday, a little over 1.24 lakh migrant workers returned to their respective home districts by special trains from different cities across the country. Though providing job opportunities will be a tough task for the migrant workers returning home from different states like Punjab, Haryana, Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Maharashtra, New Delhi, Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh, the state government is confident of tackling the situation. State industries minister Shyam Rajak said, “The state government has initiated the process of creating more and more job opportunities for the returning migrant daily wage earners. The government machinery is already on the job and you will see the results in the days to come.” State rural development minister Shrawan Kumar also echoed similar views. “The state government is trying its level best to convert adversity into opportunity. The government is very sensitive towards the problem of migrant workers returning from outside,” he added. Prof D M Diwakar, former director of AN Sinha Institute of Social Studies, however, presented a very grim picture of the situation. “It will be a challenging task for the state government to provide employment to the returning migrants. There are no big industries, while the agriculture sector has largely become dependable on technologies over the years. Moreover, they are coming at a time when the Rabi crops have already been harvested and Kharif season is at least three months away.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/well-take-care-of-you-nitish-govt-to-shattered-migrants/articleshow/75704074.cms||Ramashankar
May 13, 2020||Bareilly||Uttar Pradesh: Wild boar attacks couple, man dies, wife critical||BAREILLY: A wild boar attacked and seriously injured a farmer and his wife at Mahaudurg village in Shahjahanpur's Sindhauliare area on Monday night. Both were rushed to hospital, where the man succumbed to injuries while his wife's condition is stated to be critical. The aggrieved family members and local villagers have demanded action and compensation. Farmers claimed that the population of wild boars and nilgai had increased alarmingly in the district. The deceased was identified as Govardhan (55). Villagers claimed that he and his wife, Mulli Devi, were going to their agricultural field in the evening when a wild boar suddenly emerged from the bushes and attacked them. Hearing their cries, villagers rushed to their aid. The couple was immediately taken to hospital. Village head Hari Ram Verma said, “This is the second wild boar attack within a week. We have asked the forest department to save us from wild boars but no action has so far been taken." Sub divisional officer (forest) MN Singh told TOI, “A man was killed in a wild boar attack. His family will be awarded Rs 5 lakh as compensation under the State Calamity Act.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/wild-boar-attacks-couple-man-dies-wife-critical/articleshow/75704402.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
May 13, 2020||Bhubaneswar||HC issues notice to govt on plea seeking reopening of Cuttack booze shops||CUTTACK: The Orissa high court on Tuesday issued a notice to the state government over a petition seeking reopening of liquor shops in Cuttack city. Prakash Kumar Routray and two other residents of the city filed a PIL requesting the high court to direct the government to allow the sale of liquor online and offline within the Cuttack Municipal Corporation area. The petition was taken up for hearing through video conference. Advocate Biplab Bahali argued the case for the petitioner. After a preliminary hearing, the division bench of chief justice Mohammad Rafiq and justice S K Mishra posted the matter to Thursday for hearing, along with the response of the state government. Although the Centre has allowed the sale of liquor, the state government has not yet come out with a specific notification allowing alcohol shops to reopen. The petition said keeping liquor shops closed had led to the sale of alcohol on the black market. It also expressed fear that this would cause a spurt in the consumption of spurious liquor. Not allowing the sale of liquor has also led to the state losing revenue, the petition alleged. In 2019-2020, the sale of liquor had reportedly brought the state Rs 5,600 crore in excise and VAT. For 2020-21, the state had set a target of Rs 6,600 crore from liquor sale.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/hc-issues-notice-to-govt-on-plea-seeking-reopening-of-cuttack-booze-shops/articleshow/75703137.cms||lalmohan.patnaik
May 13, 2020||Nashik||155 Covid-19 patients discharged in district||Nashik: As many as 155 Covid-19 patients were discharged from different hospitals in the district on Tuesday. While one patient is from Nashik rural the remaining patients are from Malegaon. This is the biggest number of discharged Covid-19 patients after the state government declared the new guidelines regarding discharging patients with mild and very mild symptoms. Currently, 441 patients are admitted in various Covid care hospitals across the district, a maximum number of them from Malegaon. As per the latest reports from the district administration, a total of 701 Covid-19 patients have been found in the district out of which 227 have recovered with 33 succumbing to the infection and the remaining 441 are being treated in different hospitals. According to the new guidelines patients with mild, very mild or pre-symptomatic symptoms are admitted to a Covid care facility and they will undergo regular temperature and pulse oximetry monitoring. The patients can be discharged after 10 days of onset of the symptoms and if there has been no fever for three days. There will be no need for testing prior to the discharge. At the time of discharge, the patients will be advised home isolation for a further seven days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/155-covid-19-patients-discharged-in-district/articleshow/75703136.cms||Santosh Sonawane
May 13, 2020||Coimbatore||In this virtual exhibition, people can showcase their rare objects||Coimbatore: When most of the celebrations remain low-key or cancelled due to the nation-wide lockdown, the government museum in the city has come up with an innovative way to celebrate the International Museum Day which falls on May 18. Museum officials have asked people from Coimbatore and Tirupur districts to send pictures of rare objects or treasured family heirlooms, along with a brief description, for a contest, ‘My Artefacts’. These pictures will be showcased in a virtual exhibition in the museum’s social media pages. The museum’s curator C Sivakumar said they wanted to reach out to the public amid the lockdown. “As we can’t bring people to the museum, we thought of having them send their artefacts to us, so that we could put together a sort of a virtual exhibition,” he said. “We didn’t want to remain idle, at the same time we also wanted to involve the public,” he said. Some people might have an interesting object or some might collect artefacts as a hobby, which they might want to show to others, Sivakumar said. “It might be a nut-cracker or a mortar-pestle used by their grandparents or any such object. People can click a picture of the object and along its description, usage, and their own personal details, send it to us through WhatsApp, Telegram or e-mail,” he said. These pictures will be uploaded in the museum’s Facebook page on May 18. “After the lockdown is lifted, we will also give certificates to participants,” the curator said. Interested people can send in their entries before Saturday to the WhatsApp number 8680958340, or to the Telegram app profile ‘Govt Museum Cbe’, or mail it to kovaimuseum@gmail.com. For further details, contact 8680958340, 8072351388.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/in-this-virtual-exhibition-people-can-showcase-their-rare-objects/articleshow/75704408.cms||---
May 13, 2020||India||Coronavirus cases doubling time slows down to 12.2 days from 10.9||NEW DELHI: Even as the number of Covid-19 cases continues to increase, the doubling time has slowed to 12.2 days over the last three days from 10.9 days in the past 14 days, health minister Harsh Vardhan said on Tuesday, highlighting the need for enhanced surveillance and contact tracing in view of migrants and expats returning home. In the last 24 hours, 3,604 new cases were added, taking the number of confirmed cases to 70,756. Of these, 22,455 people have been cured and 2,293 have died. Vardhan said the fatality rate was 3.2% while the recovery rate was progressively increasing and stood at 31.74%. The doubling time had deteriorated last week after some states like Maharashtra, Gujarat and the national capital of Delhi reported significant increase in cases. On May 7, the health ministry had reported doubling rate of 10.2 days. Following the significant change in doubling time, the health ministry had deputed central teams to these areas to strengthen containment measures and assist state governments in controlling the spread of the disease. Reviewing measures for management of Covid-19 cases in Jammu & Kashmir, Ladakh, Uttarakhand and Himachal Pradesh with junior health minister Ashwini Choubey, Vardhan asked states and UTs to focus on surveillance, testing, contact tracing and timely treatment of all returnees. He suggested that the Aarogya Setu app be made compulsory for all returnees for better surveillance and suitable medical interventions, the ministry said. Vardhan also stressed on ramping up surveillance for severe acute respiratory infections (SARI) and influenza like illness (ILI), which will help in identifying hidden infections at an early stage.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/coronavirus-cases-doubling-time-slows-down-to-12-2-days-from-10-9/articleshow/75706726.cms||Sushmi Dey
May 13, 2020||Ranchi||13 liquor shops sealed in Gumla over complaints of illegal sale||GUMLA: The district authorities sealed 13 liquor shops here on charges of illegally selling booze during lockdown. The director of the District Rural Development Agency (DRDA), Hyder Ali, said, “We got information that a few shops were clandestinely selling liquor for the last few days. Following a probe, 13 shops in Raidih, Palkot and Basia were sealed. A formal FIR will be lodged against the shop owners after verifying their stock and sale registers.” Sale of liquor is banned across the state since imposition of the lockdown in March. Although, some states have begun home delivery of liquor or allowed resumption of operations citing heavy revenue losses, the Jharkhand government has not yet lifted prohibition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/13-liquor-shops-sealed-in-gumla-over-complaints-of-illegal-sale/articleshow/75704164.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Ranchi||11 test positive in Jharkhand, all are returning migrants||RANCHI/JAMSHEDPUR/HAZARIBAG/BOKARO: Jharkhand on Tuesday recorded 11 positive cases of the novel coronavirus, taking the state’s tally to 173. All positive cases detected on Tuesday are migrants who had returned home from various parts of country on Shramik special trains or by their own transport. On the other hand, Rims in Ranchi said one person has made a full recovery. Meanwhile, East Singhbhum and Latehar became the 14th and 15th of the 24 districts in the state to have positive coronavirus cases. Two youngsters who recently returned to their homes in Nagar Pachayat area of Chakulia in the fringes of the Steel City from Kolkata on May 9 tested positive for Covid-19. In Latehar, a 22-year-old migrant who returned from Hyderabad on a special train is the tribal-dominated district’s first patient, DC Zeeshan Qamer said. Jharkhand, which had registered a dip in the number new cases in the last week of April, is now witnessing a spike in the number of patients with several returning migrants testing positive. The state registered 12 cases in the seven days between April 28 and May 4, but the figure is 58 for the eight days since. Of these, 48 are migrants who have returned to their homes. Of the 11 fresh cases, six are workers from Mumbai, two have returned from Kolkata. Two are passengers who reached the state on special trains from Surat and Vellore. State health secretary Nitin Madan Kulkarni said: “We detected 11 positive cases — six from Hazaribag, two from East Singhbhum and one each in Latehar, Ranchi and Giridih districts. All are migrants who have returned from various states.” In Hazaribag, the six had returned on May 8 by a bus from Mumbai. They were kept in a quarantine centre in Kasturba Gandhi Vidyalaya in Bishnugarh block. “They are between 38 and 45 years of age and are residents of different villages under this block. They had come along with 30 others from Mumbai on May 8. They are being shifted to Hazaribag Medical College and Hospital,” Hazaribag DC Bhuvnesh Prasad Singh said. In East Singhbhum, the two youngsters — a 25-year-old female professional and a 23-year-old pursuing higher studies — had travelled to Chakulia in separate cars. The swab samples of the two, along with that of a relative who had travelled with him, were tested at the microbiology department of MGM Medical College and Hospital in Jamshedpur. The sample of the third person returned negative. East Singhbhum is the home district of state health minister Banna Gupta. East Singbhum DC Ravi Shankar Shukla said, “Fifteen members of both the families have been admitted to TMH for check-up. Around 30 other residents of Chakulia who came in contact with the two in the last three days have been put under quarantine. Some areas in Chakulia have been sealed for a sanitisation drive.” Civil surgeon Maheshwar Prasad said geo-mapping of the two will be done for contact tracing. “A house-to-house survey will be conducted in the area to collect information pertaining to the travel history and health condition of the respondents. The movement of residents will be regulated for a fortnight,” Prasad said. Giridih and Ranchi too detected one case and both are migrants who returned home three days ago. In Giridih, a 22-year-old man from Gandey block who had returned on May 7 by a special train detected positive. “He had travelled on the special train from Surat to Dhanbad and then reached Giridih by a bus. He was at a quarantine centre and is being shifted to hospital,” said Giridih Civil Siurgeon Awadesh Kumar Sinha. Notably, four others who had travelled on same train from Surat have tested positive for the virus in last two days. In Ranchi, a 20-year-old woman who returned from Vellore in Tamil Nadu has tested positive. “She is a resident of Pipartoli in Argora who had returned to Ranchi by a special train for patients and caregivers. She was sent put under home quarantine after screening. We are shifting her to RIMS for treatment,” said Ranchi SDM Lokesh Mishra. Meanwhile, a resident of Ghatshila, who was not adhering to home quarantine rules, was shifted to an institutional quarantine centre on Tuesday. A district official said, “A 22-year-old from Barakurshi village, who was put under home quarantine following his return from Rairangpur in Odisha last week, was frequently coming out of his house. On receiving complaints from his neighbours, we shifted him to a quarantine centre at the block office. We will lodge cases under relevant sections of the Epidemic Diseases Act against all those who don’t follow home quarantine rules.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/11-test-positive-in-jharkhand-all-are-returning-migrants/articleshow/75704142.cms||Gaurav Pandey
May 13, 2020||Ranchi||BSL taps international market to tide over slump in domestic sector||Bokaro: In a major confidence booster for steel major Bokaro Steel Plant (BSL) amid the prevailing economic gloom, the PSU has received an order to produce 3,000 tonnes of steel from Nepal. This is the first such development for BSL since the nationwide lockdown was imposed in March. BSL is also, reportedly, in the final stages of finalising orders from African, middle-eastern and European countries, officials said. “Our steel products are getting demand from overseas,” a BSL official said. Owing to the Covid-19 crisis, production was brought down to around 50% of the capacity. BSL chief of communication, Manikant Dhan, said, “Efforts are on to tap the overseas markets for our products like hot rolled coils, cold rolled coils, hot rolled plates and sheets. We are getting good response from countries like UAE, Sri Lanka, Nepal, Bangladesh, Taiwan, Vietnam, Mozambique and some European countries. We are now putting more emphasis on exports than earlier.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/bsl-taps-international-market-to-tide-over-slump-in-domestic-sector/articleshow/75704084.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Ranchi||Muslim bodies seek lockdown extension to avoid Eid crowding||Ranchi: Several Muslim outfits in the state have written to the government authorities seeking extension of the lockdown till May 31. They said reopening of markets could lead overcrowding ahead of Eid next week and result in a spike in the number of Covid-19 cases. In a letter to chief minister Hemant Soren, city-based Muslim group All Jharkhand Ekta Manch, said, “There are chances that social distancing norms will be violated if the lockdown is lifted and people come out of their homes for Eid shopping. We demand that the lockdown be extended till May 31.” The outfit said there should be no relaxations in any area whether they are red, orange or green zones. The outfit’s secretary Abu Bakar Ansari said, “If the government provides relaxations mentioned in the guidelines for Lockdown 3.0, there will be a great risk as movement of trains has also begun.” Another prominent Muslim outfit, Anjuman Islamia, has also appealed to the people to celebrate Eid in a simple way. Shahid Akhtar, a senior member of group, urged the community to tone down celebrations by staying at home, not crowding markets. He said, “The pandemic has forced all of us to change our customs. Muslims are observing Ramzan and offering namaz at home. We must celebrate the festival of Eid, too, in a similar manner respecting the lockdown and social-distancing guidelines.” Socio-religious body, Emarat-e-Sharia, however, said they will soon take a call on issue soon. Md Anwar Qasim of Emarat e Sharia said, “It is too early to say if the lockdown should be extended. We will not make a comment on it right now.” Eid, the most important Muslim festival, is to be celebrated in the fourth week of May. But owing to the pandemic, mosques are shut during Ramzan, special evening prayers have been cancelled and there are no iftar congregations at local mosques for the poor. People are offering namaz at home. On Friday, the Bengal Imams’ Association, a body of several imams and muezzins from mosques across the state, asked Bengal CM Mamata Banerjeeto extend the lockdown till the end of May to achieve the “desired result” of containing the virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/muslim-bodies-seek-lockdown-extension-to-avoid-eid-crowding/articleshow/75703997.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Jamshedpur||11 test positive in Jharkhand, all are returning migrants||RANCHI/JAMSHEDPUR/HAZARIBAG/BOKARO: Jharkhand on Tuesday recorded 11 positive cases of the novel coronavirus, taking the state’s tally to 173. All positive cases detected on Tuesday are migrants who had returned home from various parts of country on Shramik special trains or by their own transport. On the other hand, Rims in Ranchi said one person has made a full recovery. Meanwhile, East Singhbhum and Latehar became the 14th and 15th of the 24 districts in the state to have positive coronavirus cases. Two youngsters who recently returned to their homes in Nagar Pachayat area of Chakulia in the fringes of the Steel City from Kolkata on May 9 tested positive for Covid-19. In Latehar, a 22-year-old migrant who returned from Hyderabad on a special train is the tribal-dominated district’s first patient, DC Zeeshan Qamer said. Jharkhand, which had registered a dip in the number new cases in the last week of April, is now witnessing a spike in the number of patients with several returning migrants testing positive. The state registered 12 cases in the seven days between April 28 and May 4, but the figure is 58 for the eight days since. Of these, 48 are migrants who have returned to their homes. Of the 11 fresh cases, six are workers from Mumbai, two have returned from Kolkata. Two are passengers who reached the state on special trains from Surat and Vellore. State health secretary Nitin Madan Kulkarni said: “We detected 11 positive cases — six from Hazaribag, two from East Singhbhum and one each in Latehar, Ranchi and Giridih districts. All are migrants who have returned from various states.” In Hazaribag, the six had returned on May 8 by a bus from Mumbai. They were kept in a quarantine centre in Kasturba Gandhi Vidyalaya in Bishnugarh block. “They are between 38 and 45 years of age and are residents of different villages under this block. They had come along with 30 others from Mumbai on May 8. They are being shifted to Hazaribag Medical College and Hospital,” Hazaribag DC Bhuvnesh Prasad Singh said. In East Singhbhum, the two youngsters — a 25-year-old female professional and a 23-year-old pursuing higher studies — had travelled to Chakulia in separate cars. The swab samples of the two, along with that of a relative who had travelled with him, were tested at the microbiology department of MGM Medical College and Hospital in Jamshedpur. The sample of the third person returned negative. East Singhbhum is the home district of state health minister Banna Gupta. East Singbhum DC Ravi Shankar Shukla said, “Fifteen members of both the families have been admitted to TMH for check-up. Around 30 other residents of Chakulia who came in contact with the two in the last three days have been put under quarantine. Some areas in Chakulia have been sealed for a sanitisation drive.” Civil surgeon Maheshwar Prasad said geo-mapping of the two will be done for contact tracing. “A house-to-house survey will be conducted in the area to collect information pertaining to the travel history and health condition of the respondents. The movement of residents will be regulated for a fortnight,” Prasad said. Giridih and Ranchi too detected one case and both are migrants who returned home three days ago. In Giridih, a 22-year-old man from Gandey block who had returned on May 7 by a special train detected positive. “He had travelled on the special train from Surat to Dhanbad and then reached Giridih by a bus. He was at a quarantine centre and is being shifted to hospital,” said Giridih Civil Siurgeon Awadesh Kumar Sinha. Notably, four others who had travelled on same train from Surat have tested positive for the virus in last two days. In Ranchi, a 20-year-old woman who returned from Vellore in Tamil Nadu has tested positive. “She is a resident of Pipartoli in Argora who had returned to Ranchi by a special train for patients and caregivers. She was sent put under home quarantine after screening. We are shifting her to RIMS for treatment,” said Ranchi SDM Lokesh Mishra. Meanwhile, a resident of Ghatshila, who was not adhering to home quarantine rules, was shifted to an institutional quarantine centre on Tuesday. A district official said, “A 22-year-old from Barakurshi village, who was put under home quarantine following his return from Rairangpur in Odisha last week, was frequently coming out of his house. On receiving complaints from his neighbours, we shifted him to a quarantine centre at the block office. We will lodge cases under relevant sections of the Epidemic Diseases Act against all those who don’t follow home quarantine rules.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/11-test-positive-in-jharkhand-all-are-returning-migrants/articleshow/75715142.cms||Gaurav Pandey
May 13, 2020||Ranchi||Court rejects bail plea of 16 foreigners with TJ links||Ranchi: The court of the Chief Judicial Magistrate (CJM), Faheem Kirmani, on Tuesday rejected THE bail plea of 16 foreign members of the Tablighi Jamaat, who were arrested from Ranchi’s Hindpiri area for violation of visa rules and lockdown norms. A case under Sections 188, 269, 270 and 271 of the IPC, Section 3 of the Epidemic Disease Act, Sections 13 and14 (b) and (c) of Foreigners Act and Section 51 of National Disaster Management Act was filed against the Jamaat members for staying illegally at a mosque in Hindpiri. The court, however, granted bail to Haji Meraj, a local who was booked under the sections of IPC and the Epidemic Act. In March, police received a tip-off and found 17 persons, 16 of whom were foreign nationals from UK, Holland, Trinidad, Zambia and Malaysia, staying at a mosque in Hindpiri. Later, out of the 16 foreigners, a 22-year-old Malaysian woman tested positive for Covid-19 and was recorded as the first case of the virus in Jharkhand. While the woman underwent treatment at Rims, while others were sent to an isolation centre. All, including the woman, after being cured, have now been lodged at a temporary jail at Khelgaon in Hotwar. Assistant public prosecutor Pushpa Sinha said, “During the hearing, I argued that the foreigners violated the visa rules. I said while the accused had come to the country on a tourist visa, they engaged in religious activities. I also pointed out that Section 13 and 14 are non-bailable.” In another development, an ED court in Ranchi rejected the bail petition of Sanjivini Builcon director Shyam Kishore Gupta in a case related to money laundering. Lawyer S R Das informed that Gupta along with other directors have been accused of collecting around Rs 65 crore from people in the name of providing them either land or houses only to later siphon off the money.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/court-rejects-bail-plea-of-16-foreigners-with-tj-links/articleshow/75704030.cms||Sanjay Sahay
May 13, 2020||Vijayawada||Even at peak, social distancing can lower transmission rate, says study||Visakhapatnam: The Covid-19 infections may reach its peak after August in Andhra Pradesh even if the lockdown is extended to May 31, predicts an epidemiological modelling-based research conducted by the Indian Institute of Management-Visakhapatnam. The study indicates that the transmissions will be threefold at the peak with no social distancing, against the Covid-19 numbers with minimal social distancing. But if the lockdown ends on May 17, the peak will be reached around July 21 with 5% of the total population infected with no social distancing, and in August with less than 2% of population infected if minimal distancing norms are followed. The research also indicates a possible second wave of infections in Andhra Pradesh even if the lockdown is extended till June 14 and no strict social distancing norms are adhered to. However, on the brighter side, the study suggests that Andhra Pradesh would be safe from Covid-19, in case strict social distancing is practiced by the public. Speaking to TOI, Anirban Ghatak, lead researcher and a faculty of decision sciences and information systems at IIM-V, said that they predicted the progression of the pandemic in various states based on the extended susceptible-infected-recovered/removed (eSIR) model. “We considered nine different scenarios and effects of intervention measures with different possible dates of lockdown relaxation, followed by different levels of social distancing guidelines adopted post-lockdown,” said Ghatak. Ghatak added that minimal social distancing practices include the norms that were in place before lockdown such as closure of educational institutions, malls and others. “Strict social distancing is something that is followed in Wuhan, China, the ground zero of Covid. The Hubei province opened its doors only after the effective reproductive number plummeted to nearly zero (less than 0.3 after March 8), implying significant reductions in probable transmissions. This is further followed by strict social distancing,” said Ghatak. The study covered 15 states, which have been badly hit by the pandemic, including Maharashtra, Gujarat, Delhi, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Telangana, West Bengal and Karnataka.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/even-at-peak-social-distancing-can-lower-transmission-rate-says-study/articleshow/75703495.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
May 13, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Toddy sales pick up as bottled liquor prices rise in Andhra Pradesh||VISAKHAPATNAM: Toddy, once considered a poor man’s drink, has emerged as a much sought-after drink in north coastal Andhra Pradesh after prices of bottled liquor soared. The most widely sold variety of toddy is palmyra toddy (popularly known as Thati Kallu) and vendors after decades are doing brisk business. While this is the case in coastal areas, the agency areas have witnessed a huge rise in the sale of fish-tail toddy. Y Demudu, president of the toddy sellers’ union in Visakhapatnam district said, “There was a time when our sales were dwindling, but now thanks to the government increasing the rates of bottled liquor, many people are preferring the consumption of palm toddy. Right from youngsters to people from upper-middle classes are consuming toddy.” The state government allowed toddy sellers to collect and sell toddy from April 25 and the sales picked up dramatically in the second week of May after the state government hiked the prices of bottled liquor. Although palm toddy is much cheaper than beer, toddy sellers, too, have hiked prices. “Earlier a litre used to cost roughly Rs 50, now its being sold for Rs 100. However, this is cheaper in comparison to a bottle of beer, which today costs no less than Rs 230,” said D Trinadh, an engineering student from Gitam. Regarding the sale of fishtail toddy, agency dwellers said the hike in bottled liquor prices has helped local tribals augment the loss incurred due to lack of tourist footfall.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/toddy-sales-pick-up-as-bottled-liquor-prices-rise/articleshow/75703579.cms||Venkatesh Bayya
May 13, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Lockdown exacerbates pregnancy worries||Visakhapatnam: When 31-year-old L Madhu learnt that she was pregnant last December, she was ecstatic at the prospect of becoming a mother. She had already suffered a miscarriage once and had then undergone three years of in-vitro fertilisation (IVF) treatments. But four months into her pregnancy, Madhu is now ridden with anxiety. She has found it difficult to buy necessary medicines, particularly a hormone-based medication that she was supposed to take until the fifth month. The medicine isn’t available with local chemists, hasn’t been available since March. Like Madhu, many expectant mothers are now ridden with anxiety brought on by the Covid-19. The lockdown has augmented troubles as visiting doctors has become a problem. Stepping out of the home to go to a hospital increases the risk of infection manifold. Further, expectant mothers are very worried about the impact the infection can have on their unborn children. According to Dr Bindu, consultant obstetrician and gynaecologist, the transmission of the novel coronavirus from mother to child before and during delivery is possible. Although, the proportion of affected pregnancies and its significance to the neonate remains to be determined, Dr Bindu said. Another doctor said that she had to keep her nursing home open during the lockdown as pregnant women were missing their antenatal visits and scans which was making them nervous. Now, hospitals and private nursing homes are giving appointments to only those who are in their 35-37th week of pregnancy or are due for delivery, the doctor said. Stakeholders of the pharmaceutical market say that logistics and the affected supply chain are causing problems. Nirmal Kumar, who works at a pharmacy opposite NRI Hospital said, “It’s not that medicines aren’t available, but many trucks are unable to reach pharmacies. Drivers are scared to move about or aren’t being allowed to.” Dr Vidulatha, a gynaecologist said that it is important that pregnant women do breathing exercises, yoga and have a nutritious diet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/lockdown-exacerbates-pregnancy-worries/articleshow/75703607.cms||Reshma Jain
May 13, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Can ARB drugs be used to treat Covid-19 patients?||Visakhapatnam: Can Angiotensin Receptor Blocker (ARB) drugs, which are commonly used to control high blood pressure, be used to treat Covid-19 patients? A pulmonologist at the ESI hospital in the city believes it can. His approach is based on the basic genome structure of the virus. Dr Phanender Ketha, who is a respiratory disease specialist at the government hospital, says he wrote to WHO (World Health Organisation) and the Lancet medical journal about his approach in February. He also wrote to the Atlanta-based Centre for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) and to the chief of infectious disease control in Italy in March. In fact, clinical trial of ARBs for Covid management has already begun in many parts of the world. The government general hospital in Vijayawada too is exploring the possibility of trying out ARBs for treatment of Covid patients from this month. “Novel coronavirus enters the human host through respiratory route and enters the endothelial cells of the capillaries of the lungs, and also endothelial cells of the capillaries of various organs of the body like kidneys, heart and brain by binding to the ACE receptors on the endothelial cells,” Dr Ketha said, elaborating on the approach. A receptor is a cellular structure made of protein molecules. It binds to specialized molecules that can cause chemical changes inside cell membranes. “After entering endothelial cells, the virus gets integrated into the genome of the endothelial cells for its replication. New viral particles are produced, which infect other endothelial cells. After this replication, the endothelial cells get damaged, leading to interstitial pneumonitis, capillary leaks, pulmonary edema/ARDS and dysfunction to other vital organs. ARB tablets are generally used to control high BP. These drugs can also help prevent the entry of the virus into the endothelial cells in the capillaries of the lungs and become the antiviral medication for Covid,” he explained. This approach can be useful as it is cheap, the medicine is readily available, and the side-effects are minimal if used in appropriate doses, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/can-arb-drugs-be-used-to-treat-covid-19-patients/articleshow/75703640.cms||Sulogna Mehta
May 13, 2020||India||MIT gives just 2 out of 5 stars to Centre’s Covid tracker||NEW DELHI: Massachusetts Institute of Technology has given two out of five stars to Aarogya Setu, reigniting the debate around the privacy policies of the contact tracing app. After the Union ministry of information and technology released a new set of “guidelines” around data storage and retention on Monday, digital rights activists, too, questioned some discrepancies with the app’s existing terms and conditions. The new protocol, among other things, lists a “sunset clause”, which mandates that the data stored on servers would be used only for Covid-19 purposes and will be deleted after 180 days. Called Aarogya Setu Data Access and Knowledge Sharing Protocol (2020), they were developed by an “empowered group” on technology and data management. The MIT tracker documented at least 25 such apps from different countries and on parameters like type of personal data collected, its retention, minimisation, transparency, and whether or not the application is mandatory. India lost points because of lack of transparency, making the app compulsory and not defining who the data is shared with. China’s contact tracing app is rated the worst, at zero. Apps developed by Austria, Iceland, Israel, Norway, and Singapore have got 5/5. “India is currently the only democratic nation making its coronavirus tracking app mandatory for millions of people,” wrote Patrick Howell of MIT tech review.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/mit-gives-just-2-out-of-5-stars-to-centres-covid-tracker/articleshow/75706757.cms||Anam Ajmal
May 13, 2020||Delhi||Nearly half of Delhi’s 86 Covid-19 victims under 60 years old||NEW DELHI: Nearly one out of every two Covid-19 patient who died in Delhi was less than 60 years old, government records reveal. Delhi has recorded 86 Covid-19 deaths, including 13 reported by the government on Tuesday. Of these, data shows that 15 (17%) were less than 50 years old. There were 26 (30%) who were aged between 50 years and 59 years. Those aged 60 years and above accounted for 52% of all Covid-19-related deaths, totalling 45 cases. One common link found in a majority of Covid-19 deaths in the city, regardless of age, was the presence of comorbidities such as uncontrolled blood sugar, high blood pressure, recent history of stroke or heart attack and kidney disease, among others, sources said. Delhi government data shows 80% of patients who were less than 50 years old and died due to Covid-19 suffered from these comorbidities. In Covid-19 deaths involving people aged between 50 years and 59 years, 77% had comorbidities. Among the elderly, 93% of those who died had comorbidities. A state health official, who did not want to be quoted, said the audit of case summaries of all Covid-19 deaths suggests a 45-year-old man suffering from uncontrolled diabetes and hypertension is at higher risk of developing complications from Covid-19 infection as compared to a 60-year-old man who has no chronic disease. However, some of the Covid-19 deaths in the capital were those of young and healthy adults without any history of illness. A 32-year-old Delhi Police constable who died last week had no comorbidities. The state health authorities said it is difficult to comment on the exact cause of such complications and fatalities. “The young are equally at risk of contracting the infection. But most of them recover faster too. However, there have been many reports of healthy and young person showing disease symptoms all of a sudden and developing severe complications, such as breathlessness. They have to be put on ventilator support,” said a doctor at one of the Covid-19 hospitals run by the state government. He added that the youth shouldn’t consider themselves invincible and should follow the guidelines issued by the government to prevent infection. As per the government data, 111 Covid-19 patients in Delhi currently require ICU support and 20 others, who are very critical, have been put on ventilator support. “At present, we have enough capacity and infrastructure to handle Covid-19 cases and complications. However, if the number continues to increase, we may have to expand the infrastructure further by roping in more non-Covid-19 facilities to treat patients,” a doctor said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/nearly-half-of-delhis-86-covid-19-victims-under-60-years-old/articleshow/75706770.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
May 13, 2020||Nagpur||Liquor shops, home delivery ayed in Nagpur rural||Nagpur: District collector Ravindra Thakre has permitted liquor shops to open in rural and municipal council areas of the district. Home delivery has been permitted in municipal council areas. Liquor cannot be bought at shops in Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) area. The order for home delivery in the city is yet to be issued. In Nagpur rural the shops will remain open between 10am and 5pm. The shop owner will have to work with 50% staff. Liquor manufacturing units have also been permitted to function in rural areas. No shops will be allowed to function in containment zones. In municipal council areas liquor shops which are stand-alone, in residential complexes and located in a colonies will be allowed to function. The road on which they are situated should not have more than five functioning shops of non-essential items. At a time there should not be more than five customers in front of a liquor shop. They should maintain a distance of six feet and wear masks. The shop premises should be sanitized every two hours and sanitizers should be made available to customers. Security guards should be deployed to maintain Covid distancing between customers. The customers will have to fill up a form while buying liquor. The form will have serial number, name of the customer, his mobile number and name of brand and quantity. Home delivery has been permitted in municipal council areas. For this the buyer must have a liquor permit. If you don’t have a liquor permit you should log in to the websites https://stateexcise.maharashtra.gov.in or https://exciseservices.mahaonline.gov.in to obtain one. Guidelines to obtain a permit is given on YouTube link https://youtube.be/HPL8UM3K0zy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/liquor-shops-home-delivery-ayed-in-nagpur-rural/articleshow/75734781.cms||Ashish Roy
May 13, 2020||Delhi||Two held for killing TikTok celebrity in Delhi||NEW DELHI: A year after a group of gunmen shot dead TikTok celebrity Mohit Mor in Najafgarh, Special Cell of Delhi Police has caught two shooters for the crime.  The men, Vikas and Rohit Dagar, were members of the Kapil Sangwan gang and were hired by a criminal named Sandeep Pehlwan. A reward of Rs 1.2 lakh had been declared for the arrest of Vikas. Minutes before being arrested, Vikas uploaded a video on social media trying to gain sympathy from his followers.  DCP (Special Cell) Sanjeev Yadav said Vikas and Dagar were wanted in several cases of murder and attempt to murder in Delhi, Haryana, Punjab and Himachal Pradesh. Police had invoked Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act on all members of Sangwan's gang.  "We got a tip-off that the two men were hiding in Zirakpur. They tried to flee, but our team chased and caught them. Two pistols and live cartridges have been seized from them," Yadav said.  During interrogation, Vikas claimed that he wanted to establish his supremacy in southwest Delhi and had joined the Vikas Lagarpuria gang. He later shifted allegiance to Sangwan and eventually became one of his most trusted aides. Dagar is a DU college dropout and was introduced to Sangwan by another gangster after which he started working for him. Watch TikTok celebrity Mohit Mor murder case: Two shooters arrested by Delhi Police||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/two-held-for-killing-tiktok-celebrity-in-delhi/articleshow/75706802.cms||---
May 13, 2020||India||Aarogya app ‘must’ to board specials||NEW DELHI: A day after it “advised” passengers travelling by the special trains to install the Aarogya Setu app, the Railways has now made it “mandatory” to do so before commencing the journey. However, officials said any “exception” will be decided on a “case-to-case basis”, but did not rule out disallowing passengers who do not have the app installed from boarding the trains.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/aarogya-app-must-to-board-specials/articleshow/75706803.cms||---
May 13, 2020||India||WHA meeting: Taiwan part of China, Beijing reminds Delhi||NEW DELHI: As Taiwan seeks India’s support to attend the World Health Assembly, the Chinese embassy here said the issue must be handled keeping in mind the “One-China principle”. China claims Taiwan as its territory and has repeatedly said that as a part of China, Taiwan has no right to join WHO, which it says is a specialised agency of the United Nations restricted to sovereign states, or attend the upcoming WHO meeting. “China’s position on Taiwan region’s participation in WHO activities ,including WHA, is clear and consistent. It must be handled according to One-China principle,” the Chinese embassy spokesperson said. “Under One-China principle, China’s central government has made proper arrangement for Taiwan region’s participation in global health affairs, which ensures the region can deal with local or global public health emergencies in a timely and effective manner,” she added. Taiwan, which has witnessed great success in its fight against coronavirus, had last week donated a million surgical masks to India with which it has no formal diplomatic ties. Diplomatic sources said that this donation should be seen in the context of its call for support from India for its efforts to participate in the WHO meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/wha-meeting-taiwan-part-of-china-beijing-reminds-delhi/articleshow/75706813.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Claps for Covid-19 warriors, but more pay for dog trainers||AHMEDABAD: As frontline warriors engage in a dogged battle with Covid-19, it turns out that their rewards can be lower than a dog trainer’s. Gujarat Police have issued an advertisement seeking a senior training consultant, a junior training consultant, and a veterinary doctor for their dog (K-9) squad. The appointees to the first two posts will earn as much or more than doctors who are putting their lives on the line at the Covid-19 facility on the old Civil Hospital campus in Asarwa. The state administration had on April 1 issued an advertisement for medical officers, specialists, and paramedical staff for the newly set up Covid-19 facility. The advertisement said that the salary for pulmonologists and anaesthetists would be Rs 1.20 lakh per month. And the monthly salary of Rs 60,000 was offered to medical officers with the MBBS degree. On Tuesday, the state police through additional DGP Vikas Sahay issued an advertisement which announced a monthly salary of Rs 1.20 lakh for a senior K-9 training consultant. And Rs 70,000 was offered for a junior K-9 training consultant. Incidentally, the response to the doctor-recruitment ad of April 1 was poor. The Civil Hospital authorities received only three applications for the 90 pulmonologist posts and only 20 doctors applied for 165 medical officer posts. As for the K-9 squad, it comprises Belgian Malinois dogs and can be used for riot control and to maintain law and order. It has a strength of 110. However, the strength of the city’s medical core is worrying. The Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) had in March issued an advertisement to recruit medical and sanitation officers. In that notice, a monthly salary of Rs 30,000 was offered to medical officers. Only 94 doctors had applied for 354 posts. Dr Mona Desai, the president of the Ahmedabad Medical Association, said that salary reflects the respect given to a person. “Doctors have been risking their lives while fighting Covid-19 and no salary will reflect the value of their lives,” said Desai. “However, the salary exemplifies the respect given to a person of a particular profession. The salary structure now says it all about the government policy.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gujarat-claps-for-covid-19-warriors-but-more-pay-for-dog-trainers/articleshow/75706815.cms||Ashish Chauhan
May 13, 2020||India||‘A call for competitiveness, not economic isolationism’||NEW DELHI: Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s call for a self-reliant India on Tuesday is no pitch for an autarky but a pitch for turning the pandemic emergency into an opportunity to make India a globally competitive economy. “This call for self-reliance is very different from the isolationist and protectionist self-reliance movements across the world. Self-reliance in the PM’s vision for India is neither exclusionary nor isolationist. There is a specific talk of improving efficiency, competing with the world as well as helping the world,” an official source explained. The distinction is important because the swadeshi school of thought, which still has strong adherents in the Sangh Parivar, has often turned into a fear of the “foreign” and economic isolationism. Sources said the diffidence in engaging with the world and suspicions of the outside world cost the country and repeating the folly would set the country back again. “On the contrary, this is a call to prepare the people to face the world on our own terms and reflects the belief in the ability of people to get the better of the competition by summoning national resolve, mobilising resources and improving the country’s skill set. There is no talk of isolation, but of integration and the attention is not on tariff but on transformation,” the source said. The focus differentiates India’s package from “packages” announced by other governments in that it is not limited to just “firefighting” but also aims to “fireproof” the country against future shocks. “There is no talk of only a financial package but of a reforms stimulus and mindset transformation,” the source said, pointing to PM’s exhortation to people to turn “local” products into global brands. They also emphasised that the package, to be unpacked starting Wednesday, didn’t follow the “trickle down” approach and was aimed at empowering people. The PM’s reference to migrant workers and small retailers and hawkers has already set off speculation that the “package” may come with specific provisions aimed at their welfare.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/a-call-for-competitiveness-not-economic-isolationism/articleshow/75706825.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Mumbai||Just three Mumbai wards have almost as many cases as Uttar Pradesh||MUMBAI: Three wards till now have reported over 1,000 Covid cases each. All three fall within the island city — G-North (Dharavi, Mahim, Dadar), G-South (Worli, Lower Parel, Prabhadevi, Mahalaxmi) and E (Mazgaon, Nagpada, Byculla) — and have 1,230, 1,079, and 1,046 cases, respectively. In comparison, Uttar Pradesh’s confirmed Covid case count is around 3,600, almost the same as the three wards combined. The high case loads of the three wards are attributed to the novel coronavirus ripping through several congested localities, mainly slums and villages, which lie in these wards. The ward with the fourth highest cases, 953, is K West (see panel above). G-North ward contains Asia's largest slum sprawl, Dharavi, which alone has reported 962 Covid cases, almost 80% of the ward’s case load. The ward also has primarily middle-class localities like Dadar and Mahim, which in comparison have reported 125 and 143 cases, respectively. The ward has reported 45 Covid deaths so far. The BMC has said its containment strategy in G-South (55 deaths till now) has worked as no fresh cases have been reported from 70% of its key hotspot (see adjoining story). In E ward (87 deaths), congested areas like Agripada, Kalapani and Sankli Street have reported multiple positive cases. “There was mismanagement when cases were being initially reported, which has led to the ward’s total crossing the 1,000 mark,” said MLA and corporator Rais Shaikh. “Now, the ward adds a minimum of 30 cases a day.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/just-three-mumbai-wards-have-almost-as-many-cases-as-uttar-pradesh/articleshow/75706829.cms||Richa Pinto
May 13, 2020||Gurgaon||Manesar revs up as Maruti begins production||GURUGRAM: After a gap of a month and a half due to the lockdown, India’s largest car manufacturer, Maruti Suzuki, started production at its Manesar plant on Tuesday with around 2,500 workers. Preparations are also afoot to restart its Gurugram plant. Last week, Hero Motocorp had begun production at its Gurugram and Dharuhera plants. Honda Motorcycle and Scooter India is expected to begin manufacturing this week. Some of the ancillary units of the three auto majors in Gurugram-Manesar are also humming back to life. Across sectors, around 1,330 ancillary units have received permission to operate in Gurugram and around one lakh of their workers have got the nod to join work, according to data shared by the district administration. Low demand, very few vehicles being producedAt a time when thousands of migrant workers whose earnings came to a halt continue to leave in desperation, the resumption of jobs could help stem the tide. And also bring back some confidence among workers about the resumption of their pay cycles. Manesar alone has at least 700 ancillary units that work only for the three automobile manufacturers, according to Automotive Components Manufacturer’s Association (ACMA). “The industry has been facing an acute working capital shortage. With the resumption, there will be cash flow, enabling ancillary units. However, the capacity utilisation is very low,” said Vinnie Mehta of ACMA India. Production is yet to pick up pace and the plants are manufacturing much fewer units than they would earlier because of low demand. “No manufacturer wants to add to their inventory right now,” said Harbhajan Singh, chairman, ease of doing business, at CII-Haryana and former director-general, corporate affairs, Honda Motorcycle & Scooter India. Lakhs of workers find employment in these units. But following the lockdown exodus, only a fraction of them remains in the city. The jobs that are opening up are also significantly less than the original number. “Around 25% of the usual workforce is working,” said Kuldeep Jhangu, president, Maruti Suzuki Kamgar Union.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/manesar-revs-up-as-maruti-begins-production/articleshow/75706818.cms||Shubhra Pant
May 13, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Prominent businessman’s son killed, friend hurt in Marine Drive crash||MUMBAI: The son of a prominent businessman died after the car he was travelling in rammed into a stationary bus on Marine Drive on Tuesday evening. His friend, who was driving the vehicle, has suffered serious injuries and is in hospital. The accident took place around 100 metres before the Marine Drive flyover as the car was on its way towards Chowpatty. Initial reports said there were three occupants in the vehicle. The deceased, Aryaman Nagpal (18), was a Nepean Sea Road resident, while his friend Shauryasingh Jain (19) was from Cuffe Parade. Jain has been admitted to Harkisondas hospital. The car belonged to Jain’s maternal uncle. Marine Drive police have registered an accidental death case and may file a case of rash and negligent driving and flouting of lockdown orders. Senior inspector Mritunjay Hirematth said the hospital had given cops the name of the injured youth. Police will now scan CCTV footage for more details on the crash. A person known to the victim said it was unclear why the youths had gone to Marine Drive during the lockdown. “Had there been proper nakabandis, the boys could have been stopped,” a source said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-prominent-businessmans-son-killed-friend-hurt-in-marine-drive-crash/articleshow/75706840.cms||Mateen Hafeez
May 13, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Doctors at SVP strike work over N95 masks||AHMEDABAD: In a glaring instance of apathy towards safety needs of frontline warriors against Covid-19, close to a 100 resident doctors and paramedic staff at SVP hospital at Ellisbridge went on flash strike complaining they were not issued N95 respirators (masks) and PPE equipment—basic safety gear required by medicos in the Covid-19 frontline. “Hospital authorities are asking us to wear two-three ordinary masks and go into Covid wards or buy N-95 masks from out pockets. This is shocking and unacceptable,” said a striking doctor. Left red-faced, the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation, that has been making tall claims to have sufficient stocks of safety gear for medical and para-medical staff swung into action and ordered 2,000 N95 respirators from Vadodara and few neighbouring district health centres to be provided to doctors at SVP. The doctors and paramedic staff had also demanded that problems related to their duty shifts and issues of access to food should be resolved. SVP hospital on the other hand issued a statement which said, “There is no shortage of any kind of Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) at SVP. All staff members have been issued proper number of PPE kits as per guidelines. In the photo shared by doctors you can see some of them wearing N95 masks.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gujarat-doctors-at-svp-strike-work-over-n95-masks/articleshow/75706834.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Mumbai||SRPF to assist Mumbai police in red zones||MUMBAI: State Reserved Police Force (SRPF) will assist Mumbai Police in enforcing lockdown in the city after increasing cases of policemen testing positive for Covid-19. Sources said the government is likely to deploy in two days five platoons, with each consisting of around 100 personnel. Police denied rumours of the army being called out but said the government may increase platoons depending on the situation. The decision was taken at a special cabinet meeting early this month. Around 425 policemen tested positive, more than 1,000 are quarantined and 8,000 who are above 55 have been told to proceed on leave.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/srpf-to-assist-mumbai-police-in-red-zones/articleshow/75706858.cms||S Ahmed Ali
May 13, 2020||Kolkata||Provoking, indulging in violence will invite strict action: West Bengal CM||SERAMPORE/BARUIPUR/MALDA: Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday reacted sharply to reports of communal violence over Covid-19 in pockets of West Bengal and said “strong action will be taken” against both perpetrators and provocateurs of violence under Disaster Management Act for violating lockdown norms. Violence was reported from Telenipara in Hooghly, Harishchandrapur in Malda and Subhashgram in South 24 Parganas in which 55 people were arrested till reports last came in. “I have asked police to act strongly against anyone found indulging in violence and violating lockdown norms. The provocateurs will also be booked,” the CM said. “I leave it to people to decide on those politicians whose statements on Twitter, Facebook or Fakebook are instigating these incidents. Is there Hindu-Muslim in Covid?” she added. Banerjee’s statements came in the backdrop of Hooghly MP Locket Chatterjee meeting governor Jagdeep Dhankhar and Malda North MP Khagen Murmu alleging he was stopped from entering violence-hit zones in Malda. Police said CrPc Section 144 had been imposed in places where the MPs tried to enter when stopped. Dhankar later tweeted: “Concerned at incidents at Telinipara in Hooghly Dist. and at Chandipur in Malda Dist — appeal people to observe utmost restraint and maintain communal harmony. Police and administration to be extremely watchful to contain situation.” Telenipara flared up again on Tuesday, the second time in two days, after locals hurled bombs and bricks, allegedly from rooftops, that damaged police vehicles and set ablaze houses and shops. From 12.30pm, violence rocked a vast stretch extending from Burudewantala, Ferry Ghat Street, Segunbagan, Raja Bazar and Gate Bazar to Babu Bazar. As many as 33 people were arrested in this connection. “The situation is under control. We have arrested 33 accused. Raids are on,” said Chandannagore police commissioner Humayun Kabir, who led a team to Telenipara that had to resort to lathicharge to disperse the mob. The situation calmed after 5pm. Also on the boil was Malda’s Harishchandrapur, where prohibitory orders were clamped and four persons arrested. Trouble erupted there on Sunday when police had tried to book some people for lockdown violation. This led to brickbatting and violence until police rushed reinforcements to control the situation. In South 24 Parganas’ Subhashgram, trouble erupted after a Baruipur police team tried to probe an incident of alleged lockdown violation. Locals first resisted them and later threw brickbats. Sub-inspector Dhananjay Mukherjee and four civic volunteers were injured. Police rushed additional forces and arrested 18 people. “The situation is now under control,” Baruipur inspector-in-charge Debkumar Ray said. The home department said in a statement that “police will not allow any provocation and strict action will be taken against anyone who tries to create disturbance, including those who are posting and circulating false information”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/provoking-indulging-in-violence-will-invite-strict-action-mamata/articleshow/75705816.cms||Falguni Banerjee
May 13, 2020||Kolkata||Midnapore teacher defends Naga doc against virus bullies||Kolkata: In times of harassment of doctors, nurses and other healthcare workers who are Covid warriors on the frontline of the coronavirus pandemic, a chemistry teacher in Midnapore has imparted an exemplary lesson by protecting his tenant, a young doctor from distant Dimapur in Nagaland. Biswajit Dey has not only offered to waive rent of Angukato Z Achumi during the pandemic but also approached police against locals’ recent harassment of the doctor. Angukato, a second-year post-graduate student of surgery at Midnapore Medical College, was walking home for dinner from hospital when three bike-borne youths hurled racial comments at him and accused him of bringing coronavirus into the locality. The doctor kep quiet, completed half-a-kilometre walk, had his dinner and returned to hospital for the rest of the 24-hour shift. “I was deeply hurt but kept it to myself,” Angukato told TOI. Back at the hospital, Angukato conducted emergency surgeries. At home the next morning, his landlord found him upset. Dey then found out that the doctor had been harassed by those locals on previous occasions too during the pandemic. “I was furious. How can people harass these Covid warriors when they are fighting one of the toughest battles of their lives,” said the teacher. Dey informed the Kotwali police station, where he was assured that Angukato would not be harassed again. Dey has been creating awareness among his neighbours against harassing his tenant. “It is my duty to stand by a doctor who is fighting upfront for patients,” the teacher said. Angukato, who stays in the rented flat with his mother and younger brother, could have returned to Nagaland, a state that has so far not recorded a single Covid case. But the doctor said: “I am upset and hurt by the harassment I faced. But my landlord’s support has made me all the more resolute to take my duties head-on.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/midnapore-teacher-defends-naga-doc-against-virus-bullies/articleshow/75705913.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
May 13, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka looks to open more sectors with segmental curbs||BENGALURU: The state government plans to go for segmental, or targeted, curbs after May 17 instead of continuing with a sweeping district-wise lockdown to restart social and economic activities in red-zone districts. Experts preparing a lockdown exit plan said the BS Yediyurappa administration would share its strategy with the central government on Wednesday and seek nod for segmental restrictions, which will cover only specific areas where infections have occurred. If approved, there will be no technical red zones. During a videoconference to decide on lockdown exit on Monday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi asked all chief ministers to submit an action plan. Dr CN Manjunath, a member of Karnataka Covid-19 Task Force, said the state government was looking at segmental restrictions in all districts, except Bengaluru Urban, after May 17. These would help shrink the geographical area of containment zones — 100-150 metres around the place where positive cases have been detected — enabling resumption of normal activities in nearby, unaffected localities. For Bengaluru city, the government has suggested ward-wise classification. “The strategy of segmental lockdown is to divide a district into segments, depending on the positive cases. It reduces the geographical area of containment to the most possible extent. With this, there is no need of declaring any district as a red zone,” Dr Manjunath said. Karnataka anticipates an increase in the number of coronavirus infections over the next two weeks, as more people return from other states and countries. About 1 lakh people are expected to enter the state. The graded reopening of public transport may also lead to more cases. “The number of positive cases is bound to go up as we are moving towards days with fewer restrictions. But this should not be a cause of concern if we ensure that the fatality rate is under control. The new strategy being prepared by the state aims at achieving this,” said Dr MK Sudarshan, a community medicine expert and chairman of the government advisory committee on Covid-19 data analysis. K Sudhakar, medical education minister and Covid-19 task force member, said wide-ranging curbs cannot continue. “The continuation of lockdown will have greater ramification on lives and livelihood, and it could turn more fatal than the virus itself. Fighting the virus and revival of socio-economic activities must go hand in hand. The virus is here to stay and we need to learn to live with it,” he said. The government is keen on allowing buses, autos and taxis after May 17 with some riders. Some officials who have seen a draft of the action plan said the government was also considering restarting Metro service in Bengaluru. Salons and spas may also be allowed to resume operations. But malls, cinema halls, hotels, bar and restaurants are unlikely to get the nod. Karnataka also plans to enhance clinical facilities. The number of beds for Covid-19 patients has increased from 1,450 to 20,000, and the next target is 60,000.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-looks-to-open-more-sectors-with-segmental-curbs/articleshow/75706767.cms||B V Shiva Shankar
May 13, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal’s blueprint: Rs 1.5 lakh crore eco booster, more business relief||KOLKATA: Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday laid out a host of plans for resumption of life and commerce in the state after the end of Lockdown 3.0 on May 17 even as she targeted the BJP for dividing Covid-affected people into religious blocs, “provoking disunity” and communalising a global pandemic. Banerjee also mentioned how the BJP-led Centre had gone after the Bengal government for categorising some Covid patients’ deaths as “co-morbid” even though it had kept mum when “four-five other states” had done the same thing. “Bangla korlei joto dosh (It is a crime only when Bengal does something),” she added. The Bengal CM blamed the nationwide migration problems on the Centre’s “unplanned lockdowns” and said the state had already accepted more than 1 lakh inbound migrants. “The unplanned lockdowns have caused untold misery even as our opponents have been dividing Covid into ‘Hindu infections and Muslim infections’,” Banerjee said. She then elaborated on a slew of administrative proposals meant to strike a balance between saving lives and livelihood as “all indications are that the virus is not going to go away any time soon”. “There is a need to plan ahead for the next three months so that the economy does not shut down totally,” Banerjee said, adding that some sectors (electrical, electronics, jewellery, mobile repair and recharging, takeaway from restaurants) needed to be unshackled. The state’s short-term plan for the next three months included injecting a Rs-1.52 lakh crore financial stimulus into Bengal’s economy, with priority on MSMEs and the rural sector, Banerjee said, giving a go-ahead to the immediate reopening of some more shops, businesses and manufacturing units in sync with Union ministry of home affairs guidelines. But, for relaxations beyond May 17, Banerjee preferred to wait for a comprehensive report from the police on three red-zone categories: A, B and C. “Strict containment protocol will be followed in Red Zone-A, which will comprise the worst-affected areas. Some relaxations will be allowed in Red Zone-B but complying with all social-distancing protocols and violators being prosecuted under the Disaster Management Act. Some more relaxations will be there for Red Zone-C, which will comprise areas outside containment zones,” the CM said. “The state’s rural economy has been hit hard. The state has lost Rs 12,000 crore of revenue in the last two months. But we will go ahead with the regular practice of festival advance and ex-gratia. We have to ensure that the poor survive with focus on 100-day work projects. We are also releasing money for May and June for senior citizens among the rural poor and providing free crop insurance for farmers,” Banerjee said. The Bengal CM regretted that the “provocations to create disunity” were continuing full-time even as the Bengal government was trying its best to mitigate people’s suffering. “Why do we need to instigate riots in such a situation? Why are you maligning Bengal? I have not brought the virus from abroad. And the virus has no Hindu-Muslim shade. This is not the time to do politics,” Banerjee said after reports of flare-ups in Hooghly’s Telenipara, Malda’s Harishchandrapur and Subhasgram on the city’s southern fringe. Banerjee wondered how “these people” (the BJP) could think of forming the next government in Bengal after the 2021 assembly elections when the situation was so grave. “The priority now is to bring migrants back to the state and give them work, provide people medical facilities. Go and help citizens during pandemic instead of provoking riots,” she said. The state government had requisitioned 100 more trains, besides the nine already provisioned, to bring back migrant workers from Bengal stranded in other states, Banerjee said. “About 1 lakh migrants have already returned, 90,000 of them by bus. Some more will come and we welcome everyone back home,” she said, while stressing the importance of exercising caution as four districts (Birbhum, Murshidabad, Malda and Uttar Dinajpur) had slipped out of the green zone on the Covid map over the last few days. Banerjee reminded the BJP that Bengal still ranked 10th on the Covid prevalence map and 28% patients had already gone back home from hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bengals-blueprint-rs-1-5l-cr-eco-booster-more-biz-relief/articleshow/75706027.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Kolkata||Migrants beat up 2 Bengal bus drivers||Durgapur: Two South Bengal State Transport Co-rporation bus drivers, ferr-ying migrant workers, were allegedly beaten up at Jamui, Bihar, on Sunday following a confusion over the destination. The workers demanded that they be taken to Varanasi, UP, only after reaching Jamui and assaulted the drivers when the latter refused. Drivers Gopal Majhi and Molla Wahid Haque, who returned to Durgapur on Tuesday morning and were felicitated by SDO Anirban Koley, said they received no help from the local authorities in Bihar. Durgapur additional RTO Mrinal Dutta confirmed the incident. He said eight buses were arranged on May 9 to take migrant workers to Jamui from Duburdihi checkpost in West Burdwan. “The buses reached Bihar on May 10 morning. While passengers of six buses got off in Jamui, the others said they were from UP and demanded that they be taken to Varanasi,” Dutta said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/migrants-beat-up-2-bengal-bus-drivers/articleshow/75706029.cms||Mohammad Asif
May 13, 2020||Kolkata||Trains bring 3k to Howrah and Bankura from S India||Kolkata: More than 3,000 people — including nearly 1,200 patients and their family members, tourists and migrant workers — reached West Bengal on Tuesday. Another train from Katpadi station, Vellore, left for Hijli station in Kharagpur on Tuesday afternoon. The special train carrying passengers, mostly patients from Vellore and their family members, arrived at platform 22 at Howrah station’s new complex at 4.45pm. The platform looked like a fortress with police and medical team members working in tandem to get 1,182 passengers out of the compartments one by one and evacuating them through channels created for different districts. It took nearly four hours to evacuate the train. SRP Kannan oversaw the process and was assisted by the Howrah SDO and ACP, and workers provided by CMOH’s office. A large retinue of transport department officers under WBTC managing director Rajanvir Singh’s supervision ensured district-wise departures. Before boarding buses, the passengers temperatures were checked with thermal guns. “We created bamboo barricades for each district and evacuated the compartments one by one. This took a long time. The transport department had rolled in 60 buses from different districts,” Kannan said. RPF and GRP had the address of each passenger, who were provided food and water till they reached home. Most passengers said they were happy with the treatment given to them en route. “We paid for neither our tickets nor food,” said Manashi Shi, who was returning with her husband after treatment. “My foot amputation surgery was done towards end-February. I was about to return when the lockdown started. It was suffocating and distressing. The sight of Howrah station brings tears to my eyes,” said Madan Mukherjee. The train from Bengaluru reached Bankura at 5.30am carrying 1,874 migrant workers and tourists. Bankura, Hooghly, Kolkata, Midnapore and Burdwan residents were sent home in buses after a check-up. “All passengers will be dropped off in front of their homes,” said Bankura DM Arun Prasad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/trains-bring-3k-to-howrah-and-bankura-from-s-india/articleshow/75705941.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
May 13, 2020||Kolkata||Midnapore teacher defends Naga doctor against virus bullies||KOLKATA: In times of harassment of doctors, nurses and other healthcare workers who are Covid warriors on the frontline of the coronavirus pandemic, a chemistry teacher in Midnapore has imparted an exemplary lesson by protecting his tenant, a young doctor from distant Dimapur in Nagaland. Biswajit Dey has not only offered to waive rent of Angukato Z Achumi during the pandemic but also approached police against locals’ recent harassment of the doctor. Angukato, a second-year post-graduate student of surgery at Midnapore Medical College, was walking home for dinner from hospital when three bike-borne youths hurled racial comments at him and accused him of bringing coronavirus into the locality. The doctor kep quiet, completed half-a-kilometre walk, had his dinner and returned to hospital for the rest of the 24-hour shift. “I was deeply hurt but kept it to myself,” Angukato told TOI. Back at the hospital, Angukato conducted emergency surgeries. At home the next morning, his landlord found him upset. Dey then found out that the doctor had been harassed by those locals on previous occasions too during the pandemic. “I was furious. How can people harass these Covid warriors when they are fighting one of the toughest battles of their lives,” said the teacher. Dey informed the Kotwali police station, where he was assured that Angukato would not be harassed again. Dey has been creating awareness among his neighbours against harassing his tenant. “It is my duty to stand by a doctor who is fighting upfront for patients,” the teacher said. Angukato, who stays in the rented flat with his mother and younger brother, could have returned to Nagaland, a state that has so far not recorded a single Covid case. But the doctor said: “I am upset and hurt by the harassment I faced. But my landlord’s support has made me all the more resolute to take my duties head-on.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/midnapore-teacher-defends-naga-doc-against-virus-bullies/articleshow/75705920.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
May 13, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: ‘Missing’ patients point to toll on hospitals||KOLKATA: The number of “missing patients” in both public- and private-sector hospitals tells us the toll that Covid-19 has taken on normal healthcare. Kolkata’s five big public-sector teaching hospitals treat around 10,000 patients at any given time; the number of patients awaiting treatment outside — or on the hospital floor — would be several times that number. These five hospitals — SSKM (IPGMER), Medical College and Hospital, NRS Medical College and Hospital, Calcutta National Medical College and Hospital and RG Kar Medical College and Hospital — now have less than 5,000 patients. Ditto for the city’s biggest private-sector hospitals: Apollo Gleneagles, AMRI, Peerless, Medica, Fortis, CMRI and RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences (RTIICS) together have around 2,000 beds with a peak occupancy that is close to 90%. The average occupancy now at all these hospitals combined would be 30%-40%. “The missing number of patients tells us how strong the impact of the pandemic has been,” said AMRI CEO Rupak Barua on Tuesday. “Unless we can ramp up the number of tests, resumption of normal services will be difficult and occupancy will remain low. Over the next few weeks, our goal is to test every suspect and patient admitted for emergency and surgeries. Only that can dispel our doubts and make patients confident enough to seek admission,” he added. Raghunath Misra, the medical superintendent and vice-principal at IPGMER, concurred. “Occupancy had gone down to about 60% during the first phase of lockdown. Currently, we have daily OPD footfall of about 2,000, and the emergency department has a footfall of about 300 per day,” he said. Covid-19 has forced hospitals to scale down operations and function with a smaller workforce to prevent transmission. With outpatient departments (OPD) limping back to normalcy after a month-and-a-half-long closure and elective surgeries still very few, patient flow has come down to a trickle. AMRI Hospitals, which has set up a Covid-19 unit at its Salt Lake unit, has been among the worst hit. Occupancy has dropped to around 25% across its three units even as its 51-bed Covid-19 unit remains full. While the hospital is attempting to resume normal services through a revival of outpatient operations and elective surgeries, scaling up has been slow because of a lack of testing kits. At Fortis Hospital, occupancy has dropped to 25%, the lowest since the lockdown started. Since late March, this figure has been varying between 25% and 35%. Doctors at the hospital point to a drop in respiratory illness as one of the reasons, apart from the fact that patients themselves have deferred non-emergency consultations and surgeries. “Those suffering from respiratory ailments form a bulk of our patients, and they have been doing well in the lockdown period due to a sharp drop in pollution levels. Others have been holding on due to the Covid-19 scare, which has driven people away from hospitals. Even semi-emergency cases have been rare over the last one month,” said Fortis pulmonologist Raja Dhar. At CMRI Hospital, less than 30% beds have been occupied even as surgeries had come to a complete halt for five weeks. OPD services, too, has been suspended. Over the last one week, though, emergency admissions and surgeries have resumed in a restricted way and occupancy has climbed up to around 40%. “Last week, we conducted two emergency cardiac procedures, which saved lives. Both patients had delayed their visits because of the Covid-19 situation, which worsened their condition. We hope to be able to crawl back to normalcy over the next few weeks,” said a hospital source. At NRS Medical College and Hospital, which has 1,900 beds, there are currently just about 420 patients admitted, including about 100-odd patients in Covid-19 isolation, admitted through the fever clinic. On Monday it had 60 new admissions, 499 patients attending its OPD and another 32 patients in its fever clinic. Calcutta National Medical College’s bed occupancy has gone up after the state government decided to designate Medical College Hospital as a Covid-19 hospital. Initially, the occupancy of the 1,350-bed hospital had gone down to a third. It now has around 700 patients admitted, including some from its SARI ward. Occupancy among state-run multispeciality teaching hospitals is highest in IPGMER, where the bed occupancy currently is about 80% of the total 2,500 beds. In fact, there is no vacant bed in wards like surgery and cardiology departments. The hospital normally used to record a daily footfall of 10,000 before the lockdown, and the number of major surgeries was about 600 per week. “There is a slight dip in the number of surgeries, which is currently about 450 per week. But all our departments are conducting elective as well as emergency surgeries,” said Misra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/missing-patients-point-to-toll-on-hospitals/articleshow/75706048.cms||Prithvijit Mitra
May 13, 2020||Bengaluru||Covid fund may reshape Karnataka budget||BENGALURU: The numbers of the state’s budget for 2020-21 are expected to undergo major revision as the BS Yediyurappa government must set aside a significant chunk of funds to fight coronavirus. Chief minister BS Yediyurappa held a meeting with officials of the finance department on Tuesday to explore ways to mobilise resources to fund Covid-19 response. He is likely to readjust allocations proposed in the 2020-21 budget soon, an official said. According to an estimate, the state government needs at least Rs 10,000 crore to fund direct and indirect operations related to Covid-19. Direct operations involve creating medical facilities, including testing labs, whereas indirect operations entail welfare measures such as the Rs 1,610-crore financial package for the unorganised sectors. While there is no budgetary allocation for the Covid-19 battle as such, Yediyurappa wants a dedicated fund to carry out relief measures and medical response, and he has asked officials to prepare a plan to achieve this. “The meeting mainly discussed the mode implementation of the Rs 1,610 crore package. The chief minister also directed officials to put in place an effective system to identify the beneficiaries of the package and ensure the benefit reaches them,” an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/covid-fund-may-reshape-karnataka-budget/articleshow/75706774.cms||---
May 13, 2020||Ranchi||TrueNat tests for pregnant women at all dist hospitals soon: Banna||Ranchi: The state health department has decided to install TrueNat coronavirus testing machines in all district hospitals to provide hassle-free maternity care to pregnant women during the Covid-19 pandemic. The department has sought a week to complete the installation of the machines which will provide test results of pregnant women within an hour. The move comes after expecting mothersfaced several difficulties, some suffered a miscarriage, after they were refused treatment by hospitals without Covid-19 results. Talking to TOI, health minister Banna Gupta said, “The health department is committed to provide quality healthcare services to all expecting mothers. We have come across reports that expecting mothers were facing difficulties due to the pandemic as doctors were demanding negative Covid-19 reports before attending to them. We are installing TrueNat machines at all our district hospitals so that would-be moms can be tested for the virus before admission.” Banna said according to a survey conducted by the health department, there are 51,935 pregnant women across the state who are expected to deliver in May. “As the number of expecting mothers is over 50,000, it is not feasible to get all of them tested at our existing centres. We are installing the ICMR-certified TrueNat machines to provide results within an hour,” the minister said, adding that all technicians in the district hospitals have been trained to operate the machines. Microbiologists in state welcomed the decision and said it will prevent healthcare workers and patients from getting infected. “TrueNat is a battery-operated machine that can test two samples simultaneously and provide results in 60 to 90 minutes. It also functions on the same principle as RT-PCR machines used for detecting tuberculosis. As ICMR has certified the machine for Covid-19 tests, it will help ease the load on the existing centres,” said Dr Ashok Kumar, an assistant professor at the Rims microbiology department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/truenat-tests-for-pregnant-women-at-all-dist-hospitals-soon-banna/articleshow/75703747.cms||Gaurav Pandey
May 13, 2020||Ranchi||Hike in VAT on petrol, diesel in state from today||Ranchi: In a bid to earn more revenue, the state government on Tuesday announced a hike in the value added tax (VAT) on petrol and diesel by Rs 2.50 per litre, effective from Tuesday midnight. A gazette notification to this tune was published by the state commercial taxes department. Experts see this move as a roll back of the Rs 2.5 per litre rebate by the state. Sources in the state commercial taxes department also hinted at a hike in the prices of liquor in the state and linked it to another measure to earn revenue. A source said, “Expect a 30-40% rise in the MRP of liquor soon.” Spokesperson of Jharkhand Petroleum Dealers Association Pramod Kumar said, “Even after the notification, the VAT rates remain unchanged, but what government has done is a roll back of the given to us so far. Over a year ago, a rebate of Rs 2.50/l on both petrol and diesel was announced for us. Now, with the rebate gone, we need to pay Rs 2.50/l more as taxes to the government, which will ultimately fall on customers.” He added, “On diesel, the government had fixed a 22% VAT or Rs 8.50 whichever is more. Similarly, on petrol too, it is 22% or Rs 15 whichever is more.” Notably, both chief minister Hemant Soren and finance minister Rameshwar Oraon has long been demanding a special economic package from the Union government to meet the challenges for proper execution of welfare schemes and combat anti-covid measures. Even on Monday, during CMs’ video-conferencing with PM Narendra Modi, Hemant had demanded the Centre’s assistance in redrawing revenue sharing between states and the Centre and citied lack of public funds. Currently, petrol and diesel prices are Rs 68.72 and Rs 63.56 respectively. Kumar added that the lockdown has led to drastic fall in the fuel consumption in the last two months owing to less vehicles on the streets. Citing an example, he said, “Roughly, 3.5 lakh litre of petrol and 6 lakh litre of diesel is sold per day in Ranchi alone, which has now come down by more than 90%, affecting our sales. The situation is same across the state, but we hope to rake up sales as interstate movement has begun.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/hike-in-vat-on-petrol-diesel-in-state-from-today/articleshow/75703854.cms||ASRP Mukesh
May 13, 2020||Ranchi||Haldi, homeo mantra to boost CRPF jawans’ immunity||Ranchi: Though the efficacy of homeopathy and ayurveda is yet to be tested in treating Covid-19, CRPF in Jharkhand has made certain additions to the daily diet of their jawans using alternate medicine to boost their immunity after receiving guidelines from the Union ministry of Ayush. CRPF IG (Jharkhand-Bihar region) Rajkumar said, “We are now providing turmeric milk and chyavanprash to all our personnel twice a day. Provisions for warm water and herbal drinks have also been made at every company’s location. We also encourage the jawans to practice yoga and meditation.” He said homeopathy medicines like Arsenic Album and Camphora have also been distributed among the personnel in both the states to boost immunity. According to the ministry guidelines, 10gm chyawanprash in the morning, herbal tea or kadha and turmeric milk help in boosting immunity. Around 22,000 CRPF personnel are engaged primarily in anti-extremist operations at 112 locations across the state. In Ranchi, two companies of the paramilitary force are deployed in Hindpiri and other localities to ensure lockdown norms are followed. Rajkumar said, “CRPF personnel are on the frontline in the battle against the virus in Jharkhand and a part of the force has also been posted in Hindpiri, a containment zone. We are also engaged in anti-extremist operations in rural areas where a large number of migrants are returning from all over the country. We have to ensure that the immunity levels of our jawans remain high.” Prime Minister Narendra Modi has appealed to people of the nation to follow Ayush ministry's directions to boost immunity. He added that CRPFF has not deployed jawans above 50 years of age and those with health issues on Covid duty in the state. Jharkhand Police had issued a similar order on Monday advising all district police chiefs to not engage personnel above 50 and those suffering from heart ailments, asthma, kidney-related illnesses or other serious diseases for Covid-19 duty at hot spots, containment zones, hospitals and quarantine centres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/haldi-homeo-mantra-to-boost-crpf-jawans-immunity/articleshow/75703701.cms||Sanjay Sahay
