May 14, 2020||Bengaluru||Move over big fat weddings; minimalist ceremonies could be the norm after Covid-19||When the lockdown was initially imposed, it created quite a stir among the country’s many to-be-married couples, whose wedding plans had to be postponed indefinitely. This lot also included people in Bengaluru, who had to either cancel ceremonies or push them to a later date. With the pandemic still looming large, some wedding planners eventually resorted to the concept of minimalist, intimate weddings, which can be conducted even in one’s house. We spoke to a few couples and wedding planners in the city to take stock of the situation and understand what goes into planning and curating small-scale celebrations amid the shutdown… From lavish venues to private terracesIf things had unfolded as planned, Manish and Paniz would have had a grand wedding at Gayatri Vihar, Palace Grounds, this summer. But it turned out to be a simple, terrace wedding at the groom’s residence on May 5. The event was curated by wedding planner Zubair Abdul Waheed. “We thought of having a temple wedding and even tried our luck at gurudwaras, but all these places were closed. That’s when I reached out to Zubair, and we eventually decided on having a terrace wedding at home. We had all precautionary measures in place, took permission from the police and ensured that not more than 30 people gathered at the venue at the same time,” says Manish. Getting innovative with limited resourcesLimited resources and workforce mean that the set up and decorations for these weddings also remain basic. At Manish’s wedding, for instance, Zubair had to settle for artificial flowers. “We needed quite a lot of fresh flowers, but it seemed like a crazy idea to arrange for those many. So, we went ahead with artificial flowers instead, and it worked quite well,” Zubair explained. Food is an essential part of every wedding ceremony, but the lockdown had a dampening effect on that too. City-based caterer Azeem Ahmed is struggling to serve the food orders that he has been receiving during this time due to a lack workforce and even the necessary ingredients that are required to cook the special dishes. “But having said that, we are trying to innovate and come up with whatever best we can in this time,” he explains. Small ceremonies are a big step towards sustainabilityAnother city couple, Mohammad Muzammil and Sara, are planning to have their wedding in the first week of June. While the rituals and ceremonies will be held at home, if Covid-19 crisis settles down by then, they plan to host a small reception for their relatives at a wedding hall. “We want things to be simple and minimalist. It’s a step towards sustainability. Intimate ceremonies testify that close-knit weddings can be equally fun and successful. And most importantly, it saves people from overspending on lavish things,” says Muzammil. Intimate weddings are the way forward – Bt07-Weddings-ZubairAccording to wedding planner Zubair Ahmed, more couples have approached him after they saw the pictures from Manish’s terrace wedding in Bengaluru recently. “People are realising that when done with proper planning and execution, small ceremonies can be carried out smoothly and more efficiently than big fat weddings. Given the wave, minimalist celebrations may become the way forward in the post-Covid world,” he says. Rules to be followed strictly during the lockdown…The Ministry of Home Affairs has now given the go-ahead to small-scale execution of wedding rituals and activities at home. The number of attendees at these functions cannot exceed 50, and the permitted head-count may vary depending on which area the wedding is being held in. The rituals are not allowed to be conducted in public places, not even within a housing society. Permission from local authorities, like the Residents Welfare Associations (RWAs) and the local police station, need to be taken in advance. All other necessary precautionary measures need to be taken during the course of the event.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/move-over-big-fat-weddings-minimalist-ceremonies-could-be-the-norm-after-covid-19/articleshow/75724663.cms||Hansy Sanctis
May 14, 2020||India||India won’t miss its annual Antarctic expedition despite Covid-19 situation||NEW DELHI: India won’t miss its Antarctic expedition, scheduled in November/December, in the Covid-19 situation. The expedition will, however, be scaled down in terms of scientific and logistic activities due to the pandemic. "We will have the next expedition as usual. But, it’ll happen with reduced members," said Madhavan Rajeevan, secretary, ministry of earth sciences (MoES). The country is, meanwhile, trying to bring back 28 Indian researchers of its last year’s expedition (39th) who are currently stuck in South Africa. Asked about the stranded researchers, Rajeevan said, "The people returned from Antarctica are still at Cape Town. We are trying to bring them back. They are, however, safe there." The 28 researchers, returning to India after conducting their research at Antarctica, had reached South Africa in April. They, however, had to be quarantined in a hotel in Cape Town due to their travel. The national centre for polar and ocean research (NCPOR) - India’s premier R&D institution responsible for the country’s research activities in the polar and Southern Ocean realms - and MoES have been coordinating with external affairs ministry for return of the researchers to India. Though the country still has time to prepare for its 40th Antarctic expedition, the NCPOR had to cancel the expedition to the Arctic this year as it was to be launched in batches from April. Researchers, generally, go there in eight or 10 batches during April-October period. India had launched its first scientific expedition to Ny-Alesund on the Spitsbergen island of Norway in August, 2007 to mark the beginning of research in the Arctic region. The Arctic expedition has been worked out to complement the country’s work in Antarctica with an aim to contribute to the global research. India has one research station - Himadri - in the Arctic region. India’s Antarctic expedition is launched annually (once in a year) wherein about 100 to 120 members including scientists, engineers, doctors and support staff are sent in batches between November and January of the succeeding calendar year. Currently, over 40 year-round permanent stations are operated by 30 nations. India presently has two research stations at Antarctica namely ‘Maitri’ and ‘Bharati’. It's Maitri station is functional round the year. Currently, nearly 50 personnel are deployed at the station. The Maitri station occupies a strategic location in the Central Dronning Maud Land region of East Antarctica offering diverse opportunity of scientific research in disciplines such as Atmospheric Sciences and Meteorology; Earth Sciences including Glaciology, Geomagnetism; Human Physiology and Medicine; Micro-biology and Environmental Sciences.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-wont-miss-its-annual-antarctic-expedition-despite-covid-19-situation/articleshow/75726160.cms||Vishwa Mohan
May 14, 2020||Noida||On Noida-Ghaziabad border, cops from both sides clash over shuttling of migrants||NOIDA/GHAZIABAD: In a major face-off between the Gautam Budh Nagar and Ghaziabad police and authorities, around 150 labourers, who were allegedly travelling towards Madhya Pradesh, Bihar and parts of eastern Uttar Pradesh were shuffled at least twice by the cops from both areas via the Tigri border. There was much drama on the Tigri border which touches the Bisrakh police station area in Gautam Budh Nagar and Vijay Nagar police station area of Ghaziabad for over two hours as the trucks with the labourers seated in them, remained stranded at the border. The incident comes two days after videos of migrants had surfaced where they alleged that GB Nagar police had been trying to shift migrants caught by them to Ghaziabad area by stuffing them in trucks. The bone of contention was around 150 labourers – some from Delhi, Ghaziabad and Noida- who had been walking towards Surajpur and Pari Chowk areas in order to reach their home districts in Madhya Pradesh, Bihar and eastern UP. According to eye-witnesses, Gautam Budh Nagar police allegedly picked them up and put them in four trucks which entered the Vijay Nagar area around 3pm. Migrants alleged that they were picked up by the police around 10am and asked about where they had been walking towards. “Cops picked up from near the Pari Chowk area and asked where we were headed. When we told them that we want to return to Sagar district in Madhya Pradesh, they did not allow us to move,” one of the migrants said. Another migrant said they were put in the trucks and told that they would be dropped till Madhya Pradesh. However, as soon as the trucks entered Ghaziabad’s Vijay Nagar area, they were noticed by the staff of SDM (Sadar) Prashant Tiwari who directed that the trucks be made to return towards Gautam Budh Nagar which the cops of the Bisrakh police station resisted. “The trucks were made to pass through the check post after breaking the barricades of the Noida police at Tigri. Upon this, the Bisrakh cops informed the seniors and a team led by the Bisrakh SHO arrived on the spot,” a senior officer told TOI. However, the Bisrakh police did not allow entry of the trucks from the gate to Greater Noida where multiple barricades were placed. Soon after, police officers of the Bisrakh police too arrived at the spot and heated arguments ensued between officers of the GB Nagar and Ghaziabad police. “They are crossing your side and entering ours, so we are not allowing this,” a Ghaziabad police sub inspector can be heard saying to an officer of Bisrakh police in a video. Upon this, a Bisrakh police officer angrily retorts saying how it can happen. As the officers continue to argue, another officer can be heard saying “not to spoil the understanding between them.” “Have they come on foot or in a canter? Yes or no,” a person in plain clothes can be heard asking the Ghaziabad sub-inspector as the argument gets heated up. The latter could only say that the migrants were “forcefully sent to their side.” Resolution could only be possible around 5.30pm when the matter reached senior officers of both police forces. Till that time, the trucks full of migrant men, women and children remained stranded at the border with the truck drivers asking the cops to allow them to go at least. When contacted, Ghaziabad’s SDM (Sadar) Prashat Tiwari told TOI that they had been picking up migrants who are walking and sending them to shelter homes. “GBNagar authorities should also do the same. There was a rumour that some buses are leaving from Kavi Nagar Ramlila ground which was untrue. GBNagar police said that most of the migrants were from Khora which falls in Ghaziabad but there were migrants from Noida and Delhi too. If there is any confusion, the GBNagar counterparts should communicate if not in writing, at least verbally which was not done,” he said adding that around 30 people were found to have come from Ghaziabad area on foot who were taken by the Ghaziabad police and sent to shelter homes in their area. Around 70 were found to be belonging to Noida’s Sector 63, etc and Delhi who were sent to the shelter homes in Noida and Delhi’s Makanpur, respectively. DCP (central Noida) Harish Chander however told TOI that the matter was discussed with the Ghaziabad SSP and resolved. “These migrants were mostly from Ghaziabad’s Khora area and others from Noida’s Sector 63 area. They have been sent to the shelter homes. The communication gap was only at the lower level. We are sending the labourers to the shelter homes from where they are being sent to their respective districts of eastern UP and Bihar border as per the availability of buses,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/on-noida-ghaziabad-border-cops-from-both-sides-clash-over-shuttling-of-migrants/articleshow/75726362.cms||Shikha Salaria
May 14, 2020||India||India steps in to bring Pakistan on board to check locust invasion, drones to be used to spray pesticides||NEW DELHI: Staring at possibility of locust invasion of greater magnitude during monsoon, beginning June, the Centre has stepped up India’s preparedness, including initiating surveillance in vulnerable states - Rajasthan, Gujarat, Punjab and Haryana - soon using drones, and taken initiative to open bilateral channel with Pakistan for better coordinated response to deal with the common enemy. Locust invasion has the potential to destroy crops on lakhs of hectares of farm land in both the countries. At present, locust swarms are active in Barmer, Jodhpur, Nagaur, Sriganganahar and Ajmer districts of Rajasthan. Though the current attack could not harm much as the harvest of crops in these districts has already been completed, timely action is needed to prevent any damage during the sowing of summer crops. So state authorities, under direct supervision from Union agriculture ministry, have, so far, already treated over 14,299 hectares of farm land at 135 spots in Jaisalmer, Sri Ganganagar, Jodhpur, Barmer, Nagaur, Ajmer and Pali districts of Rajasthan and Fazilka district of Punjab. Underlining the prediction from the UN’s Food and Agriculture Organisation (FAO) which hinted at possibility of spurt in locust attack from June, an official said, "The ministry has already initiated locust control exercise and even floated tender to empanel agencies for using drones for surveillance in vulnerable areas." Asked about coordination with Pakistan like what India did last year when both countries met five times at Munabao in India and Khokhropar in Pakistan, the official said, "The ministry has initiated a process to begin bilateral meeting through FAO and this time it would possibly be a virtual meeting to exchange information on tackling locust attack in current Covid-19 situation." He said, "Since the locust attack happened this year earlier than its normal invasion period, we want an early bilateral meeting." It’ll be in addition to the FAO’s ongoing effort to bring four affected countries in Asia - India, Pakistan, Iran and Afghanistan - on the same page for coordinated action. So far, eight virtual meetings have been held among representatives of all four countries on Skype since March 11 when the first high-level meeting was held on the locust invasion issue. India was represented by minister of state for agriculture, Kailash Choudhary, and Union agriculture secretary, Sanjay Agarwal, in the meeting. These multilateral virtual meetings are now held every Monday since then. On use of drones, the official said, "Besides surveillance, the drones will also be used for aerial spraying of pesticides in India. The Centre is also in the process of procuring additional specialised sprayers (equipped with latest technology) from United Kingdom (UK). Currently, 50 spray equipment/vehicles are being used to control the locust attack. Tractor mounted sprayers and fire-tenders, deployed at various locations, are also being used for locust control operation." Union agriculture minister, Narendra Singh Tomar, on Wednesday discussed issue of use and availability of pesticides with representatives of private companies and sensitised officials for actions on the ground. At present, 10 locust circle offices of the central government, located in Jaisalmer, Bikaner, Jodhpur, Barmer, Jalore, Churu, Nagaur, Suratgarh districts of Rajasthan; and Palanpur and Bhuj districts of Gujarat, are working in scheduled desert area of more than 2 lakh sq km in India. Normally, with the arrival of the monsoon, locust swarms enter the scheduled desert areas of India via Pakistan for breeding in the summer of June/July. "But this year, presence of locust hoppers was reported from April 11 and pink adult swarms were reported from April 30 in border districts of Rajasthan and Punjab, which have, however, been controlled. Besides, control operations against new swarms are going on," said a statement from agriculture ministry. It said, "One reason for this was the uncontrolled swarms of the previous season in Pakistan who breed continuously. Swarms of pink immature adults fly high and travel long distances with strong winds coming from Pakistan. Most of these pink immature adults settle on trees during the night and mostly fly during the day." Globally, 30 countries (mostly African and west Asian) covering 16 million sq km are vulnerable to desert locust attack. Locusts inflict damage by devouring leaves, flowers, fruits, seeds, bark and growing plants, and also by breaking trees because of their weight when they settle down in masses. An adult desert locust can consume roughly its own weight in fresh food per day. "One sq km size swarm contains about 40 million locusts, which eat the same amount of food in one day as about 35,000 people, 20 camels or 6 elephants," said an official note on the locust attack during 2019-20. During 2019-20, there was a massive locust attack in India. Total 4,03,488 hectares of area was treated during control operations from from May 21, 2019 to February 17, 2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-steps-in-to-bring-pakistan-on-board-to-check-locust-invasion-drones-to-be-used-to-spray-pesticides/articleshow/75726331.cms||Vishwa Mohan
May 14, 2020||India||India starts ICP construction with social distancing on Nepal border||NEW DELHI: Even as row has erupted between India and Nepal over new Link Road up to Lipulekh for Kailash Mansarovar Yatra, the Lands Port of Authority of India has initated construction of an Integrated Check Post (ICP) in Uttar Pradesh's Bahraich on the border. The Rs 199-crore ICP, that has just started, at Bahraich's Rupaidihia during the lockdown is the first to see construction on any border area after they were sealed on March 16 for passenger movements. The construction activity, at the 55-hectare land, started last week followig relaxations in the lockdown 3.0 guidelines for resumption of such work. "However, if you see the manpower, we only have deployed just 45 people including 15 labourers, five supervisors, one engineer, 10 operators and four helpers with usual social distancing norms," said Aditya Mishra, LPAI chief. According to LPAI, though border was sealed on March 16 but the construction work that was awwrded to a private firm KSM BAshir on February 7 this year, was halted on March 25 after lockdown was enforced. For last ten years, Rupaidih Nepalgunj border, has been the lifeline of many traders of UP, Uttarakhand Delhi in India and Nepal on the other side but lack of ICP has often hampered operations for perishable goods as poultry, meat, farm produce and expensive electronic goods and furniture that need trucks to be parked for a longer duration. Till 2017-18, this border saw trade with export of goods touching Rs 1538 crore and import clocking Rs 110 crore. Besides, on an average 22000 vehicles from India carry goods into Nepal while 2100 vehicles bring goods from the other side every year. The design for the ICP, that is expected to provide broad based facilities for all trade related activities, passenger facilitation and accommodation for border guarding force, has been ratified by Rail India Technical and Economic Service. "Our proejected figures from daily 4815 trips in 2017 are estimated to jump to 7100 trips in 2025 at this ICP and 11589 in 2035. Its a lifeline for traders. So if we get ICP constructed at this time during Coroan crisis, it will be a win for both countries," said a top offical looking after ICP construction.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-starts-icp-construction-with-social-distancing-on-nepal-border/articleshow/75726428.cms||Rohan Dua
May 14, 2020||India||CBI’s Nirav Modi case won’t hold in India, ex-judge tells UK court||LONDON: Abhay Thipsay, a retired judge who has served in the Bombay and Allahabad high courts, told a London court via video link from India on Wednesday that the charges levelled by the CBI against jeweller Nirav Modi — which include criminal conspiracy, cheating and dishonestly inducting delivery of property — would not stand up under Indian law. "Unless someone is deceived there can be no cheating under Indian law. Deception is an essential ingredient of an offence of cheating. If no one was deceived in issuing LoUs there is no question of a corporate body being deceived. The authority given to officials of the bank to issue LoUs cannot be said to be property and they cannot be said to be entrusted with property and therefore there cannot be a criminal breach of trust," said Thipsay, brother of chess grandmaster Pravin Thipsay, who granted bail to actor Salman Khan in 2015. The CBI and ED, too, were watching the third day of the trial at the Westminster magistrates’ court via link from India. The court also heard testimony from former CEO of jewellery maker Chaumet, Thierry Fritsch, appearing via video link from France, who said that he "was totally amazed and impressed" by the quality of Nirav Modi’s craftmanship. "It was the best I have ever seen in my life. It was outstanding and this is why I accepted to join the Nirav Modi advisory board. His ambition was to establish the first international brand of high quality from India," he said. "It was a disaster it closed from a jewellery point of view. The luxury business is a combination of business and artistic skills and Nirav was perfect — he had both. His micro-setting of small diamonds was the very best in world. I have no reason to doubt his integrity — it was a big surprise for me what happened because whatever he was doing, he had the support of the Indian state. He was very proud to be Indian." Fritsch opened the Nirav Modi boutiques internationally and "pushed the brand to be more international and little less Indian ethnic". He said Nirav’s workshop in Surat was "like Formula One" with a "stock of beautiful diamonds". "Nirav was planning towards an IPO as the need for cash in jewellery is big," he added. Nirav is accused of accused of obtaining unsanctioned loans worth £700 million (Rs 6,498 crore) at highly advantageous rates by means of LoUs (letters of undertaking) from Punjab National Bank (PNB) in conspiracy with PNB officials from 2011 until 2017. He is also accused of wrongly diverting the loans to pay off earlier LoUs and benefit companies that he controlled. He is alleged to have established shadow companies in Dubai and Hong Kong — fronted by dummy directors — which were used for the circular rotation of low-quality jewellery at inflated values to give the impression of being exporters, but they were in fact receiving the proceeds of the PNB fraud. The Crown Prosecution Service submitted a further 250 pages of evidence, including bank statements, even though the last date for serving of evidence was May 5. Nirav’s lawyer, Clare Montgomery QC, objected, but district judge Samuel Mark Goozée decided to allow it. Montgomery will be given time to respond, but it will further delay the hearing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/indian-judge-tells-uk-court-cbi-charges-against-nirav-modi-would-not-stand-up-before-indian-law/articleshow/75727925.cms||NAOMI CANTON
May 14, 2020||World||CBI’s Nirav Modi case won’t hold in India, ex-judge tells UK court||LONDON: Abhay Thipsay, a retired judge who has served in the Bombay and Allahabad high courts, told a London court via video link from India on Wednesday that the charges levelled by the CBI against jeweller Nirav Modi — which include criminal conspiracy, cheating and dishonestly inducting delivery of property — would not stand up under Indian law. "Unless someone is deceived there can be no cheating under Indian law. Deception is an essential ingredient of an offence of cheating. If no one was deceived in issuing LoUs there is no question of a corporate body being deceived. The authority given to officials of the bank to issue LoUs cannot be said to be property and they cannot be said to be entrusted with property and therefore there cannot be a criminal breach of trust," said Thipsay, brother of chess grandmaster Pravin Thipsay, who granted bail to actor Salman Khan in 2015. The CBI and ED, too, were watching the third day of the trial at the Westminster magistrates’ court via link from India. The court also heard testimony from former CEO of jewellery maker Chaumet, Thierry Fritsch, appearing via video link from France, who said that he "was totally amazed and impressed" by the quality of Nirav Modi’s craftmanship. "It was the best I have ever seen in my life. It was outstanding and this is why I accepted to join the Nirav Modi advisory board. His ambition was to establish the first international brand of high quality from India," he said. "It was a disaster it closed from a jewellery point of view. The luxury business is a combination of business and artistic skills and Nirav was perfect — he had both. His micro-setting of small diamonds was the very best in world. I have no reason to doubt his integrity — it was a big surprise for me what happened because whatever he was doing, he had the support of the Indian state. He was very proud to be Indian." Fritsch opened the Nirav Modi boutiques internationally and "pushed the brand to be more international and little less Indian ethnic". He said Nirav’s workshop in Surat was "like Formula One" with a "stock of beautiful diamonds". "Nirav was planning towards an IPO as the need for cash in jewellery is big," he added. Nirav is accused of accused of obtaining unsanctioned loans worth £700 million (Rs 6,498 crore) at highly advantageous rates by means of LoUs (letters of undertaking) from Punjab National Bank (PNB) in conspiracy with PNB officials from 2011 until 2017. He is also accused of wrongly diverting the loans to pay off earlier LoUs and benefit companies that he controlled. He is alleged to have established shadow companies in Dubai and Hong Kong — fronted by dummy directors — which were used for the circular rotation of low-quality jewellery at inflated values to give the impression of being exporters, but they were in fact receiving the proceeds of the PNB fraud. The Crown Prosecution Service submitted a further 250 pages of evidence, including bank statements, even though the last date for serving of evidence was May 5. Nirav’s lawyer, Clare Montgomery QC, objected, but district judge Samuel Mark Goozée decided to allow it. Montgomery will be given time to respond, but it will further delay the hearing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/uk/indian-judge-tells-uk-court-cbi-charges-against-nirav-modi-would-not-stand-up-before-indian-law/articleshow/75726498.cms||NAOMI CANTON
May 14, 2020||India||Ex-IAS officer Shah Faesal's detention under PSA extended for 3 months||SRINAGAR: J&K home department extended former IAS officer Shah Faesal’s detention under Public Safety Act (PSA) for three more months on Wednesday evening, barely hours before it was set to expire. Faesal, who was detained in August last year after the Centre ended J&K’s special status, was booked under PSA on February 14. Earlier, the government had extended the detention of former CM and PDP chief Mehbooba Mufti, party poster boy Naeem Akther, party leader Sartaj Madni and NC politician Ali Muhammad Sagar. All these politicians are detained under PSA. However, two other former CMs, Farooq Abdullah and his son Omar, were released from detention under PSA separately earlier this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ex-ias-officer-shah-faesals-detention-under-psa-extended-for-3-months/articleshow/75726508.cms||M Saleem Pandit
May 14, 2020||India||CRPF kills motorist in J&K after ‘checkpoint breach’||SRINAGAR: Suspected of attempting "sabotage", a motorist driving down the wrong lane was fatally shot by CRPF personnel in central Kashmir’s Budgam district on Wednesday after he allegedly didn't heed their signal to stop and sped past two checkpoints just when an Army convoy was passing by. A spokesperson for the CRPF said Mehrajudin Shah of Budgam's Makhama Beerwah was at the wheel of a WagonR speeding down Gulmarg-Narbal Road from the wrong side when he was shot by security forces on the basis of radio communication from the first checkpoint he had allegedly breached. The CRPF team from the 141 Battalion suspected that the motorist was up to something when he twice drove through checkpoints near Kawoosa Khalisa village without stopping, the official said. According to the CRPF's version, some warning shots were fired before someone in the patrol team aimed at Mehrajudin's shoulder. The fact that an Army convoy was in the area around the same time influenced the decision to shoot him, the spokesperson said. Mehrajudin was declared dead on arrival at Srinagar's SMHS Hospital. Mobile internet was suspended across Budgam district soon after to prevent rumours from being spread about his death, official sources said. The slain youth's father, Ghulam Nabi, contested the sequence of events put out by the CRPF. He alleged that his son was "killed in cold blood". “Mehrajudin was driving home from Srinagar (around 30km from Budgam) after dropping his uncle there. I have heard from various sources that he didn’t ignore the naka party. He was dragged out of his vehicle and shot in the chest. The CRPF's claim that they aimed at his shoulder is a lie," Ghulam Nabi said. Budgam DC Tariq Hussain Gania said an FIR had been lodged and police were investigating the shooting. "Whosoever will be found responsible for any wrongdoing shall be punished," he said. Former J&K CM Omar Abdullah tweeted, "Very unfortunate. The circumstances surrounding this shooting need to be impartially investigated & findings made known. My condolences to the family of the deceased." News agency PTI quoted the J&K unit of Congress as saying that "the loss of innocent lives has the potential to lead to further alienation of the people". Mehbooba Mufti's Peoples Democratic Party, too, raised doubts about why and how Mehrajudin was shot. "Eagerness of few trigger-happy individuals to replicate Delhi Police model of destruction and violence in Budgam is detestable," it tweeted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/crpf-kills-motorist-in-jk-after-checkpoint-breach/articleshow/75726534.cms||M Saleem Pandit
May 14, 2020||Business||Covid-hit, GCPL Q4 sales down 18% to Rs 1,089 crore; volumes fall 15%||MUMBAI: Godrej Consumer Products (GCPL) reported a 25% decline in net profit without exceptional items at Rs 222 crore in the fourth quarter ended March 31, 2020. India net sales were down 18% to Rs 1,089 crore, with domestic volumes falling 15% year on year. Household insecticides declined by 16% due to loss of sales in the later part of March 2020, which marks the onset of high mosquito infestation in North India, while soaps declined by 23% due to loss of sales in the last fortnight of March 2020 owing to the impact of the Covid-19 outbreak. On the other hand, hair colours delivered a weak performance on the back of general slowdown in the hair colour category due its discretionary nature and consumers stretching their consumption. GCPL chairperson Nisaba Godrej, said the quarter was an unprecedented period due to the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic across the globe, impacting all the geographies of the company’s operations. "During this quarter, we had witnessed steady demand in our categories till mid-March 2020. However, the spread of the virus and the eventual lockdown in many geographies of our operations resulted in virtually no sales in the later part of March 2020, significantly impacting our sales performance in the quarter. This resulted in a weak performance in our India business, although we have continued to gain market shares across categories,” said Godrej. In GCPL's international businesses, Indonesia continued its strong growth momentum with mid-single digit profitable constant currency sales growth in spite of the Covid-19 crisis. Godrej said this was driven by a consistent performance across categories and several go-to-market initiatives. In GAUM (Godrej Africa, USA, Middle East), on the other hand, GCPL witnessed a weak sales performance amidst disruptions caused by Covid-19 in many of its countries of operations. "Going forward, we are ramping up our supply chain operations and distribution, in line with the prescribed safety measures and easing of lockdowns in various countries. Since the situation is very dynamic, our teams are continuing to manage our business prudently, while assessing various scenarios for business recovery. We will continue to focus on driving our market share and launch relevant innovations to enhance our competitiveness. The situation calls for an extraordinary level of adaptability, resilience and agility – and our teams are well-geared to embrace this challenge," said Godrej. Analysts said this was the weakest performance in consumer staples following the Covid impact. While Hindustan Unilever saw volumes dip 7% in Q4, Marico’s volumes declined 3%. Nestle India, on the other hand, witnessed a high single digit growth.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/covid-hit-gcpl-q4-sales-down-18-to-rs-1089-crore-volumes-fall-15/articleshow/75726594.cms||Namrata Singh
May 14, 2020||Business||No cuts in salary and jobs: Maruti Suzuki||NEW DELHI: The country’s largest carmaker Maruti Suzuki said on Wednesday that business and new launch plans will be impacted by disruptions because of the coronavirus pandemic, though making it clear that the company has no plans to slash jobs or salaries as a counter-measure. Maruti chairman RC Bhargava said that production schedules are being impacted by the restrictions around coronavirus, especially as operations at many vendors have been hit on account of a variety of measures, including some falling in containment zones or red/ prohibited areas. "We have no plans to reduce salaries, or jobs," Bhargava said when asked whether any such measure is being contemplated. The company, like all the other automobile majors, could not supply any new vehicle to dealerships in the month of April as the country-wide lockdown over coronavirus concerns meant that everything was shut – from factories to retailers. Maruti resumed production at its Manesar factory on Tuesday, and plans to start the Gurugram factory from next week. However, there is still no clarity on when the Gujarat plant – owned by its parent Suzuki – would begin operations. Bhargava said that there are "still active cases" in villages around the Gujarat facility, and there are issues related to manpower movement, government permits and supplies of components. "There are uncertainties about production in Gujarat." Asked about his outlook on sales and by when the normalcy would return in the market, the Maruti chairman said that the situation remains fluid and there is still no clarity on the issue. "The market is uncertain. No one knows how the market will behave." Bhargava said that one-third of the company’s dealerships have opened so far, as lockdown restrictions started coming off from May 4. "Of this, 60% are in rural. We also expect to open the roughly 2000 additional dealers, but it will take some more time." Asked whether the government should cut GST rates on automobiles to increase affordability and spur demand, he said the relief should be extended, but after some time. "As we stand today, the production volumes are going to be low over the next 1-2 months. So, it (GST cut) doesn’t make any sense now… GST becomes relevant only when production can be increased to higher levels. The government and industry have to look at it." The company has also decided to reduce capital expenditure for the second year in a row, given the uncertain market conditions. It cut the capex by 16%, or Rs 550 crore, for FY21 over the past year's capex of Rs 3,248 crore. It has fixed the capex for this fiscal at Rs 2,700 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/no-cuts-in-salary-and-jobs-maruti-suzuki/articleshow/75726874.cms||Pankaj Doval
May 14, 2020||Business||Government tries to ease cash crunch, help small businesses restart||NEW DELHI: A day after Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced a Rs 20 lakh crore stimulus, the government on Wednesday unveiled an over Rs 5.5 lakh crore package as the first instalment of the “atmanirbhar (self-reliant) campaign” with a focus on MSMEs (micro, small and medium enterprises) — seen as key employers of unskilled, semi- and skilled labourers who have borne the brunt of the lockdown clamped to fight Covid-19. There were measures for NBFCs and real estate as well. In the first set of announcements that are to be spread out over the next few days, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman spelt out plans to provide liquidity to small and medium enterprises and also initiate reforms that would redefine the sector and encourage firms to shed their fears of “growing bigger”, a change in status that has previously entailed loss of benefits available to the sector. Read our coronavirus live blog for all the latest news and updatesCoronavirus outbreak: Complete coverageThe package focused largely on providing cash for the MSME sector, NBFCs, housing finance firms, micro finance companies as well as reducing tax deducted at source and tax collected at source rates to ensure more money in the hands of taxpayers. This will not apply to salaried people but help contract payments and those drawing professional fees. The centrepiece was Rs 3 lakh crore worth of collateral-free automatic loans for businesses and the MSME sector, which would help nearly 45 lakh units in the segment and potentially a few crore workers. TOI had accurately predicted the MSME measures in its Wednesday edition. Read AlsoNirmala Sitharaman leans on banks, institutions to fund packageWhile the Rs 3-lakh-crore automatic loan for businesses and MSMEs is backed by government guarantee, the burden will be felt by PSBs. Similarly, the Rs 90,000-crore liquidity infusion for distribution companies will be handled by entities such as Power Finance Corporation and Rural ElectrificationBoost for liquidity, will empower entrepreneurs: PM ModiThe MSME sector has been hit hard by the pandemic and there have been sustained calls for a healing touch that will help the firms run and, importantly, help keep back migrant labourers leaving cities due to lack of earnings. The definition of MSME was changed with an increase in the investment limit as well as introduction of an additional criterion of turnover. The FM said the government would amend the laws soon to implement the changes. Global tenders up to Rs 200 crore will also be disallowed to help MSMEs get a share of the business and not lose out to bigger players. “Today’s announcements by the FM will go a long way in addressing issues faced by businesses, especially MSMEs. The steps announced will boost liquidity, empower entrepreneurs and strengthen their competitive spirit,” Modi said on Twitter. More on Covid-19 Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage Lockdown 3.0: What's allowed and what's not in the three zones It's time to mask up and stay safe: Join TOI's #MaskIndia campaign MHA's guidelines for home isolation Trust the newspaper for your daily verified news The FM also announced a reduction in the provident fund contribution of employers and employees for the next three months and extended by three months the scheme introduced as part of PM Garib Kalyan Yojana under which the government contributes 12% of salary each on behalf of both the employer and the employee to the EPF for those earning less than Rs 15,000 per month in units with less than 100 workers. The extension will be for salary months of June, July and August. Total benefits accrued is about Rs 2,500 crore to 72.22 lakh employees. “Essentially, the goal is to build a self-reliant India, that is why the economic package is called ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan’,” the minister said. Pointing to Modi’s emphasis, Sitharaman said the focus would be on land, labour, liquidity and laws. “Beginning today, for the next few days, I shall be coming here with the entire team of the ministry of finance to detail the PM’s vision for atmanirbhar Bharat,” Sitharaman told a news conference.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/government-tries-to-ease-cash-crunch-help-small-businesses-restart/articleshow/75727059.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Business||Nirmala Sitharaman leans on banks, institutions to fund package||NEW DELHI: The first package in the Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan unveiled by FM Nirmala Sitharaman on Wednesday seems to have leant more on public sector banks (PSBs) and institutions, and the outgo from the Budget appears to be minimal. While the Rs 3-lakh-crore automatic loan for businesses and MSMEs is backed by government guarantee, the burden will be felt by PSBs. Similarly, the Rs 90,000-crore liquidity infusion for distribution companies will be handled by entities such as Power Finance Corporation and Rural Electrification Corporation. Even the relief under the employees’ provident fund is largely an accounting exercise and provide a small relief to staffers whose contribution to the scheme will be reduced. A former finance secretary said the Centre’s stretched finances allowed little headroom. “Because of this, you have to be innovative. You have to bank on everything available in the system,” he said. Asked about the cash outgo for the first package, Sitharaman said she would prefer to wait until all the packages are announced, although she said the increase in market borrowing could be a source of funding the packages. Kerala FM Thomas Issac said if the first package is a fair sample, the Rs 20-lakh-crore stimulus is going to be deeply disappointing. “The actual outflow of resources directly from the Budget is only around Rs 30,000 crore,” Isaac tweeted. PM Narendra Modi has said size of the package, including the ones unveiled earlier by the FM and the RBI, will total Rs 20 lakh crore and account for 10% of GDP. The government is walking a tightrope between demands for a large stimulus and the need to keep in mind fiscal consolidation and the possibility of sovereign ratings downgrade in case the deficit reaches unsustainable level. Economists said the burden in the first package has shifted to the PSBs and may be households, who are shareholders in these banks. “At a time when you are reducing the number of PSBs, you are also burdening them with more responsibilities. It will be the PSBs and financial institutions who will bear the burden,” said N R Bhanumurthy, professor at the National Institute of Public Finance and Policy. “The measures would be largely fiscal-neutral in the present year, with the Rs 20,000 crore of subordinate debt for stressed SMEs and equity funding of Rs 10,000 crore from the fund of funds, probably being the outlays this year,” said Madan Sabnavis, chief economist at Care Ratings.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/nirmala-sitharaman-leans-on-banks-institutions-to-fund-package/articleshow/75727597.cms||Surojit Gupta
May 14, 2020||Business||Government lowers employee, employer’s EPF outgo||NEW DELHI: The government on Monday lowered the statutory contribution by both employee and employer to the Employees’ Provident Fund (EPF) to 10% each of the employee’s monthly salary from the existing 12% for the next three months. This will provide liquidity of about Rs 2,250 crore per month. While the move would bring in some more immediate cash in the hands of the employee, but it will also deprive her from earning a good return of 8.5% post-tax from EPF, which is equivalent to 12.14% for a person with income taxable in the 30% tax bracket, to 10.6% for those in the 20% bracket, 9.4% in the 10% bracket and around 9% for those in the 5% marginal tax bracket. As a result, the change does not increase the employee’s total income, but only ensures that a part of the income that was earlier deposited with the high interest generating EPF, will now be paid upfront. For example, for a person with a monthly salary of Rs 25,000, the contribution to EPF at 12% would be Rs 3,000 and the take-home income would be Rs 22,000. Besides this, the employer would also contribute the same amount in the EPF. So, the total contribution to EPF in the employee’s account would be Rs 6000. But now, at the rate of 10% each, the total contribution would be only Rs 5,000 and the rest Rs 1,000 will be given to the employee as take home. Therefore, his monthly take-home income will be Rs 23,000. The new scheme would be for three months. So, the net contribution to his EPF account would be Rs 3,000 less than what would have accrued in the normal course. But, if the employee is in her thirties and her remaining job tenure is 20 years, her retirement benefit would be lowered by Rs 15,350 and if it is 25 years, the impact would be of Rs 23,000. For higher incomes, the impact would be even more. The government has also decided to continue the scheme introduced in PM Garib Kalyan Package, under which the government contributes 12% of salary each on behalf of both employer and employee to EPF for June, July and August 2020. The total benefits that would accrue to 72.22 lakh employees is estimated to be about Rs 2,500 crore. Senior financial consultant and chartered accountant Vivek Jain said those who are getting salary in the present Covid-19 pandemic crisis are better off and do not require this kind of jugglery. Particularly at a time when inflation is low and markets are closed, most of the expenditure is already curtailed. At this point of time, any additional money in the pocket at the cost of savings for the future would hardly help. However, Jaijit Bhattacharya, president, Centre for Digital Economy Policy Research, said the move is aimed at increasing demand in the market.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/government-lowers-employee-employers-epf-outgo/articleshow/75727787.cms||Prabhakar Sinha
May 14, 2020||Delhi||Delhiites gulp liquor worth Rs 84 crore in nine days||NEW DELHI: Delhiites consumed liquor worth over Rs 84 crore in nine days since Delhi government opened a handful of liquor stores on May 4 after six weeks of complete lockdown. According to the data of total sales up to May 12 shared by the excise department, the government earned Rs 55 crore as special corona fee, which was levied on May 5. This was in addition to over Rs 52-54 crore, which the government earned as excise duty. The state government charges an additional 70% as special corona fee on all categories of liquor. The government currently operates about 160 stores selling Indian-made foreign liquor and country-made liquor across the capital. The government registered highest liquor sale of Rs 18 crore on May 9. On May 4, the first day of opening the liquor stores, sale of Rs 5.2 crore was registered. On May 5, it was Rs 4.5 crore which increased to Rs 5 crore on May 7 and jumped to Rs 15.8 crore on May 8. May 7 was a dry day. However, liquor sale dropped thereafter to Rs 14.2 crore on May 10, Rs 11.6 crore on May 11 and Rs 9.7 crore on May 12.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhiites-gulp-liquor-worth-rs-84cr-in-9-days/articleshow/75727178.cms||Atul Mathur
May 14, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: More restaurants jump on home-delivery bandwagon||KOLKATA: Chelo kebabs are back, pepperoni pizzas have returned and biryani is beckoning yet again. With more restaurants reopening their kitchens, home delivery has stepped up across Kolkata. A cluster of Park Street restaurants has returned to online food delivery platforms, several in central Kolkata, too, are gearing up for home delivery, which, they believe, is going to be a lifeline even after the lockdown is lifted and restaurants start functioning with curbs. Bar-B-Q and Oasis on Park Street have joined Wow! Momo and Wow China on food delivery platforms, along with Oh! Calcutta and Mainland China, and sales have been “moderate to good”. “Orders are pretty brisk on weekends and they have been steadily going up, though weekdays are not as good. We expect the volume of orders to rise,” said Oasis owner Pratap Daryanani, adding that chelo kebabs have been a hot favourite. “Kebabs and fish fries, too, are being ordered frequently, though we aren’t preparing continental food now,” he said. Orders have been good for pizza and biryani over the past three weeks, according to an online delivery platform. One of them is conducting a survey among users to check the reasons behind the spurt in orders. The latter have been mailed a set of questions that seek to find out if users were being driven by craving or were finding it tiring to cook at home. Hotel and Restaurants Association of Eastern India secretary Sudesh Poddar felt home delivery will help sustain restaurants for several weeks even after the lockdown is withdrawn. “We will be forced to follow a set of norms that will greatly reduce footfall and affect our profits. So, online orders will be the key now,” said Poddar, adding that many eateries who had so far stayed away from delivery are contemplating joining online platforms. “So far, even I had stayed away from it, but I could be reopening my kitchen soon. Food-ordering habits have changed over the past two months and people are now wary of going to restaurants. They will prefer to order at home and we must take advantage of that,” said Poddar who owns Song-Hai on Waterloo Street. Specialty Restaurants chairman Anjan Chatterjee said, “In the lockdown period, people are stuck at home and are being forced to do a lot of cooking and cleaning without domestic helps. They are desperate for a break and eating good food at home will be a welcome relief. That apart, we have our loyal customer base that has been missing our food.” Specialty Restaurants runs Oh! Calcutta, Mainland China, Hakka, Asia Kitchen and Sweet Bengal, all of which are now delivering through online apps or have their own arrangements. Mocambo on Park Street had started home delivery, but shut its kitchen down to avoid risk of transmission. “Our kitchen employees live in areas which are infection-prone. We had asked them to stay back, but most said they would prefer to travel. We thought that could be risky so we shut the kitchen down after a couple of days,” said Mocambo owner Nitin Kothari.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/more-restaurants-jump-on-home-delivery-bandwagon/articleshow/75726564.cms||Prithvijit Mitra
May 14, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Lower positivity rate not good news when testing is reduced||CHENNAI: A drop in the positivity rate – the number of people testing positive for Covid-19 over the total number tested – may seem like good news, but it makes epidemiologists and public health experts break out in a cold sweat. In the past one week, the number of people being tested for the viral infection has not increased, although an average of at least 500 people are testing positive daily. “We must test more people and let the infection rate come down organically,” said ICMR-National Institute of Epidemiology deputy director Dr Prahdeep Kaur. All international organisations have been advocating this, she said. Epidemiologists say that when the number of tests is reduced, it will show an artificial decline in incidence. On May 6, when the state announced it screened 13,281 people, there were 771 positive cases (5.8%). Three days later, when the test numbers dropped to 12,999 people, positivity rate dropped to 4% after 526 people tested positive. After going down further to around 11,500 cases in the last two days, the state tested 12,666 people on Wednesday. Yet the positivity rate was 4%. “When tests are reduced there may be surprises. The last thing we want during a pandemic is a sudden increase in the number of cases. Countries that have been ramping up tests have been able to efficiently control deaths too,” she said. Data shows that in Chennai, there are at least 25 contacts for every person testing positive. At least five close contacts – people who have spent 15 minutes with these people in a closed environment – are tested. At the Covid-19 control room, the number of people doing contact testing has increased rampantly. Scientists are finding that every infected person infects up to three others in Chennai. Greater Chennai Corporation special nodal officer Dr J Radhakrishnan said the aim is focused testing. “We screen the vulnerable population. All contacts at risk are screened, if we don’t we keep them in isolation.” The corporation says nearly 4,000 people from the metropolitan area are tested daily. At least 9,000 people from the state were tested since Tuesday. Of this nearly 3,900 were from Chennai. “That is close to 13% positivity rate compared to single digits we had a few days ago,” a senior official said. About 70,000 people in the city, 1% of its population, have been tested. A total of 9640 per million people are tested in Chennai Public health experts say it may not be a bad idea as long as people under quarantine follow norms. “The city can do more tests, its neighbouring districts are seeing more cases. But there isn’t a proportional increase in tests.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/lower-positivity-rate-not-good-news-when-testing-is-reduced/articleshow/75726800.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Patna||Bihar: 25,000 migrants, students return by 21 special trains||PATNA: About 25,000 stranded migrant workers, students and others reached Bihar by 21 Shramik special trains from New Delhi and seven other states on Wednesday. Nearly 1.68 lakh migrant workers, students and others stranded in other parts of the country due to the nationwide lockdown have returned to Bihar by 142 special trains so far. According to ECR chief public relations officer (CPRO) Rajesh Kumar, two trains with 2300-odd passengers from Rohtak and Bhiwani in Haryana reached Katihar and Kishanganj while 1200 reached Barauni from Bengaluru and 1170 from Ghatkesar in Telangana arrived at Banka station. Five other trains carrying migrants from Sahibzada Ajit Singh Nagar, Chandigarh, Ludhiana and Jalandhar in Punjab reached Chhapra, Bhagalpur, Sitamarhi, Bettiah and Gaya. Railway security personnel along with railway and state government doctors were present at the stations to ensure health protocols, the CPRO said. Another special train from New Delhi with 1160 passengers reached Purnea while two other special trains with 1300 passengers from Kota and Sawai Madhopur in Rajasthan reached Katihar. Altogether 2400 migrants and stranded students reached Darbhanga and Danapur from Surat and Ahmedabad, he said. Three special trains from Chhatrapati Shivaji Terminal Mumbai reached Danapur, Muzaffarpur and Motihari while the one from Lokmanya Tilak station brought stranded people to Barauni and Saharsa. Danapur divisional railway manager (DRM) Sunil Kumar said the railway administration has deployed adequate number of security personnel and healthcare staff at Danapur, Patna Junction and Rajendra Nagar Terminal to maintain hygienic condition and social distancing norms at the time of arrival of special trains. Incidentally, staff of these stations have been asked to provide sanitisers to each passenger either entering or leaving the station premises, the DRM said. Meanwhile, 4,893 migrant workers and other stranded persons from Lingampalli, Rewari, Mumbai and Mangaluru have reached Khagaria during the last few days. Khagaria DM Alok Ranjan Ghosh and SP Meenu Kumari, along with medical, paramedical and health officials remained present at the railway station. Migrant workers from Katihar, Motihari, East Champaran and other districts, who reached Khagaria on Tuesday evening were sent by buses to their respective districts and block-level quarantine centres on early Wednesday morning. Hassan Raja (31), a native of Baghora in Katihar district, said, “Apne gaon se behtar koi jagah nahi hai (there is no place better than our native village)”. Vidyanand Paswan of Tamkua in East Champaran district echoed similar views. Altogether 1,843 migrants from Mohali reached Chhapra on Wednesday. Of them, 1601 belonged to Saran, 226 to West Champaran, six to Muzaffarpur, four each to Siwan and Sitamarhi and two to Vaishali districts. “Saran DM Subrat Kumar Sen and SP Har Kishore Rai personally supervised the arrangements,” said the DPRO. Meanwhile, all the 10 patients, who were found positive for coronavirus in Saran, have been released from hospital. “This is a good news for the district,” said the DM. (With inputs from N P Thakur in Khagaria and H K Verma from Chhapra)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/25k-migrants-students-return-by-21-special-trains/articleshow/75723827.cms||Kumod Verma
May 14, 2020||Coimbatore||Nilgiris makes institutional quarantine a must||UDHAGAMANDALAM: People entering the Nilgiris district from other states have to undergo seven days of institutional quarantine besides Covid-19 test as per the revised standard operational procedure, said collector J Innocent Divya here on Wednesday. For people coming from other districts in the state, 14 days of home quarantine is a must. If symptomatic, samples would be collected from them for test. According to the collector, there are only three active cases from the Nilgiris and the patients are treated at ESI hospital in Coimbatore. As many as 1,941 guest workers, mostly from Jharkhand, have registered for going back home from the district. About 40 guest workers were already sent to their respective home states. On Wednesday, seven guest workers from Mizoram were sent home. Divya said all standalone textile shops in the district are allowed to function.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/nilgiris-makes-institutional-quarantine-a-must/articleshow/75726799.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Ahmedabad||Govt forms EAG for economic revival, Adhia to head panel||Gandhinagar: The state government has constituted an expert advisory group (EAG) to deliberate on economic revival measures in the state, including financial restructuring under the post Covid-19 pandemic scenario. The committee of experts will also provide comprehensive suggestions to revive the state’s economy, which has taken a major hit because of the pandemic outbreak and subsequent lockdown. The six-member committee will be headed by retired IAS officer Hasmukh Adhia, former finance secretary in the government of India. Other members include tax consultant Mukesh Patel, Ravindra Dholakia, former professor of IIM-A, financial expert Pradeep Shah, retired IAS officer Kirit Shelat and M Thennarasan, vice-chairman and MD, GIDC. Mukesh Patel recently worked on key national committees to advise the government on financial and tax related issues. The Covid-19 pandemic has affected the state and its economy to a large extent. The demand and supply chain has been crippled and the informal sector and the MSMEs have taken a major blow. Gujarat has a large migrant workforce, who have been compelled to return to their respective states because of the pandemic. This disruption has affected industries in a big way. The committee headed by Adhia will submit a comprehensive action plan with necessary inputs within one month and an interim report will be submitted within two weeks. The committee will assess sectoral and sub-sectoral losses and provide necessary measures for revival. The committee will also review the fiscal status and budgetary position of Gujarat and provide suggestions for improvement. This will include revision of fiscal deficit estimate and the current tax administration in the post Covid-19 scenario.  In addition, it will analyse availability of labour and provide necessary recommendations to improve labour availability in the state, considering large scale movement of migrant workers to their respective home states amidst the pandemic. Further, it will devise a strategy to create an ambient environment to attract foreign companies looking to relocate their base from other countries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/govt-forms-eag-for-economic-revival-adhia-to-head-panel/articleshow/75725612.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Ahmedabad||Govt yet to fix college exam schedule||Ahmedabad: Confusion prevails in the state education department over the exam schedule for colleges. Nearly three weeks ago, the government announced that annual exams will be held and that all rumours about college students being promoted en masse like schoolchildren have should be dispelled. The state government is planning to issue its own set of guidelines soon in which it will also announce the exam schedule, said sources in the education department. The education department has also taken the feedback of vice-chancellors of various universities on conducting the exams. “Some VCs have suggested that exams be held online while others have suggested that except for terminal year students, others should be graded based on internal assessment of the present and previous semesters,” said a VC on the condition of anonymity. “Also, many urban areas fall in red zones and there is uncertainty about how the situation will develop over the next few weeks.”The University Grants Commission (UGC) recently directed all varsities in the country to set up a cell for handling grievances of students related to examinations and other academic activities arising due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Earlier, the commission released guidelines on examinations and the academic calendar for universities in view of the Covid-19 pandemic and the lockdown. The academic session 2020-21 may commence from August 1 for old students and from the September 1 for fresh students.In states where Covid-19 situation has normalized, exams may be held in July.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/govt-yet-to-fix-college-exam-schedule/articleshow/75725799.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Ahmedabad||Migrant exodus to hit industries||Ahmedabad: As the state government has arranged special Shramik trains to facilitate the movement of migrant labourers, industries are concerned about production getting hampered. Industrial production may take a hit for at least three months according to estimates by industry associations. With relaxation of curbs on industries in certain parts of the state, industrial units which have resumed operations are barely operating at 30-50% capacity right now. Industrialists are worried that the movement of migrant labourers will further hamper their production capacity.“While industries have received permissions to operate, labour shortage is expected to trigger production woes for industrial units because of the the recent movement of labourers,” said Chintan Thaker, co-chair, Assocham–Gujarat council. “Most are also engaged in agriculture in their native place and thus will not return till sowing is completed.”According to estimates by the state labour and employment department, some 3 lakh migrant workers have been sent back from Gujarat to their home states in special trains as on Tuesday. “The exodus of migrant workers will result in a shortage of labourers and subsequent reduction in production when the lockdown is lifted as these workers form a large part of the workforce,” said Rajendra Shah, president, Changodar Industries Association.At 40-45%, worker turnout is low at the industries due to the lockdown and migrant workers returning to their home states has further reduced the workforce, which has added to the woes of industrial units. There are as many as 500 units in the Changodar industrial area, which roughly employs 1 lakh labourers. Of these, around 30-35% are migrant workers from outside Gujarat and other regions of the state.In certain estates, migrant labourers comprise at least 70% of the workforce or even more at several industrial estates around Ahmedabad. “Barely 20% units are functional at present in the estates of Vatva and Naroda and most are currently operating at less than 30-50% capacity,” said Yogesh Parikh, president, Gujarat Dyestuff Manufacturers’ Association. “When more units are given permission to operate, the labour shortage will only intensify.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/migrant-exodus-to-hit-industries/articleshow/75725765.cms||Kalpesh Damor
May 14, 2020||Business||Sebi, industry discuss issues facing mkt participants||Mumbai: Sebi chairman Ajay Tyagi and several other senior officials of the markets regulator on Wednesday interacted with industry leaders and discussed the issues in the crisis-hit bond market and also the mutual fund industry. They also discussed issues like rules that could be changed to help companies raise funds and also to meet regulatory compliance needs, Sebi and industry officials present at the closed door meeting said. As part of Sebi’s continuing efforts to reach out to market participants, amid the Covid-19 crisis, Tyagi held a conference call with the representatives of industry trade body Ficci on Wednesday, a Sebi release said. This is part of the series of meetings that the regulator is having with various stakeholders, it said. “Several issues concerning the industry in light of the lockdown due to Covid-19 were discussed in the meeting including issues relating to raising of capital, corporate debt market, disclosures, etc.” According to Sunil Sanghai, head of Ficci’s capital market committee, detailed discussions took place about the state of the bond market and also the mutual fund industry. Since Covid-19-related issues started hitting the economy, the corporate bond market has gone into a freeze, with barely any deals taking place outside of top rated papers. To some extent, this sudden and sharp dip in activities in the debt market also forced Franklin Templeton Mutual Fund to wind down six of its debt funds on April 24, which had assets of nearly Rs 26,000 crore. Sebi and industry officials also discussed issues relating to the mutual fund industry, Sanghai said. “Sebi has been very proactive…the officials showed serious intent while listening to the industry’s issues and promised to look into those issues,” Sanghai added. Sebi on its part said its officials were in frequent touch with the government, the RBI, and other regulators on various issues.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sebi-industry-discuss-issues-facing-mkt-participants/articleshow/75726906.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Covid-19 tests in 12 more districts soon||PATNA: Twelve more districts will soon have Covid-19 testing facility as TrueNat machines are being installed in several parts of the state. The districts reporting more coronavirus positive cases with increase in the inflow of migrants are given priority in installing these machines. As of now, Covid test is being done by Reverse Transcrition Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) method at seven health institutes in the state, including four in Patna itself. Other districts have been tagged with these testing centres. State health department has recently given nod to two private laboratories also for conducting Covid test. State health department principal secretary Sanjay Kumar on Tuesday night tweeted that 15 TrueNat machines have already arrived and were being installed at five medical college and hospitals and eight district hospitals. “Twenty five more machines are in pipeline. These would help us to decentralize and speed up testing (sic),” he tweeted. Sanjay on Wednesday said top five districts with maximum cases will now have more testing facility. TrueNat machines are being installed at Vardhman Institute of Medical Sciences, Pawapuri, Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College and Hospital, Bhagalpur, Government Medical College, Bettiah, Jan Nayak Karpoori Thakur Medical College and Hospital at Madhepura and district hospitals in Rohtas, Munger, Buxar, Siwan, Motihari, Purnea, Katihar and Madhubani.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/covid-19-tests-in-12-more-districts-soon/articleshow/75723898.cms||Sheezan Nezami
May 14, 2020||Business||PE, VC firms eye MSME fund of funds||BENGALURU: Private equity and venture capital firms are eyeing the potential slice of Rs 50,000-crore fund of funds for equity investments into micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) with “growth potential” announced by the finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Wednesday. While the government is expected to contribute Rs 10,000 crore in the fund, another Rs 40,000 crore is expected to be raised from external parties. This is a model similar to the startup fund of funds run by Sidbi, which has been able to leverage Rs 3,798 crore of government contribution to raise 5-6 times the amount at close to Rs 20,000 crore. This has been done through the contribution of 10-20% to the corpus raised by dozens of independent venture capital funds, which then mobilise more money from other backers and invest in startups. Government is looking to repeat the success of that fund for MSMEs. “For that to happen, family offices, insurance companies, provident funds and various other pools of capital will need to participate. We are keen to work closely with the government to ensure this happens, as soon as possible,” said Rehan Yar Khan, co-chair, Venture Capital Council, IVCA & managing partner, Orios Venture Partners. As a part of the fund of funds initiative, the government also plans to encourage MSMEs to be listed on the main board of stock exchanges. The government has announced a change in the definition of MSMEs, which include companies that have a turnover of upto Rs 100 crore and capital investment of up to Rs 20 crore. “This money will end up in the hands of younger startups that are below the revenue threshold as they are service MSMEs effectively, and will have to register that way,” added Khan, saying that overseas capital for startups is likely to remain slow over the next 1-2 years. But if the fund remains limited to just SMEs and does not include startups, it will be hard to leverage external investors, added other venture capital investors tracking the development. The fund had been in the works before Covid-19 pandemic, but many question if it will be able to leverage capital if the definition excludes startups. “If equity investment in SMEs was an attractive asset class then there would be several funds dedicated to it already,” said a VC fund manager briefed on the matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/pe-vc-firms-eye-msme-fund-of-funds/articleshow/75726915.cms||Madhav Chanchani
May 14, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Gaya DM cautions kin of foreign returnees||GAYA: Amid apprehensions of crowding at the airport and near Bodh Gaya-based quarantine centres, district magistrate Abhishek Singh has cautioned friends and relatives of the returnees against any attempt to meet their near and dear ones either at the time of arrival or anytime thereafter during there mandatory stay at the quarantine centres. From the airport, all the returnees would be taken directly to the quarantine centres in Bodh Gaya. Action as per the provisions of the Disaster Management and Epidemics Act will be taken against the violators of the order. As per the SOP framed for the purpose, all the returnees would be subjected to thermal scanning at the airport and those showing any symptoms including fever and cough will immediately be segregated from others and taken to a separate isolation facility. According to a Press release issued by NK Gupta, deputy director public relations, the DM, on May 12, 2020, in exercise of the power vested in him by the Epidemic Disease Act 1897 and ‘The Bihar Epidemic Disease Covid-19 regulation 2020’, has issued the notification banning entry of unauthorised persons at the airport and quarantine centres. The officials/staff of the Airport Authority of India (AAI), Air India, Immigration, medical staff and CISF have also been advised not to make any attempt to meet in case any of their friends, relatives or acquaintances happen to be on any of the special flights bringing back stranded Indians from UK, Russia, UAE and other country. Meanwhile, Suresh Singh, president of Bodh Gaya Nagar Vikas Manch has questioned the decision to quarantine all incoming Biharis in Bodh Gaya. Demanding decentralisation of the quarantine facility, Singh said that the returnees must be quarantined in their respective district headquarters and only such returnees should be quarantined in Bodh Gaya who are permanent residents of Gaya district. “The move to quarantine all the returnees in Bodh Gaya has created a fear psychosis and it will have long term implications for the hospitality sector, the main stay of the Bodh Gaya economy,” said Singh. RTI activist Brajnandan Pathak says that the returnees should be subjected to pre-boarding Covid-19 test and only those with a negative test report should be allowed to board. Ven Pragya Deep, president of the International Buddhist Council, the body representing the Bodh Gaya-based foreign monasteries, has expressed reservations on the issue of monasteries being converted into quarantine centres. There was enough accommodation available in the hotels and as such the monasteries should be kept as stand by to be used only if the hotel rooms were used to full capacity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/dm-cautions-kin-of-foreign-returnees/articleshow/75723980.cms||Abdul Qadir
May 14, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu breaches 9,000-mark, 3 deaths in Chennai take toll to 64||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu’s Covid-19 positive count rose to 9,227 on Wednesday with 509 fresh cases reported, 380 of them in Chennai. The state’s death toll reached 64 with three fatalities reported in Chennai. Besides Chennai, which now has a total of 5,262 cases, 15 other districts reported fresh infections. Chengalpet and Tiruvallur registered 25 cases each while Kancheepuram reported four cases. Five people who landed from Malaysia tested positive. Erode completed a 28-day run without any fresh case while Sivaganga completed 23 days without a case. On Wednesday, Coimbatore became Covid-free after a 31-year-old pregnant woman was discharged from hospital. However, two people tested positive in Nagapattinam district, which had no fresh case for 11 days. Cuddalore registered 17 cases and Tiruvannamalai 23 cases. All the other districts recorded cases in single digits. A 41-year-old man with diabetes admitted to KMC Hospital on May 6 died at 4.30am on Tuesday due to respiratory failure.Nearly 11 hours later, a 48- year- old man with hypertension died of bilateral pneumonia at the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital. In the same hospital, a 43-years-old man with diabetes mellitus died hours after admission on Wednesday. He was referred from a private hospital. The total number of people tested in the last 24 hours was 12,666. As many as 42 patients were discharged from hospitals on Wednesday. This includes nine new mothers and their babies from Government Kasturba Gandhi Hospital for women. “Two newborns who were positive were treated here. All mothers and babies are doing well,” said a senior doctor. With these, a total of 2,176 patients have been discharged so far, leaving 6,984 active cases in hospitals, Covid-19 care centres and home quarantines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tn-breaches-9000-mark-3-deaths-in-city-take-toll-to-64/articleshow/75726795.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Patna||129 stranded Thai and Laos nationals evacuated from Gaya||GAYA: Altogether 129 Thai/Laos nationals stranded due to the nationwide lockdown since March 25, flew out of the country on Wednesday. They took a Bangkok-bound special flight of the Thai Smile Airways. The special flight took off from Gaya airport. Besides 124 Thai nationals, five Laos residents also boarded the special flight. Airport director Dilip Kumar confirmed the departure of the flight. “The Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) granted special permission to the foreign airliner to operate the flight during the lovkdown period,” said Kumar. With this, the total number of foreigners evacuated during the lockdown period from Gaya airport now stands to 729. Earlier, 600 Thai and Burmese nationals were evacuated in four special flights approved for the purpose between April 22-25, 2020. This was the fifth special flight for stranded foreign nationals. Earlier, 600 Thai and Myanmar nationals were repatriated through four special flights in April. The repatriates included 258 Mayanmar nationals. Another 24 Myanmar nationals missed the special flight on April 22. Gaya airport has also been made the disembarkation point for nearly 8000 Biharis who are stranded in countries like UK, Russia and Oman etc. Meanwhile, arrangements are being made to accommodate the returnees from foreign countries in Bodh Gaya hotels and monasteries. Air India has scheduled six special flights to bring back Bihar residents stranded in UK, Russia, Oman, Qatar, Kazakhstan and Kyrgyzstan. The special flights, according to sources have been tentatively scheduled between April 24 and June 3.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/129-stranded-thai-and-laos-nationals-evacuated-from-gaya/articleshow/75723944.cms||Abdul Qadir
May 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Covid-19 +ve woman delivers baby||Hyderabad: A pregnant woman who had tested positive for Covid-19 delivered a baby through C-section at Gandhi Hospital on Wednesday. The baby is the woman’s sixth child. Gynecologists Dr Sharmila and Dr Rani performed the operation. Gandhi Hospital superintendent Dr Raja Rao said both mother and baby are healthy. The woman was admitted in Gandhi Hospital on Sunday. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/covid-19-ve-woman-delivers-baby/articleshow/75726137.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Ahmedabad||52 refugees from Pakistan stranded, hungry in city||Ahmedabad: Mansaram Makwana, 38, originally from the Sindh province of Pakistan, arrived in Ahmedabad with his wife and two children just four days before the lockdown. Makwana, who is here on a pilgrimage visa, has applied for a long-term visa, seeking refuge in India. Because of the nationwide lockdown, Makwana neither has money nor any means to make some and is struggling for food. “When we got here, we were under quarantine and were getting meals twice a day,” said Makwana. “However, since the third phase of the lockdown, we have been receiving only one meal a day.” The plight of about 52 Hindu refugees from Pakistan who had arrived in the city just before the lockdown is no different. “I was expecting to start off with tailoring work to make a living. But due to the lockdown, I couldn’t,” said Makwana, who claims to have moved out of Pakistan to escape forced religious conversion to Islam. Ahmedabad district collector K K Nirala said, “There could have been problems in providing food because of the lockdown in AMC areas. We will ensure they get additional food.” Nirala went on to say: “We will give them foodgrains under the Anna Brahma scheme.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/52-refugees-from-pakistan-stranded-hungry-in-city/articleshow/75725653.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Ahmedabad||Over 82,000 students register for GTU’s online mock test||Ahmedabad: Gujarat Technological University (GTU) has received more than 82,000 registrations for the online mock exam to be held by the varsity from May 15. The examination will be for students of BE/BPharm who are in their second, fourth, or sixth semester.More than 5 lakh students are enrolled in various courses at colleges affiliated to GTU. “About 95% students from BPharm have come forward to take the online exam which will be the first of its kind,” said a source in GTU. Marks secured by the students in this examination will not be counted in the annual exam result, the source said. Students will be required to attempt 30 MCQs in 30 minutes. Each MCQ will have four options. Each question will carry 1 mark and there will not be any type of negative marking. Students can take this examination on a laptop, desktop, mobile or tablet. The varsity will also conduct a test for diploma engineering students who are in their second or fourth semester. The registration process will be held from May 14 to May 18.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/over-82000-students-register-for-gtus-online-mock-test/articleshow/75725733.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Business||Kotak Bank Q4 net drops 10% on Covid provisions||Mumbai: Kotak Mahindra Bank reported a net profit of Rs 1,267 crore for the quarter ended March 2020 — a drop of 10% from the Rs 1,408 crore recorded in the same period in the previous year, owing to additional provisions made towards Covid-19. Addressing newspersons, Kotak Bank vice-chairman and CEO Uday Kotak said there was uncertainty because of the Covid-19 crisis as a cure had not been found and a vaccine would be 18 months away. Kotak said that exiting the lockdown would be a challenge. “It is easy to get into the lockdown, but getting out is difficult. It is like getting out of a ‘chakravyuh’.” Kotak said that the bank’s provisions exceeded its gross non-performing assets. As a measure of caution, the bank made provisions for all loans that had not repaid on time and availed moratorium. On a consolidated basis, the bank reported a decline in net profit at Rs 1,952 crore for the fourth quarter ended March 2020 from Rs 2,038 crore in the same quarter of the previous financial year. Total income declined to Rs 12,085 crore during the latest quarter, down from Rs 13,823 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/kotak-bank-q4-net-drops-10-on-covid-provisions/articleshow/75726922.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Patna||Patna University PG departments to reopen on Thursday||PATNA: Patna University (PU) has decided to reopen all its postgraduate (PG) departments on Thursday after 50 days’ closure due to Covid-19 lockdown. A decision to this effect was taken at a meeting of the university officials and heads of PG departments held here on Wednesday under the chairmanship of vice-chancellor H N Prasad. It was decided that the departments will remain open on all working days for transacting office work. Teachers and office staff will attend to their duties and maintain social distancing. The meeting discussed the academic progress of PG students through online classes and e-content prepared by the teachers and felt the need of timely completion of projects, assignments and internal assessment. It also decided to resume the evaluation of answer books of degree Part III examinations, which was started in March but stopped following the university’s closure. PU students’ welfare dean N K Jha said, “The examination of remaining one paper of degree Part III course and the entire examinations of Part II and Part I courses will be conducted in June.” Earlier, a meeting of PU colleges’ principals was held on Tuesday to discuss the academic problems of students and decide ways for completing timely examinations and admissions. Chhatra JD(U) provides online study materials: Chhatra JD(U), the student wing of the JD(U), has started online education for the students, who have not been attending normal classes in universities and colleges of Bihar due to the lockdown. Online study materials of different subjects and courses are being made available to students through social media and WhatsApp groups. In charge of state Chhatra JD(U) and MLC, Ranbir Nandan, said a number of students from different parts of state are taking advantage of this facility. “The online study materials are being prepared by expert teachers of different subjects and uploaded to the sites earmarked on social media. Besides, these materials are also being shared through course-wise students’ WhatsApp groups,” he added. “This step has been initiated under our academic development programme with a view to compensating the academic loss suffered by students owing to the closure of educational institutions due to lockdown. The organization would help universities and colleges to develop their own videoconferencing centres and studios for preparation of online study materials to fulfil the demands of students, mostly those who come from the marginalized sections of the society,” said Nandan. He also pleaded for inclusion of yoga in the curriculum of universities and colleges so that students could learn the various exercises to keep themselves healthy and fit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/patna-university-pg-depts-to-reopen-today/articleshow/75724368.cms||B K Mishra
May 14, 2020||Patna||Quarantine must to check Covid spread: Bihar CM||PATNA: Highlighting the importance of bock-level quarantine centres, Bihar CM Nitish Kumar on Wednesday said if the returning migrant workers are not kept there, the Covid-19 infection would spread to villages and could lead to serious problem in the state. “Block quarantine centre is the most important strategy in the direction of checking the Covid-19 spread. It will be very effective in checking community spread of the infection. If returning migrant workers are not kept at the block level centres, the Covid infection would spread to villages and it can lead to a very serious problem,” CM told the state government officials at a review meeting on the coronavirus and related issues. He also asked the officials to ensure proper arrangements of food, lodging and medical facilities at each block level quarantine centre so that people staying there do not face any difficulties. The CM said the number of Covid-19 positive cases was increasing at a faster pace these days mainly because of planned testing of returning migrant workers at the block level quarantine centres. “People should not be panicky because of the recent rise in the positive cases, because the testing of migrant workers will yield a positive result in coming days,” he said. Nitish further gave a 5-point task to all the officers engaged in providing relief to the people affected by the nationwide lockdown and asked them to implement the task with all sincerity. The five points are: Provide employment to all returnee migrant workers as per the skill mapping, ensure availability of a valid ration card to all poor families across the state, ensure speedy distribution of agriculture input subsidy to provide necessary relief to farmers, sanction social security pension to all deserving persons and ensure immediate transfer of pension money in their bank accounts and make arrangements for at least 10,000 testings per day to detect Covid-19 cases. Nitish asked the industries department officials to take the challenges of lockdown as a new opportunity and provide employment to maximum possible people in the local industries as per the skill mapping.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/quarantine-must-to-check-covid-spread/articleshow/75723716.cms||Madan Kumar
May 14, 2020||Patna||One shot dead in Bihar's Begusarai||BEGUSARAI: One person was shot dead while another person accompanying him is missing after being shot at by a group of armed criminals in Chamtha diara area under Bachhwara police station of Begusarai district on Tuesday night. Sanjit Kumar (25), along with his friend Ramu Kumar, was going to his field on a motorcycle when criminals fired at them. Village sources said while Ramu fell down after receiving gun shot injuries, Sanjit tried to flee from the spot. The criminals chased him and shot him dead. On getting information, a police team reached the spot only to recover Sanjit’s body. Begusarai SP Awakash Kumar said police are looking for the other victim. “Prima facie, the incident appears to be a fallout of dispute between two groups,” he said. Former Bachhwara MLA and acting CPI district general secretary Awadhesh Rai said, “The diara areas under Bachhwara block have for long turned into battleground for various warring groups as they often indulge in violent clashes for their claim over plots of land.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/one-shot-dead-in-begusarai/articleshow/75724152.cms||Rajiv Kumar
May 14, 2020||Patna||‘34,000 employed again as 3,234 MSMEs resume operations in Bihar’||PATNA: Altogether 3234 micro, small and medium industries (MSMEs) have resumed operations in their units, regenerating employment for 34,863 daily wagers in state, industries department minister Shyam Rajak told TOI on Wednesday. He said out of 3234 units, 1497 are micro, 1373 small and rest are medium scale industries. Rajak said no migrant workers, who returned home, could be employed by these industries so far as they are in quarantine. “We will create a road map for them. I will hold a meeting with my department officers on May 15 to know about the kind of specific manufacturing units functional now,” he said. Rajak said amid lockdown, one industry at Hajipur in Vaishali has started producing sanitisers. “We have ordered cottage, handloom and other small scale industries to manufacture masks. Handlooms manufactured two lakh towels while powerlooms and khadi industries have also produced one lakh towels each during this period,” he said. “I have asked my officers to gather details on items imported from abroad to Bihar so that the department can take steps to set up industries for manufacturing these items in state in the backdrop of PM Narendra Modi’s appeal for using local goods,” he said. “Bihar has ample workforce and raw materials to meet local demands. We only lack financial support. We are waiting to know about the state’s share in the financial package of Rs20 lakh crore announced by PM,” Rajak said. “Till now, we have mapped 77,000 skilled workers to be used in 75 different sectors, including food processing, plastic, milk production, leather and others,” he said. Meanwhile, Bihar Industries Association president Ram Lall Khetan said some small industries did well even amid the crisis by manufacturing sanitisers and masks. “Ten persons were given licence to manufacture sanitiser and mask. I personally know three of them are doing it. Besides, women and cottage industries also started manufacturing three-layer masks,” Khetan said. He said that led to employment of around 5,000 persons. “Blackmarketing of sanitisers ended. Their price became one-third in state. Masks which were available for Rs15-20 per piece is now available at Rs5,” he said. “Hardly 10% of the migrant workers, who returned, will go back outside state. Only MSMEs could absorb them. This is a golden opportunity for the state government to establish industries as tax collection will increase along with employment generation,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/34k-employed-again-as-3234-msmes-resume-operations-in-bihar/articleshow/75723721.cms||Debashish Karmakar
May 14, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Darbhanga airport to be ready soon||PATNA: Civil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri has announced that the civil enclave at Darbhanga airport would be ready by October, following which commercial flights to Mumbai, New Delhi and Bangalore will start under the Centre’s UDAN (Ude Desh Ka Aam Nagrik) scheme. “Work on Darbhanga airport was on in full swing till it had to be temporarily halted due to the lockdown necessitated by our fight against COVID- 19. A request has been made to @IAF_MCC to allow the work to restart. Once we begin, all works should be over by October 2020 (sic),” Puri tweeted in response to twitter users from Bihar trending #DarbhangaAirport on Monday, demanding the start of commercial flights from the city. The ministry of civil aviation has requested the Indian Air Force (IAF) to allow the recommencement of construction work of civil enclave at Darbhanga airbase. “An interim civil enclave is being developed by @AAI_Official on land leased by IAF. This includes a terminal building with capacity to handle 150 passengers which is 95% complete. Work to strengthen present IAF apron for two aircraft of Airbus category is also 50% complete (sic),” the civil aviation minister further posted on Twitter. More than 71k people used the hashtag since May 10 asking for the progress of the construction work of Darbhanga airport and its flight operations. Deepak Jha, a civil engineer from Darbhanga, tweeted: “I think @AAI_Official have to weekly update progress report of the project on public domain with actual data. So, everyone is aware that in which time it's going to be operational (sic).” A stand-up comedian Shambhu Shikhar wrote, “I will migrate back to my home, in Bihar, once the Darbhanga Airport is fully functional.” The IAF has taken the responsibility for recarpeting work of the airstrip while the Airports Authority of India is looking after the construction work of the terminal building. The terminal with an estimated expenditure of Rs 92 crore has come up on 15,000sq feet area. There are six check-in counters and two aprons. The foundation stone for the civil enclave at Darbhanga airbase was laid by chief minister Nitish Kumar on December 24, 2018.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/darbhanga-airport-to-be-ready-soon/articleshow/75724040.cms||Faryal Rumi
May 14, 2020||Delhi||Retirement dues reach kin day after retired teacher dies||NEW DELHI: The retirement and pension dues of a former municipal school teacher were released partially a day after she died of Covid-19 in a private hospital in south Delhi on Monday. When she was alive, her daughter and husband repeatedly pleaded with the authorities on social media to release the dues for her treatment, but nothing materialised. The husband of the deceased said she used to teach in a Narela Colony-1 school of the North Delhi Municipal Corporation from October 1995 but had to take voluntary retirement in July 2019 due to kidney ailment. She had neither received most of her retirement benefits nor the monthly pension of Rs 40,000 from last August, he claimed. “Even before her death on Monday, she wanted to see her hard-earned money in the account but nothing came,” said the retired Delhi government employee. “We didn’t get the money at the right time but hope that other pensioners get their rightful dues to survive in these tough times,” he added. While the couple lived with their son in Narela, their two daughters have been married off. The former teacher probably caught the novel coronavirus infection while undergoing dialysis in a private hospital in northwest Delhi’s Bawana, a relative said. “After her test came positive on May 6, we took her to the south Delhi hospital. She was in ICU and we were asked to pay Rs 4.5 lakh,” he said. The family got a letter of recommendation from the local MLA for fee waiver on compassionate grounds but nothing happened, he added. Finally Rs 3 lakh was released in her account on May 12, a day after her death. “If we had got the pension amount and Rs 10 lakh retirement benefits, we could perhaps have given her better care,” the husband said. “When the Rs 3 lakh came in her account, she was no longer there to see it.” A senior corporation official said the money was released on compassionate grounds as the civic body itself had been facing financial crisis. “Pensions are also paid from a single consolidated fund, which is sustained by internal income and Delhi government funds. The problem of delayed payments has been there for several years,” he added. A Delhi government functionary, however, claimed all dues of the municipal corporations had been cleared. “It’s unfortunate to play politics in such difficult times,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/retirement-dues-reach-kin-day-after-retd-teacher-dies/articleshow/75727173.cms||Paras Singh
May 14, 2020||Varanasi||Local artisans upbeat, but caution against any laxity in implementation||VARANASI: “Post Covid-19 we are hoping of ‘achhe din’ (good days) if the announcement of economic stimulus by Prime Minister Narendra Modi is implemented properly and in true spirit,” said Jamaluddin Ansari, a master weaver of Banarasi saree industry. Addressing the nation on Tuesday evening, the PM had announced a special economic package of Rs 20 lakh crore to make the country self-reliant. The package will cater to various sections including cottage industry, MSMEs, labourers, middle class, industries, among others. The local artisans of cottage industries and MSMEs in PM’s constituency welcomed the special economic package and also appreciated his emphasis on local products. Varanasi and adjoining districts of eastern UP have been a hub of exclusive Geographical Indication (GI) tagged products including famed Banarasi saree, handmade carpet, wooden and stone crafts and others involving lakhs of people. Though weavers like Jamaluddin are hopeful of a better future after this huge economic package equivalent to 10% of country’s GDP, they are apprehensive about its proper distribution and implementation of relief activities. “You know, the government has made a provision of Rs. 1,000 each for the poor weavers. It sounds good, but in reality, the real beneficiaries, the poor ones, fail to get the benefit due to one reason or the other. Only the rich ‘gaddidars’ (wealthy weavers) grab all the benefits,” Jamaluddin told TOI. “Let’s see what is in the ‘new’ store for us,” he added. The famed Banarasi saree industry, which is also facing crisis due to lockdown like other industries and commercial activities, gives employment to lakhs of people directly and indirectly. The Banarasi Brocade and Saree got GI tag in 2009. “About six lakh people are engaged in this traditional industry, which makes an annual turnover of around Rs. 1500 crore,” said the GI expert and president of Human Welfare Association Dr. Rajni Kant, adding that the special economic package would give a boost to the saree industry and other cottage industries. According to him, another GI tagged product Handmade carpet of Bhadohi, which makes an annual turnover of around Rs. 8000 crore, has engaged about 10 lakh people. Another major cottage industry is the Mirzapur Dari, which employs around 50,000 artisans making an annual turnover of around Rs. 200 crore. “We wholeheartedly welcome the special economic package for strengthening small local industries,” said Pyarelal Maurya, a dari making artisan, adding that such a back was urgently needed to overcome the COVID-19 lockdown crisis. Similar were the views of other artisans of different crafts like Bhachchelal Maurya (soft stone jail craft), Anil Kasera (metal craft) and others. Kant said that the artisans engaged in production of GI-tagged and other ODOP (one district one product) goods would be greatly benefited with this economic package. Since 2009 this region of eastern UP has emerged as a potential hub of GI tagged products. So far of 26 GI goods of Uttar Pradesh, 14 belong to various districts of eastern UP. These products include Allahabad Surkha Guava, Kalanamak Rice, Banaras Brocade & Saree, Handmade Carpet of Bhadohi, Banaras Gulabi Meenakari, Varanasi Wooden Lacquerware & Toys, Mirzapur Handmade Dari, Nizamabad Black Pottery, Banaras Metal Repoussé Craft, Varanasi Glass Beads, Ghazipur Wall Hanging, Soft Stone Jali Work, Chunar Balua Pathar and Gorakhpur Terracotta Craft.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/local-artisans-upbeat-but-caution-against-any-laxity-in-implementation/articleshow/75724352.cms||Binay Singh
May 14, 2020||Kolkata||37 CISF men at shipbuilding facility, 3 cops test positive||KOLKATA: The Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) reported 37 fresh Covid-19 cases in Kolkata on Wednesday, all of which were recorded at its Kolkata-based GRSEL unit, a strategic warship building facility on the banks of the Hooghly. Meanwhile, three more cops have tested Covid-positive, taking the number of infected Kolkata Police personnel to 20. Howrah cops have, so far, reported 21 such cases. According to data released by the central agency, the CISF unit has 38 active Covid-19 cases at present. Two defence establishments in Kolkata — INS Netaji Subhas and Garden Reach Shipbuilders & Engineers Limited — now fall within containment zones. A 55-year-old assistant SI from this unit had died on Monday and now the entire unit has been sent to quarantine. The new infected personnel in Kolkata Police include an inspector from the special branch, an SI from Tiljala and a constable from the RG Kar police outpost. While a few officers had earlier tested Covid-positive from special branch, Tilajala remains a concern zone with multiple containment areas. RG Kar, too, had reported cases amongst medical staff earlier. “At least 34 officers of Jorabagan traffic guard were tested after the guard was turned into a containment zone. But the special branch officers work across the city. We have asked the seniors to monitor the health of each personnel under them. Anyone complaining of any symptom that resembles Covid is being tested. At police stations, we are arranging for random tests,” said a joint CP at Lalbazar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/37-cisf-men-at-shipbuilding-facility-3-cops-test-positive/articleshow/75726553.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
May 14, 2020||Vadodara||Seasonal water woes plague Barodians again||Vadodara: At a time when the city is struggling with Covid-19 outbreak, another issue has come to plague its some parts. Much like a seasonal disease outbreak, water woes including that of contaminated water are being reported from parts of the city. The eastern and southern parts of the city are again the ones that are suffering the most. Some pockets were already suffering from coloured water supply and the situation may change to shortage as a water treatment plant at Nimeta water treatment facility is being repaired. Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) had brought out a public notice on May 6 stating that it planned to take up work on the plant number three of the filtration facility. The work was supposed to last one month. It also announced that this would lead to curtailment of water supply in parts of eastern and southern Vadodara by 10 to 15 minutes. Peeved at the situation, Dabhoi MLA and corporator Shailesh Mehta wrote to chief minister. Mehta said the problem is similar to one that had taken place last year and was resolved with the intervention of minister of state for Narmada Yogesh Patel. He said after his representations, the civic body found alternatives and ensured that the water cut was reduced. “The area gets only 30 minutes of water supply in a day and even that was curtailed creating serious problems. The engineers contacted us after the letter and ensured that the water supply was reduced only by about five minutes,” said Mehta. The curtailment of water supply is not the only issue being faced by citizens. Corporator from ward 13 Balasaheb Surve said his area too had been plagued by major issues of contamination. “I too had to raise the issue with VMC officials,” he said. Surve pointed out there were some pockets in his ward where there were Covid-19 containments and yet they were being supplied contaminated water. “The issue is yet to be resolved completely,” said Surve.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/seasonal-water-woes-plague-barodians-again/articleshow/75723859.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Ahmedabad||3.15 lakh migrant workers left state so far on special trains||Gandhinagar: The Gujarat government has so far facilitated the return of 3.15 lakh migrant workers to their home states through Shramik Special trains. Until May 12, as many as 276 Shramik Special trains had been operated, which is 41% of the total Shramik Special trains run by the railways across the country.“We have run 276 Shramik Special trains till May 12 from from Gujarat which is 41% of all Shramik Special trains run by the railways. These trains have taken more than 3.15 lakh workers to their home states of Uttar Pradesh, Odisha, Bihar, Madhya Pradesh, etc.,” said Vipul Mitra, ACS, labour and employment department, who is the state’s nodal officer for transportation of migrant workers, students, pilgrims, tourists, and other stranded people to their home states through special trains.Mitra further said, “Of the 276 trains that have been run, 91 have been from Surat, 69 from Ahmedabad, 21 from Vadodara, and 17 from Rajkot. Trains have also been run from Bharuch, Kutch, Palanpur, Morbi and other places. Uttar Pradesh was the destination of 184 of the special trains, 32 went to Bihar, 29 to Odisha, 19 to MP, eight to Jharkhand, and two each to Uttarakhand and Chhattisgarh.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/3-15-lakh-migrant-workers-left-state-so-far-on-special-trains/articleshow/75725784.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Nashik||Civic body floats two bids worth Rs 47 crore||Nashik: The Nashik Municipal Corporation has floated two tenders inviting bids for constructing a bus depot near Nashik Road railway station and an over-bridge on Godavari river near Gangapur pumping station with a total cost of Rs 47 crore. This includes Rs 33 crore for the bus depot and Rs 14 crore for the proposed bridge. All development projects had come to a standstill in the past two months due to the outbreak of a pandemic. No bids were floated in this period. “Now, we have decided to complete the tender process for only selected major projects in the city,” said NMC officials. “As part of this, we have started the tender process for our proposed bus depot project near Nashik Road railway station and construction of a bridge near Gangapur pumping station on Godavari river,” said NMC officials. The officials said, “The bus depot is to be built as part of the city bus project. We have plans to complete the tender process for both the projects within two months. The constructions will start depending on the situation.” “We have proposed construction of three bridges at different locations on Godavari river. We have already received no objection certificate from the water resource department (WRD) of the state government. We are starting the process for one of the three bridges,” said the officials. “NMC has already decided to curtail its budget outlay by 30% for the current financial year due to the drop expected in its income,” said NMC officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/civic-body-floats-two-bids-worth-rs-47-crore/articleshow/75726129.cms||Tushar Pawar
May 14, 2020||Business||Govt to revive NBFC bond market, offers Rs 75k cr aid||Mayur Shetty | TNN Mumbai: Non-banking finance companies (NBFCs) that had been at the forefront of lending to small businesses have received a Rs 75,000-crore package that will help them tide over the liquidity crunch brought about by the Covid-19 lockdown. Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said that the government would establish a mechanism in the form of a special liquidity scheme where investment will be made in both primary and secondary market transactions. These would be in investment-grade debt paper of NBFCs, housing finance companies and microfinance institutions. These securities will be fully guaranteed by the government. “The measures announced today, coupled with long-term repo operations, will provide some amount of liquidity flow to NBFCs. We hope that the next set of measures will be aimed at driving consumption by providing incentives for real estate & auto and cutting down GST on FMCG goods, so that people can spend thereafter, creating a conducive environment for investments,” said Edelweiss Group chairman and CEO Rashesh Shah. Sitharaman also announced a Rs 45,000-crore partial credit guarantee scheme (PCGS) 2.0 for NBFCs, which she said would be available for finance companies with a credit rating below AA. Under this scheme, the first 20% of the loss would be borne by the government. Although details are awaited, industry persons expect this to be similar to the first PCGS announced in December, where the government offered a guarantee to banks purchasing loans from NBFCs. Analysts say that if the credit guarantee is to a pool of loans, it could work well as it will encourage banks to do their due diligence and monitoring and, second, it will reduce risk as all borrowers would not default at the same time. From the measures, it appears that the RBI wants to develop a bond market for NBFCs rather than encourage loans. “The measures address the needs of the NBFCs and will open up the debt market for those rated below AAA. I only feel that the focus should have been on supporting primary investment in debt instruments rather than both primary and secondary market purchases,” said JM Financial Group MD Vishal Kampani. Smaller NBFCs, including some MFIs and fintech lenders, depend on bank loans rather than bonds to raise funds. It is not yet clear when there is any support to bank loans to NBFCs under this package. “Both the special liquidity scheme and partial credit guarantee scheme are targeted at debt instruments issued by NBFCs. Small companies that do not have the wherewithal to float debt instruments will not be able to avail the relief measures,” said ICRA vice-president Anil Gupta. “Today’s steps mark a clear shift in extending credit support to these companies as against the liquidity support measures that we have seen in the past,” said Crisil Ratings senior director Krishnan Sitaraman. He added that these schemes also clearly point towards extension of support to non-highly rated NBFCs / HFCs / MFIs who have been facing greater difficulty in fund-raising.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/govt-to-revive-nbfc-bond-market-offers-rs-75k-cr-aid/articleshow/75726890.cms||Mayur Shetty
May 14, 2020||Business||Get more in hand, but PF kitty to shrink for 3 months||Namrata Singh | TNN Mumbai: Take-home salaries of employees would increase with the government’s move to reduce the statutory employee provident fund (PF) contribution from 12% to 10% for three months. However, this would come at the cost of a reduction in the individual’s PF account, which is widely considered as a social security benefit. The move would also provide relief to employers at a time when liquidity is a constraint. However, that would depend on how salaries have been structured by an organisation. If the PF contribution is part of cost to company (CTC) of an employee’s salary, the employer may have to pass on the benefit to the employee. According to the standard structure, if the basic salary of an employee is Rs 100, 12% or Rs 12 gets deducted as PF. An equivalent amount is contributed by the employer into the employee’s PF account, taking the total monthly contribution to Rs 24. With the government reducing the PF contribution to 10% — both for the employee as well as the employer — the amount that would accumulate as PF every month in an employee’s account would be Rs 20. In case the salary is structured such that the employer’s contribution is over and above the CTC, then the employer may also benefit from the move. Motilal Oswal Financial Services executive director & head (HR) Sudhir Dhar said, “We will pass on the 2% of employer’s contribution to the employee, since it is part of the CTC. Our employees’ take-home salary will thus increase. However, the employees may have to bear the tax on that amount, although it won’t be much.” Nishith Desai Associates head HR laws (employment & labour) Vikram Shroff said, “We will await the specific notification to determine if the 2% of the employer’s monthly PF contribution can be retained or whether it needs to be passed on to employees as additional compensation. Legally, it would also depend on the terms of individual employment contract along with the employee’s CTC structure, which will need to be reviewed for making such determination. For employers contributing PF over and above the basic monthly limit, the difference will be higher.” For organisations with a larger base of employees, and contributing to PF over and above CTC, this could result in a greater relief. When asked to quantify the difference the measure would make on businesses, Aditya Birla Group head (HR) Santrupt Misra said, “It is not a question of a large or small impact from individual items. One has to look at the potential collective impact. The objective is to put more money back in the hands of people to stimulate economic activity including demand. I am sure the PF contribution rate cut would be a contributor in the process. At this point, any support or stimulus for the right reasons should be welcome.” Cyril Amarchand Mangaldas partner Rashmi Pradeep said, “At a time when every penny counts, The decision to reduce the percentage of PF contribution from 12% to 10%, for both employers and employees of covered private establishments, will reduce the burden on employers and put more money in the hands of the employees, at least for the next 3 months. We assume that this will apply to regular employees, contract employees as well as international workers.” Shroff said international workers from non-treaty countries may be most impacted since the basic limit of PF contributions does not apply to them and assuming the 2% savings is not passed on by their employers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/get-more-in-hand-but-pf-kitty-to-shrink-for-3-months/articleshow/75726868.cms||Namrata Singh
May 14, 2020||Patna||Easy recovery from coronavirus a silver lining for Bihar, say doctors||PATNA: Amid the gloom of rapidly rising Covid-19 cases in Bihar, there’s a small silver lining in the high rate of recoveries as well as the fact that very of those who beat the virus needed any critical care intervention except for just one who had to be put on ventilator for a brief period. The state has seen 386 recoveries so far even as the Covid-19 tally is all set to touch the 1000 cases mark. Dr Ragini Mishra, nodal officer for Covid-19, said, “As per data available with the health department, only one infected person with no other medical history had to be put on ventilator. That man recovered some 10 days ago and is back at home now.” When asked about the seven deaths so far, she said, “All seven had comorbidities. They were either cancer patient, kidney patient or were suffering from other medical problems. Most of them did not need ventilator as they died all of a sudden due to cardiac arrest.” There are three dedicated hospitals for Covid-19 in Bihar — Nalanda Medical College and Hospital, Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College and Hospital and Anugraha Narayan Medical College and Hospital. So far, 226 positive people have been admitted in these hospitals and a majority of them have been discharged. “As on Wednesday, 41 positive people are in these dedicated hospitals and none of them in critical condition,” said Dr Ragini. JLNMCH Covid-19 nodal officer, Dr Hem Shanker Sharma said after it was made a Covid-19 hospital around a month ago, 34 positive people had been admitted. “Forget serious condition, they did not even have symptoms of severe acute respiratory infections and were completely fine. One patient who had returned from Mumbai is positive for at least 20 days, but he too has no complications or even symptoms,” said Dr Sharma. When asked about the reason, he replied, “This may be because of their strong immunity. Mostly young people are positive in Bihar and they have strong immunity. Recently, the cases have gone up because of migrants and they are in the age group of 20 to 45 years mainly.” Dr Ragini said there was no need to panic as people were getting easily cured without any medical help. As per information shared by the state health department, 386 people have recovered in Bihar by Wednesday evening.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/easy-recovery-from-coronavirus-a-silver-lining-for-bihar-say-doctors/articleshow/75723620.cms||Sheezan Nezami
May 14, 2020||Patna||Patnaites change food habits amid lockdown||PATNA: The Covid-19 pandemic has changed the food habits of many people in the city. When the nationwide lockdown was announced on March 24, most residents rushed to grocery shops and supermarkets and bought rice, flour and packaged food in bulk. But with the subsequent extensions of lockdown, their priorities changed and they started buying items like noodles, sauces and pasta more than the normal ‘chawal-daal’. Executives at online retail stores and supermarkets said there has been an unprecedented rise in sale of baking products, including baking powder, pizza sauce and cheese. Dhananjay Singh, the city head of an online retail store, said the needs and requirements of residents switched from basic groceries to luxury items. “The residents have started buying products like cake mix, pancake batter, cheese slices, cream and ready-to-cook Chinese and Indian food products,” he said. Shishir, manager of a supermarket in Kankarbagh area, also said there was a high demand of pizza base, mozzarella cheese and different kinds of sauces and seasoning. As most people are spending time indoors, they are experimenting with different kinds of dishes to keep busy and beat the lockdown blues. “We have been experimenting with dishes like cake, pizza and garlic bread that were available at restaurants,” said Abhishek Shrivastava of Kurji. “Being a foodie, the lockdown was a curse during the initial days. However, with time and videos streaming online, I realized that I can easily cook anything. I have been living on Chinese and Italian food over the last few weeks. Home-cooked junk food is not just delicious but less harmful too,” said Kadamkuan resident Bobby Raj. Many people also claimed that they feel hungry most of the time. “I feel like eating all the time. I munch snacks and chips even at 2am in the night,” said Deepa Biswas of Nala Road. But dietitians say people should look after their eating habits as it could lead to severe ailments. “People nowadays are taking all kinds of unhealthy food items, be it refined flour or excess sugar. Cooking junk food at home is fine, but anything extra can lead to digestive problems,” said dietitian Meghna Krishna.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/patnaites-change-food-habits-amid-lockdown/articleshow/75723999.cms||Archi Rani
May 14, 2020||Patna||Patna HC seeks status report on quarantine centres in Bihar||PATNA: The Patna high court on Wednesday directed the disaster management department secretary to file a personal affidavit giving report on status of quarantine centres across the state due to Covid-19 pandemic. The court has fixed May 19 as the next date of hearing. While hearing a PIL filed by advocate Rajiv Ranjan, the division bench of Chief Justice Sanjay Karol and Justice S Kumar observed that quarantine centres were set up as per the guidelines of the state and central governments, but it appears that there was some difficulties in their proper management at ground level. The court sought reply on number of quarantine centres in state, migrants kept there, those who returned home after completion of quarantine period, migrants expected, capacity of the quarantine centres, provision of security, sanitation, food at each centre and if such facilities are outsourced or being provided directly by the state government, any provision of medical aid and facilities and mechanism for lodging complaints and their redressal. The court also observed that relevance, significance and importance of ensuring proper sanitisation, cleanliness and orderliness at quarantine centres are highly imperative, more so looking into the economic conditions, demography and population of Bihar. “Today, 1/10th of the population of India lives in Bihar with highest density of population ratio. Hence the need, all the more, for monitoring the centres directly by senior level officer(s) at the level of the government and with a greater vigil,” it observed. The petitioner had brought on record reports on ruckus by migrant workers at quarantine centre in Nawada and Motihari and escaping of 20 migrant workers from a centre in Katihar for lack of basic amenities and food. The petitioner urged the court to direct the state government to provide adequate and hygienic food to people quarantined and follow Centre’s guidelines in this regard. Appearing for the Centre, additional solicitor general SD Sanjay opposed the petition submitting that the central government has already issued directions on quarantine centres. Additional advocate general PN Shahi represented the state and sought time to reply, which the court accepted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/patna-hc-seeks-status-report-on-quarantine-centres-in-bihar/articleshow/75723661.cms||Debashish Karmakar
May 14, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Centre’s package to benefit 93,775 people, says Sushil Kumar Modi||PATNA: Deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi (SuMo) said on Wednesday that 93,775 persons with salary less than Rs15,000 per month and working in 5,200 mircro small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) in the state would benefit from the package unveiled by Union finance Nirmala Sitharaman on Wednesday. The Rs3 lakh crore package is part of the Rs20 lakh crore package announced by PM Narendra Modi on Tuesday. SuMo said an employee makes 12% contribution from his salary to his or her EPF and the same amount is also contributed by the employer. The Centre had earlier announced to pay the employee’s contribution for three months from April to June. As per the package announced for MSMEs, the Centre would continue to make the contribution for overall six months, or for the next three after June. SuMo also said the Sitharaman’s package would also benefit construction companies whose completion target for the projects has been increased by six months. He said Sitharaman had changed the definition of MSMEs, keeping it as having investment up to Rs20 crore, or having turnover up to Rs100 crore. It would also apply in the service sector. The package has provided for loans to the MSMEs without any guarantee, besides creating a corpus fund of Rs20,000 crore to assist them, SuMo added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/centres-package-to-benefit-93775-people-sumo/articleshow/75723882.cms||Abhay Singh
May 14, 2020||Patna||Youth ensures water supply to 60 families in Patna||PATNA: The prolonged lockdown would have left several families devoid of safe drinking water had this 18-year-old not supplied packaged water to them. Nitish Yadav ensures the supply of safe drinking water to at least 60 families in the city. “Over the last six weeks, the demand of packaged cans of water has surged like other essential commodities, including grocery, fruits and vegetables,” he said. “During the initial days of lockdown, residents bought additional cans out of panic. Some of them even bought five-six cans just to be safe. Even though the situation has improved a bit, a few residents constantly keep asking me if there would be a shortage of water cans in the coming days,” said Yadav, who supplies water in Rajiv Nagar, Ashiana Nagar and Digha areas. He makes sure not to come in contact with anybody. “Khajpura, which is one of the Covid-19 hotspots in the city, is very close to the areas where I supply water. Hence, I take all necessary precautions,” he said. The lone earning member of his family from Maner, Nitish said he is trying his best to meet the basic requirements of every member. “Two of my brothers, who used to drive autorickshaws, are jobless due to the lockdown and the other one is physically challenged. I have to look after all of them and my parents as they don’t have anybody else to rely upon,” he said. Yadav said his family members are constantly worried about his safety as he has been away from them for over two months now.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/youth-ensures-water-supply-to-60-families/articleshow/75724208.cms||Archi Rani
May 14, 2020||Patna||Patna: In corona times, kids pen poems, embrace music||PATNA: With uncertainty looming large over the end of the Covid-19 lockdown, many youngsters have started learning new skills to keep themselves occupied. Notre Dame Academy Class XII student Sanya Sinha and her sister Sanvi, who studies in Class VIII, wrote a collection of poems titled ‘An Ode to Verity’ during the lockdown. The e-book is now available on Amazon. Sanya told this newspaper on Wednesday, “We began writing the poems after the lockdown was implemented in March and finished them on April 18. We got a confirmation about the book’s release on April 22 and now, it is available on Amazon for everyone to read.” One of the poems — ‘The Spoon, the Comb and the Notebook’ — is on coronavirus and depicts how the poetesses start imagining things amid the lockdown. The others are based on social issues. ‘Wings of Nightfall’, for instance, talks about the molestation of a girl. Music lovers Prashant Jain and Sumeet Kumar began learning the keyboard piano after the lockdown got extended. Sumeet said, “I like playing the guitar when I am free, but I got bored and decided to learn something new. I formed an online musical band with my friend Prashant and we have started playing the keyboard piano.” Prashant, a resident of Nageshwar Colony, said, “Music keeps my mind calm. If the lockdown is extended again, Sumeet and I will compose some good music together.” A dancing enthusiast, Trisha Singh, has uploaded more than 28 videos to a social media site. “The response from the audience has been great so far,” the Kidwaipuri resident exclaimed. Another youngster, Kriti, who lives in Patel Nagar, is preparing delicious meals during the lockdown. She said, “I developed my culinary skills and learnt continental, South Indian and Italian styles of cooking.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/in-corona-times-kids-pen-poems-embrace-music/articleshow/75724229.cms||Faryal Rumi
May 14, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Enhanced bus services fail to meet demand||KOLKATA: A group of passengers blocked the path of a state bus at Esplanade on Wednesday afternoon, demanding they be taken to their destinations. The incident underlined how even the enhanced services were inadequate for the growing demand. With many offices opening up, there is at present a heightened commuting demand, which is difficult to meet with help from only a few buses and fewer cabs. Transport minister Suvendu Adhikari said, “I have got a report that more than 20 passengers barged on to some buses. We are looking into the demand, but the social distancing guidelines issued by the state cannot be compromised.” A senior WBTC official said they were assessing the situation. “If there is a genuine demand, we will scale up the frequency. Wednesday was the first day of our enhanced service. On the basis of the report, we will increase the fleet strength on certain routes. We are in constant touch with the traffic police who are also giving us the report on the ground situation,” he said. According to a transport department officer, the frequency will be enhanced to support the peak hour commuting. With the government allowing some sectors to operate with 33% workforce, there is growing commuting demand. The skeletal bus service, which has only been allowed by the state government, proved inadequate to scores of passengers during the peak hours. “We were running fewer buses till now and there were no problems. Why are problems cropping up now?” asked an official. But the commuters said a lot of offices had opened from Tuesday. Meanwhile, after a meeting with the private bus operators, the minister said the fixing of the fares during the lockdown has been left to the operators, who will suggest them by May 15. “We hope to resume services by May 18. However, they have to strictly comply with safety guidelines,” one of them said. Secretary of joint council of bus syndicates Tapan Bandyopadhyay said, “We are happy with the outcome of the meeting. The minister assured us of help. We have also promised to live up to the government’s expectations. We will propose the lockdown fare by May 15 for the approval of the state.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/enhanced-bus-services-fail-to-meet-demand/articleshow/75726566.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat Inc feels collateral-free loans will help infuse liquidity||Ahmedabad/ Vadodara/ Surat/Rajkot: A slew of measures for Micro Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) in the stimulus announced by Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Wednesday evening, came as a major relief to Gujarat Inc. The measures for infusion of capital in the MSME sector, 100% credit-guarantee in collateral-free loans for MSME units, change in definition of the MSMEs and extension of timelines for infrastructure projects under Real Estate Regulation Act (RERA), among others were hailed by industry players across sectors. The announcement of collateral-free loans for MSMEs came as a major relief, which industry players feel will infuse the much-needed liquidity that has fallen severely short for industrialists. “Majority of the textile units fall under MSME and they will get direct benefit of the collateral-free automatic loan. Although there is no clarity on payment of wages during the lockdown period and releasing of subsidy under Technology Upgradation Fund (TUF), the textile entrepreneurs could avail loan benefit to pay off their debts and run the business,” said Bharat Gandhi, chairman, Federation of Indian Art Silk Weaving Industry (FIASWI). “This will help build great confidence among MSMEs. Without these measures, several MSME units would be forced to shut operations,” said B S Patel, president, Panoli Industries’ Association. Apart from textiles, the liquidity is also expected to ease woes in the gems and jewellery sector. “Majority of diamond polishing units fall under MSME category and are in dire need of liquidity. The relief in TDS will also aid the industry to tide over the crisis,” said Dinesh Navadiya, regional chairman, Gems and Jewellery Export Promotion Council (GJEPC). Industry players also expect smooth and effective implementation of the measures announced by the ministry. “Beside capital infusion to MSME sector, opening of business opportunities will yield greater results. We look forward to an effective implementation. Apart from this, developing virtual exhibition portal is also an opportunity for IT industry,” said Jaimin Shah, board member, Nasscom Foundation. Reeling from severe financial crunch, industries also expected measures allowing delay in salaries of employees for a couple of months or crediting it in instalments. Nilesh Shukla, president, India SME Forum, Gujarat Chapter, said,. “The government should have also allowed medium and small-scale firms to either defer salaries for a couple of months or give it in instalments. It will give the firms a breathing time and recover from the losses.” “Besides, while changing the definition of MSMEs, we expected the government to increase the turnover limit of medium industries to Rs 250 crore instead of just Rs 100 crore,” he added. All in all, the industry has termed it to be a comprehensive package. “Majority of demands on the MSMEs’ wishlist have been covered and with this, both short-term and long-term issues have been addressed,” said Nimish Phadke, managing director, Federation of Kutch Industries Association (FOKIA). Quotes: “Declaration of Covid-19 as force majeure, extension of timelines for completion of projects under the RERA are crucial announcements for the developer community. We hope other measures for de-cartelization of cement prices, restoration of supply-chain to ease construction on the project sites and boosting demand with more sops to home-buyers by increasing the tax deduction limits will help the sector regain momentum.” Jaxay Shah, chairman, CREDAI – national “The relaxation in contribution to PF will come as a major relief to units with larger employee strength. Furthermore, the extension in deadline of filing returns and reducing TDS rates by 25% will further help ease the overheads of the industry.” Durgesh Buch, president, GCCI “Collateral-free loans will help address liquidity crisis and with this, even large-scale units will benefit as the MSMEs will be able to repay their dues. Money circulation will be fast in the market.” Narain Aggarwal, former chairperson, SRTEPC “We need immediate relief. We were under the impression that the government will give us some benefit from June 1, but this package says we will get something from October 30, and the picture is not clear how the industry will get this benefit.” Parth Ganatra, vice-president, Rajkot Chamber of Commerce and Industry||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gujarat-inc-feels-collateral-free-loans-will-help-infuse-liquidity/articleshow/75725626.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Speaker for lockdown till month-end||PATNA: Speaker Vijay Kumar Choudhary on Wednesday strongly pitched for extension of lockdown and asked for its extension till May end, as the return of the migrant workers had led to an increase in the number of corona positive cases. Choudhary added that the return of the migrants from other states has aggravated the situation in the state and there is an increased pressure on the quarantine centres. Lockdown extension will give some time to efficiently handle the situation arising after the arrival of migrant workers. “The arrival of migrants had reduced the problems of the states sending them, but it has increased the problems of receiving state like Bihar manifold,” Choudhary added. The return of workers would continue for another 10 days, and accordingly, the people of Bihar and the state government will have to remain prepared to face the challenges. Even as some relaxations have been made to facilitate agriculture, construction activity and agro-based industries, it is necessary that restrictions on free movement of people should continue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/speaker-for-lockdown-till-month-end/articleshow/75723868.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Erode||Tamil Nadu breaches 9,000-mark, 3 deaths in Chennai take toll to 64||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu’s Covid-19 positive count rose to 9,227 on Wednesday with 509 fresh cases reported, 380 of them in Chennai. The state’s death toll reached 64 with three fatalities reported in Chennai. Besides Chennai, which now has a total of 5,262 cases, 15 other districts reported fresh infections. Chengalpet and Tiruvallur registered 25 cases each while Kancheepuram reported four cases. Five people who landed from Malaysia tested positive. Erode completed a 28-day run without any fresh case while Sivaganga completed 23 days without a case. On Wednesday, Coimbatore became Covid-free after a 31-year-old pregnant woman was discharged from hospital. However, two people tested positive in Nagapattinam district, which had no fresh case for 11 days. Cuddalore registered 17 cases and Tiruvannamalai 23 cases. All the other districts recorded cases in single digits. A 41-year-old man with diabetes admitted to KMC Hospital on May 6 died at 4.30am on Tuesday due to respiratory failure.Nearly 11 hours later, a 48- year- old man with hypertension died of bilateral pneumonia at the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital. In the same hospital, a 43-years-old man with diabetes mellitus died hours after admission on Wednesday. He was referred from a private hospital. The total number of people tested in the last 24 hours was 12,666. As many as 42 patients were discharged from hospitals on Wednesday. This includes nine new mothers and their babies from Government Kasturba Gandhi Hospital for women. “Two newborns who were positive were treated here. All mothers and babies are doing well,” said a senior doctor. With these, a total of 2,176 patients have been discharged so far, leaving 6,984 active cases in hospitals, Covid-19 care centres and home quarantines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/tn-breaches-9000-mark-3-deaths-in-city-take-toll-to-64/articleshow/75733733.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Poor financial health of Telangana hospitals leads to doctors’ pay cut||HYDERABAD: Thanks to the ongoing lockdown, frontline warriors in Covid-19 battle — medical specialists and consultant doctors — are also not spared from facing a cut in their salaries. With patient inflow coming down by 5%-10% from what it used to be, big hospitals resorting to 30%-50% pay cuts. Barring those working in a few super-speciality hospitals in Hyderabad, a majority of the doctors are facing severe financial stress despite being in the forefront combating the novel coronavirus cases. “The scenario is more or less the same in all the hospitals. Except in emegency surgeries, a salary cut is inevitable for now as most of the hospitals have huge loans to clear,” Dr V Rakesh, president of Telangana Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association (THNHA), told TOI. The salary containment measures vary from one hospital to another, he said. According to Dr Vijay Bhaskar of Telangana Orthopaedic Association, the situation is grim. “If a hospital is owned by a doctor himself, duty doctors are asked to take a pay cut. Those running the affairs of the hospitals are taking the load as duty doctors,” he said. He, however, said big corporate hospitals were yet to effect salary cuts. Telangana has 2,700 hospitals under the network of Telangana Aarogyasri Network Hospitals Association (TANHA). Among them, 1,500 are in Hyderabad alone. Sources said close to 500 hospitals under TANHA are were forced to take these remedial measures owing to mounting business losses. While the duty doctors get a monthly payment, consultants charge on case to case and on each surgery. “But in the latest scenario, even specialists like oncologists and nephrologists will have to take the salary cut,” a TANHA representative said. Sources said specialist doctors make anywhere between Rs 3 lakh and Rs 8 lakh a month. “We also have EMIs to pay and take care of education expenditure of our children. Maintenance of personal staff like drivers because of constant emergency we are in and other payments a month touch almost Rs 50,000,” said a senior neurologist working with a private hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/poor-financial-health-of-t-hosps-leads-to-docs-pay-cut/articleshow/75726147.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
May 14, 2020||Nashik||Shramik trains leave with stranded workers||Nashik/Kolhapur: More and more migrants workers continued to leave cities in Maharashtra from their hometowns in Madhya Pradesh, Bihar and Uttar Pradesh by the special Shramik trains on Wednesday. In Nashik, 1,428 stranded workers started their journey for Madhya Pradesh. The workers from different parts of the district were brought together to the Nashik Road railway station. They left in the end-to-end Shramik Express for Rewa at 9 pm. “Every ticket was for Rs 525. The charges, however, were borne by the Madhya Pradesh government, which has allotted the funds to the Indian Railways. Therefore, no money was taken from the passengers,” the railway officials said. The officials added that the train was assigned after the district administration provided a list of workers who were stranded in the district and who had been checked as per the Covid-19 health norms. “Nobody apart from the bonafide travellers was allowed to get into the train,” a railway official added. In Kolhapur, more than 2,700 migrant workers left for Uttar Pradesh and Bihar in Shramik trains that left from Chhatrapati Shahu Maharaj Terminus on Wednesday. The passengers were all provided with food kits and water bottles to last the duration of the journey. The trains are scheduled to reach Prayagraj and Chhapra without any halts. Most of these migrants were working in the real estate or the agriculture sector. Employers of many workers have paid them advances on assurances of returning to work. “I work in the packaging industry in Kagal MIDC. I am leaving because my parents are alone at home. No one is there to look after them. Recently, I got a call from mother asking me to return as they are unable to manage by themselves during the lockdown,” said Javed Rehman, who hails from Lucknow. Rehman is not sure of his return any more. So far, around 5,000 migrant workers have returned by the special train. On Wednesday, a large number of women were seen boarding the train. Most of these women work in the cottage industries and involved in making the shawls and other hand-made products. District guardian minister Satej Patil, who saw the migrants off, said the state government had paid the ticket fares for them. He said the money has been transferred to the district administration and more special trains will be arranged for if needed. Patil also arranged for the additional tickets for 64 workers from Bihar as their tickets had been cancelled at the last moment. He spoke to the railway officials and made the tickets available. Meanwhile, the district administration has started issuing passes to the workers from Karnataka for travel. An official said the travel passes are issued only after conforming the transport arrangements made by the workers on their own. Many groups have arranged for private buses and vehicles to travel to their villages.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/shramik-trains-leave-with-stranded-workers/articleshow/75726139.cms||Abhilash Botekar
May 14, 2020||Nagpur||Workers coming to Maharashtra from UP left high and dry||Nagpur: “We are coming from Prayagraj (Allahabad),” says Ganesh More in an heavy UP accent of Hindi. As he begins to speak in Marathi, it is evident he is from western Maharasthra.Amid thousands of migrant workers rushing towards their homes to Uttar Pradesh and Bihar, this group of 18, which included women and children, was moving in opposite direction.Three SUVs carrying the 18 started from Uttar Pradesh and were going towards their native place in Sangli and Satara districts of Maharashtra.They were artisans making silver ornaments. Since four decades artisans from Maharashtra have settled in UP. “Wherever there is a sarafa bazaar (jewellery market) in UP, you will find Marathi artisans. Even prominent leaders like Sharad Pawar are aware of the community but none took note of our condition,” says More.More says they had approached the Maharashtra’s chief minister Uddhav Thackrey for help. “So many trains with workers from Pune are reaching UP but there is no arrangement to take people back to Mahrashtra. We had written to the chief minister on the behalf of 2,000 workers to run a train for us but there was no response,” says More. Even a complaint on UP chief miniser’s portal Jan Sunvai did not help, he says.TOI spoke to the group on Wardha Road, about 10 km from Butibori, towards Wardha. The group hired vehicles and started off. Together they will be spending Rs 1 lakh which will be divided among eight families.“Of course, we could have stayed on for some more days with the same money but my parents are alone in our village. Already Satara is in red zone and Sangli in orange,” he said.“Apart from aged parents in the village, there is no work since two months,” says Ganesh Sahu from Sangli.“You will find Marathi artisans in towns like Baliya, Baraich, Lucknow, Varanasi and other centres in Uttar Pradesh,” adds More.They are not certain if they would return or stay back in coming days. “There is nothing to do in the village except farming. Some others, like my brother have stayed back in Allahadad. They will decide after May 17 when the government will take a further decision on lockdown,” he says.Sitting next to him, Vetale Bharte nods in affirmation when asked if he would return.Each artisan earns around 20,000 in a month, living in rented homes and working in rented shops. The savings depend on the size of family, More says.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/workers-coming-to-maharashtra-from-up-left-high-and-dry/articleshow/75726803.cms||Shishir Arya
May 14, 2020||Varanasi||‘SJM praises PM Modi’s economic package’||VARANASI: Extending its support to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s call for ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’ (Self-Reliant India), the Swadeshi Jagran Manch (SJM) appreciated the announcement of special economic package to the tune of Rs 20 lakh crore for this purpose. The east UP convenor SJM Anand Srivastava said that the PM’s call to be vocal for local, will have strong resonance. The economic package offers relief and opportunities for labour, small retailer, small entrepreneur, micro-enterprises along with farmers, tax payers and other businesses. SJM hopes that the package will not only lead to end the ills of badly designed and implemented 1991 liberalisation and subsequent integration into exploitative globalisation but will lead to employment oriented inclusive growth. He said that SJM strongly backs the PM’s call for rebuilding the globalisation on the principles of ‘Vasudeva Kutumbkam’. The SJM also supports PM’s identification of five pillars for achieving self-reliance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/sjm-praises-pm-modis-economic-package/articleshow/75724391.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Goa||‘Green Zone’ Goa one test away from seven new Covid cases||PANAJI: Seven persons, including a family of five from Mumbai and their driver, tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday. The seventh, a goods truck driver who had come from Gujarat, tested positive when he approached the sub-district hospital at Ponda complaining of breathlessness. The Mumbai family and their driver were asymptomatic at the time of testing and were detected when they underwent the mandatory check at the border after entering Goa, a Green Zone, health officials said. They said the swab samples of the six persons came out positive when it was subjected to Truenat Beta Cov tests at Ponda sub-district hospital. All seven samples have been sent to Goa Medical College’s virology lab for confirmatory test and till the time of going to the press, the test results had not been declared. Wednesday’s seven positive cases are the first in the state after April 3, when Goa had got a Covid-19 positive patient. Till Tuesday, Goa only had seven positive cases, all of whom have recovered and discharged. Chief minister Pramod Sawant said the six persons from Mumbai were Goans and had not come in contact with any person after they entered the state. “There is no fear of community transmission,” he said. Sawant said all those who had come in contact with the truck driver had been quarantined and they would also undergo a Covid-19 test. “Goans have nothing to worry, as these are imported cases. Goans have to be alert and inform us (the state government) about people coming from outside,” he said. As per the protocol, Truenat Beta Cov test result needs a confirmatory test in the event the sample tests positive for the virus, a health official said. Goa initially detected seven cases, including six persons with a foreign travel history, in March. Since no case was detected after April 3, Goa was classified as Green Zone. Since May 1, after the Centre permitted movement of stranded people, Goa has seen increased flow of persons entering the state. Over 2,500 persons have entered Goa since then and all have undergone Truenat Beta Cov test. Goans entering the state are placed in 14-day home quarantine, if their test shows negative for Covid-19, while non-Goans have to compulsorily undergo facility quarantine for two weeks. Goans are also placed in a facility quarantine till their test results are declared. Those travelling from abroad are required to undergo mandatory facility quarantine for 14 days. On Wednesday itself, 274 travellers were placed in facility quarantine and 248 domestic travellers were home quarantined. Truenat beta Cov testing machines have been installed at two district hospitals and three sub district hospitals. Attached teams go and collect swab samples of suspects. Anticipating increased movement of people from across the border, walk-in smart kiosks have been set up at border checks posts for collecting swab samples.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/green-zone-goa-one-test-away-from-seven-new-covid-cases/articleshow/75727187.cms||Bindiya Chari
May 14, 2020||Nashik||1,700 tonne of onions exported from Nashik city||NASHIK: After locals opposed to loading of onions from Kherwadi railway station falling under the Bhusawal division of Central railways, the railways for the first time started exporting the produce from Nashik Road railway station. Around 1,700 tonne of onions has been exported from the city to Bangladesh’s Darsana railway station. "After having sent three rakes of onion last week, another rake of onion was to be started from Kherwadi on Monday, but the villagers objected to the same. Hence, a decision to load the rake with 1,700 tonne of onions from Nashik Road railway station was taken," railway sources said. The villagers of Kherwadi adopted a resolution saying that due to the Covid-19 outbreak they are against the loading of onions being brought in by trucks from various areas. The railway authorities tried to convince the locals saying the trucks were completely sanitized before entering the railway station. Besides the route the trucks took to arrive at the station had nothing to do with the villagers as it was a route that passed from the outskirts of the village. After the villagers refused to change their stand, the railway authorities decided to load the onion from Nashik Road Railway station. Around trucks carrying onions were brought to Nashik Road railway station on the Tuesday evening. “As the villagers continued to oppose the transportation, it was sure that the farmers who were being benefitted due to export would lose their income. So, the railways and the traders jointly decided that the transportation be carried out from Nashik Road railway station,” a railway official said. “Generally, Nashik Road railway station is involved in transporting industrial goods to and from Nashik city. For the first time we sent have sent onions from here. This was in the interest of the farmers. We request all the people to cooperate with the railways and traders during the current challenging times,” SK Sharma, senior divisional commercial manager of Nashik Road railway station, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/1700-tonne-of-onions-exported-from-nashik-city/articleshow/75726148.cms||Abhilash Botekar
May 14, 2020||Nagpur||With nothing else available, many cycling long distances home||Nagpur: Sanjay and Akilesh have been riding double seat on a bicycle from Bengaluru towards their home near Chandouli district of Uttar Pradesh (UP), bordering Bihar. With no other means available during lockdown, many migrant workers are using bicycles to travel long distances home. Part of a group of 6 to 8 workers, the duo had to manage with a single cycle. The source from whom they were buying the bikes had no more left, they said. “There were no more bicycles with the man so we had to adjust on one,” said Sanjay. It took six days for them to reach Nagpur, said Akilesh as they could not get any lift on the way. “We take turns to ride,” said one of them, a blanket made up for the cushion on the carrier. Rest of the group was spotted over two kms away as the two could not keep pace. TOI found them a little before Nagpur airport. Migrant workers cycling their way to home has been a common sight on highways these days. Many even purchased bicycles just for the journey. Prior to them, TOI had come across another group coming from Nashik on their way to Raipur, the capital of Chhattisgarh. They were lucky to get dropped by a truck till Nagpur. They were working on the Samruddhi Mahamarg Nagpur-Mumbai Expressway project but left as the contractor had stopped paying wages, they said. “We were working for Dilip Buildcon, a contractor for Nagpur-Mumbai expressway. The road construction has stopped since two months and there were no wages, so we left after waiting all these days,” said Rajpal, a worker. “Even if he paid small amounts, it was to be adjusted against future wages,” added Rohit Kumar, another one part of the group. “To make things worse, our ATM card was blocked so we could not get access to the funds transferred to our accounts from home,” added Rajpal. In their 20s, the workers said they don’t have any plans to return till things are completely normal. Even after that they would prefer getting jobs in their home state. An older Brujesh Kumar who was cycling towards Kanpur in Uttar Pradesh alone, also joined them. “Even I don’t plan to return,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/with-nothing-else-available-many-cycling-long-distances-home/articleshow/75726805.cms||Shishir Arya
May 14, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Opposition gears up for fight against Pothireddypadu move||HYDERABAD: Opposition parties are gearing up to oppose Andhra Pradesh government’s move to draw an additional eight thousand million cubic (TMC) feet water from Pothireddypadu head regulator. Congress has decided to organise ‘Chalo Pothireddypadu’ to expose an alleged secret pact between Telangana chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao and his AP counterpart YS Jaganmohan Reddy, while a rainbow coalition (of parties) has decided to petition district collectors against the inaction of the TRS government. Congress has charged that the GO 203, issued by AP government for drawing eight TMC water through Pothireddypadu and Sangameshwar point in Srisailam reservoir, was drafted at KCR’s camp office-cum-residence Pragathi Bhavan. Participating in one-day deeksha at Gandhi Bhavan, Congress leaders said they would organise ‘Chalo Pothireddypadu’ to expose the secret deal between KCR and Jaganmohan Reddy. They also demanded resignation of KCR. Telangana Congress working president A Revanth Reddy said Congress would fight technically and legally. “If AP goes ahead with its plans, south Telangana will go dry and there will be drinking water scarcity even in Greater Hyderabad,” Revanth said. In a letter to the CM, Bhongir MP K Venkat Reddy demanded KCR ensure GO 203 was not implemented by the AP government. He stated that Palamuru-Rangareddy, Dindi, SLBC and Udaysamudram irrigation projects would face severe water shortage and inflows in Nagarjunasagar would be affected. KCR should immediately release funds for completion of projects in Krishna basin, he said. Meanwhile, CPI, CPM and TJS opposed the move to enhance the drawal capacity. C Venkat Reddy of CPI, Tammineni Veerabhadram of CPM, L Ramana of TDP, M Kodandaram of TJS organised a round table conference and decided to hold protest programmes and submit memo to every collector against KCR government’s inaction against AP’s plan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/opposition-gears-up-for-fight-against-pothireddypadu-move/articleshow/75733138.cms||Roushan Ali
May 14, 2020||Goa||HC directs Centre, state to respond to Russian’s petition of illegal detention||Panaji: The high court of Bombay at Goa has directed the central and state governments to respond to a criminal writ petition filed by a 28-year-old Russian man who alleges he is being illegally held at the detention centre for foreigners at Mapusa. The high court has directed the Union ministry of home affairs and state government authorities to file their replies. The case is likely to be heard on March 15. Peter Shalaginov stated he arrived in India in February 2013 and lost his bag containing his passport while travelling to Dehradun the same year. He contacted the Russian consulate in Mumbai in April 2018 and paid Rs 42,000 to the FRRO for overstaying. He then purchased a ticket and was given a travel document by the Russian consulate but was taken aside by officials at Dabolim airport on May 15, 2018, and sent to Colvale central jail. He stated that when he was released in July he was told he couldn’t leave Goa as the government was awaiting an order from Russia. Shalaginov said he was arrested by Pernem police in January 2020 and sent to the detention centre in Mapusa. Denying that the foreigner was illegally sent to the detention centre, a senior officer said he was sent to the detention centre at the request of Mapusa police as he didn’t have proper documentation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/hc-directs-centre-state-to-respond-to-russians-petition-of-illegal-detention/articleshow/75727204.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Business||Mixed feeling in K’taka industries||Bengaluru: There were mixed views among Karnataka businesses towards finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman’s revival package announced on Wednesday. The small industries body Kassia said the Rs 20 lakh crore package will go a long way towards boosting the MSME sector. “We were pleasantly surprised and there were many positives,” said R Raju, president, KASSIA. One key demand of the industry was to classify MSME not just based on turnover, but also investment. That has been done. “Another positive is that for all government tenders below Rs 200 crore, the domestic market will be the first preference for manufacturing and it will not be a global tender. That will certainly help ‘Make in India.’  The EPF reduction to 10% from 12% will also prove enormously beneficial,” Raju said. Their only disappointment was that nothing was said on reduction of interest rates on loans for MSMEs. The Karnataka Employers’ Association (KEA), which also represents smaller and medium businesses, described the package as meticulous and detailed and certain to boost the industry. “This will be beneficial to both employees and employers,” said B C Prabhakar, president, KEA. But Devesh Agarwal, president of the Bangalore Chamber of Industry & Commerce (BCIC) said the `Atmanirbhar package’ would be inadequate to save industry from the “dark times ahead.” He said the lockdown had left the entire business community bereft of cash. “Till the government does not issue mandatory directions to banks and financial institutions to lend to MSMEs instead of deploying funds into markets and government securities, we are looking at a dark future,” he said. BCIC also urged the government to utilise the ESI funds to provide unemployment benefits to workers and to defer payment of GST/VAT/TDS for businesses for 6-9 months to improve cash flow.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/mixed-feeling-in-ktaka-industries/articleshow/75726151.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Varanasi||2 new coronavirus positive cases reported in Varanasi, tally now 87||VARANASI: With the confirmation of two more coronavirus cases in the district on Wednesday, the total tally of infected persons reached 87. The number of active cases reduced to 31 with the discharge of Shivpur quarantine home’s ward-boy after getting cured at DDU district hospital’s isolation ward. A total of 55 Covid-19 patients have recovered in the district so far while one had died on April 3. DM Kaushal Raj Sharma said, “The BHU lab released 65 reports on Wednesday in which two were tested positive while other 63 were negative.” Among two new Covid-19 positive cases one is 58-year-old fourth grade employee of additional director health Varanasi division office, who lives in Jaitpura area. After suffering respiratory problem he had gone to SSL hospital BHU’s Covid-19 OPD voluntarily when his sample had been taken. Other one is a 73-year-old native of Nariya Sunderpur. When the team sent by CMO Dr VB Singh investigated his case for contact tracing it came to light that his son had returned from Delhi 10 days ago, although he had no complication. But, on suffering problem of cold and coughing he had gone to SSL hospital BHU’s OPD where his sample had been collected. The CMO said that after getting first report of the Shivpur quarantine home’s infected ward-boy, his second sample was sent to lab which also came out to be negative after which he was discharged from DDU district hospital. CMO said that till Wednesday 55 infected persons had been discharged after getting cured and the total active cases in the district has become 31 only. With the confirmation of a new positive case from Nariya Sunderpur, this area was declared as new hotspot. Jaipura had already been declared as hotspot after detection of a weaver as positive in past. The total number of hotspots has reached 30. Initially, declared hotspots Bajardiha, Gangapur and Lohta have now become green zones and active hotspots are 27. CMO said that 94 more samples had been sent to BHU lab for test on Wednesday and reports of 181 samples are awaited||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/2-new-corona-positive-cases-reported-in-city-tally-now-87/articleshow/75724437.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Goa||Goa: Water tariffs up by as much as 80% as government chases revenue||PANAJI: The public works department (PWD) on Wednesday increased water tariffs in some categories by as much as 80%, while also increasing the minimum charges for commercial establishments. In chasing additional revenue, PWD has announced across-the-board increase in tariffs, including inspection charges. PWD principal chief engineer Uttam Parsekar also said that the water tariff will be increased by 5% at the beginning of every financial year, a move introduced because of the impact of the novel coronavirus. Domestic consumers drawing upto 15 cubic metres of water will pay Rs 3.5 per cubic metre against the earlier Rs 2.5 per cubic meter. Those consuming between 15 cubic metres to 25 cubic metres will have to shell out Rs 9 per cubic metre, instead of the present Rs 5. Those consuming more than 50 cubic metres will have to pay Rs 25 per cubic metres instead of Rs 15. For registered cooperative housing societies, which have a single water supply connection, the tariff will be based on the number and type of flats in the housing society. PWD has also introduced a new category for student hostels, hospitals and educational institutions, where a flat rate of Rs 9 per cubic metre will be charged. Small hotels and restaurants with fewer than 15 rooms will be charged Rs 25 per cubic metre against the earlier Rs 20 for the first 80 cubic metres of water consumed. After that, the user will be charged Rs 30 per cubic metre of water. Even military units have not been spared, with water charges being hiked from Rs 20 per cubic metre to Rs 25 per cubic metre. The yearly inspection charges for water connection have been hiked from Rs 70 to Rs 100 for domestic connections, and from Rs 300 to Rs 500 for all other connections. For septic tank inspections, the annual inspection charges have gone up from Rs 150 to Rs 300 per connection for homes and from Rs 750 to Rs 1000 for commercial connections. There has also been a steep increase in water meter testing charges for domestic as well as commercial connections. Domestic consumers will have to shell out Rs 500 per meter as compared to the present Rs 150. Testing of commercial water metres have seen a massive 223% jump from Rs 300 to Rs 1,000 per connection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/water-tariffs-up-by-as-much-as-80-as-govt-chases-revenue/articleshow/75727194.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Opposition gears up for fight against Pothireddypadu move||HYDERABAD: Opposition parties are gearing up to oppose Andhra Pradesh government’s move to draw an additional eight thousand million cubic (TMC) feet water from Pothireddypadu head regulator. Congress has decided to organise ‘Chalo Pothireddypadu’ to expose an alleged secret pact between Telangana chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao and his AP counterpart YS Jaganmohan Reddy, while a rainbow coalition (of parties) has decided to petition district collectors against the inaction of the TRS government. Congress has charged that the GO 203, issued by AP government for drawing eight TMC water through Pothireddypadu and Sangameshwar point in Srisailam reservoir, was drafted at KCR’s camp office-cum-residence Pragathi Bhavan. Participating in one-day deeksha at Gandhi Bhavan, Congress leaders said they would organise ‘Chalo Pothireddypadu’ to expose the secret deal between KCR and Jaganmohan Reddy. They also demanded resignation of KCR. Telangana Congress working president A Revanth Reddy said Congress would fight technically and legally. “If AP goes ahead with its plans, south Telangana will go dry and there will be drinking water scarcity even in Greater Hyderabad,” Revanth said. In a letter to the CM, Bhongir MP K Venkat Reddy demanded KCR ensure GO 203 was not implemented by the AP government. He stated that Palamuru-Rangareddy, Dindi, SLBC and Udaysamudram irrigation projects would face severe water shortage and inflows in Nagarjunasagar would be affected. KCR should immediately release funds for completion of projects in Krishna basin, he said. Meanwhile, CPI, CPM and TJS opposed the move to enhance the drawal capacity. C Venkat Reddy of CPI, Tammineni Veerabhadram of CPM, L Ramana of TDP, M Kodandaram of TJS organised a round table conference and decided to hold protest programmes and submit memo to every collector against KCR government’s inaction against AP’s plan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/opposition-gears-up-for-fight-against-pothireddypadu-move/articleshow/75726159.cms||Roushan Ali
May 14, 2020||Nagpur||City’s first Q-centre at MLA Hostel completes two months||Nagpur: On March 14, the city got its first institutional quarantine centre at MLA Hostel which has so far hosted over 2,000 persons including local suspect cases and international flyers.Quarantine being a new concept for even medical professionals here, the MLA Hostel facility proved as a model for rest of the centres that came up later in the city.On Thursday, the centre will complete two months up though the battle against coronavirus is still not over. Doctors from state public health department helmed MLA Hostels as well as other centres where they continuously monitored inmates for symptoms of coronavirus.District health officer (DHO) Dr Deepak Selokar and his staff played a silent role in supporting the medical teams. From angry flyers to indisciplined slum dwellers, the doctors dealt with them all while discharging their duties.Deputy director of health services Dr Sanjay Jaiswal said the move to promptly start the centre at MLA Hostel proved beneficial for all. “All are feeling safe in the city. This is the main benefit we are seeing because of the team work,” he said. Dr Nitin Gulhane, who has been incharge of MLA Hostel quarantine facilty, was at the centre of all the planning. He was enstrusted with the task by Dr Jaiswal after the latter and divisional commissioner Dr Sanjeev Kumar, civil surgeon Dr Devendra Paturkar and Dr Selokar finalized the venue.“We planned how it will function. First was getting all the required medicines that were provided by the civil surgeon. Then, DHO provided doctors and multiple purpose workers,” said Dr Gulhane.Initially, there were no local suspects, only flyers yet being a new initiative the officials left nothing to chance.“It had to be a team work. We held a meeting with health, revenue, PWD officials beside the canteen contractor and housekeeping workers to ensure smooth functioning of the centre,” Dr Gulhane said.A medical unit exclusively for this purpose was established. “It included psychiatrists and psychologists too to keep people happy during their 14-day stay,” he said.From April 1, the same model was replicated at all centres. The incharge of other centres are Dr Shrikant Karode (Ravi Bhavan), Dr Anil Hazare (Vanamati), Dr Danish Iqbal (Lonara and VNIT), Dr Rajeshwar Debadwar (Symbiosis), and NMC’s Dr Meenashi Singh (Pachpaoli).“We hope this viral chain breaks and pray that God gifts good health to all,” they said.“Health workers and doctors are working meticulously to keep the city safe,” Dr Gulhane added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/citys-first-q-centre-at-mla-hostel-completes-two-months/articleshow/75726810.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
May 14, 2020||Mysuru||Karnataka: School panel looks at shifts, odd-even model||MYSURU: Gearing up for the new normal in school education, the Department of Public Instruction (DPI) has formed a panel of experts to draw up a strategy for reopening of schools once the Covid-19 crisis abates. Among the measures being considered to accommodate social distancing are shifts for students or lessons on alternate days for different classes — something on the lines of an odd-even system. SR Umashankar, principal secretary in DPI, said the committee would look into a range of issues surrounding academic continuity and the safety of children when they return to school. “Experts and teachers will suggest how the entire academic year should look, which portions of the syllabus can be retained and what can be left out,” he said. Action plan for classesThe 34-member panel comprises education department officials, teachers, Department of State Education Research and Training (DSERT) authorities and experts drawn from the District Institutes for Education and Training (DIET). The director of secondary education will be the member-secretary of the committee, which is to submit its report by May 30. One of the terms of reference mentioned for the committee is preparing an action plan on holding classes keeping the social distancing protocol in mind. The panel is looking at allotting different shifts for classes so that student numbers and interaction are reduced. Alternatively, classes may split into two blocks for classes on alternate days of the week so that only half of the school strength turns up at a time. Preparing a uniform academic calendar for primary and secondary classes, the panel is drawing up contingency plans for the syllabus to be considered, should the academic year be cut by one, two or three months. It will also look at uniform curricular and non-curricular activities in view of the limitations and safeguards to contain the spread of Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/school-panel-looks-at-shifts-odd-even-model/articleshow/75724972.cms||Shrinivasa M
May 14, 2020||Goa||Unable to extend financial aid due to 80% revenue drop: Goa CM||PANAJI: Chief minister Pramod Sawant said that his heart goes out to those who have lost their livelihood in Goa due to the lockdown, but that however much he would like to he is unable to extend a package to these persons as the state’s revenue has seen a 80% drop during the period. “There are taxi owners, pilots, autorickshaw owners who have had absolutely no business for the last two months. They have not earned even Rs 5,000 during this period. I really feel like extending a package to them. If we have to help, we should help those in need, who find it difficult to earn for two meals a day,” Sawant said, reacting to a request by some citizens for waiver of water and electricity bills. He said that tax collections have seen a massive slump during the lockdown and the state is unable to extend a package at present. “We should understand the situation of the state government. There is 80% drop in our revenue in GST, Vat collections. If there is money in the state treasury then I would also have been happy to help those in need. But the Prime Minister has helped the needy through the Garib Kalyan Yojana. It has really brought much-needed relief to farmers and other such sections. It will further be of assistance to others in need too,” Sawant said. TOI had earlier reported that the state saw a 90% drop in tax mop up due to the lockdown in April. The state’s GST collection for April dropped to Rs 32 crore against the expected Rs 338 crore, a mere 9% of the projected earnings. In March, GST collections witnessed a 19% drop at Rs 316 crore against Rs 389 crore compared a year ago. VAT on fuel and alcohol has declined drastically due to the lockdown and closure of tourism.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/unable-to-extend-financial-aid-due-to-80-revenue-drop-cm/articleshow/75727201.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Jaipur||Now, register birth, death within 21 days post-lockdown||Jaipur: The Jaipur Municipal Corporation (JMC) has extended the period for people to register birth and death due to ongoing pandemic. According to rule, registration of birth and death has to be done within 21 days at JMC office to get certificate. Now, the registration can be done within 21 days after the lockdown period ends. The registration of birth and death has gone down by 25% due to pandemic. People are now struggling to fill forms and pay penalty fee as well. No registration could be done at the JMC office anymore and everything has been made online. People, who are not technically sound, are now struggling to fill the forms and complete all the formalities online. Registrar of birth and death at JMC Pradeep Pareek said, “It is for the convenience of the people. Not everyone is well-equipped with technology and people are facing problems. So, for now, after the lockdown is lifted, within 21 days registration has to be made.” This relaxation is given for births and death happening within the lockdown period not before or 21 days after the lifting of the lockdown. Recently, the JMC had issued notification to the zonal offices to appoint one informer on each crematorium or graveyard in the city. It is the job of the informer to send information about the number of cremations or burials occurred every day. There are more than 150 crematoriums and graveyards in Jaipur out of which only 30 have the facility of an informer. When a burial or cremation occurs, the informer gets a form filled by the family member in which details of the dead person, family members, cause of death, time of death and other such information is mentioned. It is the job of the informer to send the form back to the JMC and give one copy to the family. No crematorium or graveyard authorities have informed the JMC about the appointment of informers. Hence, the JMC has sent a reminder to comply with its orders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/now-register-birth-death-within-21-days-post-lockdown/articleshow/75726809.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Varanasi||Over 5,000 migrants reach Ghazipur, Azamgarh, Mau by four special trains||VARANASI: Four Shramik Express trains carrying over 5,000 migrant workers reached Mau, Ghazipur and Azamgarh districts between Tuesday night and Wednesday evening. In the four trains that came from Surat, Mehsana, Jamnagar and Ahmadabad in Gujarat, not only migrant labourers from over 40 districts of UP but scores of Nepalese also arrived. Those who Ghazipur from Mehsana claimed they had been charged Rs 910 each. In Ghazipur, the first Sharmik Express train reached from Mehsana on Wednesday morning with 1,200 passengers. DM Ghazipur Omprakash Arya, camped at Ghazipur City junction to monitor the arrival and departure of migrants. He said, “1200 migrants had reached from Mehsana while equal number of passengers reached by other train from Jamnagar. Of these, 365 belonged to Ghazipur while others were from other 46 districts of state. District wise buses were arranged for them.” Regarding Nepalese migrants who came from Mehsana, he said that they would be quarantined at shelter home till the government finalises the schedule for sending them to Nepal. Passengers like Manoj Yadav and Ajay Chawdhary, who reached Ghazipur from Mehsana, showed tickets sold to them by officials at Mehsana railway station before boarding the train and claimed that Rs 910 was charged from each passenger. They said that they faced problem in arranging money to buy tickets as well as getting registered for reaching home by the train but were happy now to reach home. Another train reached Azamgarh from Ahmadabad on Wednesday afternoon with 1,641 passengers, said DM Azamgarh NP Singh, adding of them 164 belonged to Azamgarh. Other 1,477 belonged to 33 other districts of UP and after proper screening and providing food they were sent by buses, said the officials. Earlier, a train with 1205 passengers reached Mau junction from Surat on Tuesday night. DM Mau Gyan Prakash Tripathi said that 902 belonged to Mau, 286 of Azamgarh, 14 of Gorakhpur and one each of Ballia and Siddharthnagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/over-5k-migrants-reach-ghazipur-azamgarh-mau-by-four-spl-trains/articleshow/75724463.cms||Rajeev Dikshit
May 14, 2020||Jodhpur||Rajasthan: These Covid-19 warriors stand stoic at frontline||JAISALMER: They have been easily matching men on most fronts and even outshining them in key areas when it comes to balancing between job and family or fighting Covid-19. Meet the women officials in Barmer, Jodhpur and Jaisalmer who are currently posted in the virus-hit areas along the district borders keeping tabs on the movement of migrant workers and others. Away from their home for almost two months now, some of them work 18 to 20 hours daily. Most of these women officials are living alone with their husbands on duty elsewhere and kids with their parents. In cases where the family is together, the biggest concern for these officials are their young children. They admit that duty gets preference over family during the ongoing lockdown and that despite living together, they do not get much time to spend with the kids. Woman administrative officers are monitoring Dhorimanna, Sindhari, Gudamalani, Balotara, Siwana, Baytoo and Chauhatan sub divisions in Barmer district that are sensitive in regard to entry of outsiders. While in Udaipur district, which is adjoining Gujarat, two police officers of Jaisalmer are on duty to check that no corona suspect enters Rajasthan. Dhorimanna SDM Kusum Lata Chauhan (27), who had lost her husband Ashish in an accident in 2016, has left her 4-year-old son at her parents’ house in Jodhpur. She last met her family on Holi. “My only contact with my son is through frequent video calls,” says Chauhan. She says that as Dhorimanna is a sensitive entry point, she has to be prepared for round-the-clock monitoring and untimely inspections. Similarly, Jaisalmer resident IPS officer Prem Dhandev (37), who is at present deployed at Girwa near Udaipur as Dy SP and in-charge of the state border adjoining Gujarat, says, “As my 5-year-old son is with me, I take a bath after every scheduled or sudden visit at the check posts, which is several times in the day. I take all precautions and ensure that I sanitise myself properly and change my clothes before I enter the house,” she said. Another official from Jaisalmer Chetna Bhati is deployed as Dy SP in the woman cell at Udaipur but her duty is in a curfew-bound area in the city. She has penned poems and jingles to spread awareness on Covid-19 which have become quite popular in the area. Kanchan Rathore, SDO, Sindhari in Barmer and a resident of Jaisalmer has not met her family and two children for over 50 days. She monitors the lockdown and shelter homes. She oversees survey, screening and other work of the village level teams. Her role increases as an officiating magistrate. “My 5-year-old daughter keeps asking me when I will be back home. She is too young to understand and at times, it gets difficult to explain to her,” says Rathore, adding that there are times when she does not find time for meals. Mamta Lahua, tehsildar at Sindhari in Barmer, is fortunate to be living with her family but that also means double work. “At least I am fortunate that my family is around. I take all precautions and safety measures to ensure they do not get exposed to the infection,” she said. Jaisalmer SP Kiran Kang, whose husband is posted at Tonk, says the corona pandemic has brought a lot of changes in her personal and professional routine. “My 4-year-old daughter is with me and has surprisingly been very understanding and supportive. There have been times when duty called late in the night and I had to go leaving her sleeping,” she said, adding that she took extra care while going to corona-affected Pokhran.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/these-covid-warriors-stand-stoic-at-frontline/articleshow/75726812.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Jaipur||NREGA: 23 lakh jump in 25 days takes Raj to No 1 in labour engagement||Jaipur: From 62,000 labourers on April 17 to 24.31 lakh labourers working under MGNREGA on May 11, a jump of 23.69 lakh labourers in 25 days, has taken Rajasthan back to top position in the country in labour engagement under the scheme. Rajasthan is followed by Uttar Pradesh having engaged 22.64 lakh labourers, Chhattisgarh at 21.32 lakh labourers, Madhya Pradesh at 16.82 lakh and West Bengal at 13.42 lakh labourers (on May 11). Officials say this has been possible by engaging large number of migrant labourers who returned from other states and due to “rigid monitoring”. “But this is not enough. Still, there is a gap of 10 lakh labourers on the ground. Under normal circumstances, there would be 30 lakh labourers working on any given day during this period of the year,” said MGNREGA commissioner P C Kishan. “This is an extraordinary situation (due to Covid-19 crisis). Many more migrant labourers would be coming to the state now. There will be extra demand for work now, apart from the normal demand, because of the unprecedented rural crisis. So, we have to prepare ourselves to meet the demand of maybe another 10 lakh workers, who must be demanding work. So, the supply mechanism has to be properly managed to take care of the extraordinary demand for NREGA work.” he added. He further said this has been possible based on daily monitoring of labour engagement in the state. “Whichever district performed badly, I called up the respective CEOs and the collectors and instructed them to take necessary action. If they failed to do so, I even called the BDOs (block development officers). We also engaged about 25 NGOs for necessary feedback from the ground,” he said. “Sometimes, the labourers directly complained to me when muster rolls were not issued, or works were not sanctioned in a gram panchayat. In that case, I used to engage a person to call the BDO or the CEO. Else, I called them directly and instructed to take appropriate action. Moreover, a report on labour engagement was sent to the deputy chief minister (Sachin Pilot) and ACS rural development (Rajeshwar Singh) daily.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/nrega-23-lakh-jump-in-25-days-takes-raj-to-no-1-in-labour-engagement/articleshow/75718632.cms||Sidhartha Dutta
May 14, 2020||Nashik||MSRTC runs 545 buses to state borders||NASHIK: The Nashik division of the Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) has deployed 545 buses to state borders from Nashik since Saturday, including Chhattisgarh, to ensure that migrant workers reach home. With the relaxation in lockdown rules since May 9, the MSRTC had launched an operation to provide relief to migrant workers who were stranded due to the nationwide lockdown and had decided to walk their path home. The MSRTC began transporting people from the city and some parts of the district to their respective destinations. They also picked up people who walked all the way from Thane and Mumbai towards Nashik city and dropped them off at their respective destinations. The migrant workers have been facing a lot of challenges lately as they were out of work due to the outbreak of Covid-19 followed by the nationwide lockdown. Also, some of them did not get proper food and shelter, forcing them to start walking to towards their hometowns. The buses left from various places of district including Pimpalgaon, Sinnar, Trimbakeshwar, Dwarka point in Nashik city, Malegaon, Chandwad, Sinnar. “While maximum buses were headed towards Madhya Pradesh border near Dhule (Shirpur border, some buses were sent to Jalgaon (Faizpur border), Nagpur (Savner border) all for Madhya Pradesh and Gondia district for Chhattisgarh border,” MSRTC officials said. The MSRTC has been transporting migrant workers free of cost. It was only after the workers started moving on their own, including walking village to village and city to city, that tee state government announced measures to ease their travel and ensure that they reach their respective destinations without any issues. “We have been transporting migrant workers while maintaining social distancing from Saturday night. Every bus has 22 seats only and hand sanitisers and other aids have also been made available to travellers as well as drivers so that the transmission of Covid-19 infection is cut down to minimum,” an MSRTC official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/msrtc-runs-545-buses-to-state-borders/articleshow/75726165.cms||Abhilash Botekar
May 14, 2020||Visakhapatnam||LG Polymers sends eight-member technical team from Seoul||HYDERABAD: LG Polymers on Wednesday said an eight-member technical team from its Seoul headquarters, led by the president of LG Chem, has been dispatched to LG Polymers, India, to investigate the cause of the styrene vapour leak at its Vizag facility that left 12 people dead and hundreds sick. “An eight-member technical team from Seoul headquarters, led by president of our petrochemicals company, has been dispatched to LG Polymers India. This team will work closely on ground along with the authorities to resolve the situation and assist with real-time remedial and rehabilitation measures,” the company said in a statement. It said the technical team, comprising experts from production, environment, and safety areas, aims to investigate the cause of the incident and promptly support responsible rehabilitation which is the main objective of the task force. “The president, along with dispatched team, will meet with the victims and affected families to explain support measures in detail and also hold meetings with the local state government officials,” LG Polymers said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/lg-polymers-sends-8-member-technical-team-from-seoul/articleshow/75726175.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Dehradun||Cabinet provides relief to commercial power users||DEHRADUN: In wake of the situation arising out of Covid-19, the state cabinet on Wednesday decided to provide relief to power consumers across the state. For hotel and restaurant owners, the state cabinet has decided to waive off the fixed charges for a period of three months. The interest of pending dues on 20,000 private tubewell owners has been waived off for three months from April to June. The fixed demand charge of industrial consumers has also been deferred for three months. The loss in earnings to the tune of Rs 17.64 crore thus accrued by the power corporation would be compensated for by the state government, officials said. Sharing details, urban development minister and state government spokesperson Madan Kaushik said, “For commercial consumers like hotels and restaurants, the cabinet has decided to not take the fixed charges for a period of three months — April to June. They will have to pay for only the power consumed by them. For 20,000 private tubewell owners, the cabinet has approved to not take the interest on the pending arrears for a period of three months. Presently, the pending arrears are worth Rs 156 crore and the decision will cost Rs 3.64 crore to the state government,” Kaushik said. He added that in order to provide relief to industrial consumers, the cabinet has deferred their fixed demand charge for a period of three months. “The state government would face a loss of Rs 8 crore through this move,” he added. Besides, the government will provide a one per cent rebate to all power consumers who were paying their bill online on time. This, Kaushik said, was being done in order to ensure timely receipt of dues. In other decisions, the state government has extended the deadline for inspection and examination of boilers units under the Indian Boilers Act, 1923. The deadline has been extended to June this year. The inspection and examination of boilers can be done by government authorities or third party, Kaushik said. The cabinet has also given a nod for an ordinance for adopting the Agricultural Produce and Livestock Contract Farming (Promotion and Facilitation Act, 2018 in the state. “The Centre has already brought this Act and we had to implement it in Uttarakhand. Therefore, a nod was given for an ordinance,” said Kaushik. Further, to remove obstacles in promotions, the cabinet approved the merger of health department clerks at district and directorate level and it would be now considered as the same cadre. Kaushik said that the government was also trying to open up religious pilgrimage activities and is consulting with Centre in this regard.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cabinet-provides-relief-to-commercial-power-users/articleshow/75724980.cms||Kautilya Singh
May 14, 2020||Bareilly||22-year-old girl assaulted with sword in Pilibhit, four booked||PILIBHIT: Four persons were booked on Wednesday morning for forcibly barging into a house and assaulting a 22-year-old girl with sword in Pilibhit city under Pilibhit Kotwali police station. The girl, who has sustained a serious neck injury, has been shifted to the district government hospital. The complainant, Rehan Ansari of Sher Mohammad locality in Pilibhit city, said that he was in a feud with the accused regarding a criminal case pending in court. The accused were identified as Arshad, Menhadi Hassan, Dilshad Hussain and Sameer – all from the same locality. They had been allegedly forcing Ansari to withdraw the case. After he repeatedly refused, they broke into his house around 6.45 pm on Wednesday and started beating him and his family members. According to Ansari, two of them assaulted his sister Amrin Nisha with a sword when she tried to protest. The attack caused a deep cut on her neck, who then fell unconscious. Station house officer (SHO) Shrikant Dwivedi said that the four accused were booked under sections 307 (attempt to kill) 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 452 (house trespass), 504 (Intentional insult with intent to provoke the breach of peace), 506 (criminal intimidation) and section 324 (voluntarily causing hurt by dangerous weapons) of the IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/22-year-old-girl-assaulted-with-sword-4-booked/articleshow/75723544.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Goa||Charters with stranded seamen may land in Goa||Panaji: Goa doesn’t feature as a destination in the second phase of the Vande Bharat mission to bring stranded Indians, including Goans, home. However, the Goa airport is likely to be opened to bring in stranded seafarers from Europe. None of the 149 flights from 31 countries in the second phase of repatriation between May 16 and 22 will land at Goa International Airport, Dabolim, which is currently in the Green Zone. “Almost every seafarer has received communication from their respective company that they are ready to arrange a charter flight to India but are only waiting for the Indian government to permit them,” founder of the Goan Seamen Association of India Dixon Vaz said. “We have been informed that charter flights will be permitted to bring Goan seafarers who are stranded in Europe. They are likely to land at Goa airport”, said an official “Nothing is finalised yet. We are awaiting more details,” commissioner for NRI affairs Narendra Sawaikar told TOI. All nodal officers were informed during the state executive meeting that two flights carrying 350 passengers are likely to land at Goa airport after about a week. The committee advised the South Goa collector to make arrangements for paid quarantine facility and necessary transportation. The secretary health has been told to work on testing protocols for such cases so that their test results can be generated while they are waiting at the airport. Ports minister Michael Lobo told reporters on Wednesday that flights would land in Goa beginning next week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/charters-with-stranded-seamen-may-land-in-goa/articleshow/75727207.cms||Lisa Monteiro
May 14, 2020||Nagpur||Recovery rate in Vidarbha doubles in 4 days after policy change||Nagpur: As soon as some districts in Vidarbha started implementing the revised discharge policy for Covid-19 patients, the recovery rate in the region has nearly doubled from 21.67% on May 9 to 42.99% on May 13. The policy was revised by the ministry of health and family welfare on May 8 and it was notified for the states on May 9. While Akola health division has implemented the new discharge policy, Nagpur is yet to take a decision on it. In Akola health division, covering Amravati, Yavatmal, Akola, Washim and Buldhana districts, total 103 patients have been discharged in three days from May 11 to 13. Many more are on way to recovery. This has improved the recovery rate of Vidarbha significantly. TOI had reported on Monday that the revised policy can send more than 90% patients home as it allows discharge, on some conditions, to pre-symptomatic patients as well as those having very mild or mild symptoms. In the revised policy, hospitalization period has also been reduced to 10 days, instead of 14 earlier. “As per the directives of chief secretary (health), we have implemented the revised policy in Akola division. On Wednesday, 41 patients from Akola and 11 from Amravati were discharged,” confirmed Dr Riyaz Faruqui, deputy director (health Services). In the last three days, 21 patients have been discharged from Yavatmal, 36 from Amravati and highest 46 from Akola. Highest number of patients discharged in a single day in Akola was 41 on May 13. A senior official from health department in Nagpur division told TOI that the issue of implementing revised discharge policy was discussed through videoconferencing on May 12. But, many officials in Nagpur were of the opinion that patients should be released only after completing 14-day hospitalization. “In places like Akola and Amravati, Covid wards have limited beds. Moreover, these places have seen significant surge in the number of new patients in last one week. No such situation is in Nagpur. We have enough number of beds in dedicated Covid hospitals. So, we are not in a hurry to send patients home,” said the official. In fact, Nagpur’s both Covid hospitals now house about 200 patients against the capacity of more than 1,000. As per revised discharge policy, mild, very mild and pre-symptomatic cases will undergo regular temperature and pulse oximetry monitoring and patients can be discharged after 10 days of symptom onset and if they do not have fever for three days. There will be no need for testing prior to discharge, but the patient will have to follow home isolation for further seven days. Jump In Recovery Rate Date Total patients Discharged % May 8 608 117 19.24 May 9 632 137 21.67 May 10 655 185 28.24 May 11 666 201 30.18 May 12 687 247 35.95 May 13 721 310 42.99||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/recovery-rate-in-vidarbha-doubles-in-4-days-after-policy-change/articleshow/75726815.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
May 14, 2020||Varanasi||UP: Cops help Mumbai man, deliver medicines to his ailing mother||GORAKHPUR: After a tweet from a man in Mumbai requesting UP police to help provide medicines to her ailing mother stuck in Gorakhpur, the city police immediately acknowledged it and delivered the required medicines to her on Tuesday. The man’s mother is currently staying with her relatives in Campierganj tehsil of Gorakhpur where she had come to attend a wedding on March 11, and is stuck in the city since then. Mandhar, in his tweet, said that her mother is a diabetic patient and has run out of medicines. He sought help from UP police and Maharashtra cabinet minister Aditya Thackerey in the matter. Thereafter, Thackerey himself appealed to UP police to take the matter into cognizance. The police asked for the woman’s prescription through whatsapp, and on the direction of Gorakhpur SSP Sunil Gupta, delivered the medicines to her. “The constables at PRV 3882 delivered the medicines to the woman, who was staying 55 km away from their deployment area,” informed Gupta. When the cops reached her place with the medicines, the woman was grateful and she blessed them, while Mandhar thanked Gorakhpur police on Twitter. Aditya Thackerey also acknowledged UP police for their quick response in a tweet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/cops-help-mumbai-man-deliver-medicines-to-his-ailing-mother/articleshow/75724668.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Nashik||District recovery average now equals national figure||NASHIK: The district administration has claimed that the recovery average of the Covid-19 patients in the district are now at par with the national average per cent. The jump in recovery figures was after 155 patients including 154 from Malegaon were discharged on Tuesday. The total number of Covid-19 patients that have now recovered are 227 out of 701 patients in the district. “On May 12, the recover average is posted at 32.38 per cent, which is at par with the national average of 32.82 per cent,” said Anant Pawar resident medical officer. He said that out that the people that are discharged there were patients that had either completed their eight-day isolation period or their second swab test was not required. “By April 28, the corresponding fortnight period, the district had 194 patients out of which 11 had died. The total numbers of patients that were cured till same date were 72. This means 111 patients completed their 14-day period while 44 others benefited from the new discharge policies of the state government,” the officer said. It may also be noted that many people have now completed their isolation-cum-treatment period of 14 days out of which more than 70 per cent are asymptomatic in nature. “New discharge policy has completely changed the scenario of patient management. The release of asymptomatic patients will make health system free to handle new serious patients. Secondly, it will also remove scare of the virus from the minds of people which is perhaps more important than any other thing to restore normalcy,” said Nashik collector, Suraj Mandhare. Mandhare, however, warned the people against using the liberty of going home early and not adhering to the social distancing and the self-isolation norms at home. “The self-isolation norms have to be followed in totality. The violation of the same could be disastrous for the family and the community as well. Hence all patients – asymptomatic or minor symptoms – are being allowed home but they should exercise caution and restraint at all the times,” the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/district-recovery-average-now-equals-national-figure/articleshow/75726176.cms||Abhilash Botekar
May 14, 2020||Hyderabad||BJP MP protests against Telangana government||HYDERABAD: Telangana BJP president Bandi Sanjay sat on a one-day fast on Wednesday protesting against the GO issued by AP on Pothireddypadu. Sanjay said that he has written to the Centre requesting the water resources ministry to seek clarification from the Krishna Water Disputes Tribunal regarding the project. He wondered why Telangana government did not respond to AP GO immediately. He said that the TRS regime is compromising the state’s interests. He alleged that TRS focused only on developing southern Telangana and ignored the northern part of the state. He said that the proposed project on Pothireddypadu would cause great harm to Nalgonda and Rangareddy districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bjp-mp-protests-against-telangana-govt/articleshow/75726181.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Varanasi||Bihar native attempts suicide, saved by cops||GORAKHPUR: A 25-year-old native of Bihar, who worked as labourer in Pune, was returning to his home and attempted suicide after he ran out of all his money and food after reaching Gorakhpur on Wednesday. The Gorakhpur police pacified him and also provided him food and money. As per the reports, one Deepu Patel of Chainpur Chitouni at Sivan in Bihar was working in Pune but lost his job after lockdown. When he was left with only Rs 1,300, he started walking towards home. On way to home he got lift in trucks and other vehicles but by the time he reached Gorakhpur he was left with no money and food. He reached Nausad bus station to board a bus for Sivan but could not. Feeling helpless and hungry Patel somehow reached the balcony on the third floor of one Ramchandra Gupta’s house in front of the bus station and tried to end his life by hanging self from the ceiling there with his gamchha. Some people noticed him and informed the police. Sub-inspector Nausad police post, Bhupendra Tiwari, constable Virendra Kumar and other policemen reached there after climbing there through the adjacent house and pacified him. Tiwari gave Rs 1,500 and some food to the man. SP North, Arvind Pandey said that the man will be sent to shelter home at present and will be quarantined if found infected with coronavirus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/bihar-native-attempts-suicide-saved-by-cops/articleshow/75724634.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Opposition slams Telangana CM K Chandrasekhar Rao over farming policy||HYDERABAD: Opposition parties in Telangana including Congress, BJP, TDP, CPI, CPM, TJS lambasted chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao over his decision to tell farmers what they should grow and demanded that KCR immediately stop threatening the farmers that they would be denied of Rythu Bandhu sop and minimum support price if they don’t cultivate crops suggested by the state government. They said CM should stop acting like a dictator and sought to advise him that farmers were better placed to take a call on what they should grow.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/oppn-slams-kcr-over-farming-policy/articleshow/75726184.cms||Roushan Ali
May 14, 2020||Goa||Non-Goans coming to state will have to pay Rs 2,000 for test: Goa CM||PANAJI: Non-Goans arriving by train to the state this week will have to pay Rs 2,000 per head for their Covid-19 test, chief minister Pramod Sawant said on Wednesday. He said that the emergency train services should not be used to come to Goa on a holiday as the tourism sector continues to remain closed. Sawant told TOI that not just those coming by train, but by any mode of transport, will be charged the same amount for Covid-19 test. Those who do not have a home in Goa should refrain from coming here as “they won’t be able to enjoy”, Sawant said. We cannot restrict entry. If anyone lands here without a place to stay, they will have to live in the paid quarantine facility of the state government,” said Sawant, at a post-cabinet press conference So far, 500 persons have registered to come to Goa by the Rajdhani Express, which will leave Delhi on May 15, he said. “Many want to come to Goa just because trains are available. I want to tell them outright that if they have no home in Goa, they should not come here,” Sawant said. All passengers will be stamped and won’t be able to move out for 14 days after their arrival, he said. Addressing citizens’ apprehensions about the arrivals by train this week, Sawant said that the train coming from Delhi will be making limited stops along the way and that a concrete SOP is in place for testing and quarantining the passengers. “At the Margao railway station, all exit points except one will be sealed. Passengers will be picked up by bus and taken to the Margao district hospital. Their samples will be collected for testing and till their results are ready, they will be kept at the Fatorda stadium for those six hours,” Sawant said. Even if the test is found to be negative, all passengers will be mandatorily home-quarantined for 14 days, the CM said. Goans arriving by the train will be tested free of cost, Sawant said. “Many are afraid about the train arriving in Goa, but the train cannot be stopped from coming to Goa. Everyone wants to get home at the earliest,” he said. Sawant said that in the case of airport arrivals, passengers will have to remain at a facility within the airport till their Covid-19 test results are ready in six hours’ time. “Same in the case of MPT. Till test results are ready, those who have arrived on a vessel, will be kept on the vessel itself till their test results come,” Sawant said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/non-goans-coming-to-state-will-have-to-pay-rs-2000-for-test-cm/articleshow/75727211.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Vadodara||BJP MLA seeks relaxation in non-containment areas||Vadodara: Sayajigunj BJP MLA and former minister Jitendra Sukhadia has sought relaxation in the lockdown during the day time barring red zone areas. In a letter to the chief minister, he has said that in the coming days the ‘economic infection’ may surpass the coronavirus infection. Sources said that Sukhadia has been of an opinion that most parts of the city had isolated Covid-19 cases and some relaxations could be given in these areas. Sukhadia has now formally made representations in this regard while making suggestions for the strategy after third phase of the lockdown ends on May 17. According to Sukhadia, small and big businesses in cities were closed due to lockdown and in wake of this the ‘economic infection’ may become bigger than the coronavirus infection. He has stated that in areas other than the red zone, some relaxations should be given in the remaining areas. Sukhadia has stated that establishments and places like malls, theatres, gardens, sports complexes, education institutes as well as religious, social and political gatherings should not be allowed. He added that the curfew from 7pm to 7am should continue. The former minister has also raised issues being faced at hospitals in the city. He pointed out that there was lack of cleanliness and facilities at the GMERS, Gotri Hospital and SSG Hospital. He stated that there were several lacunae in the contract for housekeeping at these hospitals. Sukhadia has even sought that the wards where Covid-19 patients were treated should be under CCTV surveillance. He has stated that this feed should be monitored by the chief minister’s office.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/bjp-mla-seeks-relaxation-in-non-containment-areas/articleshow/75723937.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Two more tigers missing from Ranthambore for past four months||JAIPUR: Two more tigers have gone “missing” mysteriously from the Ranthambore National Park (RNP) which has recently gained notoriety for poaching. Fresh reports are trickling that 15-year-old tiger T-47 aka Mohan and T-42 have been missing for last four months and all efforts by the forest department to trace them have gone in vain. With this, the number of missing tigers from RNP reaches 32. According to sources, while a report of missing tiger Mohan has been sent to senior officials, the forest department is keeping mum on T-42 missing case. T-42 went missing from the Bherupura area where poachers were caught on trap camera this February. Dharmendra Khandal, a conservation biologist, said, “Sending a report that T-47 is missing after four months is a face-saving exercise. In earlier times, combing operations to search the tigers were conducted by the department. However, this is missing currently. The forest administration should carry out serious and active patrolling to trace these missing tigers,” Khandal said. Officials claimed that younger tigers seem to have taken over the territory of T-47 which was usually sighted in Phalodi and Taleda ranges. “One of the places frequented by Mohan was Bhid where T-104 is already in an enclosure. Besides, tiger T-97 and tigress T-54 have made their base in the same area. So it is quite possible that because of these big cats, T-47 was forced to quit its territory,” said a forest department official. The last time T-47 was seen was when it was captured in a trap camera in Phalodi area in February this year following which a team was also constituted to track the animal but their search did not help in tracing the missing tiger. Since 2009, the park has mysteriously lost 30 tigers, including seven old and 23 young ones. Among the 23 are 11 tigresses which do not usually venture out for creating a territory. Experts claimed that there are two areas amounting to 60% of the total tigers that have gone missing from the park. Both these areas are natural habitats of the reserve but are close to 13 villages. The land here is fertile and there is plenty of water because of which extensive farming happens in these regions, said experts. “Both these tigers also went missing from these blackholes,” said a source.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/2-more-tigers-missing-from-rbore-for-past-4-months/articleshow/75726818.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Bareilly||233 private hospitals in Bareilly permitted to reopen emergency services||BAREILLY: Of the 326 private hospitals and nursing homes in Bareilly district registered with the chief medical officer (CMO), 233 have started offering emergency services after receiving permission from the CMO. To prevent spread of Covid-19 among medical staff and patients, the state government had directed private hospitals at the beginning of the lockdown to take approval from the CMO for resuming services. CMO Dr Vineet Shukla said, “Out patient’s department (OPD) services have been suspended in all private hospitals. Only those facilities which are adopting all precautionary measures and following the government’s protocol on infection prevention and control, have been allowed to start emergency services. All staff of these facilities has undergone training on protocols of infection prevention and control.” A seven-member team has been set up to conduct random inspection of these hospitals to check if they are following the protocols. “If any private hospital is found not following protocol, it will be served notice. If it is found flouting norms a second time, it will be barred from offering emergency services,” said Shukla. Additional CMO Dr Ashok Kumar, who heads the seven-member team, said, “We’re conducting regular inspection of all private hospitals.” Team members include district president of Indian Medical Association (IMA), doctors nominated from the district men’s hospital and district women’s hospital, scientist from Uttar Pradesh Pollution Control Board and staff of UNICEF and WHO. At the training on infection prevention and control, staffers of private hospitals were taught how to maintain social physical distance and hand hygiene. Hospital staffers were taught protocols for safe disposal of infected equipment used during emergency services. Other norms, like wearing masks while examining patients, were also shared. According to officials, emergency services include all surgeries, dialysis, cardiac, obstetric, orthopedic and related illness. Officials said if other private hospitals agree to follow protocol and undergo training, they too will be granted permission to resume emergency services.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/233-private-hospitals-permitted-to-reopen-emergency-services/articleshow/75723555.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
May 14, 2020||Goa||Visitors will now be able to taste alcohol at manufacturing units in Goa||PANAJI: People visiting liquor manufacturing units in the state will now be able to sample the alcohol, provided the units have a visitor centre. The excise department in a notification issued on Tuesday stated that any manufacturing unit desiring to establish a visiting centre will have to obtain a licence from the department by paying a fee of Rs 25,000. Units having a licence for visitor centre can also sell manufactured liquor in sealed bottles, but not exceeding 1,500ml per head. President of Cashew Feni Distillers and Bottlers Association, Gurudatta Bhakta said they had submitted the proposal to the excise department to permit the visitors to taste alcohol when they visit a manufacturing unit. “This is done for the first time in Goa,” he said. The notification stated that an applicant has to submit the location and layout plan for setting up a visitor centre. The commissioner, after conducting necessary inquiry and site inspection, will grant permission on payment of the licence fee. The notification further stated that the price to be charged for the liquor sold at a visitor centre should not be less than the maximum retail price printed on the liquor bottle. The visitor may be allowed to taste samples of various brands of liquor with the quantity of each preparation not exceeding 10ml. The testing will be restricted only to swirling, smelling, sipping and spitting. However, swallowing of liquor samples will be prohibited. The licencee with a visitor centre will have to maintain a detailed record of the liquor used for sampling, visitors who tasted it, and alcohol sold.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/visitors-will-now-be-able-to-taste-alcohol-at-manufacturing-units/articleshow/75727224.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Nashik||Man attacked with knife, injured||Nashik: A 36-year-old man was injured after an unknown individual attacked him with a knife at Ramkund area on Tuesday night. The victim who is identified as Harish Thorat (36) registered an offence with the Panchavati police. He said in his complaint that he regularly sleeps in the vegetable market grounds at Ramkund, Panchavati. At around 1 am on Tuesday, when he came to sleep on the ground, one man came and slept beside him. When Thorat asked him, why did he come to sleep near him, the man got angry and attacked him with a knife and escaped from the scene. Thorat suffered injuries on his stomach. Bike set ablaze in Upnagar A parked motorcycle was set on fire at 2 am in the Upnagar area building on Tuesday. The police said that they have booked a man on the complaint of the bike owner. The complainant Sanjay Adke (48), a resident of Vidya Nagari, Nashik Road stated in his complaint that a man set his bike on fire for unknown reasons. The seat, headlamp, handle and other parts of the bike were damaged in the fire.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/man-attacked-with-knife-injured/articleshow/75726183.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Nashik||3 docs among 14 MMC staff booked for not joining duty||Nashik: Police have booked three doctors and 11 employees of the Malegaon Municipal Corporation (MMC) for not reporting to duty despite repeated instructions and reminders, following a complaint by a senior civic official. A similar offence was registered a couple of week ago against 33 contractual employees of the MMC. Deepak Kasar was recently appointed as civic chief for taking stronger steps to control the spread of coronavirus in the powerloom town. According to the complaint, the 14 employees, including three doctors, were assigned various tasks to prevent the spread of coronavirus. However, they did not resume duty, said offers of the Killa police station. Police inspector Bhausaheb Patare confirmed the report and said the MMC employees have booked under section 188 of the Indian Penal Code for not reporting to work for a month. Earlier on May 2, 33 peons of the MMC were booked under section 188 of the IPC for not reporting to work.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/3-docs-among-14-mmc-staff-booked-for-not-joining-duty/articleshow/75726186.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Jaipur||Developers get 1-year Rera lifeline to complete projects||Jaipur: In a relief to the realty sector in Rajasthan, the state Real Estate Regulatory Authority (Rera) on Wednesday extended completion deadlines for under-construction projects by a year. The decision will benefit over 1,000 projects that were to be completed on or after March 19. Considering sudden outbreak of Covid-19, Rera accepted the plea of associations of real estate developers including Credai, TODAR and RAHDA. Rera (Rajasthan chairman) NC Goel said, “On the ground of force majeure, extension of 12 months has been granted to the real estate projects expiring on or after March 19. As lockdown in the state was imposed two days before the Centre announced such a lockdown, we have fixed the above date.” Those projects that had already lapsed before March 19 will also be allowed the benefit of the extension if the promoter first applies for usual extension and pay extension fee, standard fee and penalty. The developers in the state welcomed the move and considered it as favourable for the industry. Rajasthan Credai chairman Gopal Dasgupta said, “In comparison with other states, this is the best order in the country. It will help massively to revive the industry.” The state issued the orders soon after finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said the ministry for housing and urban affairs would issue advisories to the states to provide six months extension to provide relief to developers. In its representation to the RERA, which was submitted on Monday, the developers had mentioned due to recession, there is a strong possibility of people trying to cancel their booking by taking various pleas. This would lead to a steep cash crunch and with very low sales expected in future. Also, there will be non-availability of financial resources for developers. “The finance providers will now prefer to invest in assets with the lowest risk and would shy away from ongoing projects. Even the rate of interest could be higher and going forward there will be a race towards ‘safe deals’. So, it looks that new lending may now be almost impossible or very difficult,” reads the Credai memorandum.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/developers-get-1-year-rera-lifeline-to-complete-projects/articleshow/75726820.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Jaipur||RHB gets Rs 3.65cr by auctioning 23 assets||The Rajasthan Housing Board (RHB) on Wednesday garnered Rs 3.65 crore by auctioning 23 commercial properties in the city. RHB commissioner Pawan Arora said, “The eagerness among the buyers to invest even during lockdown shows huge attraction for board properties. The auction was organised to sell commercial properties in Jaipur’s Indira Gandhi Nagar,” Arora said. The RHB received 55 bids from the buyers. As the bid was offline, the board provided masks, sanitizers and social distancing was maintained. While, few property buyers demanded that RHB should reduce the bid price in this scenario, official said the auction policy was recently revised to make is feasible for bidder. However, senior officials assured that the demand of the buyers will be considered. After the RHB sold its residential properties on discounted rates, efforts are being made to dispose of shops and commercial properties along the same lines. For this, RHB has identified more than 300 properties in 10 cities, including Jaipur, which are being sold at a discount rate between 25% and 50%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rhb-gets-rs-3-65cr-by-auctioning-23-assets/articleshow/75726822.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Kanpur||World bodies issue guidelines for migrant workers to curtail spread of coronavirus||KANPUR: The United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF), National Health Mission (NHM) and the World Health Organization (WHO) have issued guidelines for migrant workers, students and others who are returning to their homes in the lockdown period. Though the three organizations stated that the Central and the state government s have made elaborate arrangements for their safe home return but this process has presented a new challenge-- how to check spread of corona infection. These organizations in their joint guide lines have mentioned management protocol for people coming back to their homes, home quarantine and precautions to be taken. As per the guidelines, the district administration would register the migrant labourers, get them screened, comply with the protocoal if found corona positive and take precautions for those who are found negative. The corona positive persons would be quarantined at the government managed quarantine centres where they would be tested for Covid-19. While infected persons will be admitted to hospital, those found negative will be quarantined for 7 days and tested again after expiry of this period. If they are again found negative, they would be sent for 14 days in home quarantine which will be of 21 days, the guidelines state. During home quarantine if migrant labourer has fever, cough or is suffering from breathing problem then he has to contact Asha or at the government helpline number (1800-180-5145). During home quarantine, the migrant labourers should be asked to live in separate rooms, use masks or gamchhas for covering their mouth and nose and wash them regularly with hot water and soap. They will have to wash their hands regularly several times in a day, the guidelines further stated. They should l neither share bed nor utensils with other family members, should wash their utensils with hot water and the family members should not allow any outsider to come inside. They are required to down load Aarogya Setu app on mobile phones and keep sanitation in house. Only one person should be allowed to go outside to for daily needs . On return, he too should wash his/her hands with soap and hot water and use mask or scarf to cover face during visit to markets, the guidelines added. etc.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/world-bodies-issue-guidelines-for-migrant-workers-to-curtail-spread-of-coronavirus/articleshow/75726251.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Varanasi||Two test coronavirus positive in UP's Siddharthnagar district||GORAKHPUR: On Wednesday, four new coronavirus cases were reported in Siddharthnagar district while on Tuesday night five cases were reported taking the district’s tally to 30. All the nine persons have returned from Mumbai, said CMO Dr Seema Rai. Meanwhile, in Gorakhpur, two new Covid-19 cases were reported on late Tuesday night taking the count of cases to 6, said CMO Dr Srikant Tiwari. Five youths of Belipar area in Gorakhpur, who worked in Mumbai walked to Nasik on May 7 from where they got into a truck. On the way, one of them died after which the driver left them in Unnao on May 10. The Unnao administration arranged an ambulance for them and also informed the Gorakhpur administration. After cremation of the body, they were sent to quarantine centre and their sample was sent for test. Two of them tested positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/two-test-ve-in-siddharthnagar/articleshow/75724704.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Allahabad||Prayagraj: 3 Shramik specials bring over 5,000 back home||PRAYAGRAJ: Three Shramik Special trains arrived at Prayagraj junction on Wednesday bringing back standard migrant labourers, students, pilgrims from various parts of the country. The first Shramik special train from Ahmedabad arrived at around 7.50am. The train brought 1,742 passengers all of them were sent to their home districts by 50 buses operated by UP State Road Transport Corporation (UPSRTC) after screening. The second Shramik Special which arrived at around 3.50pm was also from Ahmedabad with 1,600 passengers on board. The third Shramik Special train from Bandra Terminus also brought 1,600 passengers at around 8pm. Besides, passengers from two passing Shramik Special trains also deboarded at Prayagraj Junction, including 255 passengers from Bhavnagar and 90 from Gandhidham Shramik Special train. Public relation officer (PRO), Prayagraj division, S K Gupta said the Shramik Special trains are being hailed as a blessing for those stranded away from home during lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/3-shramik-spls-bring-over-5k-back-home/articleshow/75724964.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Nagpur||GST grant cut a blow to NMC finances||Nagpur: The financial woes of Nagpur Municipal Corporation seem unending. Poor revenue generation and now coronavirus pandemic has dealt a body blow to the NMC finances. What has added to NMC misery is the 47% cut in GST grant from the state government from Rs93 crore per month to Rs50 crore. A NMC senior official confirmed that Maha Vikas Aghadi government has slashed NMC’s GST grant since April. Even in May, the civic body received Rs50 crore only. The state government has also asked NMC to give details of its financial status including non-utilization of any reserve funds. In April, NMC received Rs71.68 crore, of which revenue from its own sources was a paltry Rs7.57 crore. Civic body’s monthly committed expenditure is over Rs100 crore. Lakhs spent for providing various facilities at quarantine centres has added burden to the burden. Following state government footsteps, NMC reduced the salary of almost all employees except sanitary workers and health department staff by 50%. Despite this, it is unable to disburse April salary to many departments. If shortage of funds continues it will put brakes on the city’s development works. NMC’s financial liability has increased manifold while its revenue has stagnated. Though municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe had taken various measures to streamline financial situation of the civic body, still it is finding it difficult to pay for city bus operations, fuel charge to contractors. It even did not pay last two months’ outstanding to a pump supplying fuel toNMC vehicles. Sources said the situation touched a low in the last three terms of the BJP, which could not get proper roads constructed, sewage system has collapsed but the civic body continued to indulge in wasteful expenditure. Not just opposition leaders, but also ruling party corporators are complaining about their inability to address civic issues in their wards due to lack of funds. A senior BJP corporator from east Nagpur requesting anonymity said, “Without money how can we get works done? We are dependent on Smart City Mission or other central government schemes for money.” Standing committee chairman Vijay Zalke said he will soon hold a meeting with officials to assess the situation. Major Income (April 2020) 7.57 crore---NMC revenue from property tax, LBT, water etc 50 crore---GST grant 14.11 crore---Stamp duty Committed Expenditure (Monthly budget) 45 crore---Salary and pension 10 crore---Street light & electric bills 9 crore---Loan repayment 2 crore---Water payment 8 crore---Payment to garbage operators 1.25 crore---Fuel 6 crore---Bhandewadi sewage treatment plant||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/gst-grant-cut-a-blow-to-nmc-finances/articleshow/75726821.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
May 14, 2020||Allahabad||Murders in Prayagraj range decrease during lockdown||PRAYAGRAJ: Owing to 24*7 police vigil due to the Covid-19 lockdown, the graph of killings in the Prayagraj range has, for the first time, reached lowest in the past three years. Range police statistics this year indicated a drastic fall in murders in all four districts of the range—Prayagraj, Prataparh, Fatehpur and Kaushambi. As per the data released by police, a total of 25 cases of killings were registered in the four districts between March 22 and May 10 this year. Whereas, killings in the same period in 2019 and 2018 stood at 34 and 45 respectively. This year, Pratapgarh registered highest number of murder cases (10), followed by Prayagraj (nine) Kaushambi (three) and Fatehpur (three) between March 22 and May 10. In 2019 (between March 22 and May 10), Prayagraj , Pratapgarh, Fatehpur and Kaushambi registered 17, six, seven and four cases of murders respectively. In 2018, Prayagraj, Pratapgarh, Fatehpur and Kaushambi registered 22, 10, seven and six cases respectively. However, a triple murder in Trans Ganga area on May 7 has rocked the city amid the lockdown. Three members of a family, including two women, were found murdered in Andhi village under Manda police station of Prayagraj district on the morning of May 7. Despite several efforts, the cops are yet to nab the accused. IG (Prayagraj range) K P Singh said, “Although the graph of murders is the lowest this year as compared to the past years, police chiefs have been kept on their toes to crack the unsolved cases.” Referring to Manda triple murder, Singh said, “Police teams are investigating the case we will be able crack it soon.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/murders-in-prayagraj-range-decrease-during-lockdown/articleshow/75724797.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Amaravati||Experts back Andhra Pradesh CM YS Jaganmohan Reddy’s move to bring relief to Rayalaseema region||AMARAVATI: Irrigation experts and retired engineers have backed the state government’s attempts to pump life into the irrigation system in Rayalaseema region. Dubbing the Telangana government’s objections to AP’s moves untenable, experts from the region urged chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy to implement the projects. “There is no harm to Telangana from the proposed lift irrigation project and widening of canals in Rayalaseema. The new projects are aimed at saving the region that has been struggling with severe droughts for decades,” said social activist Gopireddy Srinivasa Reddy. He also appealed to all political parties in the state to extend support to the government’s initiatives in Rayalaseema. M Visweswara Rao, president of AP retired engineers’ association (APREA), said all canals in Rayalaseema should also be widened to enable more waters to flow in during flood season. KL Narasimha Murthy, APREA secretary, added that increasing the head regulator capacity was within the rights of AP. Even the local youth are fuming at politicians for not standing together for a good cause. “I fail to understand why our MLAs and MPs silent when the issue belongs to the very survival of the people who elected them?” asked V Ravindra Reddy, an activist from Kadapa. He said people from Rayalaseema are migrating to other parts of the country in search of work due to the perennial drought situation. Interestingly, the BJP, which is opposing the expansion of Pothireddypadu scheme in Telangana, wants the AP government to go ahead with the project. The government recently issued GO 203, which gave the green signal to take up a lift irrigation scheme to pump about 3tmc of water from Srisailam to Pothireddypadu canal. The estimated cost of the project is Rs 3,825 crore. The project is expected to bring some relief to the Rayalaseema region which is perennially beset by water scarcity. The government also granted administrative clearance of Rs 6,800 croree to take up renovation of irrigation projects and canals in the region.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/experts-back-cm-jagans-move-to-bring-relief-to-rayalaseema-region/articleshow/75723606.cms||Samdani MN
May 14, 2020||Nagpur||Explore providing face shields to cops: HC||Nagpur: Concerned over increasing numbers of police personnel testing Covid-19 positive and eight of them dying, the Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court directed the government to explore whether they could be provided more protective gear like face shields while on duty. The HC sought suggestions from all respondents. The issue was raised by intervener Dr Anup Marar’s counsel Tushar Mandlekar who informed that over a thousand cops all over Maharashtra had contracted the virus while on duty. Citing an example of new Bombay municipal commissioner wearing the face shield, Justice Madhav Jamdar asked the government to check whether similar gear could be provided to cops. While granting time till Thursday to government pleader Sumant Deopujari to file a reply, the judge also asked him to take expert opinion on how to protect the cops. Quoting a media report, Mandlekar informed that over one lakh police personnel, including men and women, are deployed on Covid duty across Maharashtra. He said the number of positive cases among them has jumped four times in the last few days. Mandlekar warned that if steps were not taken to protect them, things would move out of control, as they come in direct contact with citizens and each positive person can infect 400 others as per the findings. Strongly pressing for conducting RT-PCR tests on those who are on duty in containment zones, Mandlekar informed that in city about 600 cops are deployed in such areas. He claimed that despite his prayer in this regard, the government had failed to reply for nearly two weeks. Citing urgency, he said the problem of front-line warriors fighting the pandemic and getting infected is more dangerous than those of migrants. While replying to interveners’ allegations, Deopujari said they were providing masks, sanitizers and gloves to all cops on duty. He said in few cases face shields were given to the personnel along with homeopathic medicine. Justice Jamdar however stated that he had never seen any cop wearing face shield after which the government pleader assured to take immediate instructions from the concerned ministries on the HC’s poser. The judge then told Deopujari to incorporate this aspect in his affidavit to be filed on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/explore-providing-face-shields-to-cops-hc/articleshow/75726828.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
May 14, 2020||Mysuru||No workers to harvest, farmer destroys sugarcane crop||MYSURU: Unable to find workers to harvest the crop, a farmer destroyed sugarcane on his field in Pandavapura taluk in Mandya district on Wednesday. C B Chandan of Chikkabyadarahalli village used his tractor to plough 50 tonnes of standing crop on his 1-acre land. The closure of Mysore Sugar in Mandya and Pandavapura Sahakari Sakkare Karkhane in Pandavapura also forced him to take the decision. Farmers in Mandya district either sell their crop for less price to jaggery units or private sugar factories. “The sugar factories are locked for the past few years and there is severe shortage of labourers for harvesting,” an upset Chandan said. Sugarcane growers’ association state president Kuruburu Shanthakumar said sugarcane farmers should avoid destroying their standing crops. “Due to coronavirus, even private factories have stopped their activities. This has resulted in labourers from North India and North Karnataka returning home. However, people from Mysuru and Mandya who had migrated to other states have returned to their villages. Farmers can hire them for harvesting,” he said. Shanthakumar said the government should link agriculture activities to MGNREGA to enable farmers get labourers for harvesting. Mandya sugarcane growers’ association president S Krishna said farmers should sell their crop to Tamil Nadu where there is good demand. “The jaggery units in Tamil Nadu have approached me to sell my sugarcane for Rs 1,700 per ton. They will bring their own labourers and vehicles to our fields and pay cash on the spot,” he said. Sugarcane farmers in the region usually hire workers from North India through contractors for harvesting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/no-workers-to-harvest-farmer-destroys-sugarcane-crop/articleshow/75721126.cms||Lakshmikantha BK
May 14, 2020||Allahabad||Experts: Surfing internet for extra info on mental diseases may cause cybercondria||Prayagraj: As people have been asked to remain indoors due to the lockdown, apprehensions of falling prey to depression, phobia and anxiety etc are running high among them. The psychiatrists of Motilal Nehru Division Hospital (Colvin hospital) of the city and their counterpart in Kaushambi have found that the genesis of the problem being complained by patients in the OPDs, is excessive information that they surf on Google. Doctors call this as ‘cybercondria’. “In some ways, anxiety is good because it pushes us to take action to deal with potential emergency but at the same time too much anxiety is overwhelming and in fact can cause more problems than the objective fear”, said Dr Ishanya Raj, a psychiatrist in MLN Hospital. “Nowadays, people are looking for information about Covid-19 symptoms on the internet to check their health status, which is absolutely fine. However, a number of people, who are overly distressed or anxious about their health, perform excessive or repeated health-related searches on the internet, only to become more distressed or frightened which we define as cybercondria”, he further said. Like in a case of a 15-year student of Katra, who called the doctor and complained that he has learnt on internet that many people are suffering from an ailment called ‘phobia’ and when he checked for it, almost all the symptoms are present in him too. Now, the student is worried that if it is true, how he would continue his studies, the doctor said. “In the present scenario, this pandemic is the only thing which people, or for that matter media, is talking about. So, people tend to look for answers of their apprehensions on internet but unconfirmed sources, incomplete information, capacity to understand the information or irrational thinking could lead to enhancement in your problem rather than solving it”, says another expert. Cyberchondria generally leads to higher degree of stress which in turn can cause elevated blood pressure, headache, muscle tension and a weakened immune system. Often, the problem in a person is triggered by an event, such as a patient suffering a health scare, somebody in their family getting ill or dying, or a famous person of their age dying or getting sick, Dr Raj said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/experts-surfing-internet-for-extra-info-on-mental-diseases-may-cause-cybercondria/articleshow/75724899.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Bareilly||Two patients discharged, no active positive case in Bareilly||BAREILLY: A 54-year-old woman and her 29-year-old son, who have been undergoing treatment for Covid-19, were discharged on Wednesday. Thus, Bareilly currently has no active positive case. District surveillance officer Dr Ranjan Gautam said, “Two patients, who were undergoing treatment for Covid-19, were discharged from a Covid-19 level-1 hospital after they tested negative in consecutive reports.” The woman and her son, residents of Brahmpura area of Bareilly city, are relatives of the Hajiyapur man who died due to Covid-19 and were tested positive last month. However, these three patients had no travel history and the health department could not trace as to how the Hajiyapur man contracted the novel coronavirus. Their relatives and other contacts were also tested negative. Besides, a 20-year-old youth, who returned from Mumbai hiding in a truck, too, was discharged from the hospital on Tuesday. However, a 34-year-old man, a resident of Maheshpura in CB Ganj, was not considered an active case in Bareilly by the health department after he tested negative in two consecutive test reports issued by Indian Veterinary Research Institute. Meanwhile, the health department has served a notice to a private hospital located at Mini Bypass. “It has surfaced that the hospital issued fake medical certificates to two people as it had no signature. An investigation is underway,” said Dr Gautam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/two-patients-discharged-no-active-positive-case-in-bareilly/articleshow/75723616.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Trichy||3,171 guest workers in Thanjavur register to return home||Thanjavur: A total of 3,171 guest workers in Thanjavur from 30 states including Bihar, West Bengal, Uttar Pradesh and Jharkhand have registered their names in a website specifically created by the state government for their return, the district collector said. As the lockdown is expected to be continued with a number of exemptions, the district collector has instructed the revenue officials to prepare a list of guest workers who are willing to remain in the district. The guest workers, who have expressed their willingness to return to their native states, include 1,126 people from Bihar, 406 from West Bengal, 339 from Uttar Pradesh and 226 from Jharkand. Altogether 3,171 guest workers from 30 states are here in Thanjavur district, collector M Govinda Rao said in a statement. Though the Prime Minister had hinted that the lockdown period would be extended, he also stated that there would be a number of exemptions to ease business activities across the country. In that situation, works may be resumed in the district soon. So, the district collector has instructed revenue officials to verify the guest workers, whether they were firm on returning to their native places or willing to remain here, he stated. The officials also asked to have a close vigil on the movement of people from other districts and neighbouring states at eight check posts established at the entry points. Nobody should be allowed to enter the district without testing and registering their details. As many as 25 people have returned from Koyembedu to the district so far. Seven of them tested positive for Covid-19 positive. All of them have been put under isolation at government medical college hospital in Thanjavur, officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/3171-guest-workers-in-thanjavur-register-to-return-home/articleshow/75726832.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Vijayawada||‘131tmc is Rayalaseema’s due share from Krishna’||Vijayawada: Rayalaseema leaders have expressed dissent over the remarks of Telangana chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao against the new project on Krishna river to give water to the region. The leaders, representing Rayalaseema Intellectual Forum, took strong exception to KCR’s opposition to the new lift irrigation project. Forum convenor M Purushothama Reddy said Rayalaseema has a due share of the 131 tmcft of water from Krishna river. “This is from the total 513 tmcft of water allocated to Andhra Pradesh. However, the region, comprising of four districts, is getting only 70 tmcft to 80 tmcft on an average,” he said. The forum leaders observed that 50 per cent of people in the region face drinking water problems despite the river flowing through the area. Over 1,000 tmcft of water goes into the sea as there is no storage capacity. Reddy blamed successive governments for not increasing storage capacity in the region. “Though the present irrigation system in the region has a drawing capacity of 100 tmcft of water even during floods, it has been drawing only around 70 to 80 tmcft which is not enough to meet even drinking requirements of the region,” he said. Appealing to AP government to proceed further on the widening of Pothireddipadu canal as proposed, he said the region gets only flood water and not stabilised water from Srisailam reservoir. “The proposed projects are only aimed at diverting flood water to Rayalaseema region and not more than the allocated share,” Reddy added. He also urged the Telangana CM to withdraw the moves to create legal hurdle to Rayalaseema projects and help the backward region get its due share of water and quench its thirst.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/131tmc-is-rayalaseemas-due-share-from-krishna/articleshow/75723622.cms||Gopi Dara
May 14, 2020||Allahabad||Man found murdered in Prayag​raj||PRAYAGRAJ: A 35-year old driver was found murdered near Bhirpur Road under Karchhana police station in Trans Yamuna area on Wednesday morning. The deceased identified as Babloo Bharatiya was a resident of Bastar village. Babloo worked at a local building material supply shop and used to deliver cement and iron rods through his Tata Magic. His body was found outside the village on Wednesday morning. Postmortem report revealed that Babloo was strangled to death, informed Karchhana deputy SP Ashutosh Tiwari. His mobile phone was also recovered from Ram Nagar area. “Prima facie, the criminals strangled him to death in Ram Nagar area and later threw his body near Bhirpur Road,” said Tiwari. Murder motive is yet to be ascertained. A police team has been tasked to crack the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/man-found-murdered-in-city/articleshow/75724833.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Trichy||Trichy: Woman electrocuted while saving her cow||THANJAVUR: A woman was electrocuted while she was trying to save her cow which was battling for life after touching a live wire on a field in Thanjavur here on Wednesday. The cow, which could not be rescued, also died at the scene. The deceased has been identified as T Saroja, 53, of Okkanadu Keelaiyur near Orathanadu. The incident happened when she was standing guard over her cow which was grazing on an agriculture field. The animal touched a live wire and was battling for life when the woman noticed it. Saroja rushed to rescue the animal but was unfortuante to be electrocuted. On information, Orathanadu police rushed to the spot and retrieved the body of Saroja and sent to the government hospital for post mortem. Veterinary doctors performed post mortem on the animal. In another incident, five cows were electrocuted when they touched a live wire near Bhoothalur in the district. Cows, bulls and goats around 50 were grazing on an agriculture land at Kottarapatti village near Bhoothalur on Wednesday when the incident happened. Suddenly a high tension live wire fell on the animals. During the incident five cows were electrocuted on the spot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/woman-electrocuted-while-saving-her-cow/articleshow/75726835.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Goa||Roll back hike in excise duty: Bar, restaurant owners||Panaji: Reacting to the hike in excise licence fees, Goa Bar and Restaurant Owners’ Association on Wednesday said that the state government has acted in “heartless manner” and shown no empathy when the industry is crippled by the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic. The hiked excise duty, which was proposed in the budget in February, comes into effect from May 15. The association, in the statement released on Wednesday, demanded that the “huge increase in excise duty” on liquor be withdrawn or at least, it should be reduced as the hike will have serious repercussion for the hospitality industry. Michael Carasco, President of Goa Bar and Restaurant Owners’ Association, said “the increased excise licence fee should be rolled back immediately as the already crippled industry will be further destroyed”. He demanded that existing licences be renewed for next five years with existing fees but by deducting fees on pro rata basis for the period of lockdown. The association, in its meeting on Wednesday, also objected to the application of the licence fees based on operating area of the licencee, as well as classification of the unit such as air-conditioned or without. The association wants the latest notification be withdrawn with immediate effect. Stating that pandemic will have a long term effect on the industry, the association said that harsher license fee will make their existence difficult. “The current season has been hardest on the industry and we are struggling to remain afloat. The huge hike in excise duty has come as a shocker,” Carasco said. Since March 20, businesses are not operating and yet paying salaries to their employees. Some operate from rented premises. After relaxation of lockdown conditions, bars and restaurants were not permitted to serve liquor, whereas other licences, including the wholesale units have been permitted sale in packaged commodities. Taverns too are not permitted to open. Goa has over 11,000 alcohol units including wholesale, retail and manufacturing. The association has also demanded that bars and restaurants should be allowed to be opened immediately to for them to dispose of their existing stock. Additionally, the increase in licence fee for keeping the premises open for additional two hours, should also be withdrawn, it demanded.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/roll-back-hike-in-excise-duty-bar-restaurant-owners/articleshow/75727246.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Nagpur||With more activities allowed, cops go easy on lockdown violators||Nagpur: With more and more activities being allowed, the police are taking less actions against those found on the streets. The strict action cases have gone down steeply compared to earlier phases of lockdown. While fewer offences have been registered, city police have tried to make up with high number of challan cases. On May 9, traffic police had fined 1,142 persons, 705 on May 10, 1,120 on May 11 and 910 on May 12. The issuing of challans is far less a deterrent than seizing of vehicles for plying without permission. City police chief BK Upadhyay said there was a shift in focus towards city’s 15 or so containment zones. “We are enforcing the lockdown srictly in those zones. Police are focusing more on stopping the spread of the virus from positive persons to others,” he said. On May 12, cops had registered 35 cases under Section 188 of the IPC for breach of lockdown norms. On April 12, they had registered 52 similar cases. Also, cops had detained 82 people on April 12 but it was only nine on May 12. On April 12, city police registered 17 offences under Section 269 and 270 of IPC against persons for acting in a negligent manner. On May 12, only two such cases were registered. Upadhyay added the numbers of exempted services had been increased with even hosieries, stationery and spare parts shops being allowed on alternate days. “The increased movement of the public on the road is proportionate to the services being allowed which police cannot lawfully curtail,” he said. This month, the cases slapped against the violators reflected rather loose enforcement with cops appearing to have lost the initial steam under increasing work pressure and temperature. They detained only 42 persons between May 9 and May 12 for loitering without purpose. More than 250 were rounded up between April 9 and April 12. DCP, headquarters and traffic, Vikram Sali also said the bulk of the deployment was at the containment zones and adjoining localities and at quarantine centres apart, from helping the migrant labourers. “The high court has also appreciated me and Addl CP, crime, Nilesh Bharne, for our role in helping at least 10,000 migrants return home,” said Sali.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/with-more-activities-allowed-cops-go-easy-on-lockdown-violators/articleshow/75726841.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Vijayawada||25 discharged in last 24 hours in Krishna district||Vijayawada: Krishna district has been witnessing a declining trend in the number of positive Covid-19 cases since the beginning of this week, with the daily average standing at around three cases. According to official data, three new cases were reported in the district, which is a red zone, on Tuesday. Overall, 349 cases have been reported so far, with only 133 still active. Within a day, 25 people have been discharged. The overall recovery rate stands at 57 percent, where 202 have been discharged since the beginning of the pandemic. Fourteen people have died due to the disease, which accounts for almost 30 percent of total death toll in the state. Vijayawada accounts for almost 80 percent of the Covid-19 cases in the district, with Krishna Lanka being the main locality with highest number of cases. Just a day after reporting zero new Covid-19 cases, Guntur district—which is the second biggest hotspot for the virus after Kurnool—saw a spike in numbers with 12 people testing positive on Tuesday. Around 225 patients have recovered and discharged so far with the death toll at eight in the district. According to medical officials, Guntur district witnessed most number of Tablighi Jamaat attendees after Kurnool, which was the main reason for the virus spreading. Vijayawada Municipal Corporation (VMC) has continued spraying sodium hypochlorite solution in red zones and containment zones as a preventive measure. Officials said that six more hospitals have been roped in to treat Covid-19 cases in the city. District collector A Mohammed Imtiaz said that a total 41 containment zones have been created in the district, 20 which are located in Vijayawada city alone. The extra hospitals will be providing an additional 1,105 ICU beds and 281 supporting beds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/25-discharged-in-last-24-hours-in-krishna-district/articleshow/75723640.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
May 14, 2020||Trichy||CWMA autonomy in peril: Farmers||Trichy: Farmers affiliated to various associations demonstrated in front of Trichy district collector office on Wednesday, opposing the Union government’s move on bringing the Cauvery Water Management Authority (CWMA) under the ambit of the Ministry of Jal Shakti. The farmers said that after this order, autonomous rights of the authority will be lost and this would ultimately be dangerous for the interest of Tamil Nadu. They petitioned the district collector regarding the same. Farmers, headed by district president of Tamilaga Vivasayigal Sangam, M P Chinnathurai, staged a demonstration and while condemning the Centre’s decision on bringing CWMA under the Jal Shakti Ministry, along with Godavari river management and Krishna river management board, Chinnathurai alleged that the Union government was trying to take away the rights vested with the authority. The central government has silently taken over the rights of state governments in the inter-state water management issues, they said. This is an example showing the Union government's dictatorship, they alleged. Farmers also urged the Tamil Nadu government to convene an all-party meeting to discuss the issue and said that a resolution should also be adopted in the assembly in this regard. They also submitted a memorandum in this regard to the revenue officials. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/cwma-autonomy-in-peril-farmers/articleshow/75726840.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Kanpur||Kanpur administration mulls to reduce number of hotspot areas||KANPUR: The district administration is considering to reduce the number of hot spots areas In the city as no Covid-19 infected case has been reported from the ten hotspots for the last many days. In case, the district administration takes such a decision, then the 10 hotspots would be converted into green zones and then only nine hot spots would remain in the city. The administration had already declared 7 hot pots of the city as green spots. DIG/SSP Anant Deo said on Wednesday that at present, out of 19 hotspots in the city, no corona positive case had been reported from the ten hotspots for the last many days. He said as per rules, if no positive case is reported in any area in the last 21 days, then that area could be converted into a green zone. If in the next two days no case of an infected person is reported then the administration could revoke the hot spot status of that area, he added. The district administration at a meeting held on Tuesday identified ten hot pots which had not reported any corona positive case for the last many days. The officers were of the view that the situation has improved due to the strict implementation of lockdown. Nodal officer Anil Garg and nodal officer police Deepak Ratan visited hotspot areas and asked the officials to implement the lockdown in true spirit. They also instructed the officials and cops deputed in the hotspot areas to be cautious and take all preventive measures. Despite strict measures and implementation of lockdown, people are not following social distancing. Govind Raju, another nodal officer on Tuesday inspected the home delivery system in the hotspot area of Gwaltoli and was surprised to see that none was following social distancing rule. The annoyed nodal officer immediately contacted additional city magistrate of the area and asked him to implement social distancing properly. He met the residents and inquired about the home delivery system. He expressed satisfaction that reasonable rates were being charged from the residents for the eatable items delivered to them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/admin-mulls-to-reduce-number-of-hotspot-areas/articleshow/75726277.cms||Anant Chandak
May 14, 2020||Mysuru||DFRL sets up mobile containment laboratory at KR hosptial||MYSURU: The Defence Food Research Laboratory (DFRL) and Defence Research & Development Organisation (DRDO), Mysuru, have jointly developed an innovative state-of-the-art mobile microbial containment (BSL-3) laboratory named ‘Parakh.’. Any virus or bacteria can be tested in this mobile lab and every day 300 to 400 Covid-19 tests can also be conducted in the laboratory. Now, with this facility, the Covid-19 testing capacity in Mysuru district has doubled. The mobile lab is stationed at KR Hospital where tests are already conducted. Parakh is a fully autonomous containment laboratory built on ISO 20-feet container and mounted on a truck. It adheres to Class ISO 7 and operates with negative pressure to handle clinical, food and environmental samples during biological emergency without any risk to people and environment. It is equipped with dynamic pass box for transferring the samples directly to Class-III biosafety cabinet in a safe manner. On Monday, Anil Dutt Semwal, director, DFRL handed over the mobile lab to Dr CP Nanjaraj, director and dean, Mysore Medical College and Research Institute (MMCRI). “The health authorities had requested for this sort of facility. It is very safe. The person who conducts the tests and the environment remain safe. Any virus can be tested in this laboratory. The lab has been provided with PCR work station, real time PCR machine, incubator, deep freezer and refrigerator for testing samples and storing reagents with provision for treatment of liquid effluents, safe storage of solid bio-hazard wastes and decontamination by autoclaving. It also has provision for storing and donning PPE; storage of used aprons along with emergency body shower and eye wash. The mobile lab is equipped with captive and raw power supply. Parakh has air bellow suspension to reduce vibration during transport and air compressor for inflating tyres,” said Semwal. “With this mobile lab, the testing capacity has doubled in Mysuru. Earlier, we used to test 300 to 400 people per day. Now we can add another 300 to 400 tests per day, taking the overall testing capacity in the district to 600 to 700,” said Dr Nanjaraj.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/dfrl-sets-up-mobile-containment-laboratory-at-kr-hosptial/articleshow/75716057.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Allahabad||No showcause slapped by MHRD, only info on four issues sought: Allahabad University||PRAYAGRAJ: Dismissing rumours that the ministry of human resource and development (MHRD) has served a show cause notice to Allahabad University, the officiating VC on Wednesday clarified that MHRD had only sought detailed information on four issues including discontinuation of MCA course being offered by its department of Electronics and Communication. All the information has been duly provided, said VC professor R R Tiwari.. Talking to TOI on Wednesday, Tiwari said, “The ministry had sought information on four issues including discontinuing MCA at JK institute, providing degree to the students of Ewing Christian College, admissions in DPhill programme at the department of Commerce and postgraduate courses being run in constituent colleges.” The VC further informed that the university has informed the ministry that the decision of discontinuing MCA has been taken after following all set norms. Prof Tiwari reiterated that AU has always followed set rules in taking any decision. “ECC students are being given their degree, students at Commerce department could not be issued letters of tadmission in DPhill course because of the lockdown and PG courses are still being run at constituent colleges,” he said. Tiwari clarified that the ministry had only sought a detailed report from AU. Notably, a couple of months ago, HRD had asked the officiating VC to refrain from taking decisions on any issue pertaining to policy on the campus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/no-showcause-slapped-by-mhrd-only-info-on-four-issues-sought-au/articleshow/75724947.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Kanpur||One more tests coronavirus positive, Kanpur tally 308||KANPUR: One more patient, a resident of Nawab Saheb Ka Hata area of the city, tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday, taking the total tally of corona positive patients in the district to 308. The man has been admitted to the isolation ward at the Covid -19 Hospital in Lala Lajpat Rai hospital on Tuesday after his symptoms were found severe. “Sample report of the man from Nawab Saheb Ka Hata received on Wednesday from Ganesh Shankar Vidyarthi memorial medical college COVID laboratory tested him positive. We are now tracking his contacts, besides travel history,” said chief medical officer Dr Ashok Shukla. Meanwhile, 18 Covid-19 patients including a native of Unnao were discharged from Lala Lajpat Rai hospital and Kanshiram Trauma Centre on Wednesday, CMO said. “Thirteen patients were discharged from Covid 19 hospital at LLR, while 5 patients including one from Unnao were discharged from Kanshiram Trauma Centre,” he added. “So far, 178 Covid-19 patients were discharged from different hospitals of the district. Now the number of active cases in the district is 123, with total 308 positive cases and seven death reported so far,” the CMO added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/one-more-tests-corona-positive-city-tally-308/articleshow/75726304.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Trichy||10 more test positive in central districts||TRICHY: As many as 167 patients were discharged from hospitals in the central districts, while 10 people tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday. A total of 160 patients, including 143 men, 14 women and three children, have been discharged from government hospital in Ariyalur and quarantine facilities in the district. Ariyalur district administration said that those who were discharged have been asked to be in 14 days of compulsory home quarantine. The patients are from Koyambedu cluster. Meanwhile, Ariyalur reported four more new cases on Wednesday. All of them were men of ages 35 years, 40 years, 53 years and 23 years from T Palur, Sendhurai, Muniyankurichi and Rayampuram, all returned from Koyambedu. With this, the district tally of positive cases has climbed to 348. A patient from Pudukottai district recovered from the viral disease and returned to home from Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital (MGMGH) in Trichy on Wednesday. Six more patients from Athirampattinam, Kumbakonam, Thiruvaiyaru, Orathanadu of Thanjavur district and Koothanallur in Tiruvarur district recovered from Covid-19 and were discharged from the government medical college hospital in Thanjavur. Manwhile, a 64-year-old woman who returned from her daughter’s house in Chennai tested positive in Thanjavur on Wednesday. With this, the total number of positive cases touched 70. Perambalur district added one more patient of Koyambedu cluster to take its tally to 133. The patient – a 49-year-old man from Jaminattur was shifted to the government hospital in Ariyalur. A 60-year-old man from Pallapatti who had returned from Maharashtra and a 44 -year-old man from Devarmalai who returned from Gujarat tested positive in Karur on Wednesday. Nagapattinam recorded two positive cases after 11 days. A 27-year-old man from Tharangambadi and a 59-year-old man from Kuthalam tested positive. The former was working in Chennai and the latter was a Varanasi returnee. (With inputs from R Gokul, K Sambath Kumar and D Vincent Arockiaraj)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/10-more-test-positive-in-central-districts/articleshow/75726845.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Goa||Goa: Aided schools get warning letters from education director||PANAJI: In December, director of education Vandana Rao had issued show-cause notices to heads of several aided schools for not attending a meeting called to discuss implementation of several central government programmes. On Wednesday, the director issued a warning letter to the schools now stating that they had failed to respond to the show-cause notice. “It is reiterated that failure to attend the meetings or not replying to show cause notice within stipulated time period will attract penal action under provision of the Goa School Education Act 1984 and Goa school education rules 1986,” said Rao in the warning letter. The warning letter has angered schools who said the warning letter amounted to harassment. “The show-cause notice was issued by Rao under SCERT letterhead and so the schools directed their explanation to the SCERT. Now, the warning letter has been issued on directorate of education letterhead. The warning letter has been issued despite school heads providing an explanation. This is harassment. First of all aided school employees come under the school managements and the directorate cannot take any action against employees,” said headmaster Vithoba Dessai. Rao had issued the show-cause notices to 159 government-aided high schools and 53 government middle and high schools for not attending the meeting. “The maintenance grant instalment due to aided schools in January has not yet come. The directorate does not have the time to attend to such important matters, but has time to issue show-cause notices unnecessarily. The directorate is acting like a supplier of labourers by providing teachers to the government to be outside fair price shops, for election duty and all other such non-academic work,” said Dessai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/aided-schools-get-warning-letters-from-edu-director/articleshow/75727264.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Kanpur||5 new Covid-19 cases take Kannauj tally to 12||KANPUR: Five more people who had returned from Mumbai recently tested positive for coronavirus in Kannauj district on Wednesday, taking the Covid tally to 12. As per officials, four are from Kidwainagar locality of Chhibramau and thew fifth one is from Gurauli village of Umardha. “They all have been admitted to level-1 hospital in Tirwa community health centre,” informed Kannauj DM Rakesh Kumar Mishra. “Besides, their family members and other contacts have been quarantined at their respective homes,” he added. “As per protocol, the one kilometre vicinity around Kidwainagar locality and house of the Covid positive person in Gurauli village have been sealed and sanitized,” said the DM. “As many as 30 persons have been quarantined at the high risk quarantine centre in the district,” added Mishra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/5-new-covid-19-cases-take-kannauj-tally-to-12/articleshow/75726321.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
May 14, 2020||Bareilly||UP: Group of armed cow slaughterers attacks police team, three nabbed||PILIBHIT: A police team headed by the station house officer (SHO) of Bisalpur Kotwali police station, Keshav Tivari, was assaulted by a group of cow slaughterers in a village under the same police station during a raid that was conducted on Wednesday morning. Police, in an encounter, have nabbed three cow slaughterers from the spot while another managed to escape with the flesh and hide. Two separate FIRs have been filed in the matter. Two of the nabbed slaughterers are supposedly history-sheeters. According to the SHO, the raid was conducted following a tip-off from locals about slaughtering of cows in an agricultural field between Khargapur and Shivpur Nabadia villages. “The accused, identified as Aqil Quraishi of Meerpur village, Imran Quraishi and Hasib Quraishi of Gyaspur locality in Bisalpur city under the same police station, opened fire on the police team using country-made pistols,” Tiwari said. “Applying self-defence techniques, we ultimately nabbed three of them and recovered a country-made pistol, two live cartridges, a dagger, a poleax, two and half quintals of meat, amputated legs, one head and scattered internal organs from the spot,” Tiwari said. “On interrogation, the accused confessed that they had been involved in cow slaughtering for many years and they had slaughtered two cows on Wednesday morning. One of their aides, Bhola of Bisalpur city, fled the spot along with hides and a head, among other parts before the arrival of the police,” he added. Tiwari further said that the three nabbed accused were booked under section 307 (attempt to kill) in an FIR for assaulting the police team, while in a separate FIR they – including Bhola – were booked under sections 429 (mischief by killing or maiming cattle) of the IPC, sections 3, 5, 8 of Prevention of Cow Slaughtering Act and section 11 of Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act, 1960.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/group-of-armed-cow-slaughterers-attacks-police-team-three-nabbed/articleshow/75723665.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Vijayawada||11 new Covid-19 cases in Chittoor||Tirupati: With 11 new Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, the number of active patients in the district has increased to 68. So far, 74 patients were discharged from hospitals after recovery in Chittoor district. Chittoor district collector Dr Narayana Bharat Gupta who inspected SVRR Covid-19 hospital in Tirupati on Wednesday, told reporters that the district administration has quickened the process of identification and isolation of Covid-19 suspects with links to the Koyambedu market in Chennai. In Kurnool district, 7 new Covid-19 cases were reported, taking the number of cases closer to the 600-mark on Wednesday. Kurnool district collector G Veerapandian inspected various containment zones and quarantine facilities at Adoni and Yemmiganur on Wednesday. In Anantapur district, 3 new Covid-19 cases reported on Wednesday, taking the number of cases to 118 (65 are undergoing treatment, 49 discharged). tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/11-new-covid-19-cases-in-chittoor/articleshow/75723654.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
May 14, 2020||Nagpur||Bizmen hail revival package, hope fine print won’t ruin it||Nagpur: Local industrialists are by and large happy over the measures announced by finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman for micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs). While some of their demands have not been met, they feel the package will be of great help in restarting their industries. Nitin Lonkar, president of Butibori Manufacturers’ Association (BMA), told TOI that while the package was welcome the government should not impose conditions in the fine print, else it will become meaningless. He said changing the definition of MSMEs would encourage industrialists to go in for expansion. “Government’s decision to pay provident fund (PF) for another three months is welcome and will be of great help to us. The decision to provide collateral free loans with one year moratorium to the tune of Rs 3 lakh crore is also welcome,” added the BMA chief. He also expressed satisfaction over increase in limit of global tenders from Rs 100 crore to Rs 200 crore. “This will provide a level playing field to local players,” he added. Pravin Tapadia, former president of Vidarbha Industries Association (VIA), said that industries would get direct as well as indirect benefits. “As government will guarantee them, banks will provide collateral free loans to us. Earlier, they used to hesitate in lending to us because they were afraid of losing their money,” he added. He further said reduction in tax deduction at source (TDS) would increase liquidity in hands of entrepreneurs. “The decision to bear PF burden and reduction in PF contribution is also welcome,” he added. “The decision to guarantee non-banking financial companies (NBFCs) loans will also help the economy as they will be able to lend more. The move to change the definition of MSMEs is most welcome,” said Tapadia. Incumbent VIA chief Suresh Rathi said that all industrialists should welcome the package declared by the FM. “Now it is the turn of the state governments and local governments to do their bit. They should help the industries in reviving the economy,” he added. Rathi said there were some grey areas that needed to be addressed by the state government. “For example, now that central government is providing me money will I be able to employ 100% workforce. If this is not so then what is the use,” he added. MIDC Industries Association, Hingna (MIA) chief Chandrashekhar Shegaonkar, said that while the package was good for industries some demands had not been considered. “The government should have agreed to pay the April salary of workers. Moreover, the additional working capital loan should have been 50% and not 20%. The rate of interest should have been lower,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/bizmen-hail-revival-package-hope-fine-print-wont-ruin-it/articleshow/75726855.cms||Ashish Roy
May 14, 2020||Trichy||Nine more Tamils return to Trichy, quarantined||TRICHY: As the migrant labourers and students stranded in other states started arriving in Trichy, the district administration has enhanced the procedure of screening them before keeping them in home quarantine. Nine people including three labourers from Gujarat and six students from Maharashtra reached Trichy on Wednesday. They were screened for symptoms of Covid-19. Since none of them had any symptoms, they were sent to home quarantine for 14 days. A Balamurugan, 41, of Badharpettai near Thuraiyur district, a heavy vehicle driver carrying wings of windmill in Baroda, was one among them. He shared the ordeal of being stranded at his company in Baroda. He was among the nine Tamil Nadu residents stuck there since then the lockdown. Bored of staying indoors for several weeks, he and his colleagues came to a local shop a few days ago and found a passenger vehicle having a seating capacity of 25 from Tamil Nadu carrying 10 people to Kolkata. “We asked the driver whether he can take us on his return trip to Tamil Nadu. The driver agreed and took us on board and ten of us reached Krishnagiri. Three of us travelled to Trichy and six others from various districts had gone to their native districts,” he said. Upon their arrival, the health department officials screened them at Trichy collector office.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/9-more-tamils-return-to-trichy-quarantined/articleshow/75726852.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: DRI sleuths seize 113 tonnes of areca nuts at Krishnapatnam||VIJAYAWADA: The Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) sleuths seized two containers loaded with areca nuts, which were illegally imported into the country by evading customs duty, at Krishnapatnam port. Acting on specific intelligence, the DRI units of Vijayawada and Nellore conducted a special operation from May 10 to 12 and unearthed 113 tonnes of areca nuts imported in the guise of coconut expeller cake, evading Rs 3.25 crore of tax. DRI sleuths examined import cargo containers at Krishnapatnam port and found two containers loaded with Areca Nuts. The importers declared that they were importing 156 tonnes of coconut expeller cake. However, upon physical examination of the containers, it was revealed that they have loaded first two rows with coconut expeller cake, which came to about 43 tonnes, and the rest of the bags were filled with areca nuts, from Indonesia. Areca nuts attract 100 percent customs duty and their value is far higher than coconut expeller cake. The masterminds behind the tax evasion were intercepted in Kerala with the help of Cochin police, CGST officers and Cochin DRI unit. During the course of investigation, the officials noticed that the perpetrators have imported 150 tonnes of areca nuts in the past with similar modus operandi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/dri-sleuths-seize-113-tonnes-of-areca-nuts-at-krishnapatnam/articleshow/75723680.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Trichy||Trichy: Thottiam banana producers now process exotic fruits||TRICHY: The Thottiam Banana Producer Group (TBPG) has introduced solar-dried exotic fruits on a trial basis. Managing director of the Tamil Nadu Banana Producer Company Limited, G Ajeethan, said the group has successfully processed dragon and lagoon fruits at its solar-powered dryer. They had cut up the dragon fruit into slices and lagoon fruit into pieces and dehydrated them with the help of solar-powered dryers. “An entrepreneur from Chennai approached us for adding value to these two exotic fruits. The solar-dried dragon and lagoon fruits taste sweeter than the fresh ones, as the sugar content gets concentrated,” Ajeethan told TOI. Regional manager of Lords and Kings, R Kamala Kannan told TOI that they have imported several exotic fruits like dragon and lagoon to India. “After we imported a large volume of these two fruits, the entire country was brought under lockdown. We did not know what to do with the fruits as there was no transport facility to take them to the market. So, we approached TBPG. The result is very good and now, we are working to fix the cost. Since it would cost a little more than the fresh fruit, we have planned to export it,” he added. The curves, colour and moisture content of the fruits should be kept in mind before processing, Ajeethan said and added that any kind of fruit can be processed without their taste, colour and nutritional value being diluted. “We are now producing banana chocolates, fruit & nut banana and sweet banana and also preparing solar-dried vegetables like carrots and cabbage for cooking purpose. When the dehydrated vegetables are added to hot water, the dried vegetable come to life without their nutritional properties being lost,” Ajeethan said. TBPG was formed by 13 banana farmers, who turned into social entrepreneurs, and the group produces various value-added products from banana under the brand name Madhur Fruits in Thottiam in Trichy district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/thottiam-banana-producers-now-process-exotic-fruits/articleshow/75726863.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
May 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Drunk mason hacks father to death in Telangana's Nagarkurnool||HYDERABAD: An inebriated mason allegedly hacked his father to death due to property-related issues in Nagarkurnool district on Tuesday. The victim K Koormaiah, 65, was a farmer from Polepalli village, while assailant was his son, K Srinivasulu, 40. Srinivasulu stays in Hyderabad. Three days ago, Srinivasulu returned to Polepalli to sort out a small dispute pertaining to access to agricultural fields with other farmers. Koormaiah was rude to Srinivasulu and often used filthy language against him, threatening to not give him share in property, according to police. “On Tuesday, Koormaiah and Srinivasulu consumed liquor. They had an argument about family issues. Later, Koormaiah went to sleep. Srinivasulu attacked him on the neck with an axe, killing him on the spot,” Nagarkurnool circle inspector Gandhi Naik said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/drunk-mason-hacks-father-to-death/articleshow/75726233.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Vadodara||105 stowaways inside a container truck rescued||Vadodara/ Anand: Anand police on Wednesday stopped a container truck fitted with a poster ‘Emergency duty for medical supply under Essential Commodity Act’ after they became suspicious seeing its movements. The cops were thrown aback to discover more than 100 migrant workers crammed perilously inside the container. “All the 105 migrant labourers are natives of Uttar Pradesh and were travelling from Rajkot,” police said. “Cops intercepted the truck near Lingda village in Umreth taluka, to check permission, after it was spotted trying to bypass checking. They found it did not carry any valid permit and was also misusing the permit given to vehicles carrying essential commodities only,” said Anand district superintendent of police Ajit Rajian. “Our team had doubts on the movement of this container when they saw it trying to enter from Samarkha crossroads, but reversed the vehicle when the driver spotted police checking there and tried to enter from Umreth. Our officials immediately guessed something wrong with the container and finally stopped it at Lingda where a team was already keeping vigil,” Rajian added. Inspector general of Ahmedabad Range, D B Vaghela, said that the passengers were crammed in the truck so tightly that they could not even move.  “Three children had already fainted. All 105 passengers who were travelling to their hometown in the mini truck from Rajkot were medically checked and sent to a shelter home while the driver of the truck, Amrutlal Yadav of Jaunpur in Uttar Pradesh was also sent for Covid-19 test before being arrested,” he said. Cops booked the driver Amrutlal Yadav, a native of Jaunpur district of UP, for cheating and violation of the Disaster Management Act. The migrants were charged between Rs 3,000 and Rs 4,000 for returning to their home state amid the lockdown. Cops are trying to understand why the labourers chose such a risky travel mode when shramik special trains have already started for the labourers. “While investigations are on, arrangements for return of these migrant workers to Rajkot are being done by the respective collectors,” Rajian added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/105-stowaways-inside-a-container-truck-rescued/articleshow/75723970.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Mumbai||Rs 1L Vande flight ticket, hotel quarantine too expensive for many stuck abroad||Mumbai: Even as the Indian government readies the second phase of its Air India repatriation flights, named Vande Bharat Mission, for the scores of Indians stranded abroad—thousands of students in the US and the UK who lost their part-time jobs due to Covid-19 lockdowns and can’t pay for rent and food; the jobless lot in Europe and UAE, that is—the opportunity means nothing as they cannot afford the Rs 1 lakh or so needed to fly back home and stay in 14-day hotel quarantine. “For many of the 6,000-8,000 Indian students in the UK, the high costs of travel and quarantine has made it difficult for them to return to India; many have lost their part-time jobs,” said Sanam Arora, chairperson of NISAU, an umbrella organisation for Indian students in the UK. With Air India operating the patriotically named Vande Bharat Mission, scores of Indians had assumed these flights to be like those saviour mass evacuation operations carried out in the past by the national carrier wherein lakhs of Indians were flown home from war zones, free of cost. When they signed up with the Indian embassies they learnt about the rather high airfare and the mandatory 14-day paid institutional quarantine. In March, the government had allowed returnees to do home quarantine, but the plan had failed. For the current lot, depending on the hotel, it costs Rs 4,000-7,000 per day for quarantine stay and three meals, which spikes the return cost by Rs 50,000 or more. Then again, one-way economy class air fare on AI repatriation flight costs about Rs 55,000 for a flight from London, over Rs 1 lakh for a flight from San Francisco and Rs 35,000 from Dubai. Sydney-based Amit Sharma of Pricebeat Travel, who had handled ticketing for Delhi-Sydney Singapore Airlines repatriation flight, said: “The ticket prices are a bit higher in the repatriation flights as they fly empty one way so passengers are paying for a round trip ticket. Only single sector is used while other sectors remain empty. Also, the tickets are offered at one single price in repatriation flights. In the normal flight, the airline divides all the economy class seats at different levels offering same ticket at low as well as high price.” But that is of little solace to passengers who had already paid for return tickets. Samarth PV, who flew to Abu Dhabi in January on a three-month visit visa to job hunt, said: “I had paid for my April 7 return ticket to Bengaluru on IndiGo, but the flight was cancelled due to lockdown. I have no money to pay for another flight and quarantine charges. I live in a shared space and I yet pay rent for the month. I can afford only one meal a day. I went to the Indian Embassy and to my surprise it was shut and a security personnel posted outside was responding to stranded Indians queries.” Hoping that the Indian government will fly back the Indians whose flights were cancelled due to lockdown, on April 12 he had tweeted: “This is my request to the government of India to repatriate its citizens from UAE at the earliest. Every single day is hard to live...” Nerul-based Dennis D’Souza’s 60-year old wife who had travelled to London to see their daughter got stranded after her March 29 London-Mumbai Air India flight got cancelled due to lockdown. “She managed to get a two months visa extension. We had paid Rs 52,000 for the return flight, booked last year. But then had to pay Rs 27,000 paid extra to Air India for the repatriation flight.” Then there are those who are thankful for the repatriation flights. Eighteen-year old Rahul Sondi, studying in London, boarded the AI flight to Mumbai, on the day he was evicted by his landlord. “Since the UK visa allows 20 hours per week of work, most Indian students do part-time and earn enough to pay rent. I was having meals at a community kitchen and awaiting eviction when my parents bought me the AI ticket back home,” he said. “After the UK went into lockdown in last week of March, restaurants, gyms, malls closed and part-time jobs vanished. Every week, many Indian students are being evicted from their homes. Many have been starving. It’s pitiful, most can’t afford to fly home due to the high costs.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/rs-1l-vande-flight-ticket-hotel-quarantine-too-expensive-for-many-stuck-abroad/articleshow/75726885.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Hyderabad||KRMB panel asks T, AP to file surplus water data||Hyderabad: A technical committee of the Krishna River Management Board (KRMB) has asked both Telangana and Andhra Pradesh to submit surplus water details by this month-end. The committee held a video-conference meeting with chief engineers (irrigation) of both the states on Wednesday. The committee will meet again in the first week of June to discuss water allocation, surplus waters and also water availability at Srisailam. Speaking to the media, Rajat said thd LI scheme is a new project and requires the consent of the apex committee. In Krishna basin, while Telangana has temporary allocation of 299 tmcft, AP has 512 tmcft. He said Telangana had been asking for establishing telemetry system at Pothireddypadu but it has not been done so far. “If AP utilises its quota, we have no objection. The Brajesh Kumar Tribunal will take a call on the surplus water,” Rajat added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/krmb-panel-asks-t-ap-to-file-surplus-water-data/articleshow/75726247.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Constables suspended for illegal liquor sale||VIJAYAWADA: Krishna district SP M Ravindranath Babu suspended two constables for allegedly allowing illegal sale of liquor and collecting bribe from commuters to allow passage from checkposts on Wednesday. According to an official press release, J Naga Malleswara Rao, one of the constables attached to Gampalagudem police station, had allegedly colluded with illegal liquor sellers and assisted them in giving free passage to transport them. Officials said that despite catching a person in possession of liquor bottles beyond permissible limit, he had let them go. In another incident, Ajay, a constable attached with Vissannapet police station was caught collecting Rs 5,000 from a vehicle owner to allow them to cross the border check-post during late hours of Tuesday. Upon receiving complaints on both the officials, Ravindranath Babu ordered an inquiry and found them to be guilty.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/constables-suspended-for-illegal-liquor-sale/articleshow/75723706.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Trichy||12 guest workers walking to Chennai brought back||TRICHY: A total of 12 people, including five children belonging to Rajasthan on foot to Chennai from Karur district, were brought back to Karur by the officials on Tuesday. While one among them is differently abled and was taken on a wheelchair, they moved out of a camp for guest workers in Karur town without informing officials. All of them engaged in selling balloons in Karur, they were staying in the camp for over a month. Wanted to return to their native, they decided to walk to Chennai on Monday to get a train to Jaipur. Following the directions from district collector T Anbalagan, staffs from district differently abled welfare office carried a search for the missing people. By the time the officials reached out to them on Tuesday, they had entered Namakkal district by walking past 45 km, said B Shenbagavalli, district differently abled welfare officer. They were brought back to a camp in Thanthonimalai where guest workers are accommodated. The collector has made arrangements for e-pass and steps will be taken for them to reach Jaipur in Rajasthan which is their native, said Shenbagavalli.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/12-guest-workers-walking-to-chennai-brought-back/articleshow/75726858.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Trichy||Shops shut by cops for flouting norms get nod from district admin to reopen||TRICHY: As the Fort police in the city had ordered to close around 1,000 shops functioning in violation of the lockdown norms, Trichy district administration, on Wednesday, permitted traders to re-open the shops on the condition that they will follow the safety measures including social distancing stricly. Around 1,000 shops on NSB Road, Theradi Bazaar, Chinna Kadai Street and Big Bazaar Street were functioning without following social distancing norms posing threat of spreading Covid-19. The Fort police, under whose jurisdiction these areas fall, took stock of the situation on Wednesday morning to check whether the shops were following all the guidelines laid down by the state government in its May 10th notification while relaxing the lockdown to some extent. The inspector of police, Fort police, Shanmugavelu said that the government had allowed the small garments shops in rural parts to function but the shops in these areas were found flouting social distancing norms. “Hence, we asked them to shut the shops,” said the inspector. Responding to the direction from the police, Tamil Nadu Vanigar Sangankalin Peramaippu, Trichy, approached the district collector S Sivarasu and commissioner of police, city, V Varadharaju asking for permission to re-open the shops. State general secretary of the federation, Ve Govindarajulu said that the collector gave them permission to open the non-air-conditioned individual shops between the government stipulated time schedules. In a statement, the federation also advised the traders to follow the instructions of not operating AC, washing of hands and maintaining distance. “We have asked the traders to keep masks available for sale with them to the customers visiting their shops without masks,” said Govindarajulu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/shops-shut-by-cops-for-flouting-norms-get-nod-from-district-admin-to-reopen/articleshow/75726861.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Nagpur||Did red-light area residents sneak out of containment zone?||Nagpur: Some residents of the city’s red-light zone Ganga Jamuna have reportedly left for Gwalior due to the problems in the ongoing lockdown, and the increasing number of corona positives. Though police have record of only 24 persons from Ganga Jamuna leaving in a 52-seater bus for Gwalior with proper permission, there is a rumour many more sneaked away from the containment zone using forged passes.A source from Ganga Jamuna said the lanes and by-lanes are completely deserted, with almost no human activity in many buildings here, which otherwise remains abuzz with people coming and going.Senior inspector of Lakadganj police station Narendra Hiware said the persons who have been issued passes were from outside the containment zones. “We have no information about persons fleeing the containment locality,” he said. Sources, however, said several residents of Ganga Jamuna have fled in private vehicles with forged permissions procured with the help of a goon, who also operates gambling dens in East Nagpur.Another source at Ganga Jamuna said the local residents had approached a goon-cum-agent, who managed to bring several passes for them to paste on vehicles and drive through the inter-state check points. “Some groups seem to have stealthily gathered and left in vehicles in small numbers,” said the source.Those in the red-light locality said some residents were too tense to continue in the city. “Some residents wanted to return to Gwalior as businesses have completely stopped, and they were scared of contracting corona. Several left in private vehicles and by other means,” she said.“These residents will return after the corona scare reduces and the situation improve. They will now try to get some work back at their native places, like on agricultural farms, to sustain until the lockdown is lifted,” said the source, who is a permanent resident of the area.The woman also said residents wanted to keep their move to Gwalior a low-key affair since there is an ongoing tussle in the locality. A section of the population under local political leaders wants to evict the brothel owners.“Police have supported us well with food and ration kits along with NGOs till the locality was not sealed. After the locality got sealed, many panicked and decided to leave at any cost. The NGOs also stopped coming for food and ration distribution, which left many unnerved about the future,” said the woman source.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/did-red-light-area-residents-sneak-out-of-containment-zone/articleshow/75726862.cms||Soumitra Bose
May 14, 2020||Mumbai||Dabur initiates clinical study of Chyawanprash as preventive remedy for coronavirus||Even as the scientific and pharma industry is researching potential Covid drugs and vaccines, alternative medicines have joined the bandwagon. In one of the first such instances by a fast-moving consumer goods company, Dabur has initiated a clinical study of its flagship immunity booster, Chyawanprash, as a preventive remedy in Covid-19. This could perhaps be the first such trial using an Ayurvedic therapy targeted at a particular disease. Effectiveness of ancient herbs like ‘Ashwagandha, Mulethi and Giloy’ will be tested in separate studies by the Ministry of AYUSH, while Medanta Institute of Education and Research is also planning similar trials. Immunity and stamina building products like Chyawanprash and products made from ayurvedic herbs, across companies, have shown a surge of over 60% during April year-on-year, industry experts say. Clinical trials will be conducted on two groups of 750 people, who are healthy and not suffering from any ailments like diabetes or high blood pressure. The clinical study has been planned at Jaipur, Vadodara, Pune and Mumbai, and has both Ayurvedic as well as modern physicians as investigators. It will see the comparative assessment of incidence of Covid-19 in subjects taking Dabur Chyawanprash, and those not taking it, over a period of three months. “This purely scientific study would assess not just the preventive aspects of Chyawanprash, but also its effect on recovery from Covid, and reducing severity of infection on individuals who become positive during the study’s course. In addition, Dabur is also conducting clinical studies for prophylaxis and management of Covid-19, along with various state governments and AYUSH ministry. As part of this initiative, we have already supplied 7.5 lakh tablets of Guduchi Ghanvati (Giloy tablets) and around 3,000 kg of Chyawanprash, which are being used to evaluate the immunity-boosting properties of Ayurvedic interventions in preventing and managing Covid-19. We have further committed to supply six lakh tablets of Ashwagandha, and around 5,000 kg of Chyawanprash for similar studies,” Dabur India chief executive officer Mohit Malhotra told TOI. This comes as PM Modi has also reportedly pushed AYUSH ministry guidelines, which suggest a range of home remedies to boost immunity, with states like Telangana distributing these products to frontline workers. Several companies with Ayurvedic and herbal formulations and concoctions are reporting a huge spike. Sales of Baba Ramdev-promoted Patanjali Ayurved products, mainly preventive care like Giloy, Tulsi, Chyawanprash, Haldi and Swasari Ras, as well as hygiene (personal care) products have doubled to over Rs 400 crore, in April over March, a company official said. The Dabur study is open label, multi-centric, randomized, intervention community-based, and has been registered at Clinical Trials Registry India (CTRI), hosted at ICMR’s National Institute of Medical Statistics. Proper guidelines like informed consent process, ethics committee approvals at all sites and insurance to study subjects, will be followed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/dabur-initiates-clinical-study-of-chyawanprash-as-preventive-remedy-for-coronavirus/articleshow/75726875.cms||Rupali Mukherjee
May 14, 2020||Aurangabad||250-bed hospital to be set up at Aurangabad's Chikalthana||AURANGABAD: Amid the rising number of Covid-19 cases, the state government has decided to set up a 250-bed makeshift hospital at the industrial area of Chikalthana in Aurangabad. Aurangabad district guardian minister Subhash Desai on Wednesday visited the proposed site for the hospital and asked for raising the desired health facility within one month. Desai said that the proposed hospital will be set up on the line of a makeshift 1,008-bed hospital coming up at Bandra-Kurla Complex, which was inspired by the health facility raised in Wuhan, China, during the current pandemic. “The proposed site is an industrial unit of around 10,000 square feet, of which construction has taken place on 5,702 square feet. It has a total of eight large halls. The site has proper supply of water and electricity. It will be transformed into a special hospital for Covid-19 patients,” as per an official release issued by the district administration. At present, the site for Covid -9 hospital has been rented out to Central Institute of Plastics Engineering and Technology (CIPET), Aurangabad. However, It is in the possession of the election branch of the district collectorate . “The site in question will be handed over to Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation (MIDC) first for developing the hospital. The process for procuring necessary infrastructure and facilities will be expedited as early as possible and necessary manpower will be available at the earliest,” as per the release Aurangabad district administration, local civic body, MIDC and public health department have been asked to work jointly for raising the 250-bed makeshift hospital within one month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/250-bed-hospital-to-be-set-up-at-chikalthana/articleshow/75725117.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Trichy||Colleges that failed to take online classes want units cut for exam||TRICHY: Some private and government arts and science colleges affiliated to Bharathidasan University (BDU) have suggested reducing the number of units in each subject for the semester examination in the wake of the continuing lockdown over Covid-19. When the lockdown was announced in March, many colleges had one or two units to be covered in each subject for both undergraduate and postgraduate courses. Many private autonomous and government aided arts and science colleges completed the leftover units by engaging students through online classes. However, it is alleged that without taking any efforts to reach out to students during this period, these colleges want the number of units to be reduced. Some students of Periyar EVR College, Trichy told TOI that most of the departments have not contacted them. Neither did they try to engage their students through any mode. Some of the senior faculty members of BDU say that reducing the number of units for semester examination may not be a viable option. While there are five units in each subject, most of the departments don’t teach the units in order. “It may not be just unit 4 and 5 that are pending, it could be chapter 1, 2 or 3. This will be an issue while setting common question paper for all affiliated colleges,” a faculty member said. Since most of the autonomous colleges have completed the portion through online classes they cannot be asked to reduce the portion for semester examination, said another faculty member. The students cannot be made victims of the inefficiency of colleges in reaching out to them during the lockdown, added the faculty member. With the demand coming from some colleges in Ariyalur and Trichy districts, BDU registrar G Gopinath said it is a policy decision which needs to be taken by the higher education department. However, if students are engaged in online classes and the leftover portions covered, there will not be any need to reduce units. The university has been engaging affiliated colleges and orienting them on conducting online classes for students. “Since not all students will have gadgets to attend online classes, we are recording the online session and uploading the same on the university website. The student can access the video anywhere. Besides, we are also developing a repository of e-content of the curriculum of all subjects which will also be available on the website,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/colleges-that-failed-to-take-online-classes-want-units-cut-for-exam/articleshow/75726876.cms||Sampath Kumar
May 14, 2020||Trichy||Trichy range police to organize online oral contest to keep students engaged||TRICHY: The Trichy range police have planned to organize an online oral competition to keep the students engaged at home during the lockdown in place to contain the spread of Covid-19. They also appreciated the students for cooperating with them by staying safe at home. The objective of the competition is to make students effectively utilize their leisure time during the lockdown. Deputy superintendent of police of the sub-divisions in the five districts -- Trichy rural, Karur, Pudukottai, Perambalur and Ariyalur-- will be organizing the competition through Zoom Cloud mobile application. The competition will be held from 11 am to 1 pm on May 16. Those who secure the first three places will be allowed to take part in the district-level competition that will be organized from 4 pm to 6 pm on the same day. ‘How to spend time effectively during the lockdown’ would be the title of the competition, which will be conducted in two categories – junior and senior. The students from Classes VI to X will be participating at the junior-level and students from Classes XI and above will take part at the senior level. Since the competition will be conducted on the App, the students should be equipped with mobile phones or laptops or computers with internet connection and headphones. The police also offered to provide such facilities to those who do not have any of the above through special police control room for Covid-19. Each contestant will be allotted five minutes and they can choose the language between Tamil and English. Those signed in on the App should remain on the line until all the contestants have spoken. The interested students should enroll their names with the Corona special control room it Trichy – 0431-2333638, Pudukottai- 04322-266966, Karur – 04324-255100, Perambalur- 04328-224962 and Ariyalur – 04329-222216. The winners will be adjudged based on speech clarity, expression of their opinion and its depth and error-free speaking. The district-level winners will be rewarded with Rs 3,000, Rs 2,000, Rs 1,000 and Rs 500.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/trichy-range-police-to-organize-online-oral-contest-to-keep-students-engaged/articleshow/75726871.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Centre’s financial package fuels MSME hope||Bhubaneswar: Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s call for local production found resonance in the state with the micro, small and medium enterprises (MSME)s hoping to turn the corner in the post-Covid scenario. One of the worst-hit sectors in the lockdown, the MSMEs also welcomed the package announced by Union finance minister Niramla Sitharaman that included collateral-free loan, upward revision of investment and push to procure local products. Satwik Swain, secretary general of Odisha Assembly of Small and Medium Enterprises (OASME), said the announcement must be implemented on the ground with all sincerity. “Domestic manufacturers played a key role in the country as well as in the state in meeting the local demand during the lockdown period, when imports of goods were not allowed. The MSMEs supported the demand in healthcare sector by manufacturing and supplying key pharmaceuticals and surgical items like personal protective equipment, masks, face shields, sanitizers and hospital beds. The local manufacturers have huge potential to grow. The PM’s words would certainly help the local manufacturers,” said Satwik, who runs a firm that manufactures electric poles, in Cuttack. Satwik said the state government should come up with a progressive policy and stimulus package to revive the MSME sector in the state, which provides nearly two million jobs. Sweta Pany, who runs a manufacturing unit that makes masks, gowns and gloves, said though Modi’s words are encouraging, the MSMEs need immediate financial package from the government for survival. “Many MSMEs need immediate working capital to revive their units. The losses incurred during the lockdown period needs to be compensated by the government,” said Sweta, who meets the demand of two hospitals run by central PSUs in the state. Welcoming the Centre’s recent announcement of no global tenders in government procurement up to Rs 200 crore, city-based MSME promoter Suchismita Nanda said it’s an opportunity for local manufacturers. She said PM’s ‘go local’ call will help in changing the mindset of people towards locally-manufactured products. Suchismita, who runs an apparel manufacturing unit, has now been producing only personal protective equipment keeping in mind the huge demand in view of the pandemic. Odisha has nearly 3 lakh MSMEs in different sectors creating employment opportunities for nearly 20 lakh people. Industries sources said MSME sector faced a loss of around Rs 5,000 crore due to the lockdown. State MSME minister Dibya Shankar Mishra said the state government will also bring out a new industrial policy to help the MSME units. On PM’s announcement, Union minister Dharmendra Pradhan said India is now capable and efficient because of the changes in the past six years. “We have to buy and promote locally manufactured products,” said Dharmendra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/centres-financial-package-fuels-msme-hope/articleshow/75725148.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Aurangabad||Discussion on Malik Ambar’s work in online seminar||Aurangabad: The Read and Lead Foundation and Aftab Films have organised an online seminar on Thursday to mark the 394th death anniversary of Malik Ambar, the Siddi military leader who is known as the architect of Aurangabad. On Thursday, historians will discuss his life and work through a book published on him. The ‘webinar’ will take place from 3pm to 5pm through a video-conferencing application. It is open for all. Experts will share their opinion on Malik Ambar’s life and character, his administration policy, revenue system and his contribution to building Aurangabad. Experts ianclude noted writer Zaker Pathan, writer and poet Aslam Mirza, Khaled Ahmed and Sarphar Shaikh Solapur.A retired civic servant paid tribute to him by republishing a book written on his life in 2019. The book titled Malik Ambar was originally authored by Shaikh Chand and was published on July 4, 1930. According to Mirza Abdul Qayyum Nadvi of Read and Lead foundation, Chand was a resident of Paithan near Aurangabad. “Born on April 10, 1906, Chand was a known research scholar of his time. He completed Bachelor in Arts in 1923 and LLB in 1931 from Osmania University. Chand also authored Sant Eknath, Nizamul Mulk Asefjahi volume I and Shahar Sauda. Chand died in 1936 but his research is credible and world-class,” said Nadvi, who widely promotes book reading.The original edition of the Urdu book ‘Malik Ambar’ has 162 pages. 70-year-old Syed Majed Janah, a retired Aurangabad Municipal Corporation clerk, has republished the book. “Janah has included the findings that came after the original publication and republished the 208-page book in 2019,” Nadvi said.The book ‘Malik Ambar’ gives an insight on the life and work of the Ethiopian slave who went on to become a military leader, administrator and architect of Aurangabad formerly known as Khirki. “||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/discussion-on-malik-ambars-work-in-online-seminar/articleshow/75725155.cms||Arpita Sharad
May 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Yadadri sees red after losing green zone tag||HYDERABAD: Till the other day, Yadadri-Bhuvanagiri district was breathing easy. With not a single coronavirus case for over 70 days, the district was enjoying the green zone status. But, it has a lot at stake now with 15 of the total 21 migrant labourers testing positive being in Yadadri and the district losing its green zone tag. The state government is now showing these cases as ‘migrant labour’ in a separate category of cases and not as cases from the district. However, the central government’s district-wise data has mentioned all these cases under Yadadri distict. With about 700 migrant labourers, mostly from Maharashtra, reaching the district, the government’s worries have multiplied. Yadadri was one of the three green zone districts in Telangana. Officials agreed that the situation has turned dangerous ever since the return of migrant labourers. In fact, it has led to a direct confrontation between local villagers and migrant labourer. In many areas, the villagers are telling the workers to leave their village. “We held a teleconference with all the sarpanches in the district and counselled them to not have a confrontation with the migrant workers. We told them that the workers would be in home quarantine and isolation and hence the villagers need not worry about the spread of the novel coronavirus,” DM&HO Dr Manohar said. “Some of the labourers from the district had also gone to work in Karnatka and Odisha,” an official said. Officials said only those who came back from Mumbai had tested positive for Covid-19. “Interestingly, 10 of the labourers tested positive after they were under observation of the health authorities in the villages. Nine of them had directly gone to King Koti hospital in Hyderabad without even turning up in Yadadri,” sources said. Senior officials said that having a strict monitoring at Zahirabad would be useful as it is the entry point from Maharashtra into Telangana. Meanwhile, the state government is waiting for the Centre to declare 17 districts in orange zone as green zone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/yadadri-sees-red-after-losing-green-zone-tag/articleshow/75726344.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
May 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Driver kills trans woman in Warangal||Warangal: A transgender woman was killed allegedly by a car driver on Tuesday night in Sadananda Colony near Kakatiya University. According to the police, victim Harini alias Haribabu and driver Dundi Suresh were living together. A heated argument ensued between them on Tuesday night, after which Suresh stabbed Harini, who died on the spot. A case was registered. Suresh surrendered to police on Wednesday. — Shiva Kumar Pinna||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/driver-kills-trans-woman-in-warangal/articleshow/75726267.cms||Shiva Kumar Pinna
May 14, 2020||Kanpur||101 export-oriented leather units get DIC’s nod to operate||KANPUR: The leather industry of Jajmau got a booster when the district Industries centre ( DIC) on Tuesday granted permission to around 101 export oriented leather units to run their business. The DIC had earlier granted permission to 24 export oriented leather units to start production. The industries department had so far issued work orders to 125 units. The sources in the industries department indicated that the tanneries too might get permission to start production in the next phase. Joint commissioner industries Sarveshwar Shukla said that permission had been granted to export oriented leather units and would soon issue work orders. The process for opening tanneries has begun, and permission would be granted to them after the industries department got report by pollution control board. Regional pollution control board officer SB Franklin said, “The board has already started verification of tanneries and there are all possibilities that the units which are outside the hotspot area might get permission to operate, but for that they have to give a certificate that they had contributed in raising the 20 mld sewage treatment plant”. The industries involved in dry tanning and other work would be out of the ambit, he added. The tannery industry is passing through a difficult phase since Kumbh Mela was held in Prayagraj. They are also suffering due to non availability of raw materials and chemicals. Their hardships have increased in the lockdown period as their products could not be shipped from ports and the raw material (hides) reached in the rotten condition. According to regional chairman, Council for Leather Export, Jawed Iqbal, the leather units could not get payment from oversees traders because their orders had been locked in ports and their raw material almost destroyed. “In fact they are suffering double loss. The permission to open the export oriented units will give a new lease of life to the leather industry”, he added. UP industry minister Satish Mahana said that production in export oriented units had started and soon tanneries too would get permission for the same. Nayyar Jamal, a leather industry owner, said that the government should give unconditional permission to the registered units and pass orders that small industries could run their units without giving any declaration.  General secretary, Leather Industries Welfare Association Asad Iraqi while welcoming the move said that permission to start slaughter houses should also be given to make easy the availability of raw material.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/101-export-oriented-leather-units-get-dics-nod-to-operate/articleshow/75726354.cms||Anant Shekher Misra
May 14, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Mega housing project for poor on track, says Ajay Jain||VIJAYAWADA: The state government is negotiating with several vendors for supply of construction materials like cement and other items which can be used by the beneficiaries of its proposed housing project. Ajay Jain, principal secretary (housing), told TOI the government is planning to facilitate the construction of 25 lakh houses for beneficiaries who are being given land for the purpose. “Chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy is scheduled to hand over the land pattas to the beneficiaries on July 8. It was supposed to be done on Ugadi day (March 25), but was postponed because of the nationwide lockdown,” Jain said. July 8 is also the birthday of YS Rajasekhara Reddy, Jagan’s father and former chief minister of united AP. “The chief minister has already negotiated with cement makers. They have agreed to sell cement to beneficiaries at Rs 225 for a 50kg bag against the market price of Rs 280,” Jain added. The housing department is also negotiating with Rashtriya Ispat Nigam Ltd, which owns and operates the Visakhapatnam Steel Plant. “We expect to reach an agreement with RINL-VSP soon. Apart from cement and steel, we are also contracting for other products which can be used in the interiors of the houses. Sand will be supplied free of cost,” he said. The government is allotting 1.1 cents of land (53.4 sq yards) in urban areas and 1.5 cents (72.5 sq yards) in rural areas to the beneficiaries. Of the 25 lakh houses, APTIDCO (Andhra Pradesh Township and Infrastructure Development Corp) was to build 2.5 individual homes, while the Centre had sanctioned 7.5 lakh units in 2019-20. The balance of 15 lakh units was proposed by the state government. “The government has set a timeline of 4 years for the completion of the housing project, but we expect to complete it within the next three years,” Jain said, adding that the government is also working to provide essential services like water supply to the new housing colonies. “Each house is estimated to cost Rs 2 lakh, of which a large part will be sponsored by the central government,” Jain said. “The government will use MGNREGA labour for the construction of roads to and in the proposed housing colonies. Land is being acquired in Rayalaseema for the project, while the government will allocate its own land in Seemandhra region.” Responding to critics’ claims that the housing project will create vast slums in the state, because the parcel of land for each house is small, and the houses would be built close to each other, Jain said the project would comprise housing colonies which would have all modern amenities like roads, water and a robust power supply network. “We are preparing the documents to approach Hudco and PTC to provide funding for the power supply system. We are completing the groundwork for the project so that work can begin after the pattas are handed in July. Hopefully, the Covid-19 threat would have ended by then,” Jain added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/mega-housing-project-for-poor-on-track-jain/articleshow/75723740.cms||Shaukat Mohammed
May 14, 2020||Madurai||Madurai: 14-year-old girl thwarts marriage to man, 42||MADURAI: A 14-year-old girl in Tirunelveli district escaped from being married off to her 42-year-old already married relative on Wednesday when she ran away just as he was “tying the knot” and dashed to the police station with the help of her elder brother. Muneerpallam police arrested the groom and her mother based on the girl’s complaint . Inspector S Kumari Chithra, who investigated the case, said the girl was the third of five children and had completed class IX. “After her father died four years ago, her mother has been taking care of the children,” the inspector said and added that her elder brother, 24, is a mason while her elder sister is married. She had two younger siblings studying in classes VIII and VI. Nagoor Pichai, the groom, is her mother’s relative who has an adopted son too. “Nagoor Pichai is a construction worker who has been helping the girl’s family since the demise of her father. The family stayed in one of his two houses. The man had expressed willingness to marry her and the girl’s mother agreed to perform it on Wednesday as it was an auspicious day,” the inspector said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/14-yr-old-girl-thwarts-marriage-to-man-42/articleshow/75726879.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Delhi||No closer to home after walking with death as companions||New Delhi: Santosh Bora is unlikely to forget 2020 in a hurry. Left with no money and no livelihood, the 20-year-old factory hand and his two friends decided to walk from Amritsar to home, 2,364km away in Guwahati. Before they had covered even a fraction of this distance, his friends died, probably because of lack of food, the youth disclosed. Before he could recover from the blow, he was robbed of all his belongings, save for his mask and a keychain his father had gifted him when he turned 18. On Wednesday, TOI found him on a footpath outside New Delhi Railway Station, vainly hoping to meet someone who would help him. He had limped into the capital four days ago, but found himself in as wretched a position as in Amritsar. He looked very disturbed and wasn’t able to recall many details about the horrendous days he has spent since the novel coronavirus closed down India. “I worked at a factory and also part-time on a farm in Amritsar,” he narrated. “When the lockdown was announced, my employer asked me to leave. I was scared and asked him where I could go. He simply told me not to come for work from the following day.” He and his friends, Kanhaiya and Roshan, did not have money for a train ride, so they decided to walk to Guwahati. “We walked and walked and walked… the road was endless,” he said dully. All that they consumed on the way was water and whatever little they got from sympathetic shop owners. “I was stronger than my friends,” he choked, recalling how Kanhaiya and Roshan suddenly complained of severe headache and stomach pains. By then they had gone without proper food for days. “We sat down and I tried to motivate them to at least walk to a place where we could find food. But they couldn’t even get up. In an hour, both were unconscious,” the traumatised Bora mumbled. He couldn’t recall the place where this happened. Some locals informed police and the boys were taken to a hospital, but they were gone by then. “That was the worst day of my life. They were both very close to me, like my brothers,” Bora sobbed. The worst day of his life was to become even grimmer a few hours later. That evening, someone stole the young man’s PAN card, Aadhaar card, mobile phone, his small bag of clothes and his entire savings of Rs 2,000. “Among the three of us, only I had a phone,” Bora said. “When I lost all these things, I no longer had any way to inform our families about the tragic events.” On the Delhi footpath on Wednesday, Bora said in a forlorn manner that only a miracle could save him. “There is no way I can buy a ticket to travel to Guwahati,” he whispered. Appearing mentally disturbed, the youth could not recall his mother’s phone number. “She must be so worried about me,” he sighed. “Reaching home in one piece is the only way I can reassure her. But will I ever meet her again? We have been treated as nobodies, and I am sure no one will care even if I die.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/no-closer-to-home-after-walking-with-death-as-companions/articleshow/75726909.cms||Pankhuri Yadav
May 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana to allow toddy tapping||Hyderabad: The Telangana government has permitted toddy tapping in all districts in the state, except containment areas. Excise minister V Srinivas Goud said toddy tappers should resume their work by adhering to Covid-19 precaution guidelines issued by the government. He said the toddy compounds would remain closed. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/telangana-to-allow-toddy-tapping/articleshow/75726286.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Bhubaneswar||1st spl train from state capital leaves for New Delhi||Bhubaneswar: It was a sense of huge relief for many who boarded the first AC special train from Bhubaneswar to New Delhi on Wednesday. As many as 916 passengers, including 527 from Bhubaneswar, had bought the tickets for this train. Among them were stranded pilgrims, tourists and employees of government and private agencies. While many would be returning home in this train, some would be going to meet their children staying in Delhi. A group of Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) personnel, who had come for training here before the lockdown was announced, too boarded the train. “I had come to Jajpur in search of work in a private company after Holi. I was staying with a few village friends. The company had assured me of a job, but the lockdown changed everything. My family in Gonda district of Uttar Pradesh had to send me money through a friend’s account. We had a harrowing time managing with very little cash on us,” 22-year-old Sachin Kumar said. He added that Jajpur has turned into a red zone and he is scared of the situation. “Fortunately, I along with a friend managed to get the tickets. There is no point in staying here because I don’t have a job. Some of my friends have booked tickets for the next train to return home. Our family members have been asking us to return home as soon as possible,” he said. Vinod Kumar, an employee of a cement company’s office in Cuttack, said he was waiting to return home to Sravasti in Uttar Pradesh, but the lockdown jinxed his plans. “I am so happy to be finally going back home after several months. I will take the help of the local people to reach home after getting down at Pandit Deen Dayal Upadhyaya junction,” he added. Dillip Swain, an Odia, said his wife and children are staying in New Delhi. “I am a contractor and was working here on some projects. I was stranded in Bhubaneswar because of the lockdown. I need to go home to see what my children are doing there,” he smiled. The Railways resumed limited passenger train operations on May 12 after 52 days. The scene at the railway station on Wednesday morning was very different from the days before the lockdown. Instead of entering the railway station en masse, people were standing in a queue maintaining social distance. Passengers were screened before being allowed on to the station premises. Only those with confirmed tickets were allowed to enter the station. The Railway Protection Force (RPF) personnel were doing the screening and checking of one person at a time at the platform 1 side. Passengers were asked to enter the station from the Master Canteen side. They entered the platform wearing masks. They were moving forward by stepping on to the circles drawn to ensure social distancing on the platform. “The authorities have installed a foot-operated hand sanitizer stand for the use of passengers and employees at the station. Passengers boarded the train one hour before the train left the station. They were provided with water bottle, toilet paper and soap. The seating arrangements were done in a such way that social distancing could be maintained among passengers. Passengers were asked to bring their own food and blankets for reasons of convenience,” East Coast Railway (ECoR) sources said. The train left at 10am and is scheduled to reach New Delhi at 10.45am on Thursday. Railway employees were seen clapping and cheering up the passengers when the train was leaving the station. People were also waving at the railway staff with ‘Thank You’ cards in hand. The train from New Delhi will leave the station at 5.05pm on Thursday and reach Bhubaneswar at 5.25pm the next day. The station staff is getting prepared to receive the passengers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/1st-spl-train-from-state-capital-leaves-for-new-delhi/articleshow/75725176.cms||Hemanta Pradhan
May 14, 2020||Mumbai||RERA deadline extension good, but industry needs cash boost, say developers||MUMBAI: Developers welcomed the relief provided by the Centre to the industry by extending the registration and completion date of projects under RERA by six months, but are pegging hopes for a liquidity boost or a temporary GST cut. The advisory from the Union ministry of housing and urban affairs on Wednesday said the six-month extension will be for all registered projects expiring on or after March 25, 2020. “Regulatory authorities may extend it for another three months, if needed,” it said. “These measures will de-stress developers and ensure completion of projects so that homebuyers are able to get delivery of their booked houses with new timelines.” Said builder Niranjan Hiranandani: “This is a move to combat Covid-19 disruption which brought construction work to a grinding halt with additional chaos of migrant labourers’ movement and raw material supply disruption. Relaxation in project timelines under RERA Act will bring in sigh of relief to the developers and safeguard homebuyers’ interest.” “The second largest employment-generating sector is pegging a big hope on much-awaited fiscal relief...Liquidity infusion will be imperative to turn around the depressed scenario,” he added. While welcoming the extension, Sanjay Dutt, MD & CEO of , Tata Realty and Infrastructure, said the industry is hopeful for a temporary GST reduction or waiver for the sector. “Also, providing some income-tax benefits for home loans would have supported the demand for housing and helped to achieve the government’s objective of ‘Housing for All’.” Anuj Puri, ANAROCK chairman, said extending the tim-elines for project completions will make buyers wait for their homes a little longer, but “this was inevitable”. Farshid Cooper, MD of Spenta Corporati-on, said the Rs 30,000 crore special liquidity support and liquidity infusion through partial guarantee scheme for NBFCs will be a relief for the sector.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/rera-deadline-extension-good-but-industry-needs-cash-boost-say-developers/articleshow/75726907.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Coimbatore||More than 4,000 guest workers go home on 3 trains||Coimbatore: As many as 1,464 guest workers boarded a special train from the city to their hometowns in Bihar on Wednesday. With this, 10 train services were operated from the district to Bihar, Uttar Pradesh and Odisha. An official from the Salem division of Southern railways said the train departed at 4.45 pm and would reach Sharif railway station in Bihar in two days. The guest workers were brought to the railway station in buses from several parts of the district. They were screened for temperature before entering the station. Food and water packets were distributed to them. Meanwhile, two train services were operated from Tirupur district with 2,928 guest workers. With this, four train services were operated from Tirupur. While a train was operated to Gorakhpur in Uttar Pradesh, the other was operated to Balasore in Odisha. Each train carried as many as 1464 passengers.Even as the district administrations are arranging train services to send the guest workers back to their respective state, protests broke at several parts in Tirupur. Tens of guest workers from Jharkhand who were working at a private mill at Chittambalam near Palladam started walking towards their state on Wednesday, after they were fed up with the government for not arranging transportation facilities to them. Police officials who rushed to the spot, convinced the workers and sent them back.Workers staged protest on Tirupur-Uthukuli Road near Uthukuli demanding the government to take necessary steps to transport them back to their respective states.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/more-than-4000-guest-workers-go-home-on-3-trains/articleshow/75726319.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Madurai||Madurai: Lockdown impacts summer sales of consumer durables||MADURAI: Lockdown for more than six weeks during the peak annual summer business season, followed by the economic crisis as a result of job loss and pay cut stares at the consumer electronic goods business. Sale of air conditioners and air coolers that account for a major share of the business has been badly affected and they are unsure of what portion of it could be sold before the end of this month. “The business is 20 to 30% less compared to the same time last year. But we are not sure whether these customers are only those who wanted to purchase when shutters were down,” says J Johnson managing director of Sathya Agency Private Limited that has a chain of 117 consumer goods stores in the state and Pondicherry. He said that 32 of his outlets are closed due to restrictions due to Covid-19 pandemic. From observations in the business, which he has been doing for 34 years, he told TOI that air conditioners and air coolers used to account for 30% of the business for nine months a year. “It increases to 45% between March and May along with the soaring temperature. Usually we stock 40,000 AC units for the summer sale from March end, when the companies give us offers,” he said. Thankfully, for him, the lockdown was announced a week ahead. “So we have only around 20,000 ACs that will be sold in three months as it is sold throughout the year,” he said and added that problem is clearing the stock of air coolers as it is sold only during summer. “We have nearly 6,000 air coolers. If we are unable to sell them by May 31, we have to wait till March 2021,” Johnson added. C N Saravanan, managing director of Meenakshi Fan House that has a chain of outlets in Southern Tamil Nadu, said that ACs, air coolers and fans account for 70% of their summer business. “We stocked them in March and are paying interest for the loans we have obtained from banks despite inability to sell the products. We cannot blame the government because the whole world is affected,” he said. Consumer goods outlets have also seen a change in those buying LED televisions. “Usually 32 inch panel televisions account for 50% of the business. Many used to exchange the free televisions given by the government and upgrade. This has dropped heavily. Meanwhile, the share of higher end smart TVs in the range of Rs 50,000 to Rs 2 lakh has increased by 10% to 35%,” owner of a chain said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/lockdown-impacts-summer-sales-of-consumer-durables/articleshow/75726894.cms||M K Ananth
May 14, 2020||Goa||Goa: Philately exhibition set for digital display||PANAJI: Lockdown restrictions and social distancing norms may have placed curbs on large gatherings, but philatelists and numismatics have figured a way around it. The Goa Philatelic and Numismatic Society (GPNS) will utilise social media to digitally showcase a virtual exhibition of personal collections of stamps, coins, banknotes and other interesting items on May 18. “Several participants, including children and adults alike, turn out with their exhibits at Goa Science Centre at Miramar, Panaji to showcase their hobbies and interests on this day every year. This year, due to the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic and the world observing lockdown and social distancing, we resolved to take the exhibition on Facebook,” Dr M R Ramesh Kumar, president, GPNS, said. Titled ‘My Room, My Museum’, the digital exhibits are divided into three categories – philately comprising stamps and , numismatic comprising coins and banknotes, and other categories. Taking the exhibition online will give it all the necessary boost by bringing not just Goa’s amateur philatelists and numismatics, but also enthusiasts from around the globe. Stamp lovers will therefore get an opportunity to catch a glimpse of the country’s rich history and Goa’s link with its colonial past at the click of a button. “The digital platform will help us reach a wider audience, not only in Goa but all across the world,” Kumar said. Since, inception, GPNS has organised many exhibitions like the GOAPEX-77 (15-17 May, 1977), GOAPEX 81 (18-20 December, 1981), GOAPEX 1983 (25-27 November, 1983), GOAPEX-1995, GOAPEX, 2014 and GOAPEX 2019. Another GPNS event was held in October last year along with the department of posts, Panaji, and had paid homage to Mahatma Gandhi on his 150th birth anniversary by displaying 65 frames on Gandhi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/philately-exhibition-set-for-digital-display/articleshow/75727326.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Aurangabad||ACB ends up with six failed traps during lockdown||Aurangabad: The Aurangabad unit of anti-corruption bureau (ACB) — having jurisdiction in four of the eight districts of Marathwada — has ended with up over six non-materialised traps (NMTs) during the current lockdown period.On analysing the high number of NMTs, the ACB realised that policemen deployed at check posts for examining every vehicle appeared to have played spoil sport. Four NMTs have been recorded in Aurangabad, while one each in Beed and Jalna. As per ACB sources, all these traps were important as they would have exposed the government employees trying to exploit people during the lockdown.In the past few days, the ACB tried changing the routes to reach some destinations, but still the government offices had somehow been alerted.Superintendent of police (ACB) Arvind Chawria confirmed the same and said so as to maintain secrecy of the pre-trap verifications and the actual traps, the ACB teams change their appearance and move in private vehicles, which alike other vehicles are stopped at every police check post they pass.Chawria told TOI, “So as to get clear of the checkposts and nakabandi points during the current lockdown, our team is forced to disclose their identity. As soon as they do it, the men deployed at the check posts learn that the ACB team is out for action, and we suspect that they alert government offices in the direction our teams are heading.”The officer said that they are trying to find out such elements in the police and revenue department, "Anyone found committing such mischief, will definitely face the heat," warned Chawria. It has also been found that even the deserted government offices, market places and roads are working to the advantage of the public servants allegedly seeking bribe. “The moment a government pancha accompanies the complainant during verification, the suspect government employee seeking bribe amount gets alerted and avoids interacting. Also, due to deserted offices and public places, trap teams despite changing their appearance, are easily getting spotted,” another senior ACB officer said.“Several government employees maintain a close rapport with toll plaza staff, tea stalls outside government offices for keeping an eye on the movement of ACB. As soon as an ACB vehicle passes the toll plaza or is spotted at a government office, the government departments get an alert,” said he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/acb-ends-up-with-six-failed-traps-during-lockdown/articleshow/75725204.cms||Mohammed Akhef
May 14, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Flights from Chicago, KL to bring back Odias||Bhubaneswar: An Air India (AI) flight from Chicago and another from the Malaysian capital of Kuala Lumpur will land at the Biju Patnaik International Airport here later this month. Special relief commissioner (SRC) Pradeep Jena said the flight from Malaysia will arrive on May 20 and that from Chicago, on May 28. The Chicago flight will terminate in Delhi, and a separate aircraft will carry passengers to Bhubaneswar. Sources said the people coming from Chicago and Kuala Lumpur are students, white collar workers, tourists and businessmen. A flight from Dubai will land at the city airport on Thursday night. “We have received the schedules of the Chicago and Kuala Lumpur flights. Also, Air India has changed the arrival time of its Dubai flight. It was to arrive here in the afternoon but now it will arrive at night,” an airport officer said. Most of the people coming from Dubai are plumbers and construction workers of Kendrapada and Ganjam districts. A handful of them are from Bhubaneswar and two other districts. Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation (BMC) commissioner Prem Chandra Chaudhury said those belonging to the state capital will be advised home quarantine. After reaching Bhubaneswar, people from other places can head to their home districts on separate buses, Chaudhury told TOI. He added that plans for those arriving on the Chicago and Kuala Lumpur flights are yet to be decided. The city airport has shut operations since the lockdown was announced on March 24. Barring cargo and emergency flights and helicopters, no other flights are operating from here as of now. The airport has started preparations to resume operations by planning safety and social distancing strategies for passengers and staff.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/flights-from-chicago-kl-to-bring-back-odias/articleshow/75725196.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Nagpur||NMC’s mega Q-centre in a mega row near Kalmeshwar, media banned||Nagpur: A controversy has broken out over the Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s (NMC) ambitious plan to start a mega quarantine centre on 190 acre land of a religious group near Kalmeshwar. On Wednesday, deputy mayor Manisha Kothe, NMC standing committee chairman Pintu Zalke and health committee chairman Virendra Kukreja visited the spot. Later, district guardian minister Nitin Raut too visited the facility. Though the site has a capacity of 5,000, the NMC administration claims to have set up around 500 beds. No suspect has been shifted there as yet. TOI too visited the venue but police deployed at the entrance said entry has been banned for media by the civic chief. This correspondent found that half of the structure — a sprawling shed stretching over 100 metres — still houses construction material and heavy lifting equipment. TOI couldn’t independently confirm the arrangements in the rest of the structure. The claims by NMC also seem to be in contravention of the guidelines issued by ministry of family health and welfare (MoFHW). As per the norms, quarantine centres must have rooms or dormitories separated from one another, with in-house capacity of 5 or 10 beds or rooms. However, this shed is open from all sides. After the showers on Wednesday night, NMC sources said water had entered the shed at many places. No thought for recreation too has been given though norms prescribe it. Toilets, bathrooms and taps too are for common use, which may increase risk of infection. In a press release, NMC refuted the claims that arrangements made at the upcoming centre were not in place, though it didn’t issue any fresh photographs or allow media to visit the premises. After his visit in the afternoon, NMC standing committee chairman Vijay Zalke said he has made several suggestions as per central government guidelines. “On coming back, I held a meeting with NMC chief medical officer (health) Dr Yogendra Savai and engineers. I told them to follow central government guidelines and they assured me that the instructions would be complied with,” Zalke said. Zalke said the arrangements seemed to be satisfactory but needed some improvements. Some of the suggestions Zalke made are in line with SOPs set out by MoFHW. NMC has created several blocks within the space frame structure. In one block, 200 positive persons will be kept. Zalke suggested there should be no mixing of positive persons with suspected patients. Washroom for positive patients too must be separate. Zalke said bedsheets and pillows, earlier kept on beds, have been removed. “Since there is no one there, there’s no need to leave them on,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nmcs-mega-q-centre-in-a-mega-row-near-kalmeshwar-media-banned/articleshow/75726897.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
May 14, 2020||Hyderabad||HC cancels PRLIS land notification||Hyderabad: The Telangana HC suspended a land acquisition notification issued by the state under Section 11(1) of the Land Acquisition Act to acquire land at Ellor village in Nagarkurnool district for Narlapudi reservoir being planned as part of the Palamuru Rangareddy lift irrigation project. The state said since the time has lapsed it too wants to cancel the notification. It will issue fresh notification.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-cancels-prlis-land-notification/articleshow/75726308.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Mumbai||MSME economic package disappointing: Entrepreneurs||"Disappointed,” said Sandip Parikh, president of Confederation of Small Industries, reacting to Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman’s economic package to Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSME). He said their expectations were concessions in workers’ salaries, PF, waiver of interest, taxes for the lockdown period, but they have been offered loans and moratoriums. “At least 25% of MSMEs will wind up in a year.” Ninad Jaywant, who runs a leather industry in Bhiwandi, said the PF waiver is applicable only if 90% of the workers earn less than Rs 15,000 a month. “In metropolitan cities, the minimum wage is Rs 12,000. No unit in Mumbai will make the criteria.” The TTC Industries Manufacturers Association had proposed that the government pay 33% of workers’ wages for the lockdown period, the employer 33% and worker forego the rest. “There is no mention on how workers salaries are to be paid for the lockdown period. Small businesses have no reserve fund to pay salaries,” said an office-bearer. Both Parikh and Jaywant questioned the government’s decision to give Rs 90,000 crore liquidity injection to cash-deprived electricity distribution companies. “Their inefficiency has been covered but no concessions to factories shut on account of the lockdown. We have to pay the minimum electricity charges,” they said. Seshan Ranganathan, executive editor, TISA, a monthly magazine of Chamber of Small Industry Association, said the change in definition of MSMEs will now result in industries with large turnovers of Rs 100 crore being defined as medium enterprises. “The actual medium enterprises will find it difficult to compete for tenders now.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/msme-economic-package-disappointing-entrepreneurs/articleshow/75726916.cms||Clara Lewis
May 14, 2020||Coimbatore||Brick by brick, construction sector getting back to work||COIMBATORE: Construction sector in the city is waking up from slumber after relaxation of lockdown regulations. Due to labour crunch and steep increase in prices of raw materials, work on only 20% of the projects has resumed, representatives of builders associations said. Some builders have resumed projects with the available labour, said Surender Vittel, district president of the Confederation of Real Estate Developers Associations of India (Credai). “Only stalled work has been resumed. We are waiting for inter-district labourers to come back,” he said. S P Saravanan, president of the Coimbatore Civil Engineers Association (Cocena), agreed. “Construction projects in Coimbatore employ labourers from Tiruvannamalai, Madurai, Ramanathapuram, and Thoothukudi. Many of them don’t know the procedures to get permission to return. With guest workers leaving for homes, in some places, builders requested them to stay back for a month and have started work.” “Another major issue is high raw material cost, because of which, builders might not be able to complete the work in the already agreed rate. New work estimates will be at a higher cost,” said Saravanan. R Nagaraj, a mason, said price of a bag of cement has gone up by Rs 50 and is being sold for Rs 430 per bag. “Price of a load of M-sand has gone up from Rs 16,000 to Rs 18,000. Blue metal price has gone up from Rs 8,000 to Rs 10,500 per load, brick price has increased from Rs 39,000 to Rs 44,000 per load and the price of iron rods has gone up from Rs 42.50 per kg to Rs 48. Because of this, majority of the work is yet to resume,” he said. Meanwhile, construction workers unions said that many big players are yet to start work, as guest workers, who provided them with cheap labour, have gone home. “North Indian workers demand only half of what native workers demand. So, big players prefer them,” said N Selvaraj, general secretary of the Tamil Nadu AITUC Construction Workers’ Union. Construction sector representatives said a section of guest workers have left for homes and others are getting ready to leave. Amid this, only those projects, which had their workers already staying in the sites, have resumed work.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/brick-by-brick-construction-sector-getting-back-to-work/articleshow/75726336.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Coimbatore||Alternative sites spotted to shift temporary mkts||Coimbatore: With public transportation expected to resume from the next week, the city corporation has identified places to shift the temporary vegetable markets that are functioning at bus stands.“The civic body had set up temporary markets at bus stands and on a school ground immediately after the lockdown was imposed to prevent large number of people gather at a spot. Now that the bus services are likely to resume, we have to shift the markets,” corporation commissioner J Sravan Kumar said.Temporary markets were set up at the Singanallur bus stand, town and mofussil bus stand at Gandhipuram, Ukkadam bus stand, new bus stand on the Mettupalayam Road, Vadavalli bus stand and the Ramalinga Chettiar Higher secondary school ground at Saibaba Colony.The corporation has identified school grounds that are big enough to set up markets, Kumar said. “If needed, markets can be set at VOC Park as well.” Explaining about the importance of maintaining social distancing, the official said that one of the reasons the markets in the city had not turned into hotspot for coronavirus spread was that the markets were decentralized in the beginning itself. “Initiatives were taken to sell vegetables through mobile markets and online portals,” he added. To ensure that people are not gathered at a single place, markets should be decentralised, said Chenthur Raaghav, chief architect of A Plus R Architects, whose team designed temporary markets at schools. “We will adopt the same decentralizing concepts in the temporary markets as well to ensure that people are spread across the market area.” Physical distance can be maintained only if there is enough space in the markets, Raaghav said. “If there is a space crunch, shopkeepers will be asked to take turns to sell vegetables.”The corporation has also decided to shift the flower market in Poo Market area to the Devanga Higher Secondary School within a couple of days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/alternative-sites-spotted-to-shift-temporary-mkts/articleshow/75726328.cms||Nivedha Selvam
May 14, 2020||Aurangabad||Beed district collector’s order results in chaos||Aurangabad: An order issued by Beed district collector Rahul Rekhawar in the wee hours of Wednesday led to confusion, chaos and friction between police and traders in the morning. Even superintendent of police Harssh Poddar was not aware of the order till 9.30am. The said order was issued by Rekhawar at 2.30 am, permitting the opening of all the retail shops from 7 am to 2 pm on alternate days, while wholesalers have been allowed to operate on odd days after 3 pm and for full day during even days. The message soon went viral among the traders who started heading to their shops as early as 6 am for cleaning of their business establishments that were being allowed to open after a span of about 40 days. By the time, the police were apprised about the collector’s latest orders, the damage had already been done. The traders and their staffers were allegedly thrashed by police citing that they were opening shops in violation of lockdown orders. This was followed several rounds of meetings between the traders for deciding their strategy against police’s alleged use of unwarranted force, also messages by the traders demanding action against the police had started making rounds on social media. Taking cognizance of the image of the police and the administration that took a dent due to the serious communication gap, it was mutually decided by the superintendent of police and district collector that no such orders without taking each other in confidence would be taken in future. When contacted, Poddar confirmed the same."Acting on our directives issued last night, our policemen woke started deploying check points. When police found traders opening their shops, they tried to forcibly close them citing there were no orders for opening of all the shops, and it resulted in to friction. However, when some traders came forward with the order copy, our police inspector announced through the public announcement system that the traders can continue with their businesses as per the latest orders." The officer defended that the police were doing their duty in accordance to the orders that were duly communicated them on Tuesday evening. An officer privy to the entire incident said, "For police, the orders should come from superintendent of police. Moreover, it is bit too much to expect the police to check the WhatsApp messages before leaving home at 6 am for duty."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/beed-district-collectors-order-results-in-chaos/articleshow/75725226.cms||Mohammed Akhef
May 14, 2020||Coimbatore||Podanur police station reopens after 2 weeks||Coimbatore: Almost two weeks after it was closed and shifted to a private building near Vellalore, the Podanur police station reopened on Wednesday.The station was temporarily closed and shifted to Senthur Mahal near Vellalore on April 24 after four police personnel, including two women, were tested positive for the Covid-19 infection. Disinfectant was sprayed in the building and fumigation was also carried out.Kuniyamuthur police station, which was shifted to Sri Kumaran Mahal, is expected to reopen in a few days. The station was closed on April 24 after a police officer tested positive. Fumigation is being carried out at the station. All the police personnel, who had tested positive for the infection, were cured and discharged from ESI hospital a week ago.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/podanur-police-station-reopens-after-2-weeks/articleshow/75726335.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Madurai||Fake message leaves family in trauma||Madurai: A fake message circulated on WhatsApp that 10-year-old was sexually assaulted in a village near Melur, created unnecessary trauma to family members and relatives of the girl. It also kept a team from Madurai district police on their toes for the past two days. The message, which went viral read that a minor girl, who had accompanied her grandmother for grazing cattle was kidnapped and raped by a man under the influence of alcohol soon after the state government opened Tasmac shops. A police team led by additional deputy superintendent of police S Vanitha took up the inquiry on Tuesday. Family members were questioned separately and each one of them said the girl suffered genital injuries when she accidentally fell down from a tree and had to be sutured at a private hospital. As police continued to question family members to check whether they were hiding anything, family members threatened of committing suicide, if police persisted to continue with the case. Meanwhile, the doctor, who treated the girl also stated that he did not suspect any sexual assault. However, the police were not convinced and they decided to conduct a medical examination in a government hospital. Since they required an FIR, a Pocso case was registered based on a complaint from child welfare committee member A Pandiarajan on Tuesday. It came to light on Wednesday that the girl did not undergo any sexual assault. A higher official from Madurai district police said that they have now found that it was fake message created by a community leader, to show as if he was fighting for his community members. “We have traced the people, who earlier had been remanded by city police for a similar act. We will initiate a legal action against him after discussion with the district superintendent of police,” the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/fake-message-leaves-family-in-trauma/articleshow/75726901.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: 44 trees set to be axed at Nallagandla||HYDERABAD: Brazen cutting of trees on Nallagandla-Tellapur Road, which was halted in November 2019 following opposition from locals, resumed again on Wednesday. Locals are furious that axing of trees is continuing, especially during lockdown. Tejaswi, a representative of South Asian People’s Action on Climate Crisis, said a total of 44 trees had been marked for cutting. “We fear the tree chopping will be over during the lockdown. We are being compelled to step out of the house as the government is failing to realise its fundamental duty,” she said. She said that despite multiple promises made by officials concerned, none of the locals were invited to the tree protection committee meeting held a few months ago. “WALTA guidelines must be followed and coordination should be there among various user agencies,” said Tejaswi. Matta Suresh, who has played a key role in ‘save Nallagandla trees’ movement, said: “ Road-widening is definitely important. But, there should be a holistic approach towards conserving natural resources.” An official from the roads and buildings department, on condition of anonymity, said they have the necessary permission to take up the work on what he said is an “arterial route.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/44-trees-set-to-be-axed-at-nallagandla/articleshow/75726326.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Hubballi||1,452 migrant workers leave for Rajasthan||HUBBALLI: The first Shramik Special train to Jodhpur, carrying 1,452 migrant workers, left Hubballi at 12.30pm on Wednesday. The passengers were medically screened and informed about the safety norms to be followed during their journey. Before boarding, they were asked to wash hands with alcohol-based sanitizers while duly maintaining social distancing. Since all the passengers were waiting for medical screening from 5am, they were provided breakfast and 1 litre of water bottle. Before departure, one meal (pulao) and 1 litre of water bottle were also provided to them. While the stage government provided the passengers food at Hubballi, the IRCTC has made arrangements for meals at Miraj and Ahmedabad. South Western Railway officials clarified that anyone requiring to travel should only contact the state government and tickets for Shramik Special trains are not issued at railway stations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/1452-migrant-workers-leave-for-rajasthan/articleshow/75718991.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Coimbatore||Firefighter sustains minor injuries||COIMBATORE: A firefighter from the Perianaickenpalayam fire station sustained minor injuries when dousing fire at Sengalipalayam in Annur on Tuesday evening. Officials of the Perianaickenpalayam station said they had gone to Annur to douse the fire in a dump yard, where plastic and other paper waste had been dumped.  When the fire and rescue service personnel were fighting the fire, Kannan, 22, one of the personnel, lost his balance and fell on the ground. He placed his hand on the ground to balance himself, when he sustained minor injuries on his hand. He was treated for his injuries immediately, said officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/firefighter-sustains-minor-injuries/articleshow/75726342.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Coimbatore||Last Covid-19 +ve patient discharged from hospital||COIMBATORE: The last patient to test positive for Covid-19 in the district was discharged from ESI Hospital on Tuesday. Though the district has no more active Covid-19 cases, public health authorities say it does not mean the district is free of the virus. They say the district administration should continue testing all symptomatic patients and social distancing must be practiced. People however are relieved at the news. While Wednesday was the 10th day that the district did not record a new Covid-19 case, it was also the last day it had an active Covid-19 case since March 22. The district administration confirmed that the 31-year-old pregnant woman from Karumbukadai who tested positive for the virus on May 2, but was asymptomatic, was discharged from the hospital after she tested negative for the virus. However, the public health department said they will continue testing people for the virus—all patients coming in with flu like symptoms, pregnant women coming in for delivery and patients suffering from breathlessness. “We will also continue monitoring patients coming from abroad, from other states and districts,” deputy director of public health Dr G Ramesh Kumar said. “If we do get new patients, we will again put in motion our containment exercises,” he said. Many Coimbatorians welcomed this news stating that they are finally seeing the rewards for strictly following lockdown rules. “It is a great feeling and relief that there are no Covid-19 cases in the district. Will help people come to work more confidently and industrial activity to resume,” president of CODISSIA R Ramamurthy said. “We thank all the officials, corporation, health department and IAS officers who worked tirelessly to contain the spread to this extent,” he said. The public too felt that nil case is a huge psychological booster. “Now with offices asking us to return to work, our families are still scared. This figure will give more confident to return to our normal lives,” said R Vivek, a financial consultant. Public health experts however cautioned that just because a district does not have a known Covid-19 case, it does not mean that the perimeters are Covid-19 free. “There may still be asymptomatic Covid-19 infected people in the city who were not detected. There may also be undetected community spread that may show up later,” said infectious diseases expert, Dr Varun Sundaramoorthy of Kovai Medical Centre and Hospital. “All the more because epidemic’s peak has not even been reached yet in India,” he said. Former director of public health Dr P Kulandaisamy also cautioned against people reducing their guard, especially in terms of practising hand hygiene, social distancing and wearing masks. “The foreign returnees were our first wave of infection, the New Delhi conference was our second wave, the third wave is the Koyambedu cluster and waves will keep coming. The speed at which the virus spreads will reduce only when we achieve herd immunity,” he said. The other districts in the region who have no active cases are Tirupur and Erode. While Nilgiris also had no active cases for almost 10 days, it now has five cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/last-covid-19-ve-patient-discharged-from-hospital/articleshow/75726356.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Coimbatore||Tamil Nadu: TNAU comes up with nano hand sanitizer||COIMBATORE: Scientists at the Tamil Nadu Agricultural University (TNAU) have developed a hand sanitizer using nanotechnology. According to them, the sanitizer is more effective than the available products in the market and would provide protection to the hands from any virus or bacteria for at least 10 minutes more than the latter. Dr A Lakshmanan, head, department of nanoscience and technology, TNAU, says the sanitizer formula that is approved by health department normally contains 70% alcohol combined with hydrogen peroxide and glycerol. Alcohol and hydrogen peroxide, he says, act as disinfectants. “The problem is that the disinfectant molecules evaporate quickly and hence they offer protection for hardly a minute. So, if the users touch a surface with germs after sanitizing hands, they start carrying virus or bacteria again,” he says. While the scientists used the same sanitizer formula, they enhanced the efficiency through the intervention of nanotechnology. “We have included naturally derived nanosystems in the formulation that act as adsorbents, so that alcohol and hydrogen peroxide molecules are released in a slow and sustained manner. This allows the disinfectants to stay longer on the hand surface. In our trials, we found the effect remaining for 10 to 25 minutes longer than a usual sanitizer,” says Lakshmanan, who led the team and conducted trials of the sanitizer. The duration of protection, he says, depends on the post application activities of the user. “People who did physical work or washing, cleaning, lifting and handling objects frequently after the sanitizer application had the effect only for 10 minutes, while people who involved in desk work such as writing, typing, watching a movie or just attending an event had the effect on for around 25 minutes.” TNAU has provided samples to the Indian Medical Association, Dental Association and Veterinary Association members and received promising feedback. TNAU vice-chancellor Dr N Kumar says, “By this month-end, we plan to tie up with companies to commercialize the product. The patent process has been initiated and we expect it to come through soon.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/tnau-comes-up-with-nano-hand-sanitizer/articleshow/75726359.cms||Pratiksha Ramkumar
May 14, 2020||Vadodara||Intern doc, nurse among 18 new Covid-19 cases in city||Vadodara: An intern doctor, nurse, a pregnant woman and a fruit seller were among the 18 who tested positive for Covid-19 in Vadodara since Tuesday evening. The total number of cases in the city has risen to 625. A major cause of concern has been the cases reported from new areas. Apart from hotspots that have witnessed cases earlier, fresh cases on Wednesday were reported from Sardar Heights in Samta, Dhanlaxmi Society in Karelibaug, Tarsali and Chhhani areas of the city. The intern doctor was posted at the Bhailal Amin General Hospital (BAGH) in the city. While hospital officials were not available for comment, sources in the Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) said that a couple of other positive cases may have links to the hospital. The fruit seller was amongst persons who were screened by the VMC to ensure that any possible super spreaders were identified. A 29-year-old pregnant woman is the latest to test positive of Covid-19 in Vadodara rural. The female, resident of an apartment on Bhayli Canal Road, has full term pregnancy. According to district health officials, the woman is an employee of Bank of Baroda (BoB). But since February 8, she is at home. “She was going for medical checkups,” said an official, adding that other details of her movement are being checked. She has been admitted at GMERS Medical College and Hospital, Gotri. It is worth mentioning here that there is a spike in number of cases surfacing from Bhayli area, which is located just on the outskirts of the Vadodara Municipal Corporation limits. The civic body is yet to declare any fresh deaths and the death toll due to Covid-19 remained at 32. Sources said that the death audit reports of some persons who had died after testing positive for Covid-19 were yet to be finalised.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/intern-doc-nurse-among-18-new-covid-19-cases-in-city/articleshow/75723998.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Agra||Senior BJP leader slams Hathras admin for filing FIR against cancer patient & son||Agra: A senior BJP leader and chairman of Hathras Nagar Palika on Wednesday slammed the district administration for getting an FIR registered against an elderly cancer patient and his son for “hiding” their Covid-19 positive status from them. “It is absolutely wrong to lodge the FIR against the cancer patient. The administration is trying to cover up its own failures by doing so,” chairman Ashish Sharma told TOI.Sharma said that he has also written a letter to chief minister Yogi Adityanath.“How can the health department harass a seriously ill person? He himself alerted them with all the required details of his Covid-19 status. I have informed the nodal officer, who has been sent by the government in the district, and he has assured me to apprise the state government about this for further action,” Sharma said.District magistrate Praveen Kumar Laxkar refused to comment on the issue, but assured to look into the matter. Hathras health department had lodged an FIR against the cancer patient and his son under section 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of IPC along with section 51 of the Disaster Management Act, 2005 and section 3 of the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897 at Hathras Kotwali police station. However, the family members have refuted the charge and claimed that they had provided the information to the Covid cell immediately after they received a report from a private hospital in Noida, which was treating the patient.Currently, 10 family members of the patient are being treated for coronavirus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/senior-bjp-leader-slams-hathras-admin-for-filing-fir-against-cancer-patient-son/articleshow/75725252.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Madurai||Licences of five fish shops cancelled||Madurai: The Madurai Corporation has revoked the licence of five fish shops in Karimedu market and sealed them for violating social distancing norms while they were temporarily operating at the MGR bus terminal on Wednesday. Meanwhile, the Karimedu market was closed as it posed a threat of spreading Covid-19 and shifted to MGR bus terminal. A large number of people gathered in the five shops at the bus terminal, flouting social distancing norms. It was noticed during a joint inspection by district collector T G Vinay and corporation commissioner S Visakan in the early hours on Wednesday. Following an instruction from the commissioner, corporation officials sealed the shops in Karimedu market and their licences cancelled. The commissioner and collector inspected various places, apart from the temporary fish market. They visited a wholesale fruit market at Mattuthavani and De Nobili school ground in K Pudur, where 45 retail fruit shops were shifted from Mattuthavani recently. They instructed the traders to make sure the place is not crowded, and their customers maintain social distancing. While many shops have been closed for violating lockdown rules, corporation officials said that strict action will continue to take place in future.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/licences-of-five-fish-shops-cancelled/articleshow/75726911.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Erode||Last Covid-19 +ve patient discharged from hospital||COIMBATORE: The last patient to test positive for Covid-19 in the district was discharged from ESI Hospital on Tuesday. Though the district has no more active Covid-19 cases, public health authorities say it does not mean the district is free of the virus. They say the district administration should continue testing all symptomatic patients and social distancing must be practiced. People however are relieved at the news. While Wednesday was the 10th day that the district did not record a new Covid-19 case, it was also the last day it had an active Covid-19 case since March 22. The district administration confirmed that the 31-year-old pregnant woman from Karumbukadai who tested positive for the virus on May 2, but was asymptomatic, was discharged from the hospital after she tested negative for the virus. However, the public health department said they will continue testing people for the virus—all patients coming in with flu like symptoms, pregnant women coming in for delivery and patients suffering from breathlessness. “We will also continue monitoring patients coming from abroad, from other states and districts,” deputy director of public health Dr G Ramesh Kumar said. “If we do get new patients, we will again put in motion our containment exercises,” he said. Many Coimbatorians welcomed this news stating that they are finally seeing the rewards for strictly following lockdown rules. “It is a great feeling and relief that there are no Covid-19 cases in the district. Will help people come to work more confidently and industrial activity to resume,” president of CODISSIA R Ramamurthy said. “We thank all the officials, corporation, health department and IAS officers who worked tirelessly to contain the spread to this extent,” he said. The public too felt that nil case is a huge psychological booster. “Now with offices asking us to return to work, our families are still scared. This figure will give more confident to return to our normal lives,” said R Vivek, a financial consultant. Public health experts however cautioned that just because a district does not have a known Covid-19 case, it does not mean that the perimeters are Covid-19 free. “There may still be asymptomatic Covid-19 infected people in the city who were not detected. There may also be undetected community spread that may show up later,” said infectious diseases expert, Dr Varun Sundaramoorthy of Kovai Medical Centre and Hospital. “All the more because epidemic’s peak has not even been reached yet in India,” he said. Former director of public health Dr P Kulandaisamy also cautioned against people reducing their guard, especially in terms of practising hand hygiene, social distancing and wearing masks. “The foreign returnees were our first wave of infection, the New Delhi conference was our second wave, the third wave is the Koyambedu cluster and waves will keep coming. The speed at which the virus spreads will reduce only when we achieve herd immunity,” he said. The other districts in the region who have no active cases are Tirupur and Erode. While Nilgiris also had no active cases for almost 10 days, it now has five cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/last-covid-19-ve-patient-discharged-from-hospital/articleshow/75734013.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Migrants get travel pass, but no train||HYDERABAD: Several migrant workers who had received notification and travel pass with the date of journey and other details for travel to Bihar, Jharkhand, and Odisha have been left in a lurch as no Shramik Special trains have been operated from the state in the past four days. “Around 2,000 migrant workers from Odisha have registered themselves for travel, but with no trains running to/from the state to their destination, they are confused. Most of them don’t understand the procedures and are just expecting us to inform when the Shramik trains would leave for their home states and from which station,” a railway official, requesting anonymity, told TOI. He added that they don’t have information about Shramik trains running in advance and the process was monitored by the state government. Thousands of migrant workers from Odisha were stuck in different locations across the city. “We have received a travel pass and even a notification on our phones saying that our travel date is May 12, but when we reached the Lingampally railway station at 4am, we found out that no trains were running,” said Mohammed Junaid, a migrant worker from Koderma in Jharkhand who lives with a group of workers from his native state. He added that the restless workers keep making rounds of the railway station to see if any train was running.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/migrants-get-travel-pass-but-no-train/articleshow/75726382.cms||Arya Sharan
May 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Tribal farmer grows apples in Telangana, CM K Chandrasekhar Rao wants to taste them||HYDERABAD: While chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao is keen to pursue his agenda of ‘what farmers should grow when’ to ensure demand for agriculture produce, a 37-year-old tribal farmer from Komarambheem Asifabad district is already cultivating unconventional crops. Balaji Kendre of Kerameri mandal grows apples. Apple cultivation is not something one would expect in hot and arid uplands, but Balaji’s determination to experiment has borne fruit. KCR who has set his eyes on innovative farming has expressed a desire to taste the apples grown by Balaji, a winner of ‘Best Farmer in the State’ award in 2017. “The apples will ripen better by this month-end and I will be taking a few kilos to the CM to taste,” Balaji told TOI from his Dhanora village home. Known for adopting innovative methods in agriculture, Balaji started cultivating apples four years ago. He cultivated sweet lemon and orange in his farmland in place of traditional cotton, red gram, sorghum and green gram crops which are grown by a majority of farmers. “We are under the belief that apples are grown only in cold climates. I came to know of a particular variety that was cultivated in Himachal Pradesh even when the temperature was 40 degrees. I got 10 plants from there and began cultivation,” Balaji recalled. Enthused by his progressive mindset, Hyderabad-based Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB) and horticulture department supplied him more plants. “Balaji has studied how cultivation should be done and we are providing him technical support,” Asifabad district horticulture officer Shyam Rao Rathod said. From flowering stage to bud stage to fruit stage, Balaji has taken care of apple cultivation in his three-acre farm in the last three years. “This is fourth year. I will sell them commercially from next year,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/tribal-farmer-grows-apples-in-t-kcr-wants-to-taste-them/articleshow/75726351.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
May 14, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Government accords chief justice status to AP Lokayukta||HYDERABAD: The AP government on Wednesday conferred the status of chief justice of high court on AP Lokayukta Justice P Lakshmana Reddy. A GO to this effect was released on May 13, 2020 eight months after he took over as AP Lokayukta. In fact, the Lokayukta Act says that every Lokayukta will have the status of a HC CJ and he or she is entitled to all the pay and perks on par with a CJ. However, the AP administration failed to notify this in the initial appointment letter issued on September 9 last year and it took eight months to rectify the problem and accord the CJ status on Justice Lakshmana Reddy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/govt-accords-cj-status-to-ap-lokayukta/articleshow/75726380.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Nagpur||GST grant cut a blow to NMC finances||Nagpur: The financial woes of Nagpur Municipal Corporation seem unending. Poor revenue generation and now coronavirus pandemic has dealt a body blow to the NMC finances. What has added to NMC misery is the 47% cut in GST grant from the state government from Rs93 crore per month to Rs50 crore. A NMC senior official confirmed that Maha Vikas Aghadi government has slashed NMC’s GST grant since April. Even in May, the civic body received Rs50 crore only. The state government has also asked NMC to give details of its financial status including non-utilization of any reserve funds. In April, NMC received Rs71.68 crore, of which revenue from its own sources was a paltry Rs7.57 crore. Civic body’s monthly committed expenditure is over Rs100 crore. Lakhs spent for providing various facilities at quarantine centres has added burden to the burden. Following state government footsteps, NMC reduced the salary of almost all employees except sanitary workers and health department staff by 50%. Despite this, it is unable to disburse April salary to many departments. If shortage of funds continues it will put brakes on the city’s development works. NMC’s financial liability has increased manifold while its revenue has stagnated. Though municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe had taken various measures to streamline financial situation of the civic body, still it is finding it difficult to pay for city bus operations, fuel charge to contractors. It even did not pay last two months’ outstanding to a pump supplying fuel toNMC vehicles. Sources said the situation touched a low in the last three terms of the BJP, which could not get proper roads constructed, sewage system has collapsed but the civic body continued to indulge in wasteful expenditure. Not just opposition leaders, but also ruling party corporators are complaining about their inability to address civic issues in their wards due to lack of funds. A senior BJP corporator from east Nagpur requesting anonymity said, “Without money how can we get works done? We are dependent on Smart City Mission or other central government schemes for money.” Standing committee chairman Vijay Zalke said he will soon hold a meeting with officials to assess the situation. Major Income (April 2020) 7.57 crore---NMC revenue from property tax, LBT, water etc 50 crore---GST grant 14.11 crore---Stamp duty Committed Expenditure (Monthly budget) 45 crore---Salary and pension 10 crore---Street light & electric bills 9 crore---Loan repayment 2 crore---Water payment 8 crore---Payment to garbage operators 1.25 crore---Fuel 6 crore---Bhandewadi sewage treatment plant||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/gst-grant-cut-a-blow-to-nmc-finances/articleshow/75726923.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
May 14, 2020||Aurangabad||34 fresh Covid-19 cases take total to 687 in Aurangabad||Aurangabad: Two people succumbed to Covid-19 on Tuesday while another two died of the infection on Wednesday, taking the total number of deaths in the city to 19. Also, as many as 34 more people tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday, taking the total number of positive cases in Aurangabad to 687. So far, 210 people have been discharged. A 58-year-old woman from Husain Colony of Garkheda area and a 94-year-old woman from Beed Bypass area passed away on Tuesday. A 65-year-old from Silk mills colony and a 59-year-old woman from Rehmaniya colony who was undergoing treatment in a private hospital died on Wednesday. According to officials, the woman from Husain Colony was admitted to Government Medical College and Hospital on Tuesday morning under critical condition. The woman was suffering from hyperthyroidism and diabetes and passed away in the afternoon while undergoing treatment.Not taking any chance, her throat swab sample was collected and sent for testing. The results came out positive on Tuesday night. Similarly, the woman from Beed Bypass area was also brought to the GMCH in an unconscious state on Tuesday evening. She too died of while undergoing treatment and her throat swab sample tested positive on Tuesday night. Of the 34 people who tested positive onn Wednesday, 20 are men while 14 are women. As per data provided by the authorities, areas like Ram nagar, Bhausinghpura, Padampura, Bhujbalnagar, Nandvan Colony, Vrundavan Colony, Kailashnagar, Gandhinagar, Vijaynagar, N-8, GMCH premises, Silk milk,Sillekhana,Shah Bazaar, Bhadkal Gate, Arunoday colony have reported a case each, while Pundaliknagar, Gaganbavdi of Nandanvan colony, Sanjay Nagar, Satara, Rehmaniya Colony have reported two cases each, Hussain Colony reported three cases and Jaibhavani Nagar reported five cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/34-fresh-covid-19-cases-take-total-to-687-in-aurangabad/articleshow/75725267.cms||Mohammed Akhef
May 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Woman stays with hubby’s body for 3 days||Hyderabad: A mentally-unstable woman spent three days with her husband’s decomposed body in their house in Nizamabad. The deceased was a retired VRO, who died three days ago due to natural causes. The incident came to light on Wednesday after neighbours checked on the woman and sensed foul smell from the house. They informed the police, who alerted the couple’s son Hyderabad. A case was registered. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/woman-stays-with-hubbys-body-for-3-days/articleshow/75726405.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Navi-mumbai||Record deaths in Maharashtra (54), Mumbai (40); state cases over 25,000||MUMBAI: With the coronavirus outbreak showing little signs of slowing, Maharashtra on Wednesday breached the 25,000 mark to reach 25,922 cases. It added 1,495 new cases on Wednesday, its third-highest jump in a single day, and recorded 54 deaths, its highest toll so far in a day. The state’s overall death toll (975) is now worryingly close to the 1,000 mark. Maharashtra has been adding over 1,000 new cases every day for the past eight days, which have contributed to a staggering 10,397 cases and 358 deaths. A day after Mumbai reported a dip in cases, the number again increased sharply to 800, its second highest single-day addition so far. With this, the city’s overall case tally breached the 15,000 mark to reach 15,747. Also, of the 54 deaths in the state, 40 were from Mumbai — the highest number of Covid-19 deaths the city has recorded in a single day so far. The toll for Mumbai now stands at 596. The highest number of deaths previously reported in Mumbai was 28, on May 12. A total of 5,802 cases have been reported from Mumbai in the past eight days, with 209 deaths in the same period. The BMC said that of the 800 cases reported on Wednesday, 198 had tested positive in various laboratories between May 10 and May 11. Among Mumbai’s casualties was a 57-year-old BEST employee—the undertaking’s 6th Covid victim. Meanwhile, the state government has been working on a plan for Lockdown 4.0 from Monday. It is likely that some districts may get some more relaxation, but cities like Mumbai and its neighbouring regions may not be in that group. “The manner in which these areas have been adding cases, it may be very difficult to give any further relaxations,” said a senior official. With death toll high, curbs unlikely to be eased in MumbaiWith the extended national lockdown set to end on May 17, the Maharashtra government is working on a fresh plan for Lockdown 4.0. It is likely that some districts in the state may get some more relaxations in the next phase of the lockdown, but cities like Mumbai and its neighbouring regions, the Pune region, Malegaon and Aurangabad may not be in that group. “The manner in which these areas have been adding cases, it may be very difficult to give any further relaxations,” said a senior official. Neighbouring Thane and Navi Mumbai also continued to see a rise in cases. Navi Mumbai breached the 1,000 mark on Wednesday, while Thane crossed the 800 mark of Covid-19 patients after 47 new cases were detected in the past 24 hours, in addition to three fresh fatalities. Around 37 people have died in Thane so far. A 22-year-old woman from Rabodi was the youngest patient in Thane to have succumbed to the virus. Sandeep Malvi, Thane municipal corporation’s deputy municipal commissioner said the woman had thyroid disorder. The number of Covid-19 cases in Thane city has shot up from 712 to 843 within a span of three days. The state said that apart from Mumbai that saw the maximum number of deaths, six deaths were recorded from Pune, two each from Jalgaon, Solapur city and Aurangabad city, and one each from Vasai-Virar and Ratnagiri. Twenty-nine of those who died were over 60 years old, 21 were from the age-group 40-59, and four were less than 40 years old. 36 out of the 54 patients (67%) had co-morbidities such as diabetes, hypertension and heart disease. Of the 40 who died in Mumbai, 22 had co-morbidities. A BEST staffer died on Wednesday, but the case was not added to the official state count for the day. A civic official said that they were adding more beds to the dedicated Covid hospitals as there was a sharp rise in the number of those asking for beds. “In this week, 40-bed Covid wards have been started in Sion and KEM hospitals to cater to moderate patients needing oxygen,” a civic official said. A total of 422 people were discharged on Wednesday, taking the total number of those discharged to 5,547.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/record-deaths-in-state-54-city-40-maha-cases-over-25k/articleshow/75729298.cms||Bhavika Jain
May 14, 2020||Bhubaneswar||State’s Covid count crosses century in one day||Bhubaneswar: In the biggest jump of Covid-19 infections, the state on Wednesday registered 101 positive cases, 90 of those having returned from other states. With this, the total number of positive cases went up to 538. While 52 cases were reported from Ganjam, 33 were from Balasore, seven each from Jajpur and Sundargarh and two from Keonjhar. Special relief commissioner Pradeep Kumar Jena said the spurt in positive cases was not unexpected as a lot of people are returning from some of the worst affected areas. “But it should not be a cause of concern because all the returnees are in quarantine centres and have not come in contact with the local people,” Jena said. Since May 3, the state has received more than 70,000 migrant workers who have returned in 37 trains and around 400 buses. During this period the state witnessed 376 cases, more than 300 of them being returnees from states like Gujarat, Kerala, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and West Bengal, government authorities said. Ganjam district alone has reported 210 cases, all migrants and mostly from Surat in Gujarat. Experts sounded a note of caution in view of the rising cases. “With so many people returning, their monitoring will be a massive task for the government,” said Bramhadev Pattnaik, a virologist and director of One Health Centre for Surveillance and Disease Dynamics in AIPH University, Bhubaneswar. “Apart from taking swab samples for tests, the government should collect their blood samples and preserve the serum so that whenever an authentic antibody test is available, these can be tested to understand the extent of infection and bigger public health fallout,” Pattnaik suggested. After reporting the first positive case on March 15, cases in the state touched 100 after 40 days on April 20. The state added the next 100 in 11 days (May 6) and within the next three days, it crossed 300. It took another three days to cross 400 and just one day to go over 500. Meanwhile, Bhubaneswar city, which is a red zone and had witnessed a spurt in positive cases in March-April, has reasons to cheer. The state capital, which reported 50 infected people, is left with only three active cases. While 45 have recovered, two have died. The third death was reported from Ganjam district. The state has set up around 14,000 quarantine centres, at least one in each of the 6,798 panchayats. The government says these can accommodate around 5.5 lakh people. The government has decided a four-week isolation period for the returnees, first three weeks in the quarantine centres and another week at home. EoM||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/states-covid-count-crosses-century-in-one-day/articleshow/75725276.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Madurai||Guest workers in Madurai protest, seek return to native||Madurai: A large number of guest workers involved in the construction of the elevated highway at Nathan Road, who refused to work, gathered at Oomachikulam urging the Madurai district administration to send them back to their native place. They gathered around 9am and started walking towards Oomachikulam police station. Police who stopped them had talks with the guest workers. Soon, revenue officials led by Madurai north tahsildar joined the talks. Around 200 workers took part in the protest. They said that swift action should be taken to send them back to their native places as they wanted to visit their family members. They said that the construction project contractor is forcing them to work, but they are not in a mental state to work and want to leave the city at the earliest. Revenue officials said that already 350 of them have given their willingness to go to their native places along with the Aadhaar card copies. The details are being uploaded online. They will be shortly sent to their native places. Meanwhile, their contractor has been asked to take care of them by providing food. Following assurances from the officials that they will expedite work to arrange vehicle, they left the place to Veerapandi village, where they are staying.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/guest-workers-in-madurai-protest-seek-return-to-native/articleshow/75726917.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Goa||Ex-dy speaker’s house gutted||Valpoi: A major fire broke out at the house of Narhari Haldankar, former deputy speaker and former MLA of Valpoi, on Wednesday evening. Fire tenders from Valpoi, Bicholim, Ponda and Old Goa fire stations were pressed into service and took over three hours to extinguish the fire.  Valpoi fire officer Shripad Gawas said the fire broke out in the ground floor of the house where cashew feni was stored in barrels as Haldankar owns a feni manufacturing business. He further said that the exact loss and cause of fire cannot be ascertained as of now. The family members, residing on the first floor, escaped without any injuries as the locals managed to rescue them. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ex-dy-speakers-house-gutted/articleshow/75727360.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Thane||Record deaths in Maharashtra (54), Mumbai (40); state cases over 25,000||MUMBAI: With the coronavirus outbreak showing little signs of slowing, Maharashtra on Wednesday breached the 25,000 mark to reach 25,922 cases. It added 1,495 new cases on Wednesday, its third-highest jump in a single day, and recorded 54 deaths, its highest toll so far in a day. The state’s overall death toll (975) is now worryingly close to the 1,000 mark. Maharashtra has been adding over 1,000 new cases every day for the past eight days, which have contributed to a staggering 10,397 cases and 358 deaths. A day after Mumbai reported a dip in cases, the number again increased sharply to 800, its second highest single-day addition so far. With this, the city’s overall case tally breached the 15,000 mark to reach 15,747. Also, of the 54 deaths in the state, 40 were from Mumbai — the highest number of Covid-19 deaths the city has recorded in a single day so far. The toll for Mumbai now stands at 596. The highest number of deaths previously reported in Mumbai was 28, on May 12. A total of 5,802 cases have been reported from Mumbai in the past eight days, with 209 deaths in the same period. The BMC said that of the 800 cases reported on Wednesday, 198 had tested positive in various laboratories between May 10 and May 11. Among Mumbai’s casualties was a 57-year-old BEST employee—the undertaking’s 6th Covid victim. Meanwhile, the state government has been working on a plan for Lockdown 4.0 from Monday. It is likely that some districts may get some more relaxation, but cities like Mumbai and its neighbouring regions may not be in that group. “The manner in which these areas have been adding cases, it may be very difficult to give any further relaxations,” said a senior official. With death toll high, curbs unlikely to be eased in MumbaiWith the extended national lockdown set to end on May 17, the Maharashtra government is working on a fresh plan for Lockdown 4.0. It is likely that some districts in the state may get some more relaxations in the next phase of the lockdown, but cities like Mumbai and its neighbouring regions, the Pune region, Malegaon and Aurangabad may not be in that group. “The manner in which these areas have been adding cases, it may be very difficult to give any further relaxations,” said a senior official. Neighbouring Thane and Navi Mumbai also continued to see a rise in cases. Navi Mumbai breached the 1,000 mark on Wednesday, while Thane crossed the 800 mark of Covid-19 patients after 47 new cases were detected in the past 24 hours, in addition to three fresh fatalities. Around 37 people have died in Thane so far. A 22-year-old woman from Rabodi was the youngest patient in Thane to have succumbed to the virus. Sandeep Malvi, Thane municipal corporation’s deputy municipal commissioner said the woman had thyroid disorder. The number of Covid-19 cases in Thane city has shot up from 712 to 843 within a span of three days. The state said that apart from Mumbai that saw the maximum number of deaths, six deaths were recorded from Pune, two each from Jalgaon, Solapur city and Aurangabad city, and one each from Vasai-Virar and Ratnagiri. Twenty-nine of those who died were over 60 years old, 21 were from the age-group 40-59, and four were less than 40 years old. 36 out of the 54 patients (67%) had co-morbidities such as diabetes, hypertension and heart disease. Of the 40 who died in Mumbai, 22 had co-morbidities. A BEST staffer died on Wednesday, but the case was not added to the official state count for the day. A civic official said that they were adding more beds to the dedicated Covid hospitals as there was a sharp rise in the number of those asking for beds. “In this week, 40-bed Covid wards have been started in Sion and KEM hospitals to cater to moderate patients needing oxygen,” a civic official said. A total of 422 people were discharged on Wednesday, taking the total number of those discharged to 5,547.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/record-deaths-in-state-54-city-40-maha-cases-over-25k/articleshow/75729296.cms||Bhavika Jain
May 14, 2020||Mumbai||Record deaths in Maharashtra (54), Mumbai (40); state cases over 25,000||MUMBAI: With the coronavirus outbreak showing little signs of slowing, Maharashtra on Wednesday breached the 25,000 mark to reach 25,922 cases. It added 1,495 new cases on Wednesday, its third-highest jump in a single day, and recorded 54 deaths, its highest toll so far in a day. The state’s overall death toll (975) is now worryingly close to the 1,000 mark. Maharashtra has been adding over 1,000 new cases every day for the past eight days, which have contributed to a staggering 10,397 cases and 358 deaths. A day after Mumbai reported a dip in cases, the number again increased sharply to 800, its second highest single-day addition so far. With this, the city’s overall case tally breached the 15,000 mark to reach 15,747. Also, of the 54 deaths in the state, 40 were from Mumbai — the highest number of Covid-19 deaths the city has recorded in a single day so far. The toll for Mumbai now stands at 596. The highest number of deaths previously reported in Mumbai was 28, on May 12. A total of 5,802 cases have been reported from Mumbai in the past eight days, with 209 deaths in the same period. The BMC said that of the 800 cases reported on Wednesday, 198 had tested positive in various laboratories between May 10 and May 11. Among Mumbai’s casualties was a 57-year-old BEST employee—the undertaking’s 6th Covid victim. Meanwhile, the state government has been working on a plan for Lockdown 4.0 from Monday. It is likely that some districts may get some more relaxation, but cities like Mumbai and its neighbouring regions may not be in that group. “The manner in which these areas have been adding cases, it may be very difficult to give any further relaxations,” said a senior official. With death toll high, curbs unlikely to be eased in MumbaiWith the extended national lockdown set to end on May 17, the Maharashtra government is working on a fresh plan for Lockdown 4.0. It is likely that some districts in the state may get some more relaxations in the next phase of the lockdown, but cities like Mumbai and its neighbouring regions, the Pune region, Malegaon and Aurangabad may not be in that group. “The manner in which these areas have been adding cases, it may be very difficult to give any further relaxations,” said a senior official. Neighbouring Thane and Navi Mumbai also continued to see a rise in cases. Navi Mumbai breached the 1,000 mark on Wednesday, while Thane crossed the 800 mark of Covid-19 patients after 47 new cases were detected in the past 24 hours, in addition to three fresh fatalities. Around 37 people have died in Thane so far. A 22-year-old woman from Rabodi was the youngest patient in Thane to have succumbed to the virus. Sandeep Malvi, Thane municipal corporation’s deputy municipal commissioner said the woman had thyroid disorder. The number of Covid-19 cases in Thane city has shot up from 712 to 843 within a span of three days. The state said that apart from Mumbai that saw the maximum number of deaths, six deaths were recorded from Pune, two each from Jalgaon, Solapur city and Aurangabad city, and one each from Vasai-Virar and Ratnagiri. Twenty-nine of those who died were over 60 years old, 21 were from the age-group 40-59, and four were less than 40 years old. 36 out of the 54 patients (67%) had co-morbidities such as diabetes, hypertension and heart disease. Of the 40 who died in Mumbai, 22 had co-morbidities. A BEST staffer died on Wednesday, but the case was not added to the official state count for the day. A civic official said that they were adding more beds to the dedicated Covid hospitals as there was a sharp rise in the number of those asking for beds. “In this week, 40-bed Covid wards have been started in Sion and KEM hospitals to cater to moderate patients needing oxygen,” a civic official said. A total of 422 people were discharged on Wednesday, taking the total number of those discharged to 5,547.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/record-deaths-in-state-54-city-40-maha-cases-over-25k/articleshow/75727334.cms||Bhavika Jain
May 14, 2020||Coimbatore||Coimbatore: MSMEs upbeat about stimulus package||COIMBATORE: Industry representatives in Coimbatore and Tirupur called Union finance minster Nirmala Sitharaman’s announcements on Wednesday for reviving MSMEs a much-needed measure at this juncture. Collateral-free loans and subordinate debts for stressed units drew much appreciation from industrialists. Representatives of micro, small and medium enterprise (MSME) associations have, for more than 40 days of the lockdown, been seeking assistance or a revival package from the Centre to tide over the fund crunch due to the lockdown. They said most of their demands have been met. R Ramamurthy, president of the Coimbatore District Small Scale Industries Association (Codissia), said the Centre had taken into account their representations. “The Centre understands MSMEs. The highlight was the announcement of a subordinate debt provision of Rs 20,000crore for stressed and NPA MSMEs. They have also categorised MSMEs as standard ones, for which collateral-free loan of Rs 3lakh crore has been announced, stressed or NPA MSMEs, and potential MSMEs for which a Rs 50,000 crore ‘fund of funds’ has been created. This shows the Centre has felt the needs of the sector,” he said. J James, district president of the Tamil Nadu Association of Cottage and Tiny Enterprises (TACT), said the collateral-free loan of Rs 3lakh crore, with a four-year tenure, was a welcome move, so was the subordinate debt for stressed MSMEs. “However, there has to be certain flexibilities in the banking sector or many micro units may not be able to avail the loans. If banks provide loans based on our current papers, most of us can’t benefit. For the past three years, we have been in one crisis or the other. The banks should provide us capital loans based on our balance sheets from three years,” he told TOI. Representatives of textile industry in Tirupur said the announcements were favourable to them as 75% of Tirupur’s textile units are MSMEs. Raja M Shanmugam, president of the Tirupur Exporters Association, said the ‘fund of funds’ will help potential units to expand operations by showing previous performance. “The Rs 20,000crore subordinate debt for stressed and NPA industries will help revive those industries quickly.” Another ‘bold’ move, the industrialists said, was reclassification of MSMEs. As investment limits have been increased for MSMEs, the ecosystem, both in Coimbatore and Tirupur, will get a boost and more industrial units will be benefited. Of late, micro units were purchasing automated machineries, James said. “A CNC machine costs around Rs 25lakh. So, micro units can invest more in machinery without being apprehensive of losing their ‘micro’ status and benefits.” Some industrialists, however, said they were disappointed with the announcements as none of them will help MSMEs immediately. S Surulivel, former president of the Coimbatore Sidco Industrial Estate Manufacturers Welfare Association (Cosiema), said the only relief was the announcement that all pending payments from government will be cleared in 45 days. “There is no interest waiver for the lockdown period. The conditions for availing PF contribution were not relaxed. It is very difficult to meet the criteria that 90% of employees should get pay of less than Rs 15,000,” he said. “The new definition of MSMEs will lead to confusion as both investment and turnover conditions should be satisfied to keep the status and service sector is combined with manufacturing sector.” But A Sakthivel, chairman of the Apparel Export Promotion Council (AEPC), welcomed the announcements. “We welcome the decision to disallow global tenders by the government for up to Rs 200 crore. This will boost local industries who otherwise found it difficult to compete with foreign competitors. It will further help in realizing the PM’s dream of making an atmanirbhar (self-reliant) India.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/msmes-upbeat-about-stimulus-package/articleshow/75726378.cms||Vishnu Swaroop
May 14, 2020||India||15 years on, schools to get new curriculum||NEW DELHI: The process of the National Curriculum Framework (NCF) review, the biggest exercise in school education reforms, has started with National Council of Educational Research And Training (NCERT) submitting its proposal to the ministry of human resource development earlier this month. As per the proposal, by April 2021 the new curriculum would be ready and the development of the new school textbooks will commence. The textbooks will be ready by April 2023, and the new curriculum content will be reduced in each subject to its core essentials. According to government sources, the development of the new curriculum will be in sync with the reforms proposed in the National Education Policy 2020 which is likely to be placed before the Union Cabinet by the end of this month. The review of the NCF is a comprehensive exercise which looks at content and methods of teaching in schools. NCERT started its internal work from November and submitted its proposal for setting up of the steering committee. The revision of NCF will be happening after 15 years. The introduction of the new NCF will be in sync with the implementation of the examination reforms such as uniform assessment and evaluation system under the proposed National Assessment Centre as proposed by the NEP 2020. Once the steering committee is set up, it will decide on the working groups. According to a senior HRD official, NCERT has already started the shortlisting of the experts for the 22 working groups, which include specialists who could contribute in categories such as inclusion, gender education, educational technology/ ICT, pre-school education, foundational literacy and numeracy, teacher education and assessment in education, among others. According to a government source, “The (national education) policy is likely to be announced by end of this month. MHRD will also announce the steering committee and chairperson around the same time.” According to the draft NEP 2020 being finalised at present, the “new and comprehensive NCF 2020 will be formulated based on the principles of this National Education Policy 2020,” and “reduction in, and increased flexibility of, school curriculum content … must be accompanied by parallel changes in school textbooks. All textbooks shall aim to contain the essential core material (together with discussion, analysis, examples, and applications) deemed important on a national level, but at the same time contain any desired nuances and supplementary material as per local contexts and needs.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/15-years-on-schools-to-get-new-curriculum/articleshow/75727846.cms||Manash Pratim Gohain
May 14, 2020||Aurangabad||Shortage of workers hits real estate sector hard||Aurangabad/Kolhapur: The mass exodus of migrant workers, after hurting the industrial sector, is now beginning to affect even on the real estate market. Migrant workers not just do a bulk of the unskilled activities at construction sites, they are also involved in a range of semi-skilled and skilled jobs in the realty business, said the realtors. Officer bearers at the Aurangabad chapter of the Confederation of Real Estate Developers’ Associations of India (Credai) on Wednesday said the revival of the construction business amid easing of lockdown was possible only after the return of the migrant workers. “Right from operating ready-mix cement plants to laying floors and carpentry to colouring jobs, migrant workers have key roles at the construction site. The mass exodus of this workforce has created a void and we do not know how to cope with it. Only the workers’ return can ensure a smooth restart of activities in the construction business,” Sunil Bedmutha, secretary of Credai, Aurangabad chapter, said. “Workers from Rajasthan, Odisha, West Bengal, Jharkhand and Uttar Pradesh etc. had found employment at construction sites in Maharashtra. The Covid-19 scare among their family members back home made these workers homesick. Despite all care and assurances, these workers chose to go back,” Bedmutha said. A builder, preferring anonymity, said the real estate sector would remain gloomy at least till Diwali. On possible impact of Covid 19 on home prices, Credai has said that government should relax the tax regime to reduce home prices. “At our end, we are financially constrained to take any call on prices. The government should reduce stamp duty from 7% to 1% and also do away the provision of charging GST from buyers. It will help in reducing the prices,” Credai officials said. They have already approached MahaRERA with a plea to relax the norms associated with timely possession of houses to buyers. In Kolhapur, the shortage of workers has hit the small-scale construction sector especially hard. Sandip Shirodkar, a civil engineer, said, “I have managed to get some local workers. The clients want to speed up the work, but we are facing a shortage of workers and raw materials. The supply of special sand required for finishing too has stopped due to lockdown. The cement cost has been increased. Small-scale construction activities cannot sustain for long like this. One homeowner, who had to stop construction of his two-storeyed house in Kasba Bawda, said, “I demolished my old house and started the new one. I am living in rented accommodation and can shift to the new house only after the construction of the first floor is completed. I have borrowed money, which I have to repay to the banks. Therefore, the work must be completed soon. The contractor has very few workers and not enough raw materials. The cost of the raw materials has also increased and I have to put in additional money to get the house constructed.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/shortage-of-workers-hits-real-estate-sector-hard/articleshow/75725296.cms||Prasad Joshi
May 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Fire breaks out at factory, 3 injured||Hyderabad: Three workers sustained burn injuries after a fire broke out at a biscuit factory at Nandigama in Rangareddy district on Wednesday. “A short circuit in the machinery triggered the fire. The workers sustained burn injuries on their hands and have been shifted to a hospital in Shamshabad,” said a fire officer. Police are investigating the cause of the mishap and are yet to register a case. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/fire-breaks-out-at-factory-3-injured/articleshow/75726427.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Madurai||Madurai opening up from Thursday||MADURAI: The district administration has decided to allow individual textiles, ready-made garments and footwear shops to function from Thursday on condition that they adhere to the safety norms to prevent the spread of Covid-19. These shops can function from 10 am to 7 pm but will not be able to switch on the air conditioner. The decision has been welcomed by Madurai Textile Merchants Association though some believe it came a little late. ``We have missed out on our crucial business, which is the wedding, school and Ramzan festival season. That’s when we do 30% of our annual sale, and all that is now gone,’’ said association secretary Ashraf Tayub. He said that the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industries had urged the central government not to extend the lockdown beyond April 15. “But when that did not happen, we knew many textile shops would go out of business. Textiles are sensitive goods which need regular dusting and cleaning to keep them in good condition,” said Ashraf. He fears that 30% of the goods in the shops would be soiled and not in selling condition. T Suresh Kumar of Nataraja Stores, one of oldest in the city situated at Amman Sannidhi, says that it is nearly 46 days since they shut shop and starting sales from May 14 will not be possible. ``I thought we would be closed for a maximum of a week when we shut down on March 24. I can imagine the mayhem I may have to see when I open my shop. Rats raid textile shops often and we take lot of precautions to keep them away, which has not been possible during the lockdown,’’ he said. Many like him are apprehensive as to how to go about after opening the shops. ``I can maintain social distancing with my workers, but when it comes to buying silk saris for occasions like wedding, people in Madurai come in crowds of not less than 10. How will I turn them away,’’ said M Jaffer who owns a shop in the city. In his order, district collector Dr T G Vinay said shops should ensure social distancing, wearing of masks by both customers and employees, hand sanitizer is provided to customers and the entire premises is sanitized. ``We don’t know how much sanitizer to use, how to supply it and if there are specifications because a 5 litre can of good quality sanitizer costs Rs 2,500 which would mean a recurring daily expenditure of that amount,’’ said Kalyan, another shopkeeper. Meanwhile, the collector said that bigger textile showrooms, multilevel shops like Pothys and Chennai Silks cannot open now as per point XI of GO 217.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/textiles-footwear-shops-can-open/articleshow/75726924.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Aurangabad||Gangapur villages get water tanker almost after 2 months||Aurangabad: The residents of Kadim Takli and nearby villages in Gangapur taluka finally received water tankers in the areas on Wednesday after waiting for almost two months. This brought relief to residents of the areas which have been facing water scarcity.Ganesh Kajbe, a resident of Kadim Takli village, said a water tanker arrived in his village and water was poured into a public well. “A pipeline is available to distribute the water from the well to the houses. We hope that regular supply of tankers takes place during the summer until the monsoon revives situation,” he said. In Takliwadi village, water was made available at the doorsteps of every resident, said the residents. In a report published on Wednesday, TOI highlighted the plans of the residents to take out a morcha despite the lockdown to press for the demand of water tanker.Communist Party of India functionary Ram Baheti said the residents have cancelled their agitation as the supply of water tanker has started. “Gangapur and Vaijapur talukas from Aurangabad are worst hit due to water scarcity every year during summer. The government authorities should pay necessary attention to the issue of water scarcity in these affected areas. The rural population is already facing a crisis due to the lockdown and water scarcity will only add to their woes,” he said.Government authorities reiterated that all local self-governing bodies from the water scarcity- hit areas have been asked to follow social distancing norm during the supply of water tankers. “In keeping with the instructions from the state government, all local self-governing bodies have been told to strictly ensure no crowding during the supply of tankers. The water supplied through tankers will be ideally first supplied at common storage locations such as over-head tanks or large underground storages, from where water will be distributed further. The hamlets or villages which do not have common storages have been asked to ensure arrangements of small tanks in front of every house,” authorities said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/gangapur-villages-get-water-tanker-almost-after-2-months/articleshow/75725320.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: SSLC and higher secondary examinations from May 26||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: State cabinet on Wednesday approved of the recommendations of general education department for conducting the pending examinations of SSLC and Higher Secondary courses from May 26 onwards. Three examinations (mathematics, physics and chemistry) of SSLC had to be postponed following the outbreak of Covid-19 pandemic and the subsequent lockdown announced by the government. These examinations will now be held in the afternoons on May 26 (Maths), May 27 (Physics) and May 28 (Chemistry). Plus Two examinations for various subjects will be conducted during the forenoons from May 26 to 30. Pending Plus One examinations will be held in the forenoon for first three days and in the afternoon for the rest. The Plus One exam schedule is as follows: May 26 - Entrepreneurship Development, VHSE (forenoon); May 27 - Music, Accountancy, Geography, Social Work, Sanskrit Sahithya (forenoon); May 28 – Economics (forenoon); May 29 - Physics, Philosophy, English Literature, Sociology (afternoon) and May 30 - Chemistry, Gandhian Studies, Anthropology (afternoon). The Plus Two exam schedule (all to be held in the forenoon) is as follows: May 26 - Entrepreneurship Development, VHSE; May 27 - Biology, Geology, Sanskrit Sastra, Electronics, Communicative English, Statistics, Part III Language; May 28 - Business Studies, Psychology, Electronic Service Technology (old), Electronic Systems; May 29 - History, Islamic History & Culture, Computer Application, Home Science, Computer Science; and May 30 - Maths, Political Science, Journalism. An elaborate guideline on the precautionary steps to be followed by school authorities as well as students for a safe conduct of the examinations, observing the social distancing norms and health precautions, would be announced in the coming days. The guideline, said sources in the department, would address the practical difficulties in conducting examinations at places in host spots and red zones. Meanwhile, the attendance of higher secondary teachers who turned up at evaluation camps which started on Wednesday amidst protests was less than the expected strength. Limited transportation facilities, said authorities, were the main reason for the drop in numbers on the first day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/sslc-and-higher-secondary-examinations-from-may-26/articleshow/75725318.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Agra||Two kids found dragging wood in used PPE suit in Agra||AGRA: Two minor vagabonds were found using a discarded Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) suit to drag home a heap of dry wood against the backdrop of an imposing DRDO laboratory in Agra Cantonment, a shocking visual which was captured on Wednesday afternoon on mobile phones and shared widely on social media platforms. The boys, who were busy collecting firewood, found the “fascinating” white PPE suit in a pile of garbage near a graveyard. The place is about one km away from Railway hospital, which now doubles up as an isolation centre for Covid-19 patients. One of the minors said, “We found the suit from a garbage dump near a burial site. We used the white suit to carry our firewoodWhen contacted, the health department told TOI that they burn all the hazardous medical waste, for which a private firm has been hired, suggesting that the suit belonged to some private hospital or person. Chief medical officer of Agra, Dr RC Pandey said, “I have seen the video. The PPE in the hands of the kids is not of government purchase. It has a different colour. We have hired a private company for the disposal of hazardous medical waste. All the medical waste generated in hospitals is collected in separate containers. It is sprayed with disinfectant and carried to a disposal facility on Firozabad road. All the waste is taken out of the vehicle and again disinfected. After that it is thrown in an electric furnace”. The father of a minor said, “The boys had gone to burial site to fetch firewood. They found the suit in a bag. They were not aware about the hazardous nature of the kit“Many people associated with the essential services are now using locally-made PPE kits. It seems one of them,” the CMO added. TOI traced the two minor friends, who live with their parents and siblings near railway staff quarters in Cantonment area. They belong to a nomadic tribe and live by road in makeshift tents. One of the minors said, “We found the suit from a garbage dump near a burial site. We used the white suit to carry our firewood. However, TOI team spotted scores of used PPE kits thrown in metal container outside TB ward of S N Medical College. Later, when we reached home, our parents asked us to immediately get rid of the suit and we dumped it in a nearby nullah.” The family had come from Bharatpur in search of work. But due to lockdown, the group has stuck in Agra. The father of a minor said, “The boys had gone to burial site to fetch firewood. They found the suit in a bag. They were not aware about the hazardous nature of the kit.” Talking to TOI, Dr Prabhat Agrawal, professor of medicine department at S N Medical College said, “Only those PPE kit will be harmful or hazardous which were used by medical staffers who came in contact with Covid-19 patient. And if the discarded kit is three days old, it won’t be harmful to anyone, as virus gets destroyed by then.” By the time this report was filed, no one from the health department had reached to do screening and collect the samples of the children for Covid-19 testing. Watch Agra: Two kids carry firewood in used PPE kit, video goes viral||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/two-kids-found-dragging-wood-in-used-ppe-suit-in-agra/articleshow/75725301.cms||Arvind Chauhan
May 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Lockdown takes sheen off migrant zari workers’ lives in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: It was after two days that 22-year-old Sheik Ashraful finally had a meal on Tuesday when some friends whipped up a hot plate of dal and rice. They say the young man was surviving only on water and some biscuits when they reached his crammed room in Syed Nagar, nestled within the upscale MLA Colony of Banjara Hills. Sadly, this is the fate of at least a 1,000 zari workers — all of them from Bengal — living in this urban slum. With boutiques in the city closed indefinitely, they have been rendered jobless and penniless. “Since the lockdown started, we have not got any payments. We have been surviving on the help that some kind-hearted individuals or NGOs have been extending to us,” said Hasem Ali, from Uluberia in Bengal’s Howrah district. Most of them are the only earning members of their family. “I haven’t been able to send any money home for two months now. Even my family is struggling for two square meals,” chipped in Wasim Akram while pointing to a pile of fabric that he hasn’t been paid for embellishing. The empty pockets, he added, are taking a bigger toll on them since landlords have been hounding them for payment. “He has been calling every other day asking us to pay. Where will we get the money,” asked Sheik Imraj. These rooms, with 10 occupants, cost them around Rs 8,000 a month. Frustrated and emotionally drained, all these workers only want one thing now: to return to the comfort of their loved ones. “But even that is not happening. We have registered with the authorities for the train service but haven’t heard anything from them so far,” said Mosin Gazi..“We have been trying to help them with ration and other essentials. Their situation is quite bad considering their employers have washed their hands off them,” said Partha Pratim Mallik, member of Sporsho, a group that’s involved in relief work.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/lockdown-takes-sheen-off-migrant-zari-workers-lives/articleshow/75726425.cms||Sudipta Sengupta
May 14, 2020||Madurai||Indian embassy wants us to pay $100 per head to return: Fishers||Madurai: An audio clip purportedly of an Indian embassy official in the Iranian capital of Tehran asking fishermen, including many from Tamil Nadu, stranded in that country to mobilize $100 each to return home by ship has stirred a controversy after it got widely circulated on social media. “If you are serious about returning home you should have $100 US ready,” the official is heard saying in the interaction with Tamil fishermen staying on Kish Island. This has left the desolate 700 fishermen from Tamil Nadu and their relatives here worried. “The conversation took place on Tuesday when our mates Stalin and Vincent called the official. On Wednesday I spoke to another official in the embassy who reiterated the same. Arranging Rs 7,500 plus ($100 US) now is an uphill task as we have not been working for nearly three months,” says Robinson, 34, of Kanyakumari who is working on Kish Island. The fishermen including those from Gujarat and Kerala have been pleading with the government to facilitate their return since February 22. Robinson told TOI that the embassy official told him that the money is the ferry charge for the ship that would take them to India. “We don’t even have money for our food. We told the officials that we will try to arrange the money after we return home, but they said ‘no’. My relatives are struggling to arrange the money,” he said. The official told them that it could take about two weeks for the ship to arrive. He asked the fishermen to get their passports from their employers and prepare the exit visa. “We told them that our employers are refusing to allow us to return and sought the embassy’s intervention in this regard. However, he said they cannot intervene and that we will be informed five days before the ship arrives,” Robinson said. Robinson and another fisherman, Sahaya Ascar, working in Chiruyeh said the embassy had provided them raw materials to prepare food only once. “We received supplies in the third week of March but they lasted a week. Since boat owners don’t provide us much, we have one or two meals a day,” Ascar said. “We don’t want to waste time in repatriating them by waiting for the government to waive the fare. But their relatives here feel that the embassy should permit them to deposit the money in an Indian account,” said Meenavar Orunginaipu Sangam (MOS) secretary Charles Johnson.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/indian-embassy-wants-us-to-pay-100-per-head-to-return-fishers/articleshow/75726921.cms||M K Ananth
May 14, 2020||Surat||India’s largest MMF sector stuck in Surat’s red zone||Surat: The surging cases in Limbayat, a major coronavirus hotspot, has put a big question mark on the reopening of the country’s largest man-made fabric (MMF) sector worth Rs 50,000 crore. The reason being, nearly 90% of the textile markets, housing more than 55,000 shops, are located in Limbayat zone. Not only the markets, even 35% of the powerloom weaving units and 40% of the embroidery units too are located there. With 361 active Covid-19 cases, out of the total 927 cases in Surat city —Limbayat accounts for about 45% of the total. Also, with the area classified under red zone, re-opening of the textile markets looks a distant dream as of now. Surat’s MMF sector contributes to about 45% of the demand in the country. Secretary of Federation of Surat Textile Traders Association (FOSTTA), Champalal Bothra said, “Had the textile markets not been in Limbayat, the MMF sector would have commenced operation. About 90% markets are in Limbayat and we are not allowed to reopen the shops as the Covid-19 cases are on the rise.” FOSTTA has urged the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) and the district administration to allow the traders to open their shops for three hours a day starting from May 18 by issuing fresh lockdown guidelines. Dhiraj Shah, vice-chairman of Synthetic and Rayon Textile Export Promotion Council (SRTEPC) told TOI, “In other states including UP and Delhi, the textile business has commenced, but they are waiting for the supply of fabrics from Surat. Reopening of textile markets is very crucial in ensuring the normal working of the entire textile chain.” Jitendra Vakharia, president of South Gujarat Textile Processors Association told TOI, “The textile chain can’t operate without textile markets as processors get job work from the traders. With majority of the textile markets are in red zone, chances of commencing textile processing also looks bleak.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/indias-largest-mmf-sector-stuck-in-surats-red-zone/articleshow/75725314.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Delhi||Getting away, but no getting out: No transport for onward journey from railway station in Delhi||NEW DELHI: The elated faces of the people alighting from the special trains bringing them home to Delhi fell when they realised after disembarking at New Delhi Railway Station that there was no transport available for either a ride within the city or for onward travel to other states. And while they milled around, trying to arrange some means of reaching home, social distancing became the first casualty of inadequate arrangements at the station for the arrivals on Wednesday. Akhtar Hussain was among those who found their happy plans disintegrating at the station. Having arrived from Ahmedabad around 8am, the 22-year-old from Jammu had hoped to find a connecting train to his hometown. He waited for more than five hours before managing to hitch a ride to a boarding house, where he will stay until he finds a way to reach Jammu. In a similar predicament were others who had to go to places in Haryana, Punjab, UP and Himachal Pradesh. Ensuring connectivity for passengers from each train would have swiftly cleared the station and prevented the crowding, pointed out Abhay Srivastava of Ghaziabad, who grumbled that Delhi government could at least have allowed a few buses to take care of the passengers arriving from Ahmedabad, Patna, Mumbai and Howrah on Wednesday. “The government had the details of our journey and destinations,” Srivastava said. The Ghaziabad resident bristled, “What is the purpose of strict social distancing in the station and on the train when people are forced to fend for themselves immediately on exiting the station and jostle each other trying to find some mode of transport?” As the trains kept arriving, the lack of transport options led to the crowd swelling outside the station. Atul Kumar Yadav, 18, and Satya Prakash, 23, both employees of an Ahmedabad factory, had shelled out almost all their money to book the train tickets for Delhi. Now they didn’t know how to reach Pratapgarh in UP. “We may have to hitch a ride on a truck or even walk till wherever possible,” said Prakash. “We’ve spent most of our money, and have only a small sum we saved for our onward journey from Delhi.” For 33-year-old Chandan Kumar, his wife and three daughters, there was no alternative to walking. “There is no transport available and people are standing inches from each other. Even if one of them carries the infection, we are all at very high risk of contracting Covid-19,” he worried. For Santosh Gupta, the wait felt even longer. With tears in his eyes, the 32-year-old frantically surveyed the crowd around him for clues to reaching Shadipur in west Delhi. When TOI approached him, he said he had arrived from Bihar for the cremation of his father, who passed away six days ago. The train was the only way he could come to the capital, but now he didn’t know how to reach Shadipur. “I am sure I have to pay a big amount for someone to drop me there,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/getting-away-but-no-getting-out-no-transport-for-onward-journey-from-railway-station/articleshow/75726937.cms||Pankhuri Yadav
May 14, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Stuck between work from home, work for home||BHUBANESWAR: Life under coronavirus lockdown has taken away many things. The initial fear of letting anyone inside one’s house, including maids, is slowing wearing off as the country completed 50 days under the lockdown. The lockdown has left million families struggling between work from home and work for home. The netizens are starting to feel the burnt of managing household chores without maids, helpers or cooks. Many residential complexes are still in a fix on whether to allow maids in there, while the elderly and ill or those leaving in joint families say it is becoming increasingly difficult to work without maids and can result in calamitous damage to health. Shilpa Mishra, a 34-year-old entrepreneur, has been managing both her business and house in the absence of her maid. “I want the lockdown to end soon. I did not expect that it would continue for so long,” she added. Shilpa said managing her child and ailing mother-in-law, both of who have separate food and medicine needs, was burning her out. “Fearing infection, hygiene has become a priority. As a result, there is additional cleaning, dusting, sanitising and disinfecting in the whole house apart from regular chores,” she added. “I have been slogging for months,” she said. A domestic helper not only maintains a household, but plays a key role in the economy. The job helps them earn a living. A large number of women and also men (fewer) are engaged in house cleaning and cooking, among other services. A maid cleans houses, including sweeping, cleaning utensils, dusting and laundry. In the absence of maids, women have been doing all of this alone, or with the help of their better halves. But, the patience of having to do it regularly is fading away. Snehanjali Mishra, a retired government employee in her mid-60s, said she has been struggling since the lockdown was imposed. She suffers from joint pain. “My husband (72) and I are not keeping well because of age related issues,” she added. “We have to depend on our driver and maid for most of our daily needs, starting from stocking up on essentials to cooking and keeping the house clean. It has been two months since we are without them. It is affecting our health,” Snehanjali said. “Sometimes, our neighbours help and get us staples on request. However, managing all household chores on a daily basis has become overbearing,” she added. Women in joint families are no longer in a condition to run the homes smoothly. “The lockdown has come with a series of problems. One is being a resident of an area that has been listed as a containment zone,” Nirupama Prusty, a resident of Suryanagar, said. “In our house, there are eight senior citizens, who have different health complications and needs. Preparing different food for so many people on a daily basis, and then washing utensils or cleaning the house is taxing. However, we are in two minds on whether to allow the maid fearing the spread of the virus,” Nirupama said. Not everyone is equipped to buy a dishwasher or vacuum cleaner. Hence, it is creating unimaginable pressure on families functioning without domestic helpers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/stuck-between-work-from-home-work-for-home/articleshow/75725346.cms||Minati Singha
May 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana workers stuck in Mumbai cry out for help||HYDERABAD: It appears to be a long wait for over 1,000 Telangana workers, who are stranded in Mumbai. While the Telangana government has refused permission for their return after the recent spike in coronavirus cases among migrant labourers landing here, the workers, however, have cried foul over what they called ‘selective permission’ to some by the government while denying them a chance to return. Explaining their ordeal, Ramesh Ayan, a social worker, said their repeated pleas on the helpline seeking permission to return had fallen on deaf ears. “They are indifferent to the workers from Telangana. But, we have noticed that several other people who have pulled political strings are being allowed to return,” alleged Ramesh. He said though the workers were able to get permission from the authorities in Mumbai, the officials in Telangana were not granting them permission to travel. However, Ramesh said nearly 500 workers have already returned hiring buses and cars in the last one week. He said some travel operators are charging Rs 5,000 per head. “Some of the desperate workers are willing to pay because they are worried about the rapid surge of Covid-19 in Maharashtra,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-workers-stuck-in-mum-cry-out-for-help/articleshow/75726437.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
May 14, 2020||Aurangabad||HC backs Beed district admin, allays fears over home delivery app||Aurangabad: Aurangabad bench of Bombay high court on Tuesday resolved a dispute between a section of grocery shop owners and Beed district administration over the latter promoting a mobile application facilitating home delivery of essentials and other goods. Amid lockdown, Beed district administration has been promoting a mobile application named ‘Needly’ in order to facilitate home delivery of groceries and essential items through an online platform. Sayyed Tauseef Yassen, the petitioner and practising advocate from Beed, had filed a Public Interest Litigation (PIL) challenging an order dated May 9 issued by Beed district administration related to Needly app. The petitioner argued before the court that residents of Beed would not be able to buy their essentials/ daily required grocery, if they are unable to download the mobile app concerned, claiming that the District Collector has directed closure of all shops, including grocery shops and those catering to daily needs. The government pleader also presented the official interpretation of order issued by Beed district administration. Single member bench of justice Ravindra Ghuge, upon hearing both the sides, observed that there is no dispute that the residents of the 11 talukas from Beed district are at liberty to contact their regular suppliers through Whatsapp/ phone calls/ sms, if they are unable to use the Needly app and as such, they can place orders for their daily needs and for purchasing their necessities. A copy of the order is with TOI. “It is also set out that the shops would be physically opened on even dates between 7am to 9.30am and the residents, who desire to purchase their daily needs, can visit such shops and by following discipline of social distancing, can physically make purchases. It is also provided that the shops could be kept open from 7 am to 2 pm on even dates if there are no curfew orders in the concerned localities,” the court said. The court disposed of the PIL after the petitioner was satisfied and sought to withdraw his petition. Beed district collector Rahul Rekhawar said the court verdict has supported all the provisions in order issued by him on May 9. “There seems to be messages circulating in social media saying that the judiciary has asked me to keep grocery shops open. This is complete intentional misinterpretation of the order,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/hc-backs-beed-district-admin-allays-fears-over-home-delivery-app/articleshow/75725329.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Man spends 3 days quarantining in public toilet after villagers deny him entry||Balasore: A 30-year-old labourer, who arrived from Ganjam district to his native village in Balasore, spent three days in an abandoned toilet after the residents of his village denied him entry. His ordeal finally ended on Monday night, when he was moved to a primary school nearby. The humiliation of Kalia Bindhani of Sarkarnagar village in Saraswatipur gram panchayat, who had gone to Humma in Ganjam to work as a daily-wage labourer, began after he returned to his village on Saturday evening and was asked by the local sarpanch to stay in home quarantine for 14 days as he did not show any symptoms of Covid-19. Bindhani, who lives in a one-room thatched house with 12 others, had little choice but to seek the nearest empty building to isolate himself, which turned out to be an abandoned toilet on the outskirts of the village. A quarantine sticker, too, was pasted on the wall of the toilet indicating his date of arrival in the village and the end of the quarantine period. The naib sarpanch of the panchayat, Manoj Sethi, attributed the confusion to the lack of guidelines regarding the arrival of intra-district migrant workers. “The labourer himself wanted to be quarantined as he had arrived from Ganjam, which is a badly affected district now. But we don’t have a government quarantine centre in the village. Where would he have stayed?” Sethi said, adding that he had raised the issue with the local BDO, tehsildar and health officials. Sakuntala Majhi, a local anganwadi worker, said Bindhani’s case was made more complicated as he was an unregistered worker. “As he had no symptoms, he was asked to stay in home quarantine for 14 days. He had no space in his house and the villagers did not allow him to enter the village, so we asked him to stay in the toilet,” she said, adding, “I apprised the sarpanch and the health department officials of his case and requested them to shift him to a quarantine centre. But they said he was not a registered migrant and at best they could only provide treatment if he showed symptoms of Covid-19,” she added. Bindhani was finally moved to the Sarkarnagar new primary school. “There is no quarantine centre in the village. Even when he was in the toilet, we provide him with food and other materials from the panchayat fund,” said Saraswatipur sarpanch Rashmirekha Behera. Bindhani, meanwhile, said he chose to stay in the toilet to safeguard his family and neighbours. “How can I stay in quarantine in my home when there are 12 people in that room? I preferred staying in the toilet so that my family members and other villagers don’t get infected,” said the daily-wager. The three days that Bindhani spent in the toilet were difficult in more ways than one. Chotu Bindhani, the worker’s mother, said the villagers did not allow her to give food and other essentials to him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/man-spends-3-days-quarantining-in-public-toilet-after-villagers-deny-him-entry/articleshow/75725333.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Aurangabad||Maharashtra: Migrants leave Marathwada in hordes||AURANGABAD: The number of migrant workers leaving places in Marathwada, to return to their hometowns, is expected to cross the 12,000-mark by Thursday. The migrants have been leaving since May 8. Till earlier this month, relief camps across eight districts of Marathwada were sheltering more than 20,000 migrants. With the starting of Sharamik special trains, more and more migrant workers are now leaving, the authorities said. “One Shramik special train each to Baliya and Gorakhpur in Uttar Pradesh (UP) left Aurangabad on Wednesday. Each train carried around 1,600 migrants. On Thursday, trains to Unnao and Agra in UP will leave Aurangabad, also carrying 1,600 passengers each,” said Appasaheb Shinde, the government nodal officer for migrant workers in Aurangabad district. A Shramik special also left Nanded carrying around 1,460 workers to UP’s Gorakhpur on Wednesday. Parag Soman, the Aurangabad deputy divisional commissioner, said migrants from West Bengal, Bihar, Odisha and Jharkhand are still in the relief camps. “We need 1,100-1,200 workers to arrange for each Shramik train. The number of migrants from Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh was sizable and, therefore, the trains could be arranged easily. Proposals for special trains for other states are also being made and consent of respective states has been sought,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/migrants-leave-marathwada-in-hordes/articleshow/75725345.cms||Prasad Joshi
May 14, 2020||Surat||Indian economy will revive within 2 months: Mandaviya||Surat: Union minister of state for shipping, fertilisers and chemical, Mansukh Mandaviya has said that the global pandemic has destabilised the Indian economy but that the recovery is expected within two months with the central government announcing slew of measures on Wednesday. Mandaviya was speaking at a webinar that was being organized by the Southern Gujarat Chamber of Commerce and Industry (SGCCI) on Wednesday. He said, his ministry has identified about 43 active pharmaceutical ingredients (APIs) for the production linked incentive scheme. “The fermentation based raw material production will get 20% incentive, while the chemical based raw material will get 10% incentive” Mandaviya added, “Textile is the focus sector for the world and India, especially Surat has the capability to divert business from China, Bangladesh and other countries. We have advised the Container freight stations (CFS) for not levying penal charges arising from the delay in clearing containers owing to the lockdown restrictions.” On being asked about the mass exodus of migrants from Gujarat and severe workforce shortage, Mandaviya said, “The exodus of migrants is obvious due to lockdown and coronavirus. I remember, former late textile minister, Kashiram Rana had gone to Odisha in special train to convince Oriya workers to return back to Surat. We will have to repeat the same to bring the workers back to Surat once things are normal.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/indian-economy-will-revive-within-2-months-mandaviya/articleshow/75725373.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Madurai||Boy killed, two injured in wall collapse in Ramnad||RAMANATHAPURAM: A five-year-old boy was killed, while two others were injured after a wall collapsed on them. The incident took place in Ramanathapuram district on Wednesday. The deceased was identified as S Jabrirohit, elder son of Sureshkumar-Saranya couple from Gandhi Nagar in Ramanathapuram town. He was studying in a private school in the same locality. He, along with a few other boys including Manishkumar from same area were playing at a church in MSK Nagar. A wall, which was recently construction near the church collapsed and fell on the two boys. A 31-year-old woman, Pricilla, too suffered injuries. The three were rushed to Ramanathapuram government hospital, where doctors declared Jabrirohit as brought dead. Based on a complaint, a case was registered with the Ramanathapuram town police station. Manishkumar and Pricilla, who suffered injuries on their legs and head are undergoing treatment. Police said the town was witnessing moderate rain for the past two days and this could have weakened the wall.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/boy-killed-two-injured-in-wall-collapse-in-ramnad/articleshow/75726935.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Agra||More heads roll in Agra as SNMC principal, chief medical superintendent shunted out||Agra: In wake of the rising Covid-19 cases and allegations of lack of coordination, the UP government on Wednesday removed the Sarojini Naidu Medical College (SNMC) principal GK Aneja and chief medical superintendent (CMS) SP Jain from their posts. Dr Sanjay Kala of government medical college was appointed as new principal of SNMC, while Dr BP Pushkar was appointed the new CMS of SNMC. Notably, on Tuesday, the state government had transferred chief medical officer (CDO) of Mathura and Bulandshahr. Dr Sanjeev Yadav was appointed as new CMO of Mathura and Dr Bhavtosh Shankhdhar was appointed Bulandshahr's CMO. Former principal of SNMC Dr GK Aneja has been attached with the directorate of medical education and training. CMS SP Jain has been attached with office of Agra district magistrate. Senior professor of Kanpur University Sanjay Kala has been made principal and Pushkar the new CMS. Earlier, chief medical officer and additional director (health) for Agra region were shunted out. On Monday, RC Pandey took the charge of CMO, while Avinash Kumar Singh joined as AD (health). According to sources, the transfers and new appointments in the Agra district has been made following recommendations of a five-member team sent by UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath to review the Covid-19 prevention and management protocols in Agra. The team reached Agra on Monday and is staying in the district. It includes principal secretary (industrial development) Alok Kumar, principal secretary medical education (medical education) Rajneesh Dubey, inspector general of police Vijay Prakash, an officer on special duty Dr Avanish Kumar Singh and professor Alok Nath of Sanjay Gandhi postgraduate institute of medical science, Lucknow. According to a senior official of the district administration, the team members after a detailed review of arrangements found lack of coordination among officials and mismanagement at SNMC. Multiple cases of negligence in the treatment had surfaced. On Tuesday, the state government had appointed SNMC radiotherapy department head Dr Ashok Kumar Arya as the vice-principal of the hospital. Besides, Dr Jitendra Singh Yadav of government hospital in Jhansi was sent for assisting at the office of SNMC principal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/more-heads-roll-in-agra-as-snmc-principal-chief-medical-superintendent-shunted-out/articleshow/75725365.cms||Deepak Lavania
May 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Lecturers in Telangana turn to valuation for money||HYDERABAD: As there is no clarity on when private and corporate colleges will clear their salary dues, many lecturers are looking at the valuation of intermediate answer scripts as an alternate source of income. The Telangana State Board of Intermediate Education (TSBIE) has roped in 15,000 lecturers for evaluation duties to correct answer scripts of 13 subjects. More than 9000 of them belong to private and corporate colleges and of the remaining, 917 are government faculty, 3500 are contract junior lecturers and 1500 are guest faculty working in government junior colleges. “Many colleges have not paid their staff salaries for April and May. Further, there is no clarity on when the new academic year will begin. So, it’s true that faculty of private and corporate colleges are showing more interest than ever to be part of the valuation process,” said Satish G of Telangana Private Junior Colleges Managements Association. The board officials said that centres in green and orange zones are seeing more lecturers reporting than the allotted number. On Wednesday, evaluation of English, Sanskrit, Maths, Civics, Chemistry, Economics, Commerce, and vocational subjects started and 9,202 examiners reported for work. Out of which 591 lecturers reported at centres in Hyderabad, 523 in Medchal, 459 in Ranga Reddy, and 464 in Medak. “In some centres we have 110% attendance. We are not sending anyone back and are trying to use their services,” said Syed Omer Jaleel, commissioner and secretary of the TSBIE. He said that the board is taking all precautions —recording temperature of evaluators, providing sanitizers, fogging and disinfecting the premises every day, maintaining distancing norms among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/lecturers-turn-to-valuation-for-money/articleshow/75726451.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
May 14, 2020||Kolkata||Burrabazar under KMC-cop scanner||KOLKATA: Cops and officials of Kolkata Municipal Corporation on Wednesday conducted a joint drive in the Burrabazar area and adopted several measures to combat the spread of Covid-19 in the city’s business hub. A KMC official said the major focus of the drive was to regulate wholesale markets in Burrabazar. The KMC health department officials will distribute hydroxychloroquine among labourers in Burrabazar wholesale markets. Kolkata Police will be the implementing agency to ensure that all social distancing norms are maintained in Burrabazar and Posta. Cops said they have given 48 hours to the wholesale milk and Notun Bazar wholesale markets to adopt social distancing norms. Both the markets located near Ganesh Talkies have become a headache for the police and civic body after several Covid positive cases were reported from the surrounding areas. As per a preliminary plan, the police and civic authorities had agreed on sealing the market. However, as the market caters to more than a lakh population, it was decided later that 50% of the stalls would open on every alternate day. Besides, the authorities also decided on Wednesday that of the market’s 12 entry and exit gates, only two would remain open to avoid unnecessary crowding of people. Similarly, cops have been asked to regulate the wholesale milk market on regular basis. Police and civic authorities are taking no risk as more than 10 Covid positive cases have been recorded from the neighbourhoods. Cops said they are planning to send morning reports on each spot along with drone and CCTV images. Traders at Mecchua fruit bazar, who were provided time till next Tuesday, have been asked to ensure that none of the main roads is blocked and that all unloading is completed between 7pm and 5am. Firhad Hakim, chairman of the board of administrators at KMC, said Siriti market that was operating without adhering to lockdown norms would be sealed, if traders did not follow the rules. Cops said they started cracking down on illegal parking. “At any point of time, only five trucks will be allowed in Posta market. No truck should take more than three hours for unloading,” said a Jorabagan traffic department officer. And the drivers and helpers of these trucks won’t be allowed without masks. Sources said that on Wednesday, cops took action against 15 drivers for flouting the lockdown rules in the Howrah Bridge and Jorabagan traffic guards. Cops have also identified some roads where they need to step up the vigil. These areas include Kolutola Street, Jamunalal Bajaj Street, Armenian Street and Notun Bazaar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/burrabazar-under-kmc-cop-scanner/articleshow/75726463.cms||Saikat Ray
May 14, 2020||Hubballi||CBI chargesheet in Yogeesh murder case by month-end||DHARWAD: The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) is expected to file chargesheet in the Yogeeshgouda Goudar murder case by the end of this month. It has questioned more than 50 people in the past five months. The CBI is now looking at the possible involvement of prominent politicians of the region to eliminate the BJP zilla panchayat member. Sleuths of the investigative agency, camping here since the lockdown restrictions were partially relaxed a week ago, have summoned for questioning a police officer of the DSP rank, a constable, sand dealer and two people who are already in the list of accused. Sources said the CBI is likely to interrogate other police officers who are alleged to have tried to broker peace with Yogeesh’s family members. The CBI also interrogated for hours two Congress leaders Shivanand Karigar, vice-president of Dharwad zilla panchayat, and Nagaraj Gouri. The duo is said to have brokered peace with Yogeeshgouda’s family members and played a vital role in getting his wife Mallamma join the Congress. After their interrogation, Karigar and Gouri told reporters that they were approached by Mallamma who sought to join the party. The two said they helped her initially but backed out after differences with other party functionaries over the issue. The CBI also questioned Prashant Kekare, an aide of former minister Vinay Kulkarni. Yogeeshgouda was killed on June 15, 2016. Four days later, the local police arrested Basavaraj Mutagi and six others, accusing them of killing Yogeesh over a land dispute. A CID probe had also held them guilty. After CBI took over the probe, it arrested seven other people from Bengaluru who were allegedly hired to kill Yogeesh. They are now in judicial custody. Mallamma had accused Kulkarni of masterminding the murder. Kulkarni, however, flatly denied the accusation. She had also submitted a memorandum to then chief minister Siddaramaiah when the latter visited Dharwad to inaugurate the State Olympics. In a bid to placate Mallamma, the BJP fielded her as its candidate in the zilla panchayat byelection from Hebballi, the constituency which was vacant after Yogeesh’s death. Mallamma lost by a narrow margin to the Congress candidate. Much to the dismay of Yogeesh’s family members, Mallamma later joined the Congress and remained silent. Gurunath, the elder brother of Yogeesh, continued demanding CBI probe into the case. The then Congress-JD(S) government had turned down the demand. CBI took over the case after the BJP came to power in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/cbi-chargesheet-in-yogeesh-murder-case-by-month-end/articleshow/75720236.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Madurai||Second ‘Shramik Special’ train leaves with 1,429 people||TIRUNELVELI: As many as 1,429 stranded migrant workers, families and students who were stranded in Tirunelveli and Tuticorin districts started back home by the Tirunelveli – Hatia ‘Shramik Special’ train, which left from Tirunelveli Junction at 6pm Wednesday. Railway officials said train would reach Hatia in Jharkhand at 9.10am on Friday. Most of them are from Jharkhand and will reach home on road from Hatia. The passengers were screened at the station and provided with food packets, water bottles and other essential supplies before they boarded the train by following social distancing. The Tirunelveli district administration, police and railway personnel briefed the passengers on the dos and don’ts to practice social distancing during the course of the journey.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/second-shramik-special-train-leaves-with-1429-people/articleshow/75726941.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Agra||Now, transport and shelter in Aligarh and Hathras for workers from other states||AGRA: In a bid to provide some succour to hundreds of migrant workers who reached Aligarh and Hathras walking all the way from various parts of the country, the district administrations have decided to make arrangements for their transportation to the borders of the neighbouring states. They will also be provided boarding and lodging facilities at various shelters in the two cities. A migrant couple, Santosh Kumar and Maan Kumari, arrived in Aligarh from Haryana’s Ambala on foot with five children. Talking to TOI over the phone, they said that they were "extremely tired" and had no energy left to make it any further to Madhya Pradesh’s Singrauli. “We started walking on May 1. My wife delivered a baby boy on the way but we did not stop as there was no place for shelter. When we reached here, some officials asked us a few questions and then gave us Rs 1,000 to buy raw materials for making food.” “We were shifted to a shelter home, Kalawati Palace, in Aligarh this morning. We have been told that we would be dropped at Madhya Pradesh border by bus after health screening,” Santosh said. He added that they didn’t know what was in store for them once they reach the MP border. Confirming this on Wednesday, Aligarh DM CB Singh said, “The state government had given the order to provide transport facility to UP migrant labourers who are ceaselessly walking on foot to reach their destinations across the state after providing food to them. However, we are also providing food and shelter to migrant labourers who hail from other states on humanitarian grounds. All the labourers are undergoing thermal screening before being sent to their respective borders in a private bus.” Travelling from Delhi to Jharkhand on foot along the railway lines, Kripal Pandey reached Hathras district on Tuesday. Kripal said that they were not stopped by anyone as they were walking along the sides of the railway lines. “And then, Hathras Railway Police stopped us and put us in a shelter home where we were given food. Today, the administration ensured us that we would be sent back to our district,” he said. Kripal added that they faced a lot of difficulties in Delhi ever since the lockdown began. According to RPF junction police inspector Harikesh Meena, they found 17 people, including seven from Jharkhand, walking along the sides of railway lines. “We immediately informed the district authorities who took them to the shelter home.” Recently, 16 migrant workers were mowed down by an empty freight train in Maharashtra’s Aurangabad district. They were sleeping on the railway line when the accident occurred. Hathras district magistrate Praveen Kumar Laxkar told TOI that they are providing boarding and lodging services not only to migrant workers from UP but also to those who hail from other states. “We have contacted the state administrations concerned and are arranging transportation for them,” Laxkar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/now-transport-shelter-in-aligarh-hathras-for-workers-from-other-states/articleshow/75725378.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Give rice and cash to all, forget biometrics: Telangana HC||HYDERABAD: Even as the flight of migrant workers from Telangana continued, the high court told the government to supply 12 kg of rice to stranded workers and tribals without insisting on biometrics and identity particulars during the lockdown. It also insisted on extending the one-time financial assistance of Rs 1,500 to each cardholder without looking at his or her rice drawl statistics in the last three months. Seeking to know why the government had decided to cancel the ration cards unilaterally without informing the card holders, the court also asked the government about stoppage of the financial assistance to the beneficiaries. “How can you (government) cancel the ration cards without notifying the people? Do not insist on biometrics and identity during this lockdown. You have to supply rice to every stranded migrant,” a bench of Justice MS Ramachandra Rao and Justice K Lakshman said while hearing two PILs filed separately by social activist SQ Masood and A Srijana of Hyderabad. The petitioners questioned the action of the authorities that deprived the poor access to rice and money during the lockdown crisis. Both cases have been posted to June 2. “This is the time where you have migrant labourers around you with no ration cards. You cannot insist on ration cards and biometrics,” the bench told the state civil supplies commissioner. “Give them rice at 12 kilos per person if they are stranded here. Do not deprive tribals of rice and other essentials during this crisis time in the name of biometrics,” it said. To this, advocate general BS Prasad told the bench that the poor were being helped by the state government without insisting on ration cards. He also denied having cancelled any ration cards. However, he sought time to find out the status of cancelled cards. “When you issue a ration card to a person you hold an inquiry and verify the person’s credentials. Then, why don’t you notify the person when you cancel the same,” the bench asked. The AG assured the court that the government would ensure supply of rice even to those whose cards were allegedly cancelled. The bench also sought to know why the government is not extending Rs 1,500 to some white ration card holders for not having taken the PDS rice in the last three months. The bench asked the state to provide this assistance without looking at their rice drawl particulars. The HC recorded assurance of the AG and accordingly directed the state to supply rice to the migrants to draw rice here even on the basis of ration cards they have in their native places. Meanwhile, following a complaint over providing financial assistance to laborers who had labor cards issued by labour department but do not have ration cards to avail government’s benefits during the lockdown, the TSHRC asked the chief secretary of Telangana to look into the petition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/give-rice-cash-to-all-forget-biometrics-hc/articleshow/75726475.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Delhi||Men in black to leave robes and coats behind||NEW DELHI: A day after Supreme Court said lawyers appearing before it need not wear coats and gowns, the Bar Council of India (BCI) extended the relaxation to all advocates across the country. It exempted the lawyers from wearing coats and long gowns during hearings through videoconferencing before any court or tribunal as a “precautionary measure to check the spread of Covid-19” since the apex court had flagged the issue. “It is notified for information of all advocates of the country, that considering the medical advice and also the circular dated May 13, 2020 issued by the Supreme Court, all lawyers may wear ‘plain white shirt/white salwar-kameez/white saree with plain white neck band’ during hearing/ proceedings before all high courts and all other courts, tribunals, commissions and all other forums and no coat or gown/robes are/is required to be worn during such time period during which the threat of spread of coronavirus looms large and/ or till such time the council further issues another administrative order modifying/ overriding this order,” the BCI said. The lawyer’s body added that this administrative order “is being issued as a precautionary measure to check the spread of Covid-19. This order will come into force with immediate effect and will be operative till further orders of the council.” The apex court had, on Wednesday, come out with a similar notification for lawyers appearing before it following an observation by a bench of Chief Justice of India S A Bobde and justices Indu Malhotra and Hrishikesh Roy. The judges dispensed with their coats and gowns when they assembled for the hearing through videoconferencing and said judges and lawyers should not wear coat and gown for the time being as these make it easier “to catch virus”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/men-in-black-to-leave-robes-and-coats-behind/articleshow/75747489.cms||Abhinav Garg
May 14, 2020||Vadodara||Gujarat: BJP man holds birthday bash in lockdown time||VADODARA: Karelibaug police on Wednesday arrested a BJP worker and seven others for flouting police notification issued to enforce lockdown. BJP ward president Anil Parmar was arrested as he had celebrated his birthday on Tuesday night with his friends and family members outside his house in Tulsiwadi. “He said that he wasn’t aware of the celebration and it was a surprise. But Parmar could have refused to attend the gathering. He was seen celebrating his birthday and cutting the cake. We arrested him and seven others on Wednesday,” said police inspector R I Jadeja. The cops learned about the celebration after Parmar’s photos were shared on social media.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/bjp-man-holds-bday-bash-in-lockdown-time/articleshow/75724035.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Hetero to make Ebola drug in Hyderabad, distribute in 127 nations||HYDERABAD: One of the world’s largest producer of anti-retroviral drugs (ARVs), Hyderabad based pharma player Hetero Labs Ltd, on Wednesday said it has entered into a licensing agreement with Gilead Sciences Inc for manufacturing and distribution of Ebola drug ‘Remdesivir’ for the treatment of Covid-19. USFDA has granted emergency use authorization (EUA) for the investigational antiviral Remdesivir for treating patients hospitalised with severe Covid-19. Under this deal, Hetero will be supplying Remdesivir in 127 countries, including India, subject to regulatory approvals in the respective countries. The deal, however, does not cover markets like US, Europe, Japan and China, Hetero Labs Ltd managing director Vamsi Krishna Bandi said. He said the Remdesivir will be manufactured in injectable form at the company’s sterile formulations facility near Genome Valley at Shammirpet in Hyderabad that has been approved by global regulatory authorities, including USFDA and European drug regulators, among others. The company has developed a fully vertically integrated supply chain for this product complementing the ‘Make in India’ campaign as defined by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. “We will be making the APIs (active pharmaceutical ingredients) and the key starting materials for Remdesivir, ensuring most of the supply chain is manufactured internally. The biggest challenge is that the manufacturing of this drug has not been scaled up so there is no established supply chain network,” Vamsi Krishna said, adding that the company currently does not have the demand estimates for the drug. Dr B Partha Saradhi Reddy, chairman, Hetero group of companies, said: “Hetero has developed this product in India and has already been working with the government, ICMR, and DCGI for necessary studies and approvals to bring this product to treat Covid-19 patients in India.” Hetero is one of the four drug makers from India, including Mylan, Jubilant Life Sciences and Cipla Ltd, to have entered into non-exclusive, non-royalty based voluntary licencing agreements with US-based Gilead Sciences.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hetero-to-make-ebola-drug-in-hyd-distribute-in-127-nations/articleshow/75726458.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Surat||People entering Surat to be stamped ‘home quarantine’||Surat: The city which is already grappling with the deadly virus, is battling a new threat — that of influx with migrants from interstate as well as intrastate into the city. “Over 13,000 people will arrive in Surat city from different parts of the state as well as from Mumbai. On Wednesday, we held a meeting with City police commissioner and Surat rural superintendent of police about how to manage this influx,” said Banchhanidhi Pani, municipal commissioner, Surat, talking to TOI. “We have identified three entry points on outskirts of the city for entry of such people, especially from Ahmedabad and Mumbai, who will be allowed to enter the city from Palsana, Kadodara and Kamrej only. While ‘home quarantine’ stickers will be stuck on their vehicles, the people too will be stamped similarly on their hands while entering the city. They will have to be in 14 days compulsory quarantine,” Pani said. Meanwhile, three persons succumbed to Covid-19 in Surat city on Wednesday taking the death toll due to coronavirus in the city to 42. The city also registered about 22 new Covid-19 cases, while five more patients were discharged on the same day. SMC officials said that all the three deceased were suffering from co-morbid conditions. Abdul Sheikh (54), a resident of Bhathena area in Limbayat zone died due to Covid-19. He had diabetes and high blood pressure issues, while Ishrat Khan (63), a resident of Udhna area, was suffering from kidney ailment. Hirjibhai (82) was suffering from lung problems, it said. According to the municipal commissioner, the civic body is focusing on Limbayat, Katargam and the central zones in the city with these hotspots reporting the most number of positive cases. Out of the total 949 Covid-19 cases in the city, 367 are from Limbayat zone alone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/people-entering-surat-to-be-stamped-home-quarantine/articleshow/75725416.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Hyderabad||K-12 institutes seek sops to survive Covid||Hyderabad: With educational institutions facing financial crunch, they demanded that lending to institutions be defined as ‘priority lending’ and be charged at sovereign rate, the rate of interest at which the government can borrow. In a document presented to the government, K-12 institutes — educational institution which offer kindergarten to Class 12 —said loans should also be provided for ICT and broadband upgradation and high-speed bandwidth be provided free of cost. The managements pushed for 85% of the fee fixed by the school for students admitted under the Right to Education. They also highlighted the need for teacher training programmes to improve online classes. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/k-12-institutes-seek-sops-to-survive-covid/articleshow/75726472.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Goa||Aviation skill dvpt centre at Mopa now||Panaji: The Aviation Skill Development Centre will now come up within the Mopa airport premises itself, chief minister Pramod Sawant said. Sawant said that an extension will be given for the Mopa project deadline. He said a review of the Mopa works will be carried out in two months’ time. Sawant said the review was delayed due to the lockdown necessitated by the Covid-19 pandemic. Prior to the lockdown, the airport was expected to be operational by may 2022. “Earlier, the aviation skill development centre was to be started at ITI in Pernem, now we have said that it should be constructed at the Mopa airport itself,” said Sawant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/aviation-skill-dvpt-centre-at-mopa-now/articleshow/75727804.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Madurai||Schools offer fee concession for wards of cops||SIVAGANGA: About seven schools in Sivaganga district have offered to give fee concession ranging between 12% to 50% to children of police personnel. The schools made the offer in response to a request made by district police superintendent R Rohith Nathan. Nathan has come up with an initiative to reduce the financial burden of police personnel and to ensure that they serve sincerely and honestly for the society. Around 1,500 police personnel will get benefited from the initiative. Now, a circular has been sent to all police personnel to get bonafide certificates before applying for the seven schools - Oxford School in T Pudur, Oxford School in Surakulam, Oxford Primary School in Senthamizh Nagar, Seventh Day School in Manamadurai, Global International School in M Kovilpatti, Sambaviga School, Sivaganga, Chellappan Vidya Mandir School in Karaikudi and St Joseph School in Manamadurai. Nathan told TOI that school fees and hospital expenses are some of the major things, which burn a hole in the pockets. “I have reviewed the health insurance scheme and ensured that the company pays fairly. “Next biggest financial burden is children’s education. If cost of education is reduced, then it would motivate them (personnel) to stay honest,” he said. “We can focus on our duty better since concession in school fee will take some financial burden off our shoulders. This has made us feel better, especially at a time when the state government has deferred dearness allowance and cancelled encashment of earned leave for a year for all government employees,” a policeman said. While some schools have agreed to provide flat 12% to 50% concession, some other schools have come forward with different offers. A school has offered 30% for sub-inspector rank and above, 40% for constable to special sub-inspector police and 50% when three children are admitted. Founder of Oxford Schools, V Shyamala said it is her duty to give back to the society, which helped her establish her schools.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/schools-offer-fee-concession-for-wards-of-cops/articleshow/75726948.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Madurai||Cottage industries get TNEB shock with up to Rs 20,000 bill for shut period||MADURAI: Operators of hundreds of cottage industries here were in a state of shock after TNEB has asked them to pay heavy electricity bills, ranging from Rs 10,000 to Rs 20,000, for the past 50 days during which time the units have remained shut. Sellur is a hub for cottage industries and has many small manufacturing units making stainless steel utensils, brassware, printers among others. When operating, the industries run up an electricity bills of over thousands of rupees. But, all the 100 such units in Sellur have remained closed for the past 50 odd days, and when they decided to start operations, they received a notice from the TNEB asking them to pay their dues. “I asked them what the dues were because we had paid our bills for January and February when we were functioning. But for the past 50 days that was not the case. Besides, many are having going through difficult times financially,’’ said Pandi, a manufacturer. Another manufacturer, who wants to be anonymous, said that the electricity board was asking them to pay the bills which was the same as their previous bills,`` I had paid a bill of about Rs 20,000, but when the industries are shut, I cannot afford to pay that amount,’’ he said. Some of them have about four to five units and would be forced to pay a bill of not less than Rs 1 lakh. Many manufacturers operate on rented buildings, and have to pay rent and electricity bills, when there was no operation at all. Former corporation councillor B Thilagar said that the government should come forward to waiver the electricity bills, as these small units provided employment to thousands of people in Madurai district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/cottage-industries-get-tneb-shock-with-up-to-rs-20k-bill-for-shut-period/articleshow/75726964.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Agra||One killed, two injured in accident on Agra-Lucknow expressway||AGRA: One person was killed and two were injured in an accident on Agra-Lucknow expressway after the tyre of their SUV’s bursted in middle of the journey and the car hit a divider and turned turtle. The accident occurred at around 5pm near milestone 66 of Nagla Khangar police limits of Firozabad district. Victim was identified as Mukesh Singh (24) of Sikar district, Rajasthan. The injured have been identified as Ravinder who was driving the car and Kamlesh. Ravinder was in critical condition. Chief security officer of UPEIDA patrolling team Jagdish Singh said, “The prime reason for the accident is over speeding. By the time ambulance or patrolling team could reach, the acquaintance of the victims who were coming in another car, took all the three to Shikohabad government hospital.” SHO Nagla Khangar inspector Mukesh Kumar said, “The SUV’s tyre bursted in middle of the road and the driver lost control of the vehicle which hit the divider killing one on the spot.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/one-killed-2-injured-in-accident-on-agra-lucknow-expressway/articleshow/75725384.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Kolkata||Prisoners clash in Baruipur jail||BARUIPUR: Violence broke out inside Baruipur Central Correctional Home between two groups of prisoners on Tuesday morning. The incident took place barely 10 days after the jail had witnessed another violence. Two groups — one led by Pora Khokon on one side and the other by Ganesh and Mumtaz on the other — allegedly hurled bricks, stones and wooden pieces at each other. Jail security staff had a tough time controlling the situation, which was calmed down in the evening. Several inmates from both the groups were injured in brick batting. One of them sustained serious injuries and had to be taken to SSKM Hospital. The ADG prisons Pijush Pandey visited the jail and took stock of the situation. Baruipur district police has been pressed into patrolling outside the jail. Sources said that controlling the jail inmates was at the root of the violence on Tuesday. Earlier, Khokon, Ganesh and Mumtaz had been in one group. On March 2 this year, trouble had broken out among the prisoners over the issue. Since then, Ganesh and Mumtaz had formed a separate group.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/prisoners-clash-in-baruipur-jail/articleshow/75726492.cms||Monotosh Chakraborty
May 14, 2020||Rajkot||Woman from Surat tests +ve in Amreli||Rajkot: The Covid-19 case in Amreli was registered on Wednesday. According to district administration, a 67-year-old woman, who had arrived on Tuesday from Surat along with 27 others, had tested positive. She was asymptomatic so she was shifted to a government quarantine facility and her samples sent for testing. Meanwhile, seven persons including two children tested positive in Devbhumi Dwarka district. They are the family members of a group of people who had tested positive after returning form Ajmer last week. They all are native of Salaya and have been kept in government quarantine facility in Khambhaliya. With the tally of positive cases in Devbhumi Dwarka has risen to 12. In Jamnagar, four people tested positive including a man accused in a crime. A 32-year-old man in Bhavnagar, who had returned from Surat tested positive on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/woman-from-surat-tests-ve-in-amreli/articleshow/75725434.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Dehradun||Two killed after car falls into gorge in Chamoli||DEHRADUN: Two persons were killed after the car they were travelling in fell into a 400-metre-deep gorge near Talsari on Narayanbagar-Silodi road in Narayanbagar block of Chamoli district on Wednesday afternoon. The car had two persons — Vikram Singh (42) and Dinesh Singh (30) — on board when the accident took place. Both died on the spot, the authorities said. Vikram Singh was returning to his village after finishing his quarantine period at Bhararisain. According to Chamoli police, Vikram had returned from Chandigarh and thus, was put under quarantine. On receiving information, sub-divisional magistrate KS Negi and Nayab Tehsildar Surendra Singh Dev reached the spot to take stock of the rescue operation to recover the bodies that is still underway.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/two-killed-after-car-falls-into-gorge-in-chamoli/articleshow/75725436.cms||Gaurav Talwar
May 14, 2020||Kolhapur||Districts gear up to tackle fresh influx of migrants||(done) Kolhapur: Anxious over possible reverse migration in the fourth stage of the national lockdown, the administrations in the three districts of western Maharashtra have initiated various steps to contain possible community spread of coronavirus. While village-level committees, which are responsible for the movement and arrival of migrants, are active in Satara, Sangli and Kolhapur districts, the administrations are currently busy expanding the capacity to accommodate people with Covid symptoms. The district administrations are planning to have booth-level committees to monitor the movement of migrants in urban pockets. The officials are cautious as majority of the migrants in the three districts have travel history of Pune, Mumbai and Pimpri-Chinchwad, which are hotspots of coronavirus. Incidents of locals opposing entry of migrants are being reported from some villages as people are scared about coronavirus. The administration is worried as tracing of any suspected Covid-19 patient is a tedious exercise. Large-scale influx is likely into Satara district after May 17, when the lockdown is expected to be relaxed. According to official record, Satara district alone has seen the arrival of around three lakh people in the last two months. District guardian minister Balasaheb Patil has said that he expects another three lakh people in the next few days. Many people from Satara district move to Pune, Pimpri-Chinchwad and Mumbai for jobs because of geographical proximity and easy mode of transport. Balsaheb Patil said that majority of areas in Pune, Mumbai and Pimpri-Chainchwad are in the red zone and people will return to their native places after relaxation in the lockdown. All talukas in Satara district have recorded around 20,000 arrivals in the past two months. Jawli and Patan talukas have experienced the highest number of immigrants in the past few months. Migrants continue to arrive despite sealing of district borders and ban on public transport service. At a meeting last week, all MLAs and MLCs in Satara district insisted on having separate arrangements for lodging of people coming from Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad. Similar steps are being taken in neighboring Sangli district, where district collector Abhiit Chaudhary has appealed to people to alert the administration if anyone is found coming to the district without official permission. Sangli district has recorded the arrival of 40,000 migrants and the number is likely to increase in the coming days. The district administration has set up 35 checkpoints. Health teams have been deputed at all the checkpoints. In Kolhapur, more than 17,000 people have registered themselves for getting permission to enter the district. The administration has made swab test mandatory for all those come from the red zone. They will be put into institutional quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/districts-gear-up-to-tackle-fresh-influx-of-migrants/articleshow/75725429.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: On train, it’s a special journey||NEW DELHI: Homecoming was perhaps never as pleasing for 4,800 people as it was on Wednesday when they stepped down from the trains arriving at New Delhi Railway Station from Ahmedabad, Patna and Mumbai. Most of them had been caught unawares by the Covid lockdown while out of Delhi on work, parental visits or other reasons. The partial resumption of rail services which began on Tuesday was their first opportunity to return to their families. The first special passenger train arrived from Ahmedabad at 7.45am, and was followed at 9am by the trains from Patna and Mumbai and then by one from Howrah. “There were no problems on the train and it seems to be a safe way to travel right now,” said Rohan Raj Singh, 30, who was visiting his brother in Ahmedabad when train operations were suspended. He was happy to be back, but had some concerns. “I had exhausted all of my leaves and I couldn’t work from home because I needed my company laptops or systems to log in,” said Singh while exiting the station. Indian Railways said the four trains, each carrying around 1,200 passengers, showed that orderly travel was possible if social distancing was maintained. Ankit Singh, 30, a mechanical engineer from Okhla stuck in Ahmedabad while on work, recalled how the system worked. The boarding and disembarkation process were carefully monitored and passengers tested for Covid symptoms, he said. “I saw some people being denied entry because they showed some symptoms of infection,” Singh said. “There was minimal interaction with the train crew, but once seated, one didn’t have to worry about anything.” For Manisha Singh 23, the elation at finally being back in the capital was only tempered by having to frantically phone home in Mayur Vihar for someone to come and pick her up from the station. There were no transport arrangements for the arrivals. “I had got a job as an assistant professor in Jaipur three months ago, and just when I was settling in, the country closed down,” she said. “As soon as I learnt about the special passenger trains, I booked my ticket. I can’t describe how relieved I am today.” Happiness and relief were evident on the faces of almost everyone who stepped down from the trains. “It is never a comfortable experience living in a city you have no clue about. I had gone to Ahmedabad for office work and was trapped there,” said Dwarka resident Keshav Kumar. “I am an engineer. My cooperative seniors understood my plight, and now that I am back, I am ready to immediately get back to work.” Speaking about the experience on the train, Allaudin, 33, said, “I was travelling with my family of five. The journey was unlike any I have taken. Social distancing was enforced, but there was ample food for everyone who wasn’t carrying eatables. There were very few contact points. In any case everyone was screened, so we didn’t have much to worry about.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/on-train-its-a-special-journey/articleshow/75726966.cms||Pankhuri Yadav
May 14, 2020||Nagpur||Maharashtra: 23-year-old girl is Chandrapur’s second Covid-19 patient||CHANDRAPUR: Second Covid-19 positive patient was detected in the city on Wednesday. The 23-year old girl found positive had returned from Yavatmal along with her mother and brother on May 9. The Binba Gate locality where the positive patient lives has been sealed off and has been declared containment zone. District collector Kunal Khemnar ratified finding the second positive patient in Chandrapur. He claimed that samples of the girl and her brother were taken on May 11. Test report of the girl turned out to be positive on Wednesday afternoon, whereas sample report of her brother is awaited. Khemnar said while the positive girl has been shifted to isolation ward, her family members have been put into institutional quarantine. Sources claimed that the girl and elder brother had taken their mother to Yavatmal for treatment prior to the lockdown. The trio got stuck in Yavatmal at a relative’s home and were able to travel back home after restrictions were eased a few days back. They arrived in Chandrapur on May 9 and were put into home quarantine. The swab samples of the girl and her brother were collected on May 11. Samples of her bedridden mother and father were collected on Wednesday. The first positive case was detected in the city on May 2. All the contacts of Covid positive security guard, including his family members, had tested negative to Covid-19. Administration has, however, failed to ascertain the source of infection to the first patient.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/23-year-old-girl-is-chandrapurs-2nd-covid-patient/articleshow/75726968.cms||Mazhar Ali
May 14, 2020||Madurai||Tea stalls to resume business with single use cups||MADURAI: The Madurai Coffee Tea Merchants Association has petitioned the chief minister Edappadi K Palanisami and minister for cooperation Sellur K Raju, to allow tea stall owners to use disposable cups and customers to consume beverages at the shops by maintaining social distancing. Secretary of the association, Meenakshi Sundaresh said the state government has allowed opening of tea stalls from Monday onwards on condition that only takeaway is sold. Due to this, there has not been much business as very few people opt for parcel. Those who want to consume them could not do so fearing police action. He said that a few cases have been registered in Madurai district against tea shops for violating social distancing norms. This makes it difficult for them to run the business. Most of the tea shops owners are opening shops for the sake of opening them. “Though one-time usable cups have been banned, we demand a temporary relaxation till Covid-19 pandemic is over, since there is concern among customers in using glass or stainless steel tumblers,” Sundaresh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/tea-stalls-to-resume-biz-with-single-use-cups/articleshow/75726970.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Nagpur||Constable hangs self in Yavatmal||Yavatmal: A 27-year-old constable, attached to Yavatmal police headquarters, ended his life by hanging from the roof of his official quarters in Palaswadi area on Tuesday night. The deceased Sanjay Sable, from Jawali village in Umarkhed tehsil, was part of wireless squad of the police on duty in Indira Nagar containment zone. He was staying alone in the house as his wife had given birth to a baby at her parent’s home recently. He took the extreme step after he returned home from duty in the evening. The matter came to light on Wednesday. Sources claimed that the cop was distressed over strained relationship with his wife. Additional SP Noorul Hasan and SDPO Madhuri Baviskar also visited the spot. After post mortem, the body was handed over to the family and last rites were performed at his native village.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/constable-hangs-self-in-yavatmal/articleshow/75726971.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Dehradun||Probe against Gayatri Parivar chief yet to take off, say police||HARIDWAR: Days after Haridwar police announced that it has begun probe in the case against Gayatri Pariwar chief Pranav Pandya, cops say that no headway has yet been made in the investigation. Earlier on May 8, city police had received the FIR filed against Pandya in Delhi by a woman alleging sexual exploitation. The woman was an employee of the All World Gayatri Pariwar. Later, Haridwar SSP Senthil Abudai Krishnaraj S had given the responsibility of the probe to circle officer Poornima Garg and inspector Meena Arya. Talking to TOI, Garg said, “All documents of the case which were received by city police have been handed over to the investigating team. The documents are being studied and a road map for investigation is being drawn but the probe is yet to take off.” She added that the “lockdown is not causing hindrance in the investigation but the restrictions imposed by it will have to be taken into consideration while devising a plan for it”. The official further informed that the complainant is currently in Delhi and if she is brought to Haridwar for probe, she will have to quarantined as per lockdown protocols.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/probe-against-gayatri-parivar-chief-yet-to-take-off-say-police/articleshow/75725445.cms||Sheo S Jaiswal
May 14, 2020||Goa||Goa: Stimulus package revives hopes for local MSMEs||PANAJI: The Rs 20 lakh crore economic stimulus package announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi renewed hopes for Goa’s private sector with stakeholders saying the measures would help mitigate the impact of the nationwide lockdown. However, industrialists said that they would wait for more clarity on the implementation of the stimulus package. On Wednesday, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman announced steps to provide immediate relief to MSMEs, micro finance institutions, housing finance companies, and the construction sector. Sitharaman also assured 100% government guarantee on Rs 3 lakh crore collateral-free loans for MSMEs for a four-year term, and with a one-year moratorium. “The measures announced today will surely help kickstart the economy, which is severely impacted by the lockdown,” said Goa Chamber of Commerce and Industry president Manoj Caculo. Caculo said that the collateral-free automatic loan for MSMEs along with the Rs 20,000 crore loan for stressed MSMEs and other measures will help MSMEs expand their capacity. “These are some serious measures that will help the MSME sector to quickly move forward on the path to recovery,” said Caculo. ASSOCHAM secretary general Deepak Sood said that the measures could have a “big-time multiplier impact” and would help retain jobs and also create additional employment. Confederation of Indian Industry – Goa chapter chairman Blaise Costabir said that the measures announced could help address the key challenges that plague the economy and Goa’s MSME sector. Costabir did say that the industry seeks more clarity on the implementation of the measures. “The devil is always in the details. We still don’t know the mechanism for delivery of the stimulus package,” said Costabir. Costabir pointed out that many MSMEs could have benefited if the government had waived off power charges for the lockdown period since no power was consumed. “There is no compensation per se for the MSMEs for paying salaries in March and April during the lockdown. Now, diesel rates have gone up, and the water have gone up and the power tariffs have gone up as well,” said Costabir.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/stimulus-package-revives-hopes-for-local-msmes/articleshow/75727817.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Surat||Pregnant victim of violence rescued by Valsad cops||SURAT: A 35-year-old pregnant woman and her twin children, who had become victim of domestic violence, were rescued by Valsad police from her home in Vapi town. Police not only rescued her but also paid for a taxi to take her and two-year-old twins to her maternal home in Mumbai. According to Valsad police, the six-month pregnant woman was allegedly harassed by her husband and his family members. Not able to bare the harassment, the woman sought help from her maternal family living in Mumbai. Her brothers contacted Commonwealth Human Rights Initiative (CHRI), an NGO in Mumbai, for help. The NGO then contacted the Valsad police. “On May 10 (Sunday), we received a call from Donita Quadros working with CHRI about a pregnant woman harassed by her in-laws. She shared the woman’s address and we reached her house at 3.40pm,” said Om Prakash Jat, ASP and probationary IPS officer in Valsad.  Jat was accompanied by sub-inspector LG Rathod. “The woman narrated her story and demanded that she be sent to her maternal home in Mumbai as she did not want to stay with her husband any more. So, we hired a cab and paid for it. We also got issued valid travel pass from the district administration because she needed emergency care,” Jat told TOI. The woman reached Mumbai on May 11, added Jat posted at Dungra police station near Vapi town. Valsad police said that the woman did not not want to lodge a complaint against her husband. “We came to know that she was the fourth wife of her husband. Her husband was constantly torturing her saying that he did not like her,” said police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/pregnant-victim-of-violence-rescued/articleshow/75725451.cms||Vijaysinh Parmar
May 14, 2020||Dehradun||Migrant workers quarantined at govt school volunteer to revamp it||DEHRADUN: When seven migrant workers, helpers at a hotel in Chandigarh, returned to their native village in Rudraprayag district of Garhwal last week, they were whisked away to a government school-turned quarantine centre in Gafed village. Unable to be with their families and refusing to sit idle, the group of seven men decided to revamp the school building and the adjoining playground. Gafed village is home to around 80 families. Even as the villagers strictly followed social distancing norms, the villagers made the migrant workers feel welcome during their stay at the quarantine centre. One of the workers, Anil Singh, told TOI, “The villagers were very cooperative and offered us all the help we needed during the quarantine. All of us decided that the best utilization of our time would be to clean up the school and whitewash the walls.” Village head Leela Singh Bisht told TOI, “When the seven men volunteered to clean and whitewash the school building, we provided them with all the materials required.” The school, a government inter college, has over 100 students. “We have already cleaned the playground. By the weekend, all the walls and floors will be squeaky clean. It will be pleasant surprise for the students when they return,” said Pankaj Singh, another migrant worker. Pankaj added that instead of having their families bring them meals, they were preparing their food in the school campus itself. “We don’t want to burden our families and have them run around all day. We work in a hotel and know how to cook. We just ask for ration to be delivered here,” Singh explained. Gafed village is expecting more migrant workers from other cities. “We are going to need more gloves, masks and hand sanitizers for the migrant workers who are expected come home by next week. There are hundreds of people from this region who work in Delhi, Mumbai and Bangalore,” said Bisht.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/migrant-workers-quarantined-at-govt-school-volunteer-to-revamp-it/articleshow/75725460.cms||Yogesh Kumar
May 14, 2020||Nagpur||Maharashtra: Cop caught smuggling liquor to dry Chanda||YAVATMAL: Cops deployed at Belora check post under Shirpur police station in Wani tehsil caught a constable on Wednesday afternoon while he was smuggling Indian-made foreign liquor (IMFL) into neighbouring dry district. The constable Moreshwar Gore, 34, attached to Chandrapur police headquarters, was travelling in an SUV towards Chandrapur. When the cops at the check post inspected the vehicle, they found 12 bottles of IMFL worth Rs16,080. After fling an FIR at Shirpur police station, Gore was arrested and the liquor and the vehicle seized. Chandrapur is a dry district and manufacturing, sale and consumption of liquor there is prohibited. Sale was liquor was banned in Yavatmal also because of the lockdown. The ban as lifted recently but with a cap on the quantity of liquor one can purchase. The police with the help of excise officials are now trying to find out from where the cop procured liquor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cop-caught-smuggling-liquor-to-dry-chanda/articleshow/75726981.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand has suffered setback of Rs 7,000 crore this fiscal: Madan Kaushik||DEHRADUN: Uttarakhand’s urban development minister and government’s spokesperson Madan Kaushik on Wednesday said that the state has suffered a setback of Rs 7,000 crore in the ongoing financial year. He, however, denied calling the entire amount as a financial loss as it also comprises of the funds that were to be provided by the Union government. With the lockdown all set to enter the fourth stage, Uttarakhand has started analysing the financial situation and ways to come out of the present scenario. On being asked about the issue after the Cabinet meeting, Kaushik said, “Rough estimates suggest that the state government has suffered a setback of Rs 7,000 crore in this fiscal. Calling the entire sum a loss will not be right as it includes certain funds that were to be provided by the Union government and we expect to get them at some stage.” The minister did not fail to mention that the state had constituted a committee headed by retired IAS officer Indu Kumar Pandey which comprised of senior officers. “The committee has submitted its report and it was tabled before the state cabinet on Wednesday. The report details the situation of various sectors like MSMEs, industries, tourism, and others,” said the minister. Kaushik pointed out that the report is being studied by the state government and some concrete steps would be taken soon. “We have just got the report, so, it is too early to give any answer on the steps to be initiated by the government on basis of this report,” he added. Besides, the state has also constituted a three-member committee headed by agriculture minister Subodh Uniyal to study the scenario of the agricultural sector and recommend ways to help the farmers. “We are waiting for the committee’s report and once we get it, we will check the recommendations made by both committees and take the suitable step to improve the financial scenario,” Kaushik added. He pointed out that the state has already started taking some measures and has also made some recommendations to the Centre like opening of the Char Dham Yatra for the districts of Uttarakhand that are presently in the green zone category. “We have requested the Centre to give permission for religious activities and more economic activities in areas besides the containment zone,” he added. The Char Dham Yatra provides an estimated revenue of Rs 2,000 crore to all the stakeholders, including the state government. Earlier, tourism minister Satpal Maharaj had said, “Not only the government, but the economy of the entire region depends of the Char Dham Yatra. We are fortunate that the districts where Char Dham shrines are located are under the green zone. Therefore, we have requested the Centre to start the yatra for the green zone districts so that it can provide some financial assistance to stakeholders, including hotel and restaurant owners, pony owners, road-side shops and portars.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-has-suffered-setback-of-rs-7000-crore-this-fiscal-madan-kaushik/articleshow/75725473.cms||Kautilya Singh
May 14, 2020||Rajkot||CM lauds RCH hospital nurses||Rajkot: “The entire Gujarat and the country take pride in all of you who are waging the war against coronavirus by becoming Covid warriors.” This statement made by chief minister Vijay Rupani breathed a wave of fresh enthusiasm in the hearts of nurses of Covid-19 Hospital on Rajkot Civil Hospital campus who have been on their toes battling the global pandemic. The CM was addressing the nursing staff of the hospital through video conferencing after the state government declared the year 2020 as ‘Nurse and midwife year’. “The fact that the CM acknowledged our role in the fight against Covid-19, filled our hearts with a new energy,” says Kajal Sodhatar, who has been serving as a nurse with the civil hospital for the past 13 years. Sodhatar has to leave her four-year-old daughter at home with her mother every day when she has to leave for the hospital. “My mother was also a nurse. I feel proud of the fact that my family has served the mankind in this noble profession of medicines,” she says.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/cm-lauds-rch-hospital-nurses/articleshow/75725486.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Madurai||Uniform boards for food business operators||MADURAI: The food safety department has introduced uniform boards to be put up by food business operators (FBO) as many of them do not have a board. Designated officer for food safety, Madurai district, Dr M Somasundaram said the uniform boards will help in easily distinguishing between residential houses, food material manufacturing units and godowns when officials go on inspection. These boards will help them identify the exact sort of business process taking place inside each building. Officials can take informed decision while going for an inspection, he said. The boards will be in China red colour with text in white colour. “Majority of FBOs in Madurai do not have a board. If there is a board, it will be easy for identification purpose. It would take months for a new official to know what is functioning where. When there is a uniform board, even a new official can enter straightaway to streamline the work,” he said. Somasundaram said they have started the initiative in Chinna Anupanadi, Anupanadi and Chinthamani wards, where a large number of FBOs function as manufacturing units for flour, appalam, masalas and cooking and lighting oil. Few FBOs in the three wards have already complied with the initiative.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/uniform-boards-for-food-biz-operators/articleshow/75726972.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Kolhapur||District sets up 13 swab collection centres||KOLHAPUR: The health department has set up as many as 13 throat swab collection centres across the district for people coming in from other states and district, especially those from red zones. District health officer Yogesh Sale said that a 24-hour Covid Care Centre is functioning round the clock near Kagal. “The district also has as many as 20 checkpoints to keep an eye on symptomatic patients. Only citizens with a valid pass and health check-up are allowed to pass,” he said. “The district now hosts around 41 Covid care centres where asymptomatic people and those with mild symptoms can be treated,” he added. According to him, the collection of swab samples of the incoming passengers from the red zone is mandatory. “If reported positive, they will be taken to Covid care centre or Covid hospital depending on their condition. If reported negative, they are either suggested institutional quarantine or home quarantine,” he said. 94-year-old defeats contagion in Sangli A 94-year-old woman recovered from Covid-19 infection on Wednesday from Sangli. She tested negative for her post-isolation period tests and was discharged from the hospital. According to Sangli health department, the woman from Kameri village in Sangli district contracted the contagion from the earlier positive patient and was treated at the Government Medical College and hospital in Miraj.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/dist-sets-up-13-swab-collection-centres/articleshow/75725474.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Chennai||Who will quarantine returnees from Delhi? Railway, Tamil Nadu lock horns||CHENNAI: A crisis awaits the city as hundreds are expected to arrive in an AC special train from New Delhi at a time when the railway ministry and the state government are locked in a standoff over hosting the passengers till their post-arrival Covid-19 test results are out. Union railway minister Piyush Goyal has shot off a letter to Edappadi K Palaniswami, saying the railways cannot quarantine the passengers. The first train from New Delhi, which departed at 4pm on Wednesday, will reach MGR Central at 8.40pm on Thursday (today). The ministry of railways had announced the train and begun bookings without consulting the state government about the latter’s preparedness to receive and test more than 1,000 passengers twice a week. This made Palaniswami request the railways to keep the passengers on railway premises till RT-PCR tests results are known. In his letter, Goyal is said to have told the CM that the railway infrastructure was developed for transportation of people and cannot carry out quarantine and other actions as suggested by the chief minister. Southern Railway has around 500 coaches that have been converted into isolation wards, and has hospitals and many buildings where people can be housed. Goyal has quoted the standard operating procedure issued by the home ministry on May 1 for movement of migrant workers and has told the state government to quarantine the passengers. As per the SOP, the returnees should be home-quarantined and put into institutional quarantine if required, based on assessment. Their health status shall be monitored through Aarogya Setu on voluntary basis. Goyal is said to have told Palaniswami in the letter that “nowhere does the SOP prescribe compulsory testing with RT-PCR as stated by him.” “The Union minister said that on arrival, the passengers have to be dealt with by the state government as per the home ministry’s guidelines which have given sufficient flexibility,” said a source. The state government, which is grappling with huge spike in cases, came to know about the railway ministry’s Sunday announcement about resumption of passenger services through media reports. Citing the number of positive cases in Chennai, Palaniswami on Tuesday had asked the Union minister to quarantine the passengers on arrival on railway premises since there was a chance of spreading virus via AC coaches. He had said that passengers could be allowed to enter Tamil Nadu only after RT-PCR tests. “There are practical difficulties in testing all 1,000 passengers at the same time,” Palaniswami said, adding that testing could be done in one or two days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/who-will-quarantine-returnees-from-delhi-rlys-state-lock-horns/articleshow/75726987.cms||Julie Mariappan
May 14, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Cabs to switch off ACs during rides to beat coronavirus threat||KOLKATA: Don’t expect a cool ride in AC cabs this summer. Cab operators and online cab aggregators have decided to roll down windows and switch off the AC while ferrying passengers so that novel coronavirus cannot thrive and infect both commuters and drivers. Many AC taxi operators in the city are already doing it with the consent of their riders. There is a growing concern over the possibility of transmission in the confines of AC cars. A Chinese study suggested the spread of the virus in an air-conditioned restaurant. “Though the study is not irrefutable, the possibility cannot be ruled out completely. Particularly, the space within the car is very limited,” said Professor Prabir Basu, an automobile expert. Two major online app-cab aggregators – Uber and Ola – have already issued advisory of rolling down the window glass and switching off the AC during the ride. Both the aggregators have urged for a strict compliance of the advisory for the safety of passengers and driver-partners. The aggregators have also adopted flexible cancellation policy where both the rider and the driver partner can cancel the ride, if they feel that the pandemic protocol is not being followed, said app-cab aggregator sources. In its “10 steps to safer ride” guideline, Ola has stated that AC is to be switched off to avoid recirculation of air. Windows will be kept open during all rides. In its advisory, Uber also harped on rolling down the window for better ventilation. The riders have been asked to request the driver to switch the AC to fresh air mode. Doctors said rolling down windows is indeed a safer option. “Cross-ventilation is good as it will tend to drive away the viral droplets that may have landed inside a cab. In a closed environment with the AC on, the chances of the virus surviving and getting transmitted are higher,” said RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences consultant, Arindam Biswas. However, there is a widespread apprehension about regular arguments and possibility of losing passengers, given the severe weather conditions during peak summer, said operators. “Majority of our customers will insist on switching on the AC, even if they are aware of the danger. They will tell us that the fare includes air conditioning charges,” said Indranil Banerjee, general secretary of West Bengal Online Cab Operators’ Guild. However, many metered taxi operators have already been practising it in the city. “We are taking consent of the riders on keeping the widow open and switching off the AC. We are telling them why it is necessary for the betterment of their health under such circumstances. In most of the cases, riders appreciate the move. In some cases, they insist on switching on the AC,” said Sanjib Roy of Bengal Taxi Association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cabs-to-switch-off-acs-during-rides-to-beat-coronavirus-threat/articleshow/75726502.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
May 14, 2020||Nagpur||Prof, friend drown after illegally crossing Vainganga river||Chandrapur: Even as district borders are sealed due to the coronavirus pandemic, a professor and his friend drowned while bathing after crossing the Vainganga river, which is the border between Gadchiroli and Chandrapur districts, on Wednesday. The incident took place in the stretch of Vainganga river near village Kharkada in Brahmapuri tehsil. The deceased have been identified as professor Padmanabh Madavi (41) and his friend Sanjay Uke (41). Madavi is a professor at Dyanopasak Junior College at Nilaj village and lives alone in a rented house at Brahmapuri town. His family lives at village Koregaon in Wadsa tehsil of Gadchiroli. Prof Madavi has been deployed for survey of Covid-19. However, he sneaked into Gadchiroli district by crossing the river and went to meet his family. While returning with his friend Uke, they again crossed the district border by canoe at Kharkada ghat. However, after alighting from the boat, the duo went to have a bath in the river. The duo went into deep waters and drowned. Brahmapuri police later fished out their bodies from the river.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/prof-friend-drown-after-illegally-crossing-vainganga-river/articleshow/75726983.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Pune||Uncertainty over zoning classification holding MSMEs back||Pune: The colour zoning of different industrial areas into green, orange and red and the dynamic nature of these zones is holding micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) from quickly getting back to business. Business leaders said there was a need to open up completely for meaningful resumption of business. This fact also reflected in speech of finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman when she said loans were not being picked even after being sanctioned. As per Maharasthra industries minister Suhash Desai, about 32,000 of the 64,000 businesses that had applied to resume actually began work till May 10. Others, MIDC officials said, were still “in the process of resuming” operations. Those who have started business complain about workforce being held off by local authorities and each gram panchayat acting as own “district collector”. Businesses are also wary that zones should not be converted back into red category if someone is found positive. For instance, Jejuri MIDC started functioning about 10 days ago but when one positive case surfaced, everything was stopped. MSME representatives told Desai that shutdown was no solution as it added to the risk of permanent loss of business. “Maruti has asked auto-ancillary units in Bhosari MIDC to resume part supply immediately...if not started, MSMEs here will lose out to other states which have reopened,” Pradeep Bhargava, president, Mahratta Chambers of Commerce, Industries and Agriculture, said. Even for loans, MSMEs are circumspect how this “collateral-free and automatic” loan approvals will work. The Rs 3 lakh crore outlay across 45 lakh MSMEs translates to a loan size of Rs 6.67 lakh per MSME. “Our experience with the earlier plans like the 59-minute loan scheme is that we never got a loan even in 59 days. So, we will have to wait and watch if this one gets translated on ground. Even if it works, it will only provide comfort of less than a month of working capital to most units,” an MSME representative from Pune said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/uncertainty-over-zoning-classification-holding-msmes-back/articleshow/75726982.cms||Satyanarayan Iyer
May 14, 2020||Vadodara||Fake army jawan had contacts in Saudi, Pak||Vadodara: The 22-year-old man arrested recently for impersonating an army jawan was in contact with a man from Pakistan, someone in India’s Jammu and Kashmir and Saudi Arabia through Facebook, investigations revealed. Government Railway Police (GRP) officials said one of his relatives works in Saudi Arabia and the Pakistani man with whom accused Mohammed Salman Ansari was in touch with too worked in the same company. “The accused revealed they have been chatting through Facebook messenger. We are yet to find out the topic of their discussions,” said a police official. GRP officials received Ansari’s custody from a court until May 18 on Wednesday. He was arrested on May 10 from the city. Investigations also revealed that Ansari, who had scored 86% in higher secondary science stream examinations in Uttar Pradesh, always wanted to join Indian Army. However, in 2017 he was allegedly duped by a middleman who promised him a job in defence force. Since then Ansari has been roaming around wearing army uniform telling his family that he was in the army. Ansari had bought the army uniform from near Dimapur railway station in Nagaland. Besides fake identity card of Indian Army, a counterfeit Indian currency note of Rs100 denomination was found from his possession. “The fake currency note could have been smuggled from a neighbouring country. We will be interrogating him about its source,” the police official said. In the past, he had worked as a waiter in restaurants in Vapi and Ahmedabad. He was subjected to corona test but it was negative, sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/fake-army-jawan-had-contacts-in-saudi-pak/articleshow/75724062.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Pune||Seven succumb to contagion, 98 more turn positive in Pune||PUNE: Ninety eight fresh cases of Covid-19 were recorded in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) on Wednesday as against Tuesday’s record high of 165, taking the patient tally in the region to 3,232 so far. Besides, seven more patients succumbed to the contagion in the PMR on Wednesday. With this, the casualty count in the region has gone up to 175. In a good news, the number of people discharged from hospitals has also gone up. A total of 175 people were declared cured and discharged on Wednesday. Of the 98 fresh cases, 85 were from Pune municipal limits reported 85, four from PCMC areas and nine from the rural parts of the district. The seven casualties included a 65-year-old woman of Yerawada, a 42-year-old man of Tadiwala Road, a 70-year-old woman from Ramtekdi, a 48-year-old man from Sayyadnagar-Hadapsar, a 54 -year-old man from Ganj Peth, a 69-year-old woman from Yerawada and a 57-year-old woman from the Gultekdi area. The PMC administration on Wednesday held a meeting to discuss various measures that have been taken up so far in areas of Nagar Road and Hadapsar ward offices. The local members of ward committees, mayor Muralidhar Mohol, leader of house Dheeraj Ghate were present.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/seven-succumb-to-contagion-98-more-turn-positive-in-pune/articleshow/75726986.cms||Sarang Dastane
May 14, 2020||Hyderabad||225 leave for Delhi on special train||Hyderabad: A special train to Delhi departed from the Secunderabad railway station on Wednesday morning at 8.05 am. The train had started from Bengaluru on Tuesday on its way to Delhi via Secunderabad. “Around 225 passengers boarded the train. They were screened before getting to the platform,” Ch Rakesh, chief public relations officer, SCR, told TOI, adding that the passengers were also provided with hand sanitisers before their journey. “The passengers that deboarded the train at Secunderabad were screened and will be quarantined for 14 days,” he added. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/225-leave-for-delhi-on-special-train/articleshow/75726519.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Dehradun||Hoteliers demand relief package, claim heavy losses due to lockdown||HARIDWAR: Owners of those hotels in Haridwar which are on lease are suffering heavy financial losses due to the Covid-19 lockdown as the pilgrim footfall to the holy town has dipped to almost zero. They demand a bailout package from the government stating that even the upcoming religious events like Kanwar Yatra and other bathing festivals are not expected to witness a big turnout. There are around 700 hotels and guest houses in Haridwar. Among them, around 60% have been given on lease by the property owners. Anticipating huge rush of pilgrims in view of Kumbh Mela next year, many hoteliers had paid hefty lease amounts in the range of Rs 1.5 lakh-to-Rs 2 lakh per room for a year. However, the outbreak of coronavirus has dashed their hopes of seeing pilgrim footfall to the city. Hoteliers say that religious tourism is the base of Haridwar economy but they don’t see business getting back on track for at least the next two years. Vibash Mishra, a city-based hotelier, told TOI, “I took two hotels on lease at high prices in view of the Kumbh Mela but today, I have run out of money due to the lockdown. Even before the lockdown, hoteliers were suffering as rail services were hit due to construction work on railway tracks. Around 60% of city-based hotels are on lease and most of the hoteliers have already paid lease amount to the owners. So, now they don’t even have the money to pay salaries to their staff.” According to hoteliers, lease rent for each room of hotels located near Har ki Pauri and other banks of Ganga in the city is around Rs 1.5 lakh-to-Rs 2 lakh and in the city area, it is around Rs 1 lakh-to-1.25 lakh for each room. Ashutosh Sharma, president of Haridwar Hotel Association, told TOI, “We did 30% business between May and June but this summer season has been completely washed out due to the lockdown. We have so far lost around Rs 100 crore in Haridwar and there is no hope for revival of the industry for at least the next two years. The state government has announced some relief in electricity bill but that is not sufficient. Water and sewage charges should also be waived off and government should give us loans under Veer Chandra Singh Gaharwali scheme to help the hotel industry. If we are not provided with more relief, thousands of workers will lose their jobs. Meanwhile, we are taking steps to help those hoteliers who have taken hotels on lease.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/hoteliers-demand-relief-package-claim-heavy-losses-due-to-lockdown/articleshow/75725525.cms||MS Nawaz
May 14, 2020||Aurangabad||Those infected again did not pass on coronavirus: Study||PUNE: A study in China has shown that Covid-19 patients who tested positive after being discharged did not infect immediate contacts despite symptoms emerging again. Relapse of Covid-19 has been a concern worldwide. South Korea has 382 people (as of May 10) who tested positive again after being declared “recovered”. There has been a case from Maharashtra as well. A 76-year-old man from Aurangabad tested positive 11 days after being discharged from hospital. Fortunately, his relatives were found free of infection the second time. Now, researchers from the Diagnosis and Treatment of Infectious Diseases Research Laboratory of Shenzhen Third People’s hospital, who analysed the correlation between lab parameters, treatment and time for virus recrudescence, have suggested additional measures to confirm actual recovery in Covid-19 patients. Their study of 172 Covid-19 patients, published by the Oxford University Press on behalf of the Infectious Diseases Society of America, found that 25 of them had tested positive again within seven to 10 days of discharge. The patients earlier had symptoms of fever (68%) and cough (60%). Twenty-four of them were registered as non-severe during first onset. During readmission, only eight (32%) had mild cough. The Chinese study points at a fluctuation between improvement in clinics and “full recovery”. “It is probable that two negative RT-PCR tests — 24 hours apart — may not be sufficient for clearance,” the study states. Instead, the experts told TOI two PCR tests — spread over 48 hours — may be needed to confirm if a patient is clear of the virus. But none of the 25 patients who tested positive again spread the virus. “SARS-Cov-2 transmission between these patients and close contacts did not happen,” said Dr Yanchao Pan, one of the authors of the study. Pan recommended repeated RT-PCR testing separated by prolonged durations — such as 48 hours — before discharging. Another Chinese group that studied recurrence suggested strict supervision for at least two weeks after discharging a Covid-19 patient. They added a serologic examination of SARS-CoV-2-specific IgM antibody be carried out to detect the virus.  Epidemiologist Maria Van Kerhove, part of the WHO’s Health Emergencies Program, recently told the BBC that lungs eject dead cells as they heal from infection. “These are fragments of the lungs that are actually testing positive. It is not the infectious virus, it’s not reactivation. It is part of the healing process,” she said. In the case of the 76-year-old Aurangabad man, doctors said he suffered shortness of breath, while walking and climbing stairs, on both occasions. Physician Padmaja Saraf said the patient, with a history of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, was being given anti-virals and is expected to recover. Aurangabad municipal health officer Nita Padalkar said the virus is sometimes absent from nasal discharge, which could why he had tested negative. Padalkar said intermittent shedding of the virus could be the reason why he tested positive again. Prakash Doke, former state director of health services, said viral load and test sensitivity need to be considered. “We have not seen too many such cases in India. More studies need to be done to determine the reasons behind recurrence,” he said. (With inputs from Arpita Sharad in Aurangabad)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/those-infected-again-did-not-pass-on-virus-study/articleshow/75734030.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Mangaluru||Families relieved after repatriation flight lands at MIA||MANGALURU: Sexagenarian Gretta (name changed) who had spent sleepless nights after her 35-year-old son was stranded in Dubai, is breathing easy. Gretta’s son was one among those who arrived on the first repatriation flight that landed at Mangaluru International Airport (MIA), late on Tuesday night. The Air India Express flight IX 384, which was a Boeing 737-8HG aircraft, under the Vande Bharat Mission, landed at MIA at 10.04pm. The flight was carrying 95 men, 81 women, 5 children and 2 infants. 38 out of the 81 women were pregnant. It included those who lost their jobs, whose visas expired, those coming to India on medical emergencies and stranded tourists. Gretta’s son, one among 176 repatriates, flew to Dubai on a visit visa in March, after losing his job in India. He was staying with his brothers who work there. “He was supposed to return within a week, but got stranded after the lockdown was clamped and all international flights were cancelled to India. From the past 50 days, I have had sleepless nights worrying about my son, who went to Dubai, leaving his wife and two children. We are all relieved after his arrival. Even though we may meet him only after 14 days of mandatory quarantine, the family is happy,” says an elated Gretta. It was also a joyous moment for another expatriate, who landed here with his 18-week pregnant wife and five-year-old son. According to sources, his wife had developed some complications during pregnancy, and wanted to come back to India for another health check-up. “They were planning to reach India before May 28, and had made several queries on various routes. The family is happy to be back home,” the source added. After completion of all formalities at the airport, the evacuees were transported in buses to their quarantine facilities, which included hotels and hostels. All of them were asked to download the Aarogya Setu and Apthamitra apps. The entire process at MIA was completed by 2.30am, said Rahul Shinde, probationary IAS officer, who is in charge of the quarantine facilities for the expatriates. Out of the 176 repatriates, about 50 of them are from Udupi and 10 are from Uttara Kannada. They were sent to their respective districts. Currently, 119 repatriates from Dubai have been quarantined here. Free facility The Dakshina Kannada district administration said that several passengers were unable to afford paying for their institutional quarantine, since they had lost their jobs, and some had gone to Dubai on visit visa. “When the request came, we decided to shift them to a hostel situated in the outskirts of Mangaluru. The government will provide them free food and lodging,” said a source from the district administration. Currently nine people are at the facility. About 17 hotels and 12 hostels of educational institutions are being used as quarantine facilities. Crew The flight was piloted by commander Pratyush N Vyas and first officer Rishabh Shukla. The cabin crew included Baburaj Mullachery, Reena Dhanpal, Kanthi Kumari and Ashwathi Unikrishnan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/families-relieved-after-repatriation-flight-lands-at-mia/articleshow/75724167.cms||Kevin Mendonsa
May 14, 2020||Nagpur||Withhold forest and eco clearances amid pandemic: Experts urge minister||NAGPUR: Over 200 intellectuals, researchers, wildlife and forest experts have moved Union environment minister Prakash Javadekar to withhold forest and environmental clearances during the Covid-19 pandemic. Covid-19 outbreak and subsequent lockdown across the nation have created extraordinary challenges for India’s citizens and for governance. The measures that the government has taken to adapt to this unprecedented situation include a shift to online platforms for consultation and decision-making. “However, these measures are still inadequate and we have grave concerns about the manner in which forest and environment clearances are being granted during this pandemic,” they said. Among the signatories include former National Board for Wildlife (NBWL) members MK Ranjitsinh, AJT Johnsingh, Asad Rahmani, Belinda Wright, Bittu Sahgal, Biswajit Mohanty, Kishor Rithe, Prerna Singh Bindra, Claude Alvares, Divyabhanusinh Chavda, Praveen Bhargav, Shekar Dattatri and others. The central government and various statutory authorities are under orders of apex court to ensure that forest and environment clearances comply strictly with the guidelines laid down in the Lafarge Judgment of 2011. “Meeting via videoconferencing handicaps such authorities from carrying out the roles that they are mandated to fulfil by the Supreme Court. Therefore, the decisions taken at the 57th meeting of the standing committee of NBWL on April 7, 2020 related to 31 proposals affecting 15 tiger reserves, sanctuaries, notified eco-sensitive zones (ESZ), deemed ESZs on the fringes of protected area and designated wildlife corridors must not be implemented and must be visited afresh following due process after the end of the pandemic,” they said. First, site inspections, which are a crucial component of project evaluation, are very difficult to implement during a pandemic. Appraisals and assessments for clearance are being reduced to an mere formality, lacking credibility. Site inspections may be necessary and it is inconceivable that clearances can be granted in all cases without site inspections by experts. Second, due to the national lockdown since March 25, the ministry appears to be relying only on digital documents uploaded by project developers on single-window clearance portal — Parivesh. Supreme Court guidelines have specifically pointed out that identification of an area as forest solely based on the declaration by the user agency is leading to fait accompli situations. The compliance of these norms may not be possible during the lockdown which may amount to a serious deviation in the clearance process. Under normal circumstances, project developers would be expected to provide documents that elucidate a project’s impact on environment for clarification during in-person meetings. In several instances, documents are also requested via Speed Post, which may not be possible due to travel restrictions. Third, as a result of travel restrictions, Covid-19 distancing and other hardships to livelihoods during the lockdown, it is difficult to implement the ministry’s own mandated procedures in the foreseeable future. “In view of the compelling facts and circumstances outlined above, we request that implementation of decisions taken by the NBWL via videoconferencing be held in abeyance until pandemic-related travel restrictions are lifted to allow in-person meetings and travel to project sites for fresh appraisals following due process,” said the experts. “We further urge that all meetings of NBWL, Forest Advisory Committee (FAC) and all the 10 EACs be postponed as long as travel restrictions make verification of documents during in-person meetings, local representations, and site visits difficult,” they added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/withhold-forest-and-eco-clearancesamid-pandemic-experts-urge-min/articleshow/75726992.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
May 14, 2020||Meerut||Technology comes to rescue as 2,500 equines stuck at UP brick kilns see rise in colic cases||Meerut: The seven-week-long country-wide lockdown announced by the government on March 24 has not only affected lakhs of migrant labourers but also the equine community – particularly the one working at brick kilns.Close to 2,500 migrant equines are stuck at hundreds of brick kilns spread all across Uttar Pradesh, a majority of which are in the Western region. Officials say that the change of feed to inferior quality coupled with lack of exercise has led to the rise of a number of problems. Now vets are trying to help owners using long distance diagnoses to mitigate colic issues. According to Dr Arya Patel associated with Brooke India, an NGO working with equine communities, "As brick kilns are not functioning for the time being, these migrant labourers – hard pressed for cash – cannot move back to their hometowns. With rising temperatures and inactivity, these animals greatly suffer from dehydration and colic issues. It is very important that these animals keep moving which is not happening owing to the present situation. Due to non-availability of income, owners are also compromising in their feed. In such circumstances, we reach out to them, coordinate with brick kiln owners and provide help to them in the form of first aid boxes, medicines, etc. Besides, we also try to diagnose their problems on the phone or video calls as there are several self-help groups in these regions who help us stay connected. Our local trained partners are also trying to mitigate the crisis." However, with indications of a fourth phase of lockdown, things are going to get difficult for these communities. Chief executive officer (CEO) of Brooke India J Dharmadheeran said, "If the lockdown continues for a prolonged period of time, it is going to affect the equine communities very harshly. We just have two months of work before monsoon begins, after which brick kilns will shut down." Nathu Ram, an equine owner in Baghpat, says, "There has been no work for the last couple of months and due to lockdown we also cannot go home. Income is at an all-time low so it is not easy for us to feed our equines good quality fodder. However, we do get help at times. We also understand that if we do not take care of our animals, we will lose valuable assets." These animals are used to ferry mud and finished bricks, to and from brick kilns. Baghpat's chief veterinary officer Dr Khushi Ram said, "There are difficult times indeed, but we try to provide these communities with ration so that they are able to survive in these unfavourable circumstances. Once the communities are well-fed, they can take care of their animals as well."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/technology-comes-to-rescue-as-2500-equines-stuck-at-up-brick-kilns-see-rise-in-colic-cases/articleshow/75725508.cms||Sandeep Rai
May 14, 2020||Meerut||Giving govt transport a miss, hundreds crossing Uttarakhand & Haryana borders to enter UP||Meerut: Pooran Singh trudged a dense forest and swam through gushing Ganga River to cross Uttarakhand border. He preferred the ancient form of travelling over buses and trains arranged by the government to take migrants home.“They will quarantine me for 14 days in inhuman conditions. Even after that, what is the guarantee that I will reach my home in Bahraich,” Singh told TOI just after reaching Bijnor. A labourer in Uttarakhand, Singh has walked over 150km to reach Bijnor, a brief stopover after which he will resume the journey, on foot.He is not alone.There are hundreds who are walking; avoiding roads dotted with police barricades and preferring lesser explored routes.Misinformation about Covid-19 and about the conditions in quarantine centres is keeping the migrants away from authority’s reach. Fear of police among the lesser privileged people is also a big factor, a government official said. In Bijnor’s Mandawar, Balawali and Mandawalj areas, hundreds of labourers were caught while trying to cross the Ganga to enter UP. Not only Uttarakhand border, hundreds of migrants from Haryana are also risking their lives by crossing Yamuna. Last month, scores of workers crossed the Yamuna, which doubles up as border between Haryana and UP on some stretches, on their way home. They were caught and quarantined in Shamli. Similar incidents were also reported from Baghpat district.When asked, Bijnor’s superintendent of police Lakshmi Nivas Mishra said, “We are trying to coordinate with Uttarakhand administration about this situation. We also held a meeting with the officials of the neighbouring state on Tuesday in Najibabad.It is true that migrants are crossing Uttarakhand-UP border clandestinely. Government is providing transportation facilities to migrants. So they should follow lockdown norms. All those who enter UP should be on the record. Their medical check-up should also be conducted. We are keeping a close eye on those violating the norms.”According to officials, migrants may be carrier of coronavirus, so their health check-up is must to check the spread.“We have to know how many are entering the state. They could be carrying infection, so quarantine is a must. We have to have record. Illegal entry is causing a lot of problems,” a senior district official said.Meanwhile another migrant, Rajeev Kumar, who was catching a breath on Lakhimpur Kheri road, says, “They (officials) are unapproachable. The condition in quarantine centres is very bad. People are dying there for lack of basic needs.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/giving-govt-transport-a-miss-hundreds-crossing-uttarakhand-haryana-borders-to-enter-up/articleshow/75725496.cms||Harveer Dabas
May 14, 2020||Kolhapur||City to get mobile clinic to collect & test samples||Kolhapur: A mobile clinic for collecting and testing throat swab samples will soon be started in the city, informed district guardian minister Satej Patil and district collector Daulat Desai on Wednesday. As many as eight mobile clinics have already been developed in Kolhapur Municipal Transport (KMT) buses and are currently catering to the slum areas. The mobile clinic has the facility of thermal scanners, beds, ventilator and sanitising machine. Doctors and nurses have been appointed for every bus and people coming to these clinics are being treated for free. "Once we get the required set up we will start a similar mobile clinic to collect as well as test the throat swab samples for Covid-19. I have asked the administration to study how we can make it happen as we are speeding up testing which is need of the hour to stop the spread of the virus," Patil said. Various models have been developed by many firms for on-the-go collection of throat swab samples. Recently divisional commissioner Deepak Mhaisekar also allowed the use of such models. The on the go swab collection centre is a glass chamber with two rubber glove outlets. Using the gloves the doctors can safely get the throat swab sample. The rapid antibody test kits will be used for testing the samples. If the test result is positive the person will be kept in isolation and further tests will be carried out. The mobile clinic van will cater to patients with mild symptoms. Many private clinics are shut due to coronavirus scare and the patients suffering from other ailments are having a tough time due to lack of medical care.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/city-to-get-mobile-clinic-to-collect-test-samples/articleshow/75725494.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Pune||Those infected again did not pass on coronavirus: Study||PUNE: A study in China has shown that Covid-19 patients who tested positive after being discharged did not infect immediate contacts despite symptoms emerging again. Relapse of Covid-19 has been a concern worldwide. South Korea has 382 people (as of May 10) who tested positive again after being declared “recovered”. There has been a case from Maharashtra as well. A 76-year-old man from Aurangabad tested positive 11 days after being discharged from hospital. Fortunately, his relatives were found free of infection the second time. Now, researchers from the Diagnosis and Treatment of Infectious Diseases Research Laboratory of Shenzhen Third People’s hospital, who analysed the correlation between lab parameters, treatment and time for virus recrudescence, have suggested additional measures to confirm actual recovery in Covid-19 patients. Their study of 172 Covid-19 patients, published by the Oxford University Press on behalf of the Infectious Diseases Society of America, found that 25 of them had tested positive again within seven to 10 days of discharge. The patients earlier had symptoms of fever (68%) and cough (60%). Twenty-four of them were registered as non-severe during first onset. During readmission, only eight (32%) had mild cough. The Chinese study points at a fluctuation between improvement in clinics and “full recovery”. “It is probable that two negative RT-PCR tests — 24 hours apart — may not be sufficient for clearance,” the study states. Instead, the experts told TOI two PCR tests — spread over 48 hours — may be needed to confirm if a patient is clear of the virus. But none of the 25 patients who tested positive again spread the virus. “SARS-Cov-2 transmission between these patients and close contacts did not happen,” said Dr Yanchao Pan, one of the authors of the study. Pan recommended repeated RT-PCR testing separated by prolonged durations — such as 48 hours — before discharging. Another Chinese group that studied recurrence suggested strict supervision for at least two weeks after discharging a Covid-19 patient. They added a serologic examination of SARS-CoV-2-specific IgM antibody be carried out to detect the virus.  Epidemiologist Maria Van Kerhove, part of the WHO’s Health Emergencies Program, recently told the BBC that lungs eject dead cells as they heal from infection. “These are fragments of the lungs that are actually testing positive. It is not the infectious virus, it’s not reactivation. It is part of the healing process,” she said. In the case of the 76-year-old Aurangabad man, doctors said he suffered shortness of breath, while walking and climbing stairs, on both occasions. Physician Padmaja Saraf said the patient, with a history of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, was being given anti-virals and is expected to recover. Aurangabad municipal health officer Nita Padalkar said the virus is sometimes absent from nasal discharge, which could why he had tested negative. Padalkar said intermittent shedding of the virus could be the reason why he tested positive again. Prakash Doke, former state director of health services, said viral load and test sensitivity need to be considered. “We have not seen too many such cases in India. More studies need to be done to determine the reasons behind recurrence,” he said. (With inputs from Arpita Sharad in Aurangabad)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/those-infected-again-did-not-pass-on-virus-study/articleshow/75726996.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Rajkot||Onion farmers wail over meagre prices of produce||Rajkot: There was ruckus between farmers and traders at the Rajkot market yard on Wednesday over low price of onions and in absence of auction process in name of maintaining social distancing.The farmers have also alleged that the traders were taking advantage of the situation of no auction and purchasing onions at lower rate but selling the produce at double the rate to wholesalers. On Wednesday the price of onion in the marketing yard came down to Rs 2-5 per kg.As against arrival of 4,000 bags (of 50kg each) during normal days, only 500 bags are allowed in the Rajkot market yard under the government’s guidelines to maintain social distancing. Farmers from Rajkot, Lodhika, Padadhir, Dhoraji and Upleta taluka come to sell their onion at Rajkot market yard.Dilip Sakhiya, president of Bhartiya Kisan Sangh Rajkot alleged, “The traders are paying Rs 80-150 per bag (weighing 50-55kg) and selling it to the wholesalers in the same market yard at Rs 350 per bag. This is an open loot.” The members of Bhartiya Kisan Sangh also submitted a memorandum to Rajkot district collector with demand that government must procure onion at minimum support price (MSP) from the farmers. They also demanded relaxation in export of onion so that farmers can get good price. Deepak Limbasia, a farmer who came to sell his onions said, “We can’t recover our input cost. I spend Rs 21,000 per bigha for onion cultivation and in return I am getting Rs 14,000. I also have to add cost of jute bags and transportation in my cost.” Rajkot market yard chairman D K Sakhiya said, “Auction cannot be allowed under the government’s Covid-19 guidelines. If more people would gather here we will be forced to close the yard. Yes, the farmers are not getting adequate price. I have requested the government to pay Rs 2 subsidy to farmers to recover some of their cost.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/onion-farmers-wail-over-meagre-prices-of-produce/articleshow/75725560.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Dehradun||‘Board exams to be held as soon as lockdown is lifted’||DEHRADUN: In an interactive video conference titled “Atal-E-Samvaad” on Wednesday, state education minister Arvind Pandey said that schools will reopened and board exams held as soon as the lockdown is lifted. Several village leaders, parents, students and teachers participated in the conference through screens installed in in 500 state government schools. The conference was aimed to review the new initiatives taken by the education department to continue studies amid the lockdown. Responding to queries, Pandey said that the remaining board exams will be finished within a four-day period and a schedule will be released 10 days in advance. People also raised the issue of being unable to clear doubts during the telecast of lessons for classes 9, 10 and 12 on Doordarshan Uttarakhand. The education minister said that the queries of the students will be collected by their respective education officers and a separate telecast will be broadcast, answering those. “We have also asked gram pradhans to assess if schools in their villages need more resources. There has been a lot of reverse migration recently, which might increase the load on schools,” added the education minister.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/board-exams-to-be-held-as-soon-as-lockdown-is-lifted/articleshow/75725551.cms||Mohammad Anab
May 14, 2020||Kolhapur||KMC yet to raise height of pumping stations that were blocked during floods||Kolhapur: The Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC) has not taken taken any efforts to shift or raise the heights of the pumping stations that were submerged under the flood water of the Panchaganga river last year. A year has passed since the decision was taken by the KMC, but there has been no development since then. It took three days for the civic body to restart the pumping stations as the city lingered without water. As monsoon is hardly a month away, serious questions are being raised by the corporators over the efforts of the civic administration. Sharangdhar Deshmukh senior corporator said that the city had to face a lot of issues during the floods last year. “People had to face a lot of water cuts. We had expected an immediate solution after the floods receded. We had also suggested to shift or raise the heights of Balinga and Nagdevwadi pumping stations. However, no efforts were taken by the civic authorities. We will seek action against the officers concerned if the suggestion is not implemented at the earliest,” he said. He added that the administration should have at least raised the heights of the pumping station which would have required fewer funds as the issue could have been resolved. "We now have the least expectations that the bore wells and the wells from the city would be cleaned and restored before the monsoon arrives. The pumps can be set up at these wells and at least the locals can get regular water supply when a flood occurs and pumping stations are shut," Deshmukh said. During the floods last year, most parts of the city were depended on water tankers. However, many tankers could not reach the affected areas as roads approaching them were submerged in floodwater. The citizens from such areas had to store rainwater and drink it after boiling. On a few occasions, water packets and bottles were dropped by air. After the floods receded and the pumping stations started the water supply was improper as the underground pipelines were damaged and the taps were choked. Bhaskar Kumbhar chief hydraulic engineer of KMC said that they had prepared a proposal seeking funds from the district planning and development council (DPDC) to shift the pumping stations. "We have not yet received the funds from DPDC. Some funds were granted which have been utilized to buy the water tankers,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/kmc-yet-to-raise-height-of-pumping-stations-that-were-blocked-during-floods/articleshow/75725523.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Surat||Gujarat: Social workers reunite Bihar runaway teen with family||SURAT: Sitting 1,850kms apart, it was an intense emotional moment between a father and son who met over a video call after 26 days. Unlike the migrants’ trauma, the Sah family was subjected to a bigger heartache when their 15-year-old son, Subhash, decided to play truant and ran away. His farmer father, Pankaj Sah had almost given up on hope of seeing his son ever again, but for these social workers, who helped the happy reunion. Subhash, a resident of Hariharpur village of Bihar, and a student of Class X ran away just ahead of the lockdown to escape his parents’ scolding for not studying. He managed to travel up to Surat via Ahmedabad after boarding a train at the Hajipur railway station. But with everything closed down, the teenager ended up on the footpath in the diamond city. Thanks to Piyush Shah and Manjula Jain, the story had a final happy ending. Subhash reached Ahmedabad on March 22. “It was Janta Curfew that day and there was no traffic movement on the roads. Subhash was puzzled but found a truck carrying vegetables and hitched a ride,” said Piyush Shah, coordinator of Friends For Women and Children (FFWC), a CID Crime initiative. The truck brought him to the city and on March 23 Subhash was spotted by a woman searching for help in the Palanpur Jakatnaka area. The woman who lives nearby with her son took him home and offered him food. Subhash stayed with the family for a few days but after the second lockdown was announced, she asked him to leave as she too was running out on resources. Helpless, Subhash spent a day on the streets, when Manjula Jain, coordinator of FFWC spotted him while distributing food packets on April 16. When asked, a sobbing Subhash described his misadventure after which she informed Shah and they collected his details. “I contacted the local MLA and the sarpanch of Hariharpur village. They found a kidnap plaint on Subhash’s name registered with the local police and we could contact his father,” said Shah. FFWC volunteers called up his father on April 16. For verification the duo were put on video call and the father-son duo identified each other with smiles and tears. Subhash is now put in a government children home till his father could come to collect him. Talking with TOI, Pankaj Sah said, “Subhash also took with him Rs 17,000 in cash from home. He might have planned to work in Surat."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/social-workers-reunite-bihar-runaway-teen-with-family/articleshow/75725538.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
May 14, 2020||Delhi||Luck favours 10k as they leave for home||New Delhi: The western side of New Delhi Railway Station facing Paharganj saw on Wednesday a steady flow of passengers as nine special trains left the capital on the second day of operations. Over 10,000 people left for Thiruvananthapuram, Ranchi, Chennai, Dibrugarh, Howrah, Mumbai, Patna, Ahmedabad and Jammu Tawi. Most passengers arrived well before the stipulated time, which was 90 minutes from the departure of the train. Police and volunteers granted them entry after checking if they had valid tickets and conducting thermal screening. It was also mandatory for everyone to either wear a mask or cover the face completely with a cloth. Unlike a day earlier, when people had formed long queues for two trains headed for Dibrugarh and Bilaspur, railway officials said they maintained a steady movement of passengers while maintaining social distancing on Wednesday. “Only those showing symptoms of Covid-19 were to be stopped. However, we did not find any such passenger. All trains were almost fully occupied, barring the train to Patna that had some empty seats,” said a Northern Railway official. For Amardeep Kumar (38), this was the chance to go home to Bihar and see his newborn son for the first time. Because of his job in Delhi, he had been unable to be there for the birth. “I’ll finally get to hold my son in my arms. My aim is to make the most of the situation and spend as much time possible with him,” he said. Another passenger, Bilal Ahmed, said that with work stopped completely in Delhi, his family asked him to return home. He had been staying in a rented accommodation at Batla House. He took the first opportunity and booked a train ticket back home to Jammu on Monday. “I’ll stay with my family for a while and then decide when to come back,” he added. Manisha Shreshtha, a 22-year-old trainee airhostess headed towards Kolkata, said the lockdown not only stopped her training, but she was stuck in a new city with nowhere to go. “Most of us travelling are going back to our family and parents, who are a worried lot,” she added. The lack of transport impacted many and they had to walk several kilometres to reach the station. Shankar Dayal Sharma said he started walking early and reached the station by 3pm. His train was at 8.15pm. “I could not take the risk. Someone gave me a lift, but I still had to walk a lot. I will finally get to meet my family in Ahmedabad,” he added. On Tuesday, three trains had departed from Delhi to Bilaspur, Dibrugarh and Bengaluru carrying close to 3,500 passengers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/luck-favours-10k-as-they-leave-for-home/articleshow/75727001.cms||Pankhuri Yadav
May 14, 2020||Pune||Pune: KCB starts door-to-door medical examinations||PUNE: The Khadki Cantonment Board (KCB) has started door-to-door medical check-up of residents in the congested areas under its limits. Nine clinics in two densely populated wards are actively carrying out the medical examinations. The board has hired services of private doctors for aiding the initiative. KCB chief executive officer Pramod Kumar Singh said, “With the help of the elected board members and volunteers of these wards, we are bringing people to these clinics and carrying out their health check-up and giving them reports too. Those suffering from cough and fever are being referred to Babasaheb Ambedkar Khadki Cantonment Hospital, where Covid-19 patients are being treated.” Over 200 citizens have been medically examined in the last two days. “Our aim is to carry out check-up of each citizen living in the KCB limits. The similar exercise will be launched in other wards in the coming days,” Kumar added. The board has managed to control the spread of the virus. So far, it has found 28 Covid-19 positive people. Of them, 19 patients have been discharged, two have succumbed to the virus and seven are under treatment at its hospital and also Sassoon. “We had initially recorded maximum cases in the ‘bazaar’ areas and Indiranagar slum pocket. We had closed or sealed these places for the last three weeks. We have managed to supply essentials such as vegetables and grocery items to the residents. All this helped us contain the spread of the virus,” said Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/kcb-starts-door-to-door-medical-examinations/articleshow/75727003.cms||Sandip Dighe
May 14, 2020||Pune||Can’t check every phone for Aarogya Setu app: District Collector||PUNE: District collector Naval Kishore Ram on Wednesday said people would have to follow the Centre’s directive making the downloading of Aarogya Setu app on cellphones mandatory. “We have made downloading Aarogya Setu mandatory and it is for the people to follow. We cannot check every phone,” he said, after the Centre issued a fresh directive making Aarogya Setu app mandatory for NRIs, migrant workers and students returning home. According to a report, only 57% people returning to Maharashtra downloaded the app on their cellphones. Some officials stressed on ensuring more people downloaded the app. State health minister Rajesh Tope had also said it was mandatory to download the app, as instructed by the Centre. The Centre in its statement said the government had data of less than 13,000 Covid-19 infected people out of about 9.8 crore who downloaded the app. The government IT experts stated the data would be deleted from the server 60 days after the people recovered. “Using the app, nearly 1.3 lakh users who came in close contact with these 13,000 people were alerted,” said an official. IT and governance expert Anupam Saraph asked if the app developer was certifying the bearer of the phone with the app had Covid-19. “What is the value of this information if they can’t vouch for the Covid-19 status?” he asked. He said the app would only spread false information. He also said the assurance by the Centre that data would be deleted was like the argument it put up for Aadhaar data and privacy. Multiple NGOs raised security concerns and said the app was useless for low-income non-smartphone users.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cant-check-every-phone-for-aarogya-setu-app-collector/articleshow/75727004.cms||Nisha Nambiar
May 14, 2020||Kolhapur||Maharashtra: Pregnant women to be treated as per protocol||KOLHAPUR: The Satara health department has said that they are treating pregnant ladies from containment zones in the district as per the Covid-19 treatment protocols. The doctors said that they are treating them with the required safety gear such as personal protective equipment (PPE) kits, masks, and gloves among others. District health officer Aniruddha Athalye told TOI that every month around 3,000 pregnancies are due in the district. For women in non-containment zones, Covid-19 test is mandatory while for women from containment zones, delivery protocols are followed as per the norms laid down by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). The ICMR guidelines stated that during hospitalization of a pregnant woman, a single and asymptomatic birth partner should be permitted to stay with the woman through pregnancy and birth. Visitors should be instructed to wear appropriate PPE, including gown, gloves, face mask, and eye protection. “Women should be met at the maternity unit entrance by staff wearing appropriate PPE and be provided with a surgical face mask. The face mask should not be removed until the woman is isolated in a suitable room. Staff providing care should take Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) precautions as per national guidance,” the guidelines added. Wearing PPE has been made mandatory during cesarean surgery or other operative procedure is being conducted. 2 test positive for Covid-19 in Satara Two people have tested positive for Covid-19 in Satara district on Tuesday night. According to the district health department, a 25-year-old man with travel history from Ahmedabad and a 75-year-old woman from Saidapur Covid Care Centre tested positive for the contagion. With this, the total number of Covid-19 cases in the district have gone up to 124 while there are 87 active cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/pregnant-women-to-be-treated-as-per-protocol/articleshow/75725562.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Bareilly||Pregnant woman, husband walk 250 km from Delhi on way to Bihar||Bareilly: Walking for six days with very little food, Amit Kumar, a migrant worker from Bihar, and Deepali, his seven-month pregnant wife, travelled 250 km on foot along several UP districts in a desperate attempt to reach home. “I had nothing to give my wife but mental support for her to walk in such a difficult time. She walked steadily though,” the man, in his mid-20s, said, as they left Delhi. The young couple, like hundreds of distressed migrant workers in the country, feared that "they would soon die of hunger, than Covid-19, if they continued to hang on in the city". A native of Bhagalpur, Kumar was working as a labourer in Janakpuri when the prolonged lockdown left him without money and livelihood. Kumar and his pregnant wife - with swollen feet and extreme exhaustion - reached UP's Bareilly district, on Wednesday, to the utter disbelief of locals. In fact, since the March lockdown, Kumar had waited patiently for over a month hoping to get a job and get over the agony, but the lockdown continued and so did his agony. “Staying in Delhi was gradually forcing us towards starvation. Certainly, we would have died of hunger. With no money and little food, the only option we had was to leave for home,” Kumar said, who married Deepali last year, and brought her to Delhi within months. On entering Bareilly, cops on duty at Meerganj border outpost were shocked to learn that the pregnant woman had walked for six days, covering 250 km. They called for caretakers from a roadside ashram and asked them to help the couple. “We provided them medicine and asked them to take rest for a while. They looked totally exhausted,” one of the locals said. The locals, who were equally shocked, then helped them to get a lift from a truck for their onward journey.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/pregnant-woman-husband-walk-250-km-from-delhi-on-way-to-bihar/articleshow/75722788.cms||Pankul Sharma
May 14, 2020||Goa||Father-son duo petitions HC against Class X exams||Panaji: The high court of Bombay at Goa has directed the chairperson of the Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education to submit a reply to a petition seeking the revocation of the decision to conduct SSC examinations for the academic year 2019-2020 scheduled between May 21 and June 6 . The father-son duo is seeking directions from the court to the government authorities not to hold the exams unless the government scientifically ensures that the threat of Covid-19 infection has dissipated to ensure that no risk is posed to students, staff, volunteers and examiners. They state that they have not been able to locate any document containing a decision granting permission to the Goa Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education to conduct the SSC examination.  The petition suggests formulating innovative measures to examine/ assess the students by employing advances in technology available like online examinations, reduction of the time of each examination, objective and multiple choice questions and other means of evaluation of students, without inviting unnecessary risk. “It was indeed imperative that the issue be examined by a committee of qualified persons from the fields of medicine/health care and education... The respondents do not appear to have even embarked upon any such exercise before declaring that they would conduct the SSC examinations.” “There are no compelling reasons that could either warrant or justify exposing students, and others involved in the conduct of the SCC Examinations, to the lurking risks of Covid-19... The same is arbitrary, illegal and warrants the urgent intervention of this court,” the petitioners stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/father-son-duo-petitions-hc-against-class-x-exams/articleshow/75727831.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Bareilly||Two test positive for Covid-19 in Pilibhit||Pilibhit: Two people on Tuesday tested positive for novel coronavirus in Pilibhit, confirmed health department officials. The positive cases include a 35-year-old man who returned to a village under Bisalpur Kotwali police station in Pilibhit from Delhi, while another is a 24-year-old resident of a village under Puranpur kotwali, who had recently returned from Mumbai. Both reports were issued by Dr Ram Manohar Lohia Institute of Medical Sciences. Additional chief medical officer Dr CM Chaturvedi said villagers and the pradhan concealed the information from officials during the inquiry. District magistrate Vaibhav Shrivastav, too, held the gram pradhan responsible for concealing the information. “We are seizing her financial powers with immediate effect as a punishment. She might also be subjected to further legal action,” said DM. Dr Chaturvedi said one of the positive cases, along with four others, was shifted to Agrawal Sabha Bhawan in Bisalpur tehsil. “We collected the samples of all five people on May 9 and sent them for test the next day. Of the five people, one tested positive and one negative, while the reports of three others are still awaited. “The 35-year-old infected man was shifted to an isolation ward in Bareilly on Tuesday night. The 24-year-old youth would also be shifted to Bareilly, soon,” said Chaturvedi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/two-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-pilibhit/articleshow/75722795.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Man held at Alipiri for smuggling liquor||TIRUPATI: Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams security guards caught a man at Alipiri checkpoint on Wednesday for taking liquor and non-vegetarian food to Tirumala in his car. Six liquor bottles and nearly 5 kgs of chicken were found under his car seat. He was also found to be carrying two litres of liquor in plastic bottles. As consumption of alcohol and non-vegetarian food is prohibited in Tirumala, the man was handed over to Tirumala II town police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/man-held-at-alipiri-for-smuggling-liquor/articleshow/75724207.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Mumbai||Positive news! Sion Hospital delivers over 100 healthy babies of Covid-19 moms||MUMBAI: In a heartening feat, by Wednesday, civic-run Sion Hospital had delivered babies of over 100 Covid-19 positive women, a majority them from the city’s high-risk or containment areas. What made it more special is that there was not a single case of mother-to-child transmission of the infection. Though not a dedicated Covid-19 facility for child births, the hospital, which has traditionally handled the highest load of deliveries among civic hospitals, continued to see its usual number of pregnant patients from Dharavi, Mankhurd and Govandi. Around three weeks ago, the gynaecology department created separate wards for Covid-19 patients, and began delivering wearing PPE suits. By Wednesday, the number of deliveries touched 103, of which 55 were done through C-Section and 48 were normal. “We were lucky to have most mothers coming in a stable condition. As most are young, they are largely asymptomatic or have mild symptoms. All have been allowed to breastfeed their babies wearing a mask,” said Dr Arun Nayak, head of gynaecology at Sion. While there were no cases of in-utero transmission—from mother’s womb to baby—three babies tested positive when their swabs were sent. “They subsequently tested negative,” said a doctor, adding those could have been false negatives or the babies might have contracted the virus after birth. “All babies are doing fine now,” said Dr Nayak. On the other hand, there have been three maternal deaths and five abortions. “Those who died had comorbid conditions,” said Dr Nayak. A 30-year-old woman, who died on Tuesday, had pregnancy-induced hypertension and liver failure. The hospital said not a single healthcare worker involved in deliveries has been infected. The operation theatres are swiftly disinfected while the doctors replace their sterile gowns and gloves before every delivery with new ones. On the other side of the city, B Y L Nair Hospital in Mumbai Central, a designated facility for Covid-19 positive women, too, has carried out 69 deliveries. Here, too, none of the babies have tested positive. Dr Ganesh Shinde, who heads the department, said they have managed to carry out more deliveries normally. “Covid-19 infection is not an indication for C-Section. We use it only where it’s indicated,” he said, adding there haven’t been many complicated cases. Dr Sushma Malik, head of paediatrics at Nair, said babies should be allowed to breastfeed unless mothers are serious. The hospitals have adopted a strict no visitor policy. A staffer, donning PPE, runs down and informs the waiting family of a birth. “Only a mother is allowed to hold a baby,” said a doctor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/positive-news-sion-hosp-delivers-over-100-healthy-babies-of-covid-moms/articleshow/75727006.cms||Sumitra Debroy
May 14, 2020||Dehradun||Three fresh cases of Covid-19 in Uttarakhand, all had returned from other states||DEHRADUN: Three new Covid-19 cases were reported in Uttarakhand on Wednesday, taking the state’s tally to 72. One coronavirus patient recovered and was discharged from a hospital in Nainital, making the total number of active cases 24 in the state. Among the persons who tested positive is a 52-year-old woman from Dehradun had gone to Delhi to visit her son earlier this year, according to the health department. She also underwent a kidney stone surgery in Delhi’s GB Pant hospital in March. Her family said that the patient hadn’t stepped out of her home in the last two months during the coronavirus lockdown. “The patient and her son, who lives in Raipur area, were coming back to Dehradun in a private taxi on May 11. Our team collected their sample at Asharodi check post at Dehradun-Uttar Pradesh border. It was part of our random sampling,” said Dr Dinesh Chauhan, the district nodal officer of Covid-19 pandemic. The sample was tested at Government Doon Medical College (GDMC) and the patient, along with the son and other family members, were shifted to Doon hospital on Wednesday afternoon. In another case, a 27-year-old youth was found to be Covid-19 positive in Almora. He had recently travelled to his village in Ranikhet from Gurugram. He is had been housed at a quarantine facility in the village and was moved to the district hospital late on Wednesday. The third case reported was from Haldwani. A resident who returned home from Amravati district of Maharashtra tested positive for the infection on Wednesday. Meanwhile, the state has conducted 10,792 tests so far. Around 300 samples were sent for testing on Wednesday. As many as 2,935 people are at quarantine facilities across Uttarakhand. The state has reported a 65 per cent recovery rate, with 24 active cases at present. Nine of the active cases are in Dehradun and Udham Singh Nagar each, two in Haridwar and Nainital and one each in Almora and Uttarkashi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/three-fresh-cases-of-covid-19-in-uttarakhand-all-had-returned-from-other-states/articleshow/75725565.cms||Ishita Mishra
May 14, 2020||Pune||Cigarette prices on fire in grey market, smokers in Pune choke||By: Anjali Jhangiani PUNE: Prices of cigarettes have shot up with several retailers selling them at exorbitant rates, mostly double the printed MRP or even more, in the grey market. Cigarette brands, that were priced at Rs 330 for a pack of 20 sticks, are being sold for anything between Rs 650 and Rs 700. “The maximum retail price (MRP) of a pack of 20 cigarettes I smoke is Rs 330. But since the lockdown started and the paan kiosks are shut, I am paying Rs 650 for the same pack,” said Pratham Tupe, a resident of NIBM Road. Siddharth Mathur, a resident of Undri, said, “Once the lockdown was announced, I requested the local grocer to get a few packets for me. He said he was charged extra by the dealers for the stock.” s. Dharmesh Tyagi, a resident of Magarpatta, said. “A friend is selling sealed cartons of 10 packets of 20 pieces for Rs 8,500-10,000,” he said. Cheaper brands of cigarettes are also selling nothing less than Rs 250 for a packet of 10. Undri resident Rohan Mehta tried one of the cheaper brands as he did not get the cigarette of his choice. “I did not like the taste and reduced smoking to one cigarette a day,”he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cigarette-prices-on-fire-in-grey-market-smokers-choke/articleshow/75727007.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Nagpur||Five pregnant women among 11 test +ve in city||Nagpur: Eleven persons including five pregnant women from the city tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday taking the district’s tally to 315. A liftman of a private hospital that was temporarily shut on Monday was also found positive while remaining 47 doctors and staff tested negative. Number of Covid positive pregnant women has now increased to eight in last two days. Of the latest five, two are nine-month pregnant. Three were admitted at Covid-19 Isolation ward of GMCH and remaining two in IGGMCH. These eight pregnant women are among 45 whose swab samples were taken for testing in a special camp organized on Monday. Continuing proactive measures to contain spread of Covid-19 and give treatment to positive persons from initial stage itself, municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe and his team led by Dr Yogendra Savai, Dr Praveen Gantawar held the special camp for pregnant women at Mominpura containment zone. Earlier, two pregnant positive women had delivered babies in Isolation Wards of IGGMCH and GMCH. The babies were negative. One of them was discharged on May 5 while the other was discharged on Wednesday. An official from NMC Satranjipura zone told TOI they were likely to take action against husband of a pregnant woman who tested positive on Wednesday. While giving samples at camp, she had mentioned address of Hasanbagh in East Nagpur. The husband had said they were in Hasanbagh. A team of NMC Nehru Nagar zone with police searched entire Hasanbagh area but could not find them. Investigation revealed she was from Shanti Nagar which is containment zone linked with Satranjipura. “We found her in Shanti Nagar and shifted her in evening. Two brothers with their pregnant wives from the same family had come for giving swabs at the camp of which one has tested positive,” the official said. The civic officials led by Dr Gantawar held a meeting with doctors practising in Mominpura and suggested that all pregnant women registered with them get tested. Mundhe and team is now planning to hold similar camps for SARI, COPD, hypertension, kidney patients at all 15 containment zones. The 35-year-old liftman of private hospital situated at Kamal chowk on Kamptee road was a resident of Dobi Nagar in Mominpura from where many had tested positive earlier. He was among 48 doctors and staff quarantined at a hotel on Central Avenue on Monday. The hospital was temporarily shut for fumigation. A woman from Mominpura was admitted there and had tested positive on Sunday. Remaining 47 are reportedly negative. Two patients who were admitted in the hospital were shifted to IGGMCH and also reportedly came negative. Of 11 positive on Wednesday, nine are from Mominpura and two from Satranjipura. Now, tally of Mominpura is 161 (51.11%) and Satranjipura—119 (37.77%). The two hotspots account for 88.88% of district’s total cases. 10 positive persons including woman who has delivered were discharged. Five each were discharged from IGGMCH and GMCH. Total number of recoveries increased to 112 which are 35.55% of total cases. Four people have died so far. Thus, 199 are undergoing treatment at IGGMCH and GMCH.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/five-pregnant-women-among-11-test-ve-in-city/articleshow/75726539.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
May 14, 2020||Goa||No Covid-19 deaths in Goa, state will not hide cases: CM||Panaji: Denying rumours linking a recent death in a state isolation ward to Covid-19, chief minister Pramod Sawant said people admitted in the isolation wards are tested for the virus multiple times, and there was no basis to call it ‘death of a suspected Covid-19 patient’. Insisting that there has not been a single coronavius death in the state, Sawant on Wednesday said, “ I want to clarify that the state government will not conceal any confirmed novel coronavirus positive case”. “No matter who tests positive, there will be no hiding the case, even as an exception, in the interest of the state. A while ago, when we tried to test a former minister, people made an issue out of that too. Noone is immune to Covid-19. We are testing everyone as needed. ,” Sawant told reporters. “People wrongly assume that everyone admitted to isolation ward are Covid patients and if one of them passes away, news spreads that he or she has died due to Covid. People should not have this misunderstanding. If a suspect tests positive, then he will not be kept in isolation ward, he will be immediately taken to the Covid hospital facility,” said Sawant. He said that the death of a youth from South Goa is being wrongly linked to Covid-19. “He was tested once in Pune and three times in Goa. If he happened to be positive, then there would have been other positive cases linked to him. We also worry about the staff and the safety of the state. We have no suspected Covid death in Goa. Just because a death took place in the isolation ward, it does not mean it is a Covid death. The death becomes a suspected Covid death if the death happens before we can test the patient —then we can say suspected death,” said Sawant. For a person admitted to isolation ward, the first test is carried out within two hours and this is followed up with a confirmatory test, he said. “When a patient is tested four times and the test comes negative then how it is a suspected Covid case? In the case of the South Goa man’s death, all members of his family were also tested, and are negative for the virus” said the chief minister.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/no-covid-19-deaths-in-goa-state-will-not-hide-cases-cm/articleshow/75727837.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Bareilly||RTO prepares safety plans for public transport post lockdown||Bareilly: The Bareilly Regional Transport Office (RTO) is gearing up to permit operations of public transport vehicles, including autorickshaws and e-rickshaws, in the city post Covid-19 lockdown - with strict safety measures in place.Officials at RTO said that meetings were held with divisional commissioner Ranvir Prasad and auto drivers’ union where points related to operation of public transport vehicles and important aspects of social distancing were discussed.Speaking to TOI on Wednesday, senior assistant regional transport officer (ARTO) RP Singh said, “It is not yet clear whether there will be relaxation in lockdown post May 17. However, planning is underway as to how the public vehicles will operate with physical distancing of passengers while commuting. During a recent meeting with divisional commissioner and members of auto drivers’ union, various aspects pertaining to social distancing in public transport vehicles and precautions to be followed by drivers, in case of relaxation, were discussed at length."ARTO Singh added, “Public transport drivers are being told that whenever they start operations in the city or even in the outer areas, they will have to mandatorily ensure that there is zero contact between the driver and passenger. Also, only two passengers besides the driver will be allowed at a time in a vehicle. Plans are also afoot to ensure a temporary partition within the vehicles to ensure passengers on board do not come in close contact with each other or the driver. This could be done by using plastic sheets.”Officials at RTO said that even if the lockdown is completely lifted, public transport drivers will have to adhere to the rules that are followed in precaution against the spread of infection, such as use of face masks, hand gloves and hand sanitisers.Bareilly was placed under red zone after multiple Covid positive cases were reported from different city localities earlier in May. District administration had declared three places —Hajiyapur, Brahmapura and Shahbazpur village on city outers — as hotspots. Later, Hajiyapur and Brahmapura were taken off the hotspot list after all the cases were reported negative. Lockdown guidelines are still being strictly followed by locals in these areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/rto-prepares-safety-plans-for-public-transport-post-lockdown/articleshow/75722801.cms||Maria Khan
May 14, 2020||Kozhikode||Kozhikode reports case after 19 days||Kozhikode: A 37-year-old Vadakara native who arrived at Karipur airport from Bahrain on May 12 was tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday. Kozhikode district has reported a case after a gap of 19 days; the last one was on April 23. The Vadakara native was referred to Kozhikode Government Medical College Hospital on detection of symptoms and his condition is stable. With this, the total number of cases reported in the district rose to 25, and of them. 24 have recovered. Deputy collector L R Byju said four people who arrived from Maldives in a repatriation ship on Wednesday was shifted to the Covid-care centre at NIT. District medical officer Dr V Jayashree said the total number of people kept under quarantine rose to 3,871, which includes 277 NRKs. Of these, 24 of them were kept under observation at Kozhikode Government Medical College Hospital’s isolation ward. The DMO said out of the 277 NRKs, five were shifted to Medical College Hospital, 123 to Covid-care centres of the district administration and the rest of 149 to home quarantine. “So far, 40 pregnant women have arrived from Gulf countries in the district,’’ said the DMO. The health department officials said another 102 NRKs will arrive in Kozhikode district on Kuwait-Kozhikode and Jeddah-Kozhikode repatriation flights on Wednesday at 9.05pm and on Thursday 14 at 12am. District health department had sent a total of 59 swab samples for testing on Wednesday. Of the 2,518 samples tested so far, 2,357 of them tested negative.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/kozhikode-reports-case-after-19-days/articleshow/75724219.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Vijayawada||TTD chief elected college chairman||Tirupati: Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) chairman YV Subba Reddy was elected as the chairman of Sri Venkateswara College in New Delhi on Wednesday. Sri Venkateswara College is a co-ed college run by the TTD affiliated to the Delhi University. Dr Padma Suresh was apointed in-charge principal and Dr Venkat Kumar as the vice-principal of the college. The decision was taken in view of the present principal Dr P Hemalatha Reddy retiring on May 31. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ttd-chief-elected-college-chairman/articleshow/75724213.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
May 14, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Pockets empty, many beg at railway station||NEW DELHI: What little food Sushila Rani got, she gave it to her hungry kids. Bharat Kumar did not have a single paisa yet awaited good news at the railway station. Kamal, Deenanath and Rajesh Singh roamed around with their identity documents for someone to buy them a train ticket. They were among the hundreds of migrant workers milling around New Delhi Railway Station on Wednesday hoping to somehow get into the trains going to their home states. Such hopes were cruelly dashed and the dejected migrants — many of whom had no luggage — approached people entering the station, pleading for help to get a seat in the trains. Left with no money in Delhi, having lost their jobs, they were desperate to return to their villages. “My only mistake is that I am poor,” Mohammed Ghiyas told TOI. “What should I do to make someone notice my plight and take me go back to my hometown in Bihar? No matter what the government says it is doing for us, the reality is we are on the roads, begging and pleading with the authorities to assist us in going home.” His younger brother, Mohammed Jafran, seemed to have given up all hopes after trying for tickets for two days. “I don’t have any money left. My elder brother often falls sick, and if he catches the infection, I know he will die,” Jafran despaired. “I need money to take care of him, and I have no clue about what to do.” The migrant workers who swarmed the railway station do not know how to buy a ticket and frustration is rife. “We walked from Gurgaon to the station but when we asked the cops about how to get a ticket, he kicked my mentally unstable husband. And my husband took it out on me,” groaned 25-year-old Kundan Devi. “He beat both our three-year-old daughter and me and deserted us here. Policemen are ordering us to leave, but how will I find my husband or how will he find me?” Devi bitterly said that in a country where the poor counted for nothing, it was better to die than to struggle with life. “If the authorities cannot send us to our hometown, I wish they would at least provide medical treatment for my husband,” she added. His health has deteriorated since the lockdown began, and there is no money for any treatment. The cops were dissuading another man from entering the station. Sikender Singh of Moradabad told TOI that he came to Delhi two months ago for the funeral of his labourer brother. “Before I could return, the lockdown was implemented,” the man said. “We are poor people. It’s not like we have a lot of savings to sustain ourselves in times like these. I have nothing left, having spent to a paisa whatever I had.” “What do I do now?” sighed an anguished Singh. His question was on the lips of the clueless migrants frantically moving around in New Delhi Railway Station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/pockets-empty-many-beg-at-railway-station-/articleshow/75727016.cms||Pankhuri Yadav
May 14, 2020||Vijayawada||1,413 migrants board Shramik train||Tirupati: One thousand four hundred and thirteen migrants from Odisha who were stranded in Chittoor since the lockdown began left for their homes on a special Shramik train on Wednesday. All the workers were thermal screened and all mandatory medical formalities were completed before they boarded the train. Chittoor district collector Narayana Bharat Gupta told reporters that after the Centre gave the nod to make necessary arrangements to move migrant workers. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/1413-migrants-board-shramik-train/articleshow/75724223.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
May 14, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: TNEB puts brakes on reverse migration, engages 6,800 at work||CHENNAI: Even as the state government is making preparations for sending several lakh guest workers back to their native states, state-owned Tangedco and Tantransco have scripted a different story by making about 6,800 guest workers stay back and get engaged in work since Monday, after lockdown restrictions were relaxed. The guest workers engaged in Tangedco and Tantransco projects are mostly from Jharkhand and Bihar. There are some from Odisha and Andhra Pradesh also. Most of the workers are involved in construction of thermal units in the periphery of Chennai and a few southern districts. Guest workers are also involved in constructing sub-stations across the state. All the works have restarted. Tantransco has resumed work of six sub-stations with a capacity of 230Kv each. Work of erecting 400Kv transmission line is also progressing in many places. Apart from guest workers, Tantransco employees are also engaged in these works. “About 6,800 migrant workers are employed by our contractors at our project sites across the state. We ensured that they were paid wages and given food and shelter. With the easing of lockdown, works have resumed,” TNEB chairman Vikram Kapur told TOI. “Some workers were keen on going back to their native villages. But we requested them to wait for the government to make arrangements for their transportation,” said Kapur. He said no TNEB project was hit owing to non-availability of workers as of now. Sources in Tangedco said guest workers were staying mostly at the project sites all through the lockdown. “Since the lockdown came into effect, contractors were told to get all workers medically examined. They were provided masks and sanitizers. Our engineers conducted periodical inspections to ensure they followed social distancing,” said a senior Tangedco project department official. “Guest workers are involved in construction of an 800MW unit at North Chennai Thermal plant and two 660MW units at Ennore SEZ. At Udangudi in Tuticorin district, two 660MW units are under construction. At Uppur in Ramanathapuram district, two units of 800MW each are coming up,” said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tneb-puts-brakes-on-reverse-migration-engages-6800-at-work/articleshow/75727018.cms||B Sivakumar
May 14, 2020||Pune||No active Covid-19 case in Pune’s 10 municipal councils||PUNE: There are no active Covid-19 cases in 10 out of 13 municipal councils in the district, stated a report of Pune Zilla Parishad’s chief executive officer Ayush Prasad. Daund with 24 cases, and Vadgaon Maval and Jejuri with one each, are the exceptions. All the 24 cases in Daund are related to the SRPF jawans, who tested positive after returning from a 45-day stint in Mumbai. The Baramati municipal council area had earlier reported seven coronavirus cases. Six have recovered. One succumbed to the disease. The civic council areas of Bhor, Indapur, Junnar, Alandi, Lonavla, Chakan, Saswad, Shirur and Rajgurunagar have not recorded any Covid-19 positive cases so far. Eight of the 13 talukas covering the rural parts of the district have 34 active Covid-19 cases. Of them, 21 are in Haveli taluka and three each in Shirur, Velha and Bhor. A total of 72 Covid-19 positive cases were found in the 13 talukas. Prasad told TOI, “Most areas in Haveli taluka are semi-urban and closer to Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad municipal corporation areas, where coronavirus has shown its presence in a big way.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/no-active-case-in-punes-10-municipal-councils/articleshow/75727012.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Kolhapur||Solapur sees 31 new cases, tally reaches 308; two deaths||KOLHAPUR: The Solapur city recorded 31 fresh Covid-19 cases taking the tally to 308 cases on Wednesday. The city also witnessed two casualties taking the death toll to 21 cases so far. After reporting its first case almost a month back, the figure has now crossed 300 giving worrying signals to the administration. The two casualties recorded were admitted to the Solapur civil hospital as they succumbed to the infection on Monday and Tuesday respectively. Their swab sample report which came on Wednesday confirmed that the deceased was Covid-19 positive. The first deceased was a 60-year-old male from Gurunanak Nagar and was admitted to the Solapur civil hospital on Monday in a critical condition. He passed away the same day at 6 pm. The second deceased was a 72-year-old male who was a resident of Indira Wasahat Bhavani Peth Modi area. He was admitted on Tuesday at the same hospital at 7 am in a critical condition. He too succumbed to the infection within just two hours of his admission. According to the Solapur health department, both the deceased were Severe Acute Respiratory Illness (SARI) patients. Meanwhile, out of the 31 fresh cases identified on Wednesday, nine were of Severe Acute Respiratory Illness (SARI). The total number of cases with this new addition has gone up to 308, including 21 deaths, while the actual active number of cases is 203. As many as 84 patients have recovered from the infection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/solapur-sees-31-new-cases-tally-reaches-308-2-deaths/articleshow/75725578.cms||Piyush Bhusari
May 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Tellapur residents alert PCB over stench from industries||HYDERABAD: Ever since the leak of styrene vapour in Visakhapatnam, people have become more vigilant of foul smells emanating in their areas and are raising the issue with pollution control boards. In the most recent case, the Tellapur Neighbourhood Association (TNA) has filed a complaint with Central Pollution Control Board. “The residents staying around Osmannagar village are experiencing a smell of chemical emissions in the air. It is pungent and irritating at times. This needs to be arrested immediately,” the TNA said in its complaint. There are over 30 communities in Tellapur area with more than 3,000 residential houses, villas and apartments. There are almost 15,000 residents living in the area. Citing the styrene leak, the complaint further adds: “We are afraid of a repetition of such an incident in our vicinity as well. With a lot of residents living in various communities around Tellapur area, unless proper pre-emptive steps are initiated, it may lead to another disaster.” Speaking to TOI, Ramana Eshwaragari, president of TNA, said the smell was especially pungent around 3 am and is most likely coming from pharma firms located nearby which are operating even during the lockdown. This is not the first such complaint. Residents of Beeramguda too have been calling the state pollution control board’s night patrol team. Papamal Dhanuka says, “There is a foul smell every day, especially from late night to early morning. We have made several complaints, but in vain.” The area falls near the Patancheru industrial belt. A source from Telangana Pollution Control Board confirmed the increase in number of complaints. “We received several complaints, especially on May 10 after police were informed of foul smell. The smell was being carried from the Bolarum Industrial belt,” said the source. “While night patrolling was stopped after the lockdown, three teams in Medchal-Malkajgiri, Hyderabad and one at the headquarters at Sanathnagar were started since Monday to deal with increasing complaints,” said the source. Meanwhile, Krupananda, joint chief environmental engineer said: “In fact any foul smell should be less in summer when the gasses rise up faster. In the winter, they remain at surface for longer.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/tellapur-residents-alert-pcb-over-stench-from-industries/articleshow/75726387.cms||Uttara Varma
May 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Disappointed with Centre’s dole, say salaried||HYDERABAD: The announcement of 25% cut in TDS/TCS for non-salaried payments as part of the financial package by Union finance ministry on Wednesday has left salaried employees in the city disappointed. Many argued that the tax relief should been extended for salaried income too. “Whatever relief is being given on non-salaried payments must be allowed for salaried payments too. We have been equally affected by the lockdown and any concession would have been welcome,” said Suresh Reddy, a software professional from Gachibowli. Highlighting the plight of the salaried class, another techie, Rahul Rao said: “Many companies have announced salary cuts and appraisals too will be hit with no bonuses or increments expected this year. The lack of any relief will hurt people like us who survive on just salaries.” Why would the government effectively reduce the CTC of salaried employees', who come under EPFO? This shit just doe… https://t.co/MnftDgap7F— मुनीमजी (@VivekAN4) 1589376763000Speaking about the reduction in EPF, N Venkata Ramana, head of digital payments reconciliation at a private bank, said, “The relief suggested for salaried class is a EPF contribution reduction from 12% to 10%. By reducing EPF contributions, employees’ future savings will get affected and taxable salary will increase for which additional tax needs to be paid.” “It is the salaried class who contribute to nation’s development by paying taxes, the finance ministry should recognise this and provide some relief at least during this crisis. If the government is not considering any financial relief for the salaried class, at least a GO from Centre telling employers not to cut salaries or lay off people would have been useful,” Venkata Ramana said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/disappointed-with-centres-dole-say-salaried/articleshow/75726315.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Bareilly||Pilibhit jail superintendent sings to protect Mother Nature||Pilibhit: In a bid to use creative skills to raise the morale of jailbirds during the Covid pandemic, Pilibhit district jail superintendent Anoop Singh has composed and recorded a song, in which he’s sung of how — in the absence of air, water and noise pollution — the lockdown has purified Mother Nature. His song is due for release on YouTube today. This visual carries the caption: “chidiyon ki duayein” (prayers of birds), and asks us to give back to Mother Nature what we’ve taken from it.“In this heedless race of nations for development and dominance, we’ve not only exploited natural resources to the hilt, but have also polluted air, water, soil and even underground water in the process. Now, with the lockdown, we can suddenly feel freshness in the air. With near absence of dumping of harmful plastic and garbage, we can also see clean water in rivers,” he said, speaking to TOI.“Through my song, I intend to instill a healthy alternative to our routine habits, for which we should not wait for a Covid-like scare,” Singh explained.“Together, the world can substantially improve quality of air, water and soil, if people resolve to self-impose a one-day lockdown every weekend. This would be far better than confronting nature’s random fury,” he suggested.A science post-graduate and permanent resident of Etawah district, Singh further said the video of his song uses clippings of nature and people of different faiths enjoying life in togetherness. In fact, he said, his vision of global change can’t be possible without social harmony.“I wish people view social distancing only in the sense of physical distancing, while remaining socially harmonious,” Singh said, adding that due to the lockdown, he had his song recorded in the video conferencing chamber of the district jail. The music was composed by local artist, Monty.Prior to this, Singh had encouraged prisoners of his jail to make paintings on ways to prevent Covid-19, build sanitising tunnels, make face masks, etc. He had also put on display hoardings on Covid safety measures using dialogues from popular Hindi films altered for the purpose, and visuals of Bollywood celebrities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/pilibhit-jail-superintendent-sings-to-protect-mother-nature/articleshow/75722816.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Vadodara||Zero-interest loans by credit society to buy grains||Vadodara: At a time when many are struggling to make ends meet due to Covid-19 outbreak and lockdown, a credit society in Dahod has come up with a scheme to ensure that all its members buy grains for the entire year. The interest-free loan has come as a major relief to members of the society who were facing financial woes.Shri Ram Cooperative Credit Society (SRCCS) in Dahod realized that this was the season when most purchased grains and even spices and stored them for the year. Due to lockdown and financial constraints, many had not started doing so.The society came up with a novel ideal that will benefit about 12,000 members of 5,000 households in Dahod. About 2,000 members have already queued up to take the benefit of the scheme.SRCCS chairman Dilipsinh Chauhan said, “This will ensure that even in the most difficult situation, our members do not run out of grains and other food material. We calculated that a family of five would need Rs10,000 to Rs11,000 to purchase grains and even spices for the entire year. Against this, we decided to give them a loan of Rs12,000.”The loan is given jointly in the name of husband and wife. “This ensures that both know about the loan and the woman can ensure the money is used for the purpose it is meant for,” said Chauhan.He said after one month, the loan will be payable in instalments of Rs1,100 per month. “At the end of one year, the member would have deposited an additional Rs1,200 with us. This will be deposited in his name as a fixed deposit,” he added.The society has been approached by around 2,000 members since Monday. It has started disbursing 50 to 60 loans a day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/zero-interest-loans-by-credit-society-to-buy-grains/articleshow/75724122.cms||Sachin Sharma
May 14, 2020||Business||corporations need to be given space to produce and earn profits: Basu||Kolkata: The government’s insurance support to MSMEs is good, but corporations need to be given space to produce and earn profits. The invisible hand should be allowed to function. Government cannot take full control. This was disclosed by former economic adviser to centre and noted economist Kaushik Basu. He was in an interaction with Bengal Chamber of Commerce in a webinar. “It would be a disaster with top down control,” he said. Basu also feel that during a calamity like this there should be direct support of food and healthcare to poor as a centralised effort. “We will have to work in terms of taxation, policies for transfer to poor,” he said. He also added that in last two years India had growth slump but ease of doing business indicator was good that created space for business. “We have to remember global players are worried about India. Month of March saw 16 billion capital outflow from India, biggest outflow in a single market. There are global companies moving business to other countries. We have to be careful about that and have reforms that ensure a good future for us,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/corporations-need-to-be-given-space-to-produce-and-earn-profits-basu/articleshow/75727019.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Rajkot||Another Covid woman embraces safe motherhood||Rajkot: The air around the gynaecology department of Sir T hospital in Bhavnagar was thick with suspense in the wee hours on Wednesday at 2.20 am, when the light turned green and the doctors announced, “All’s well. It’s a girl!”While the good news was a double treat for the worried family members and the doctors as the baby tested Covid negative, the woman is yet to experience the joy of motherhood with doctors not allowing the child near her. The drama started with the 27-year-old mother-to-be, Samaben Nayani, who was rushed in to the hospital in labour pains from a Covid hotspot, was detected to be a Covid-19 positive. The health teams of Bhavnagar Municipal Corporation (BMC) had sent her samples for testing after knowing that she is a resident of containment area. Doctors were at a loss looking at the nature of the case, as on one hand the woman was infected and on the other, she needed a C-section for her delivery. “The woman had full-term pregnancy and was in labour pain at midnight. She also tested positive and hence we admitted her in isolation. It was a challenging situation and our doctors were concerned for two lives,” said Hardik Gathani, Sir T hospital administrator. Dr Kanaklatta Nakum, head of gyneacology department, said, “Our main apprehension was that the woman had cephalopelvic disproportion, a medical complication where normal delivery was possible under no circumstances and surgery was required for delivering the baby. A team of gynaecologists, anaesthetists and physicians assessed the challenging situation and decided to proceed for immediate surgery as any delay may asphyxiate the baby.” “Surgery was conducted taking all necessary precautions and following the guidelines of Covid-19. The patient delivered a healthy female child at 2.19am,” Nakum added. Dr Gathani said “It was a big relief that doctors completed the surgery without jeopardising the safety of mother. It’s a more relief and cherishable movement for the parents that baby tested negative of Covid-19.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/another-covid-woman-embraces-safe-motherhood/articleshow/75725598.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
May 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Domestic help from AP kills self||Hyderabad: Upset that she could not go back home to Andhra Pradesh and see her newborn niece, a 20-year-old domestic helper jumped to death from a multi-storied apartment building at Lanco Hills in Raidurgam on Wednesday.  The deceased was identified as Akula Srivalli, a local resident of Kammavaripalem in Krishna district of Andhra Pradesh. According to police, Srivalli was working in a flat in Lanco Hills in Raidurgam since February 29 this year as a domestic helper. “The victim was working and staying in the flat on the fifteenth floor,” said Raidurgam Inspector, S Ravinder. On Wednesday morning, the victim spoke to her mother, a daily wage labourer in her village over a phone call. “She wanted to go back home to see her seven-day-old niece. However, her mother told her to wait till the lockdown is over,” added the inspector. Police did not find any suicide note, but suspect, the victim was upset that she could not go to her native place and took the extreme step. Her body was shifted to Osmania General Hospital mortuary for autopsy and a case of suspicious death case was registered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/domestic-help-from-ap-kills-self/articleshow/75726432.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Kolhapur||Cloudy sky in Kolhapur, showers over next few days: IMD forecast||KOLHAPUR: The India Meteorological Department (IMD) in its weekly forecast on Wednesday stated that the city would be witnessing cloudy weather with thundershowers. The maximum temperature of the city dropped by almost five degrees to 30 degrees Celsius on Wednesday. After witnessing rainfall of 1.8mm in the past 24 hours, the met department said that the city is likely to see more thunder showers over the next few days. The forecast for May 14 read, “Partly cloudy sky in the morning hours becoming generally cloudy sky towards afternoon or evening with the possibility of rain or thunder showers accompanied by squall or hail.” The maximum temperature is likely to remain in the range of 34-36 degrees Celsius, while the minimum temperature will remain in the range of 23-24 degrees Celsius until May 19, it stated. The weather summary from the Regional Meteorological Centre, Mumbai stated that thundershowerwere reported at isolated places in the districts of South Konkan-Goa, South Madhya Maharashtra, and Marathwada. The weather was dry over the rest of the region. It further added that there was no large change in the maximum temperatures over the region. It was above normal over South Konkan-Goa and normal elsewhere over the region.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/cloudy-sky-in-kolhapur-showers-over-next-few-days-imd-forecast/articleshow/75725589.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Lack of precaution to blame for spike in Covid-19 cases in Hyderabad, say officials||HYDERABAD: Government officials have attributed the recent spike in coronavirus cases in the city to the non-adherence by locals to guidelines issued by the Union ministry of health. An internal study revealed that many who were in the pre-symptomatic phase did not take proper precautions such as isolating themselves nor did they have themselves tested. Officials say this could be one of the major reasons behind the rise of coronavirus cases by 205 in the past one week under Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) limits. In one case, a seven-year-old child tested positive after an Unani doctor tested positive for the virus in Jubilee Hills area. Multi-disciplinary teams working in the area confirmed that the doctor’s family had visited the flat where the child resides. “The child had contracted virus from the doctor’s family. Now we have sent the security guard and other people living in that building for testing,” said a GHMC official. In another case, a GHMC sanitation worker from Amberpet passed on the infection to her husband. “When the woman had symptoms she should have immediately isolated herself, but she did not. As a result, her husband also tested positive for Covid-19. Eight sanitation workers have been sent for testing,” said another GHMC official. In Ziaguda market, a vendor who sells betel leaves is suspected to be the reason behind 60 cases in that area. The market has around 500 stalls selling vegetables, meat and groceries. “When the vendor fell sick, he gave his stock to a vegetable vendor. The latter sold betel leaves along with vegetables. He used to meet the betel vendor daily to give him the money earned from the betel leaf sales. Later, the betel leaf vendor tested positive for the virus. Had he quarantined himself after he had symptoms, there could have been fewer cases in Ziaguda,” said a state government official deployed in that locality. According to GHMC officials they are doing all that they could to control the spread of the virus. “Extensive fever survey is under way in parts of city. Multiple teams from various state government departments are probing the coronavirus patients, their primary contacts and secondary contacts,” said a senior GHMC official. “People should immediately approach government if they have symptoms and self quarantine themselves until they receive help from the authorities,” said an official deployed on Covid-19 duty in Jubilee Hills.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/lack-of-precaution-to-blame-for-spike-in-covid-cases-say-officials/articleshow/75726411.cms||Nabinder Bommala
May 14, 2020||Jaipur||12 direct international flights will bring Rajasthan residents back to Jaipur||JAIPUR: In a major relief, the central government will operate 12 direct international flights to Jaipur for state residents residing in nine countries. The announcement was made by BJP state president Satish Poonia. It will bring around 2,050 residents, mostly students. The first flight will operate from London to Jaipur via Delhi on May 22. The flights include four from Kazakhstan, mostly medical students. While one each from the UK, Canada, Georgia, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, Russia, Ukraine and the Philippines. Danish Chishti, a second-year student of Manchester Metropolitan University, said the news came as a relief for Rajasthani students. “I am hoping to connect my family in Ajmer soon,” said Chishti, a resident of Ajmer. Taking the credit for the flights, Poonia said he held a meeting with Vellamvelly Muraleedharan, minister of state for external affairs, apprising him about the situation of the state’s students abroad. “To my surprise, the ministry responded within days and sanctioned the number of flights,” Poonia said. The meeting was also attended by Harendra Jodha, president of Rajasthan Association UK, who provided the database on state students in Europe to the ministry. Sources said that students and citizens arriving in Jaipur from these nine countries will have to undergo 14-day quarantine at facilities in Jaipur or Jodhpur. It is compulsory for them to serve the isolation and to undergo an exit Covid-19 test before heading to their respective districts and towns.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/12-direct-international-flights-to-jaipur/articleshow/75727017.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana Inc enthused about package for MSMEs||HYDERABAD: The slew of measures announced for micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) by Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman enthused MSMEs, however, many said questions remain over their implem-entation on the ground. “For the first time, MSMEs have got attention in a genuine way. The change in definition was a long-pending demand that has been fulfilled but the measures announced will not be sufficient to improve liquidity. The government needs to help MSMEs survive and become profitable and that can only be achieved by measures like interest subsidy and wage subsidy like what countries like UK have announced,” said FICCI Telangana council chairman T Muralidharan. CII Telangana chairman Krishna Bodanapu said one of the biggest reliefs announced for the stressed MSME sector is the collateral free automatic loans. “The cap of up to Rs 200 crore for global tenders will help local MSMEs compete with big players. Also redefining MSMEs will enable them to scale up without losing benefits of MSMEs,” he said. Echoing the same, Ravi Narayan, CEO, T-Hub, felt while collateral free loans will help startups figure out ways to take on business continuity, the big question is whether the government and bank machinery will be able to get the funds to startups in a timely fashion. Jay Krishnan, partner, Mantra Capital too pointed out that while the intent is good, the challenge lies in execution on the ground.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-inc-enthused-about-package-for-msmes/articleshow/75726343.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Pune||Pune: Broadband crash leaves many in fix||PUNE: Thousands of Puneites working from home during the lockdown were left without internet services as Bharat Sanchar Nigam Limited (BSNL) broadband in the city crashed on Wednesday afternoon. According to BSNL broadband users, the services went down in different parts of the city between 3pm and 4pm. "I was unable to connect to the internet. I could not even access the customer care of BSNL broadband. I made multiple attempts to reconnect and even complain, but everything was completely down for about 20 minutes at least. A while later I could connect to the internet, but the speed was extremely slow," a user from Sahakarnagar said. According to the user, a message stating, ‘Pune Prabhadevi (Mumbai) and Fountain down as per WTR. High latency and packet drop to Pune customers observed’ was received later on. Another working professional from Kothrud said, "I was unable to log in as there was no internet connectivity. When I tried to reconnect, the speed was very low.". BSNL officials confirmed that a cable between Mumbai and Pune had snapped due to which broadband services were affected in the city. "The Pune Mumbai link was down and teams had been sent to rectify the issue. Meanwhile, the internet traffic was diverted to different lines, including Nashik and another Pune-Mumbai line, and the issue was resolved within two hours since the services dropped," an official stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/broadband-crash-leaves-many-in-fix/articleshow/75727025.cms||Rujuta Parekh
May 14, 2020||Pune||After 40-day gap, IMD back with weekly weather report||PUNE: The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has restarted issuing its weekly weather report from the city after a gap of over 40 days, The weekly weather forecast had stopped due to the staff crunch at IMD-Pune due to the lockdown. Anupam Kashyapi, head of weather, IMD, Pune, told TOI, “During the initial two phases of the lockdown, IMD-Pune was working with less than 30% staffers. However, essential forecasts and services, such as the daily weather reports/advisories, local, state and national-level forecasts, temperature and rainfall data compilation, communication of these forecasts to various government offices and organisations/users’ groups, national-level forecasts, were being issued daily from the first day of the lockdown.” Kashyapi said the IMD had stopped issuing their derived products, the weekly weather report, during the initial phases of the lock down, but restarted the activity after May 3. “This weather report is extremely important for farmers and the ministry of agriculture,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/after-40-day-gap-imd-back-with-weekly-weather-report/articleshow/75727026.cms||Neha Madaan
May 14, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: Liquor permit must to get alcohol delivered at home||PUNE: Hic! Tipplers must possess liquor permit to enjoy delivery of alcohol at doorstep, set to start after May 15 in non-containment zones in Pune and Ahmednagar districts. Those in containment zones in the district will have to wait longer for booze at residence. The excise department on Wednesday clarified home delivery of alcohol would not be allowed in those areas. The department on Wednesday issued guidelines stating that home delivery would be allowed only in districts where liquor shops are open. Consumers in Mumbai, Thane, Aurangabad, Nagpur and some other districts cannot avail the option as of now because liquor shops have not been allowed to open there. Liquor shops have been given a massive list of dos and don’ts for home delivery. The number of protocols might dissuade many from starting home delivery, claimed sources in the retail industry. Prasad P Surve, the divisional deputy commissioner of the state excise department, said, “According to the state government guidelines, consumers need to have liquor permit to buy alcohol. Since many people may not have it, we have given one-day liquor permits to alcohol shops, which they can give to those buying liquor for Rs5 per consumer. Consumers can also apply for lifetime or one-year permit on the website of the state excise department.” Consumers can place order through SMS, WhatsApp messages or calls, for which liquor shops have been told to display numbers in bold. The home delivery will be done from 10am to 6pm. There is no provision for home delivery of country liquor. Delivery boys will need identity cards issued by the excise department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/liquor-permit-must-to-get-alcohol-delivered-at-home/articleshow/75727033.cms||Neha Madaan
May 14, 2020||Goa||Take austerity measures, don’t hike taxes, Congress tells govt||Panaji: The opposition on Wednesday said the state government must cut down on all non-essential expenditure, such as construction of monuments, and put in place austerity measures, instead of increasing taxes and utility tariffs to boost revenue. Over the past few days, the state has increased VAT on diesel, notified a hike in excise duties for liquor and increased water and power tariffs. Opposition leader Digambar Kamat said Goans, who were waiting for relief after being hit by Covid-19 and the economic slump, have instead been “rewarded” with tariff hikes. “The government must cut on all wasteful expenditure such as hosting mega events, constructing monuments. It should start austerity measures rather than burdening the common man,” the Congress MLA said. The party has also demanded a white paper on the state government’s financial condition, which could help the government get suggestions from people on fiscal discipline. Congress office-bearer Yatish Naik said when the economy is badly hit and people’s livelihoods are at stake, the state needs to take relief measures. “The government should not take decisions that will multiply people’s troubles and encourage inflation,” said Naik. The party has demanded the government roll back the increase in tariffs immediately.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/take-austerity-measures-dont-hike-taxes-congress-tells-govt/articleshow/75727847.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Kolhapur||Rise in the number of people visiting astrologers amid crisis||Kolhapur: The number of people visiting the astrologer has increased after certain relaxation in the lockdown norms as the anxiety among people continues due to the outbreak of Covid-19. Though the lockdown has affected several businesses in the country, the business of astrologers is in full swing. The loss of jobs, salary cuts, financial insecurities are major reasons for which the people are visiting the astrologers. “Usually people visit us with problems like finding a suitable groom or bride, problems related to family dispute and others. No one visited our place when the lockdown was imposed. After some relaxations were declared, people have started visiting our place,” said a famous astrologer residing in suburban area of Kolhapur city. “But now, some people want to know how long will they be able to retain their existing job and some who have their lost jobs want to know when they will get a new job based on the position of their stars,” said the astrologer. “The people who are visiting vary from the age group of 25 years to 45 years. Now, some people who have closed their businesses come to us to know the auspicious time to start it again,” he said. “Our all projects are halted due to the lockdown. We do not know whether we will be retained or not after lockdown. I checked with an astrologer and based on the position of the stars, he has given me hope that I will not lose my job. This has helped me to remain positive despite no salaries since the lockdown,” said an employee attached with a building construction firm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/rise-in-the-number-of-people-visiting-astrologers-amid-crisis/articleshow/75725608.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: 18 migrants, back from Mumbai, test coronavirus positive in Pali||JAIPUR: Migrant labourers returning from Maharashtra and Gujarat to Rajasthan turned Covid-19 positive on Wednesday, giving the administration a shock on what to expect as the tide of returning workers continues in the coming days. All the 18 passengers of a bus, which came from Mumbai and reached Pali on May 7, tested positive for novel coronavirus on Wednesday, taking the tally of migrant workers who were found infected across the state to 165 since May 1. The workers were employed as labourers in Mumbai and had got stuck in the lockdown. “All of them have been admitted to hospital for treatment. Almost all of them are asymptomatic,” said Dr Ram Pal Mirdha, chief medical health officer, Pali. Over 40,000 migrant labourers have already reached Pali , and 1,300 people, travelling in a train from Vasai in Mumbai, are scheduled to reach there on Wednesday night. The health department confirmed that an 85-year-old woman from Ramnagar of Pali, who had returned from Mumbai earlier, died of Covid-19 on Tuesday. The influx of migrants has become a major challenge for health authorities at a time when Covid-19 cases are constantly increasing in the state. Labourers returning home from other states will make the task of containg the spread of the disease even more difficult. Gauging the severity of the issue, health minister Raghu Sharma alerted officials on Wednesday. “Nearly 19 lakh migrant workers -- 6.5 lakh who wanted to leave the state and the rest who wanted to come here -- have registered. We have directed our officials in all districts to ensure sufficient quarantine facilities for those entering the state, including labourers and residents stuck in other states,” said Sharma. Health department officials are taking all possible measures to contain the spread. “Rajasthan welcomes migrants with open arms and we will provide them all support, including the best possible healthcare. At the same time, it is also a fact that many migrants are arriving in Rajasthan from hotspots like Mumbai, Indore, Surat, Ahmedabad and, hence, the possibility of them being Covid-19 positive cannot be ruled out,” said Rohit Kumar Singh, additional chief secretary (health). “While the migrant population is being screened for influenza-like symptoms at the border and being quarantined as per protocol, many are testing positive. Since May 1, a total of 165 migrants have tested positive and are under treatment. With early detection and quality care, we expect all of them to be treated and discharged soon,” Singh said. In Sikar’s Khandela area, the district administration imposed curfew on Wednesday after two persons, who had returned from Mumbai and Ahmedabad, tested positive. A 40-year-old man, who was staying in Ahmedabad for one year, returned to his village Kotdi Luharwas in Khandela of Sikar on May 5. His samples were taken on May 11. He was found infected with the virus on the next day. A 42-year-old, who had returned from Mumbai, also tested positive in Khandela block of Sikar. On Wednesday, health authorities conducted door-to-door survey of houses along with contact tracing of the two infected persons. Sirohi had not reported even a single case until a 25-year-old person tested positive for Covid-19 two days ago, the first case in the district. “The vegetable seller had come from Ahmedabad on May 2,” said a health department official. He travelled in a bus with 63 other passengers. The health department has all the details of his co-passengers. In Churu, Jhunujhunu, Dungarpur and Jalore also, migrants have tested positive for Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/18-migrants-back-from-mumbai-test-ve-in-pali/articleshow/75727035.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Jaipur||WB bus driver dies at Chomu while returning from Bikaner||Jaipur: A bus driver, who was returning to West Bengal (WB) after dropping passengers in Bikaner, died at Chomu on Tuesday. He will be tested for corona after his family arrives from Howrah on Thursday. The deceased was identified as 48-year-old Shib Sankar Roy who was not only the driver but also the owner of the private bus. According to police, the bus was hired by a group of businessmen who had been stuck in Howrah after the lockdown was imposed. They decided to drive down in the private bus to Bikaner after taking appropriate permission and started the journey from West Bengal on May 8. Roy dropped 28 passengers in Bikaner and was heading back to Bengal when he along with the conductor stopped enroute in Chomu for a break on Tuesday evening. He suddenly fainted and rushed to the hospital where he was declared brought dead, police said. “According to initial investigation, Roy suffered a heart attack due to which he collapsed. The conductor who was accompanying him also said that Roy suddenly clutched his chest and fainted although the post-mortem is yet to be done,” added police. The deceased’s body has been kept in the mortuary till the family reaches Chomu. Police said, the conductor who was with Roy is also his relative but we have contacted his immediate family who have informed us that they are making arrangements to travel here and most likely will come by Thursday following which his autopsy will be done. According to officials, at present they cannot confirm or deny if the deceased was infected by coronavirus as they cannot take the samples without the family being present. The deceased’s family has also informed the officials that they will not take his body back to Howrah but will cremate him in Chomu itself.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/wb-bus-driver-dies-at-chomu-while-returning-from-bikaner/articleshow/75727027.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Mangaluru||Interns glad to be back in India after 2 month ordeal in Malaysia||MANGALURU: Two students from Kasturba Medical College (KMC), Mangaluru, who landed in Chennai late on Monday night, are a little over 700 km and 28 days away from reaching their homes. Having endured nearly two months of lockdown in a foreign land, thanks to the movement control order (MCO) that the Malaysian government introduced on March 18, Mahima Gupta and Navin Mallya are glad they are finally in India, but a bit anxious that their journey back home is almost four weeks away. Support is coming to them from their parents and from senior faculty members of their institution, who are constantly encouraging the duo not to worry about being quarantined. Incidentally, it was this very support from Manipal International University (MIU) vice-chancellor Dr Abdul Razzak M S, and Seena Biju, a staff member of TAPMI, Manipal, working at MIU, that helped them remain resolute, amidst the uncertainty in Malaysia. Navin said that he now realises the value of his mother Nayana Mallya’s cooking. He said that his father Nithyananda Mallya, who works in Bengaluru, is in constant touch. “It is this support of my parents that is really helping me keep my mind off the whole set of circumstances that I find myself in, from the time we left for Malaysia for our internship, till now. Our teachers too have been equally supportive in helping us get through this phase,” he said. Navin said although there was no flight to Bengaluru from Kuala Lumpur, both he and Mahima took the first option, Chennai, that was available. “The flight from Kuala Lumpur to Chennai seemed to be the hardest part,” admits Mahima, who too is happy that she is back in India. The hardest part is now to complete the two phases of the 14-day institutional quarantine that both the Tamil Nadu and Karnataka governments want us to undergo,” she says. Navin says the duo, except for going for grocery shopping to a facility next door in Nilai, where they stayed in Kuala Lumpur, have practically been in quarantine since the lockdown was clamped in Malaysia. Presently in quarantine in Chennai, Navin and Mahima were effusive in their praise for Seena, who took care of them as if they were her own children. “It was her and ‘Dato’ Razzak’s behind the scene support, that helped us reach India, and ensured we did not break down,” they add. ,||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/interns-glad-to-be-back-in-india-after-2-month-ordeal-in-malaysia/articleshow/75724246.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
May 14, 2020||Kozhikode||Trouble for parents if kids team up||Kozhikode: Parents in Wayanad who let children play out in open in groups during the Covid- 19 lockdown, beware! You could face the music for the sportive forays of your children. The district administration has decided to register cases against parents and also owners of the land where the children play by invoking stringent provisions of the Epidemic Diseases Act. The decision comes in the wake of the finding during contact tracing of Covid- 19 positive cases that children and youth have been engaged in playing outdoors in groups. The route map of a 20-year-old patient who tested positive on May 5 showed that he had played cricket with friends at a playground at Edappadi near Mananthavady during the lockdown. His friend, another 20-year-old, was also tested positive four days later. The stringent measures have been initiated as part of enhanced restrictions following the reporting of ten cases in the district during the last 11 days. The district that was in the green zone with zero active cases on May 2 now has 10 cases. “It was revealed during contact tracing that children are playing outdoor games like cricket and football, especially in rural areas. Also, some are engaged in fishing in waterbodies during the lockdown or playing cards in groups. It would lead to the spread of disease and so we have decided to register cases against parents and those who allowed children to play in groups in their property,” district collector Dr. Adeela Abdulla said. According to officials, apart from playing outdoor games, it has also been found that some youths are engaged in teaming up for smoking cigarettes. District police chief R Ilango said that in case of minors, they will file a social background report before the Juvenile Justice Board under the Juvenile Justice Act “Our aim is not to harass the children. But if parents have knowledge that the children are playing in groups outdoors in violation of the lockdown, then we will mention it in the social background report which will serve as a warning and a proper record of their mischief,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/trouble-for-parents-if-kids-team-up/articleshow/75724308.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Delhi||Now, Shramik Specials to run from Old Delhi station||NEW DELHI: Northern Railway has shifted its operations of Shramik Special trains to Delhi Junction Railway Station from New Delhi and will be using the Ajmeri Gate side for exit of special trains. On Wednesday, three more Shramik Special trains left the capital for Bihar. The trains — bound for Bhagalpur, Darbhanga and Barauni — ferried around 3,500 migrants, a railway official said. “We were using the Ajmeri Gate side for Shramik Specials, but with special trains also resuming operations, we did not want to use the same side for entry and exit. This will create chaos and confusion, so they have now been shifted to Old Delhi station and suitable arrangements have been put in place, including regular sanitisation,” said the official. Delhi labour minister Gopal Rai said the AAP government arranged for the tickets and food of the migrants. “The passengers were screened for Covid-19 before they boarded the trains,” Rai said. Delhi government has drafted a Shramik Special train plan according to which 40 trains will run up to May 17 to send migrants home. A senior railway official said permission was, at present, being taken daily and the schedule for the next day was put in action only after confirmation was received from both the states. “The states where the migrants are headed need to bear the transportation cost, so every arrangement is checked,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/now-shramik-specials-to-run-from-old-delhi-station/articleshow/75727028.cms||---
May 14, 2020||India||Coronavirus: Doubling time slows down, fatality rate low||NEW DELHI: As India completed 50 days of a national lockdown, statistical indicators of Covid-19 show an improved picture with doubling time of cases increasing after a slight dip, a growing recovery rate, low fatality rate and a largely stable positivity rate. Amid new cases being reported every day, the doubling time of confirmed Covid-19 cases slowed down to 12.6 days from around 10 days it had fallen to last week. The doubling rate was three days before the lockdown. The fatality rate from the viral infection stands at 3.2%, whereas the recovery rate — currently at 32.8% — has increased steadily over the past few weeks, according to health ministry data. Analysts and public health experts say the statistics are indicative of efficient containment measures and clinical management of positive cases so far. However, they maintain that there is no room for complacency, pointing to the need to control high incidence cities like Mumbai, Ahmedabad and Delhi. “We know that perhaps, barring some states with relatively lower testing, the fatality rate is not too high. Given that our positivity rate is very low, I don’t think there is widespread virus transmission yet. Overall, we are doing much better than what was anticipated a month ago,” Oommen C Kurian, senior fellow at the health initiative of Observer Research Foundation, said. Data analysis by economist Shamika Ravi, earlier part of the PM’s Economic Advisory Council, showed active cases were growing at 4.5% and doubling in 16 days — the slowest so far. It also showed that India recorded death rate of 1.79 per million people in the last 10 days (between May 2 and 12), whereas South Korea, which has done well in managing Covid-19, has a rate of 5.02 and Japan 5.17. Countries like Belgium, the UK, the US, Sweden and Canada have a significantly high fatality rate that is growing. The positivity rate has also come down in many states, even as testing has increased substantially with close to 95,000 samples being tested every day now. On Wednesday, health minister Harsh Vardhan said India had scaled up its testing capacity to 100,000 samples a day. “We have ramped up testing significantly and though the number of positive cases are increasing, the positivity rate has remained stable at around 4%,” a senior official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/doubling-time-slows-down-fatality-rate-low/articleshow/75728113.cms||Sushmi Dey
May 14, 2020||Nagpur||Confusion over sample, woman with ‘precious’ pregnancy moved to Covid ward||Nagpur: A woman with ‘precious’ pregnancy was shifted on Wednesday morning to GMCH Covid ward after some swabs collected during a special ante-natal check-up (ANC) camp at Mominpura tested positive. The pregnant woman and her relatives claim that she was a case of mistaken identity, and the corona positive report shown to her was not recorded in her name. NMC health officials admitted errors in entries of not just one woman, but a couple of others too at the ANC. Surprisingly, NMC officials said they picked up the woman on an assumption. “We know the sample belongs to her though the name has a mistake,” they said. A relative said only the first name matches with the pregnant woman while the age and surname are different. “They are testing many persons. There must be hundreds of women with the same first name. She is 30 while the age in the report says 36 year old. The mobile number is also different,” the relative said, adding that officials were also able to reach the other mobile number. The woman has had two miscarriages, and therefore had a tightened OS, the opening on the innermost side of the canal near the baby, for the third pregnancy. Because of this it is called a ‘precious’ pregnancy. The Covid mix up put intense stress on the woman, who went into labour pains, forcing GMCH doctors to open the OS. The upheaval may pose a risk to the unborn child, say relatives. Also, the woman has now been exposed to the virus. They said her swab was taken again after the goof up. “She spent a whole day inside the Covid ward with positive patients. How will we know if she was infected before or after admission,” the relative said. Her first test was done on May 11. The woman’s husband and mother-in-law have been placed in institutional quarantine after the death of the city’s 2nd casualty at IGGMCH. The relative said the woman had just entered the ninth month and there were still 20 days to go for estimated date of delivery. “She is alone. We just want her to be shifted to labour ward, since she has been visiting GMCH itself for regular check-ups,” the relative said. The relative also said the botch up may cause separation of the mother and baby in case she tests positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/confusion-over-sample-woman-with-precious-pregnancy-moved-to-covid-ward/articleshow/75726559.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
May 14, 2020||Surat||Traffic cop suspended for remaining absent from duty||Surat: An assistant sub-inspector of traffic police posted on Ghod Dod Road was suspended on Wednesday after he was not found at the place of his work. The cop was assigned duty in the evening shift at Narmad Library crossroads but was not spotted there by his seniors. Shailendra Chhana Pavagadhi was suspended by Prashant Sumbe, deputy commissioner of police, traffic. Pavagadhi's duty was from 3pm onwards but he was not found at the place of his work even at 5.30pm. The crossroads where Pavagadhi was posted is about a kilometre from police commissioner’s office. "It was not first time in the past one month that the ASI was found absent at the point of his posting or seen sitting on roadside. He had been instructed to do his duty sincerely during lockdown and warned of action if he played truant," said Sumbe.An inquiry will be carried out and based on its findings, further action will be taken against him. Pavagadhi was posted in traffic police around two months ago. He was earlier posted in a police station.Traffic cops have been playing an important role during lockdown. They have been checking vehicles and detaining those found without valid permits. "The role of each policeman is very important in the current situation. Strict action will be taken against any cop found negligent," Sumbe added.At least 16 traffic brigade jawans were recently sent on leave for 15 days on being found negligent in their duty at Majura Gate and Udhna Gate crossroads. They were found sitting on the roadside. They were neither checking vehicles nor regulating traffic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/traffic-cop-suspended-for-remaining-absent-from-duty/articleshow/75725624.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Jaipur||CM’s Covid-19 fund gets Rs 266cr donation||Jaipur: Corporations, NGOs and individuals have so far donated over Rs 266.25 crore to Rajasthan CMRF Covid-19 Mitigation Fund to help the state government fight the coronavirus pandemic. Thanking the donors on Wednesday in a tweet, chief minister Ashok Gehlot appealed the people to contribute generously to save mankind and uphold human values. Companies have come forward despite the fact that the contributions to the CM relief fund is not covered under CSR activity. Last week, Cairn India and Hindustan Zinc, the Vedanta Group companies, donated Rs 10 crore to the CM relief fund. This is the highest contribution after Reliance Industries chairman Mukesh Ambani’s Rs 5 crore donation But there are many companies who have opted for taking up social cause to meet the challenges the pandemic has thrown up. Some corporates said, “We are more interested in taking up social initiatives under our CSR operations to help the state government in this moment of crisis. But cash contribution to the CM fund is smaller because that money will not be covered under CSR activities.” Companies are mandated to spend 2% of their net profit in the CSR activities and they are comfortable to use that money for donating to the CM fund as it will not put extra burden on their balance sheet. Last month, the chief minister had written to the Centre about the inclusion of the donations under the CSR head but the clarification was contrary to the state’s expectation. However, a retired official who served under various ministries at the centre said that the clarification is definitive meaning that the donations to the CM fund should qualify under the CSR spend. Like many state governments, Rajasthan is also struggling to tie up funds to fight the long battle against coronavirus pandemic. The tax revenues have almost dried up following the shutdown of industries, mining and lower crude prices resulting in drastic drop in royalties.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cms-covid-19-fund-gets-rs-266cr-donation/articleshow/75727040.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Ahmedabad||Body of Porbandar patient ‘missing’ from Civil Hospital after test found in morgue||AHMEDABAD: A 54-year-old cancer patient from Porbandar, who went for a Covid-19 test at the 1200-bed hospital in Civil Hospital campus, went ‘missing’ from the hospital records. After pressure from his community and political leaders, the hospital authorities probed the incident, only to find the man’s body identified as unclaimed in the hospital morgue. Niraj Baridun, son of deceased Pravin Baridun, 54, said that his father was a neck cancer patient. “We went to GCRI for cancer treatment on May 4. We were told to go for a Covid-19 test at the 1200-bed hospital. His swab was taken for analysis and his belongings were given to me. I was told that he would be informed on phone about the result,” he said. Niraj claimed that from May 4 to 12, he went daily to the help centre of the hospital, seeking information on his father. He was told that he would be updated but he could not see his father or ascertain his status. After repeated inquires, Niraj approached Kharva community leaders and political leaders for intervention. The family was shocked to learn that Pravin Baridun had died the second day due to health complications and his body was kept in morgue. Jayanti Ravi, principal secretary (health & family welfare), said that the hospital staff tried to contact the family after the patient died due to medical complications on May 5, but the number could not be reached. “I was giving my phone number and my father’s patient number daily to the help centre. Why couldn’t they check it then?” asked Niraj. “The hospital is still to find my father’s file at GCRI which has all the details. If he was tested negative, why wasn’t he shifted for cancer treatment? We are still awaiting the cause of his death,” he said. Congress leader Arjun Modhwadia said that the deceased was a Congress worker and he had tried to follow up the case with the hospital authorities. “Even a cattle owner keeps track of his flock in a ‘Panjrapole’ (cow shed), but the manner in which the Civil Hospital keeps record of its patients reflects on the condition of the healthcare system of Gujarat,” he said. Manish Doshi, Congress spokesperson, said that they are going to raise the issue before the state government. “There could be more such cases,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/body-of-patient-missing-from-civil-after-test-found-in-morgue/articleshow/75726555.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Kolhapur||Government allows home delivery of liquor in Kolhapur||KOLHAPUR: Following the government resolution (GR) issued by the state excise department, the city liquor shops are expected to start the home delivery of liquor soon. Ganesh Patil superintendent of police from Kolhapur excise division said, “The state government has permitted the home delivery of liquor. The rule has been implemented to the Kolhapur city also and the process in this regard will start soon.” As per the rule, the license holder of the IMFL is allowed to sell only the particular category of the IMFL. “The shop can only sell spirits, beer, mild liquor, or wine for which they have a license. Regarding the sale of the IMFL, the license holder is allowed to sell the foreign liquor only from the area for which he has been issued the license to operate,” he said. The interested buyers can contact the liquor shop owners and place their orders as per requirement. “The liquor shops will assign people to deliver liquor at customer’s residence. The delivery individual has to cover their face with a mask and use hand sanitizers at frequent intervals,” said Patil. The orders are only valid till the lockdown ends, there won’t be any home delivery of the IMFL after lockdown. “Steps have been taken to reduce the crowds outside the shops during the lockdown. The shop owners are free to choose the mode of delivery system. They can either deploy their own delivery people or can take help of the local e-commerce companies for the delivery of liquor from their shops. They can directly approach customers or through these platforms,” Patil added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/government-allows-home-delivery-of-liquor-in-kolhapur/articleshow/75725620.cms||Vivek Waghmode
May 14, 2020||Kolhapur||Kalamba jail in Kolhapur likely to release around 600 inmates on parole||KOLHAPUR: The Kalamba Central prison authority is planning to release around 600 inmates on parole in the next few days, considering the threat of the pandemic in the closed centres and lock-ups. The jail with a capacity of 1,700 prisoners already has more than 2,400 inmates at present. Sharad Shelke, the superintendent of Kalamba Jail said, “As a precautionary measure, we have already sent the proposal to release around 600 inmates from Kalamba jail on parole to reduce the number of inmates in the jail.” A state-level committee on Monday decided to release around 17,000 inmates from the jails across Maharashtra, which accounts for half the strength of total inmates (35,239) in the state. The decision has been taken after some inmates from Arthur Road jail tested positive for Covid-19. “We have prepared a list comprising names of the inmates who have been sentenced jail term for not more than seven years and names of those who are under trials for committing offences that would attract punishment of not more than seven years jail term. We have already released around 50 inmates on parole and are awaiting the approval for others,” he said. “As a precautionary measure in the jail, we have started health check-up of every inmate and keep a check on them in case symptoms related to flu and common cold is found. The contact to the outside world has been completely shut and the inmates have been asked to wear a mask and use sanitisers,” he said. The jail administration have vacated the Bindu chowk sub-jail to put the new inmates at the sub-jail and all the inmates from sub-jail have been shifted to the Kalamba jail as makeshift arrangement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/kalamba-jail-likely-to-release-around-600-inmates-on-parole/articleshow/75725631.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Nashik||Patrols increased as crime rises in Nashik||Nashik: The rise in the crime graph after partial relaxation in the lockdown has prompted the Nashik city police to intensify patrolling to increase the visibility of cops in the city. Beat marshals of all the police stations have also been instructed to scan the quick response (QR) codes in their patrol areas without fail. Police commissioner Vishwas Nangare-Patil said: “With people venturing out of their homes after the partial relaxation in the lockdown, criminal cases have started increasing. Therefore, patrolling has been increased. Beat marshals have been activated in all parts of the city.” The beat marshals would once again start scanning the QR codes that the police have put up in various lanes, bylanes, markets, large housing societies, banks, important establishments and religious places. Once the QR code ae scanned on their cellphones, senior officers get to know the location of the beat marshals in the respective jurisdiction. This is also to verify that the beat marshals are really patrolling the city. Beat marshals are expected to meet people and communicate with them to ensure that no one is posing threat to the law and order. In April very few cases were registered at the city police stations as most of the residents remained indoors. However, after the relaxation, several offices and shops have reopened and cases of violence, thefts and robberies too have gone up. Nangare-Patil said due to the rush in the vehicular traffic, even the checkpoints of traffic branch personnel have been set up on city roads.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/patrols-increased-as-crime-rises-in-nashik/articleshow/75853963.cms||Santosh Sonawane
May 14, 2020||Rajkot||Depressed over unemployment, man ends life||Rajkot: Depressed over unemployment due to the lockdown, a man committed suicide by consuming pesticides in Khodiyar Park locality on Morbi Road in Rajkot on early Wednesday morning. The deceased was identified as Nirav Bhadukia (27). “Bhadukia’s brother Hiren said that Bhadukia used to work as an imitation jewellery and silver jewellery maker. After the lockdown, Bhadukia stopped getting any work and he started suffering from depression,” said Y B Puwar, assistant-sub-inspector with Rajkot B division police station. After Bhadukia consumed poison, he called up his friend and informed him about his action. His friend called up Hiren who rushed Bhadukia first to a private hospital and then to Rajkot Civil Hospital where he died shortly after admission.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/depressed-over-unemployment-man-ends-life/articleshow/75725648.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Mysuru||4 of family returning from Mumbai test Covid-19 positive||HASSAN : A day after five people tested positive for the novel coronavirus, including a family of 4, migrants returning from Mumbai again added to the tally, with 4 people of another family, including two children, testing positive for Covid-19, who had travelled from Mumbai in a taxi, and reached Channarayapatna on Tuesday. The total Covid-19 cases in the district has now increased to 9. The infected family is from Gulihonnenahalli in Hirisave hobli in Channarayapatna. A 43-year-old man designated P-951, who is a pigmy collector in a bank at Lakshminagar, Mumbai, and his wife aged 38, who is designated P-948, and children aged 17 and 14, left Mumbai on Monday, and reached Hirisave checkpost, Channarayapatna, in the afternoon of the following day, said deputy commissioner R Girish. The family was quarantined in a separate block of the government residential school at Booka village, Hirisave hobli, Channarayapatna, according to taluk administration sources. Their swab samples were taken for testing, whose results came out in the night. On Wednesday morning, the family was shifted to the designated Covid-19 hospital in Hassan. The authorities are tracing their primary and secondary contacts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/4-of-family-returning-from-mumbai-test-ve/articleshow/75724317.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Jaipur||CM bats for strengthening quarantine facilities up to panchayat level||Jaipur: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Thursday said the quarantine system should be strengthened from the districts up to the panchayat level to prevent the spread of Covid -19 in rural hinterlands. He said this was the key in controlling the pandemic in the urban areas. Gehlot said migrants who had come to the state should not face any inconvenience but at the same time strict monitoring system should be put in place. He was holding video conference with district and SDOs. Gehlot said the quarantine centres had to be systematically run with the help of MPs, MLAs and public representatives up to the panchayat level. He suggested that villagers also had to be taken in to confidence while setting up institutional isolation centres and home quarantine. Gehlot said those who were coming on trains should be taken to the quarantine centres by bus after screening. He said if possible, the administration should make arrangements for tea and snacks at the railway stations and food packets and water provided in the bus. He said special care had to be taken at Jalore, Sirohi and Pali districts as the number of migrants were in large numbers. Similarly border districts of Dungarpur, Banswara and Bharatpur have to be careful and make special arrangements for the inflow of migrants from UP and Gujarat. Gehlot stressed to augment testing facilities at the district level especially in western Rajasthan where migrants are expected to come in large numbers. He said if any migrant was found walking on the road, they should be given transportation facility to the next relief camp. The chief minister said services of NCC, NSS, Scouts and Guides could be availed to help the administration. Chief secretary D B Gupta said registration and screening of migrants was very essential. He said those who have symptoms of Covid- 19 should be sent to care centres. He said those who were in quarantine centres should not be subject to any ill treatment but social distancing should be maintained.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cm-bats-for-strengthening-quarantine-facilities-up-to-panchayat-level/articleshow/75727045.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Kolhapur||Health check-up of 700 policemen conducted in city||Kolhapur: With rising number of police personnel testing positive for Covid-19, city police have started taking proactive steps to avoid the spread of infection among its force. As part of this, regular health check-ups are being organised and so far around 700 police personnel have been tested. "They were found fit to work and no symptoms of Covid-19 was noticed in any of them," a police officer said. The health check-up drive was started immediately after the police force was deployed to ensure that people are following the lockdown rules. Superintendent of police Abhinav Deshmukh said, "As a precautionary measure we have already ensured that the police personnel above the age of 50 years are deployed for office work and are not posted at places where there are at the risk of coming in contact with Covid-19 patients. We have already tied up with private hospitals in Kolhapur where health check-up of the police personnel is being conducted. At initial stage, the health check-up of police personnel who are above the age of 50 years was conducted. Then the health check-up of police personnel that are placed on the high risk duties like CPR (Chhatrapati Pramila Raje) civil hospital, institutional quarantine centres and check posts are also being carried out." According to a senior police officer, they are ensuring that the police are taking all the necessary precautions while fighting the Covid-19 pandemic. "We are ensuring that they get quality masks, hand gloves and use hand sanitisers from time to time while they are on duty. They have been asked to ensure that they follow a diet that helps in boosting their immunity," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/health-check-up-of-700-policemen-conducted-in-city/articleshow/75725642.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Ajmer||Speed up pending water projects across Rajasthan, says CM Ashok Gehlot||JAIPUR: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Wednesday directed the PHED officials to speed up the pending water projects to find a permanent solution to water problem. Gehlot directed the department to set up a special team to monitor and complete the project at the earliest. He said delay in the project not only leads to cost escalation, but people are also denied the benefit of the scheme. He also asked the district collectors to execute the water contingency plan for summer on a priority basis. He asked them to consult the MPs and MLAs from the district within three days and frame a plan according to the local conditions. The chief minister was reviewing the drinking water situation in the state. He said the collectors and the PHED had to ensure that there is no shortage of drinking water in any areas of the state. The chief minister said RO, hand pump and tube well maintenance, pipeline maintenance and extension and supply of water by tankers be expedited. He said wherever water need to be transported and new tube wells and hand pumps required be sanctioned immediately. The chief minister directed the department to activate the control room and complaints be attended to without delay. The district collector must review the water situation every week ensuring that villages are receiving sufficient water. PHED minister B D Kalla said the department had made the contingency plan in February and Rs 65 crore was sanctioned for it. He said out of 1, 21,530 villages of which 92% of them were supplied water through some drinking water schemes. Principal secretary Rajesh Yadav informed that due to good rain last year the drinking water supply in most of the districts is normal. He said Rs 24 crore has been sanctioned for supplying water by transportation in 134 urban areas and Rs 41 crore in rural areas. He said 22,000 hand pumps were repaired so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/speed-up-pending-water-projects-cm/articleshow/75734434.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Vadodara||Zimbabwe student jumps off moving truck||Vadodara: A Zimbabwean student studying at a private university in the city died in the wee hours of Wednesday after he jumped off a moving truck on national highway-48 on the outskirts of the city. Deceased Blessing Muchangwara (23) and his friend from Harare, Anishu Regi, were going to the latter’s rented home on Dabhoi Road near Kapurai Chowkdi despite lockdown which prohibits movement of citizens between 7 pm and 7 am. Police said as the duo did not have any mode of transport, they had taken lift from some truck driver from Ajwa Road, where Regi lived, on the highway to reach Kapurai chowkdi. However, as the truck crossed Kapurai bridge, the driver refused to stop the truck or slow down, and Muchangwara jumped off. Regi told police that he saw Muchangwara rolling on the road but even then the truck driver did not stop the vehicle until he reached Tarsali bridge. Regi walked back 3kms to reach the spot where Muchangwara had jumped off but he had died by then after an unidentified vehicle ran over him. “The university officials contacted his parents who informed that they would like to conduct his funeral in Zimbabwe, but the embassy could not be contacted. The body has been preserved at the cold room in the SSG Hospital so that after lockdown if it is possible, it can be flown to his home country,” said a police official. Police officials said that Muchangwara is a law student at the private university in Vadodara. Muchangwara was from Mutare city while Regi is from the capital city of Harare.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/zimbabwe-student-jumps-off-moving-truck/articleshow/75724141.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala engineered sound system for passes: Anil||Thiruvananthapuram: When award-winning sound recordist Anil Radhakrishnan decided to take his pregnant wife home from Covid-19 red zone in Mumbai, he had a twin experience: one side where an effective system in place with officials aware of their roles and another where an ill-defined system with clueless officials. Speaking from his wife’s residence at Ponkunnam where he is currently under home quarantine, Radhakrishnan said trying to enter the state without a pass will destroy the exceptional work done by the state government. The first thing he did before the trip was to log on to Norka website and file applications in his name, along with that of his wife and mother-in-law on May 6. He did the same on the website of Maharashtra police. “I received SMS confirming my application from both websites. While the SMS from Norka had a link attached to it to check the status of the application, the one from Maharashtra police lacked the option. All they had was a phone number to clear doubts if application is approved,” he said. Three days later, he received a message from Norka informing that his application was approved, and he can enter the state on May 11 between 7pm and 11pm. But, there was no word from Maharashtra police. He approached local police station and thus began a process that consumed over 10 hours, across a distance of 85 km. At the police station, an officer perused his application and directed him to the police commissioner’s office that was 35 km away. At the commissioner’s office, he was denied entry and directed to police headquarters that was another 5km away. An official there told him that he better hurry to the zonal DCP-11 who was in charge of his neighbourhood. This office was located another 45km away. Finally, after reaching zonal DCP’s office, he learned that the officer he met first at the local police station near his residence was the one who was supposed to grant him the travel pass. “The experience was opposite when it came to Kerala. I merely had to spend 10 minutes at Manjeswaram for clearance,” Radhakrishnan said. He said once he exited Maharashtra, he did not have to stop at any checkposts in Karnataka as he had the pass issued by Norka, whereas he could see many travellers trapped at these checkposts for not having a valid travel pass. “I think the system is efficient here because there is effective dissemination of data among departments and officials, which is not happening in other states,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/kerala-engineered-sound-system-for-passes-anil/articleshow/75724336.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Kochi||Six hospitals in Kerala seek nod for plasma therapy trial||Kochi: Six hospitals from Kerala have applied to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) to be part of its clinical trial to test the effectiveness of plasma therapy on Covid-19 patients.  It is only an experimental therapy used for research and trial and not yet an approved treatment for Covid-19. Among the hospitals that are awaiting the ICMR’s nod, four are in the government sector. They are: Government Medical College, Kozhikode, Malabar Cancer Centre, Thalassery, Sree Chitra Tirunal Institute for Medical Sciences and Technology, Thiruvananthapuram and Government Medical College, Thiruvananthapuram. Amrita Institute of Medical Sciences (AIMS) in Kochi and Baby Memorial Hospital, Kozhikode are the two private hospitals, which have submitted their expression of interest to be part of ICMR’s trial. “Our government medical colleges have sent a proposal to ICMR to be involved in its convalescent plasma research. The one in Thiruvananthapuram was among the first to send the proposal, followed by medical college in Kozhikode,” said principal health secretary Dr Rajan N Khobragade. The ICMR has already initiated the trial called ‘A phase II, Open Label, Randomized Controlled Trial to Assess the Safety and Efficacy of Convalescent Plasma to Limit Covid-19 Associated Complications in Moderate Disease (PLACID trial)’. It involves transfusing blood plasma from people who have recovered from Covid-19 and developed antibodies to SARS-CoV-2 to patients who currently have the disease. The sample size of the trial study is 452. Once 400 patients are enrolled, no more institutions will be added. After ICMR invited institutions to undertake the study, it received applications from 113 institutions across the country. As of May 11, it has approved 35 institutions for conducting the trial, and a majority of them are from Covid-19 affected states like Maharashtra, Gujarat and Tamil Nadu. The proposals submitted by 76 institutions, including those from Kerala, are under consideration. Explaining why institutions from Kerala may not have received the approval yet, a senior health professional closely associated with preparing plasma therapy protocol for the state said: “The number of active cases and deaths due to Covid-19 are few in Kerala. In contrast, there are a few states, where we have seen a large spike in cases, including critical patients.” Incidentally, Kerala was one of the first state in the country to submit a protocol for convalescent plasma therapy to ICMR. Though ICMR approved the state protocol on April 9, five days later, it informed the health department here that since ICMR was initiating a similar clinical trial, hospitals could be part of the trial or the state will have to register separately for the trials. Subsequently, the health department decided to be part of ICMR’s clinical trials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/six-hospitals-in-kerala-seek-nod-for-plasma-therapy-trial/articleshow/75724378.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Jaipur||Speed up pending water projects across Rajasthan, says CM Ashok Gehlot||JAIPUR: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Wednesday directed the PHED officials to speed up the pending water projects to find a permanent solution to water problem. Gehlot directed the department to set up a special team to monitor and complete the project at the earliest. He said delay in the project not only leads to cost escalation, but people are also denied the benefit of the scheme. He also asked the district collectors to execute the water contingency plan for summer on a priority basis. He asked them to consult the MPs and MLAs from the district within three days and frame a plan according to the local conditions. The chief minister was reviewing the drinking water situation in the state. He said the collectors and the PHED had to ensure that there is no shortage of drinking water in any areas of the state. The chief minister said RO, hand pump and tube well maintenance, pipeline maintenance and extension and supply of water by tankers be expedited. He said wherever water need to be transported and new tube wells and hand pumps required be sanctioned immediately. The chief minister directed the department to activate the control room and complaints be attended to without delay. The district collector must review the water situation every week ensuring that villages are receiving sufficient water. PHED minister B D Kalla said the department had made the contingency plan in February and Rs 65 crore was sanctioned for it. He said out of 1, 21,530 villages of which 92% of them were supplied water through some drinking water schemes. Principal secretary Rajesh Yadav informed that due to good rain last year the drinking water supply in most of the districts is normal. He said Rs 24 crore has been sanctioned for supplying water by transportation in 134 urban areas and Rs 41 crore in rural areas. He said 22,000 hand pumps were repaired so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/speed-up-pending-water-projects-cm/articleshow/75727048.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Nagpur||State seeks 20 CAPF companies from Centre to fight Covid-19 pandemic||With the state police force already under stress due to Covid outbreak, state government has sought 20 companies (2,000 personnel) of Central Armed Police Forces (CAPF) from the NDA government to maintain law and order situation. Home minister Anil Deshmukh said the police force was overburdened and working overtime in war against Covid-19 and many of them infected with it in the process. “With festivals like Eid and Ramzan coming up, the state needs more personnel. We’ve requested the central government to allot 20 companies of CAPF, which would ease burden on our police personnel,” he told TOI. He added that 32 companies of State Reserve Police Force (SRPF) were already helping out the state police. “The government will make all possible efforts to take care of our officers’ health,” he said. Denying rumours that state would be roping in paramilitary forces to maintain law and order situation, the minister called on the citizens to disbelieve any such rumours. According to him, ever since lockdown was implemented, the government had distributed over 3.47 lakh travel passes to citizens for emergency services and those working to contain the deadly virus. “We’ve so far quarantined over 2.97 lakh persons across the state. During lockdown period from March 22 to May 12, the police have registered over 1.05 lakh offences under Section 188. About 20,072 offenders are arrested in this period and fine of over Rs4.05 lakh is imposed on accused for various offences.” Warning those who were attacking the doctors, police, nurses and health department employees, Deshmukh said orders were issued to take strict action against such culprits. “All these front-line warriors are working day and night to fight the Covid-19 pandemic, but some anti-social elements are targeting them. In lockdown period, 214 cases of attacks on police are reported in which 764 accused are rounded up.” Speaking on police on duty getting contracted from the virus, the senior minister said about eight of them had unfortunately lost lives that included five from Mumbai, and one each from Pune, Solapur and Nashik. “About 84 officers and 709 constables from police force have tested positive and being treated. Orders are issued to establish special control cells for providing immediate treatment to the cops showing symptoms of deadly virus.” The NCP MLA from Katol informed that the police received over 90,556 calls on 100 number across the state during lockdown period. “We’ve taken due cognisance of all complaints and found out 668 persons having stamp of quarantine on their hands. All of them were sent to the quarantine centres. In same period, offences are registered against 1,296 vehicle owners while 57,430 vehicles are seized. 15 offences were lodged against foreign nationals violating Visa conditions.” According to him, the government had set up 3,964 relief camps in state where over 3.84 lakh migrants are taking shelter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/state-seeks-20-capf-companies-from-centre-to-fight-covid-19-pandemic/articleshow/75726573.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
May 14, 2020||Rajkot||Migrant workers block highway to Kandla port||Rajkot: Migrant tempers were flaring in Kutch on Wednesday afternoon after large number of labourers blocked the crucial highway leading to the Deendayal Port Trust (DPT), formerly known as Kandla Port, having failed to get a train to return to their native in Uttar Pradesh and Bihar.Police said around 1,000 labourers blocked the Kandla-Gandhidham highway and resorted to stone pelting on the cops as the train that was supposed to transport them to UP got cancelled two days ago.Sources said that their anger was flared when officials of the district administration did not give them any satisfactory reply regarding the date and time of the train. This triggered the labourers to descend on the road. When police teams arrived at the spot and tried to bring the situation under control, the labourers pelted them with stones. The labourers also hurled stones at the trucks trying to drive past the road block. The windscreen glasses of several trucks were smashed in the stone pelting. “We have not taken any punitive action against the labourers. Most of them returned to the DPT’s labour colony after we assured them of arranging transportation to UP as soon as possible,” said an official from Gandhidham B-division police station. All these labourers are employed in factories in and around Gandhidham that mainly include salt, chemicals and plywood. They live in a slum area near Kandla port.Majority of them had registered with the district administration and paid for the fare for Shramik Special train.Sheshnath Kumar Yadav, a labourer said, “The train scheduled before three days got cancelled. We have been waiting for three days outside mamatldar office in Anjar and Gandhidham. However, police threatened to lodge an offence against us if we kept put there. We paid Rs 750 per person as ticket fare. We have small children with us and don’t have money left to pay the room rent. These migrants are from Pilibhit and Pratapgarh in Uttar Pradesh. District collector Praveena D K could not be reached for comments despite several attempts. Surat has witnessed maximum migrant unrest with at least three major incidents of rioting reported in Vareli, Pandesara and Laskana areas in the last one month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/migrant-workers-block-highway-to-kandla-port/articleshow/75725667.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Kolkata||No fresh case reported in 21 days from first containment zone||KOLKATA: Most shops shut, no access to local markets, a cat-and-mouse game between cops and neighbourhood youths, streets and pavements barricaded only to be removed by locals in the morning — Sukhendu Majhi of the Lal Maidan area in Belgachhia has seen it all in the past 50 odd days. Confined to home and low on savings, the hawker could only thank the local peace committee that kept a steady supply of necessary foodgrains. “We have had many cases. Cops roamed the streets as did combat forces. They repeatedly urged everyone to follow lockdown rules. Though we have had a stricter lockdown, almost every Belgachhia neighbourhoods continue to remain a containment zone now,” wondered Majhi. A few kilometres away, on Sovabazar Street and Abhay Mitra Street (Rabindra Sarani) near Kumurtuli Park, residents wonder for how long they have to remain in the containment zone. The movement here is more relaxed, but even then, access to even daily pack of milk and newspaper means walking down to the barricades. Shyampukur police has been accommodating requests, but planning for groceries days ahead is something the area has never done before. “It had all started when a 80-year-old garments trader went to Bengaluru and returned to Kolkata only to be detected with Covid. After two weeks of fighting the disease at a private hospital off, he is presently in home quarantine,” said D Ashish of Medical Bank, who has played a major role in sustaining life here. However, local councillor Mitali Saha (ward 9) said she was satisfied that no fresh case was recorded from the old containment zones across her ward. “Now the battle is to prevent emergence of fresh cases in old containment zones and protect the areas that have not recorded a single Covid case,” Saha said. Three of north Kolkata’s oldest containment zones — the city now has 339 of them — have now all but slowly adjusted to the “new normal”. Together, Belgachhia alone has five major containment zones. There are three more containment zones in adjoining ward 4. Ward 9 (Kumurtuli) had one containment zone in the beginning. It now has three. But as the city continues to battle Covid-19, there is finally some good news. According to state health department and local councillors, the two hitherto Covid “hotbed” in Belgachhia slum have not reported fresh cases in the past 21 days. The reason behind successful containment of the deadly virus has been the ground surveillance and restrictions imposed on movement of local residents, claimed KMC officials and senior cops. According to Tarun Saha, the Borough I chairperson, door-to-door surveillance by a team of KMC health workers at Belgachhia slum had yielded results. At the same time, the KMC solid waste management department did a yeoman’s job by conducting regular disinfection drive at the slum. The police listed a few points that helped them in this effort. “The overall lockdown implemented at Belgachhia became a model that was to be followed elsewhere. We blocked all possible entries to this slum. In the initial days when violations got reported, we decided to penetrate all the bylanes. Led by joint CP Niloo Sherpa, we divided the area in two zones and mounted watch. We also took help of the local peace committee, comprising people from all faiths. They went from house to house, spoke to youngsters to not venture out. They even listed the daily requirements that we provided them with. Over 2,000kg of ration was sanctioned,” said DC (ESD) Ajoy Prasad. Sources said at least a dozen of those admitted at hospitals with Covid from here have returned home and are in home quarantine. Police and KMC officers though said that several roads in the Belgachhia-Tallah zone continue to be containment zones. “The danger lies in the fact that these neighnourhoods are literally next to each other. We need to regulate shop timings and markets to ensure these blocks do not see a rerun of the deadly disease,” said a police officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/no-fresh-case-reported-in-21-days-from-first-containment-zone/articleshow/75726577.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
May 14, 2020||Rajkot||Lockdown cuts short daring jail escape of five in Gujarat's Surendranagar||RAJKOT: High drama was witnessed in Surendranagar district on Wednesday when five undertrials made a daring escape from Dhrangadhra sub-jail early in the morning. However, they ran out of luck due to lockdown and were caught within hours as they failed to get any transport to execute their escapade. Those who escaped include four brothers — Nanji Devipujak, Santu Devipujak, Savji Devipujak and Dharam Devipujak — and one Prakash Kushwaha. They broke the lock of the barrack at around 4am which they also took along with them. After leaving the barrack, they climbed up the terrace and with the help of bed sheets they got down. However, when Kushwaha was climbing down, he slipped and fell on a plastic shed. Hearing the noise, inmates of the old building woke up and started clanking utensils to alert the jail staff. “However, before the three constables deployed as the guards at the jail could come, the five had already escaped,” said BM Desai, police inspector, Dhrangadhra police station. But having failed to get additional wheels to gather mileage for their further journey, the five started on foot on the Dhrangadhra-Viramgam highway. They had walked around 12 km and were nabbed around 3:30pm. Deepak Dhol, inspector, Surendranagar local crime branch, said, “We got information from some locals about five persons moving around suspiciously near Vavdi village and nabbed them.” While the four brothers had planned to hide in their native Dasada village, Kushwaha wanted to return to Indore in Madhya Pradesh. He was booked in a loot and theft case. The Devipujak brothers were accused in a murder case. Dhrangadhra sub-jail houses 90 inmates — 56 in old building and 34 in new building. This is the second incident of jail break in Surendranagar. On the night of January 12, four prisoners had escaped from Limbdi sub-jail, but were caught later.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/lockdown-cuts-short-daring-jail-escape-of-five/articleshow/75725695.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Kolkata||Struggling underbelly adapts to new way of life||KOLKATA: Garment shopowners have turned fish-sellers, auto drivers have become vegetable vendors, leather factory employees have taken up selling masks, sanitizers and flowers on cycles and back-office administrative job holders have switched to online marketing. The 50 days of lockdown has seen a sea change in professions of a large number of individuals who have taken up jobs that they had never taken before just to keep their family expenses up and running. Sanjib Roy’s (30) family owns a 40-year-old garments shop at Gariahat, which is shut for more than two months now. With no other alternatives, Roy has started selling fish on footpaths of Dhakuria for the past one month. “This feels odd. But I have to do something to run my family. I have no experience in fish business and I don’t even know how to cut or clean a fish. But guess this is what I have to do for the time being to earn a living,” said Roy, a resident of Panchanantala. Similar has been the fate for Sunil Thakur, a hawker dealing in sofa covers and bedsheets, who is now selling fruits and vegetables outside the containment zone on Kakulia Road. “For weeks I had no income. Then I learnt some other hawkers had started selling vegetables. So I joined in. Selling vegetables and fruits is difficult as they rot easily. But I am somehow managing business,” said Thakur, a resident of Kasba. Life has also been difficult for auto driver Susanta Maiti, who has no prior experience in any sort of business, but has been selling vegetables on a cart. “I used to earn a decent Rs 350 to Rs 400 per day driving a hired autorickshaw between Baguiati and Ultadanga. But as the lockdown kicked in, my earning turned zero. So, for the last three weeks, I have been buying vegetables from a wholesale market in Ultadanga and selling it in and around Baguiati,” said Maiti, who has a family of five. Some white collar professionals, too, have seen change during this period. Payel Adhikari, who used to work at a manufacturing major, lost her job earlier this month and had no clue how to make her ends meet. She pleaded to her employers to reconsider their decision and she has now been put into an online marketing division about which she is clueless.  “I needed the job badly. So agreed to the change in profile when they said they were shutting down the administrative back-office unit considering the current work-from-home scene. I am trying my best to adapt to this new job profile,” said Adhikari, a resident of Behala.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/struggling-underbelly-adapts-to-new-way-of-life/articleshow/75726597.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
May 14, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Two cops among 10 who got coronavirus from truck driver||Thiruvananthapuram: Ten more positive cases of Covid-19 were reported in the state on Wednesday, of which four had come from abroad and two from Chennai. The rest of the cases got infected through direct contact with Covid-19 patients. Till date 534 persons have been tested positive for Covid-19 and 41 persons are currently under treatment. The total number of active cases under treatment after coming from abroad has reached 15. Of the total active cases, 14 have come from other states while 12 got infected through direct contacts. While Malappuram recorded three new cases on Wednesday, Palakkad and Wayanad had two each. Kottayam, Kannur and Kozhikode districts also recorded one case each. All the four people who got infected through direct contact received the disease from a truck driver in Wayanad. Of the four, two people are from Wayanad and the other two are policemen from Kannur and Malappuram who were on duty in Wayanad. As many as 34,447 persons are placed under surveillance across the state. Till date 39,380 samples (including augmented samples) have been sent for testing and the results of 38,509 came as negative. Meanwhile, the test result of one Covid-19 patient under treatment in Kollam has been declared negative. At present, Wayanad district has the most number of active cases - 11. The number of active cases in other districts is: Malappuram (6), Palakkad, Kannur and Kasaragod (4 each), Ernakulam (3), Kollam, Thrissur, Kottayam and Kozhikode (2 each) and Pathanamthitta (1). Truck driver returned from Koyembedu market The truck driver from Wayanad who had tested positive after his return from Koyembedu market in Tamil Nadu seems to have infected 10 persons with the virus. The 10 include two more members of his family who tested positive on Wednesday along with two policemen. The policemen were infected after they interacted with another positive case who had got the disease from a secondary contact of the truck driver. The two policemen who have tested positive hail from Kannur and Malappuram and are attached to the Mananthavady police station. This is the first time police personnel have contracted Covid-19 while on duty. The two Covid- 19 positive cases reported from the district on Wednesday are the 26-year-old daughter and the grandchild of the truck driver. A total of six members of the family are under treatment at the Mananthavady district hospital. Wayanad district police chief R Ilango said that the two policemen came into contact with the 20-year-old youth from Kammana in Mananthavady, who had tested positive on May 9, while registering a case against him for triple riding on April 18 and the youth had later visited the station twice. He contracted the disease from the truck cleaner’s son. “The youth had come to the station on April 28 and again on May 2 to release the bike. Already 20 police personnel who were on duty on the day are under quarantine and all the other personnel at the station have been asked to go on quarantine,” Ilango said, adding that the building would be disinfected. (With inputs from Kozhikode bureau)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/two-cops-among-10-who-got-coronavirus-from-truck-driver/articleshow/75724374.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Jaipur||Education department readying plan to enrol children of migrant families||JAIPUR: The state education department is coming up with a comprehensive plan to enrol children of inbound migrant families in its schools. Estimates say over 14 lakh migrants, including 2 lakh children, have applied for their return with the government. “They are most welcome to admit their wards in our schools. Our aim is that not a single child who has returned from other states should be deprived of education. Our teaching staff is identifying them and approaching them for admissions,” said education minister Govind Singh Dotasra. Department officials, especially principals of schools, are keeping tabs on the movement of migrants in villages. JC Govindan, principal of a government school at Jaspura in Merta City who is also in charge of a quarantine centre in his school, has tracked 21 students serving their isolation period in his institute. “They have returned from Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu and Maharashtra. Their families are ready to put them in my school once classes resume,” said Govindan. The minister advised that migrant families should take advantage of the 25% admissions in private school under the Right to Education Act. “We really want to see our residents taking advantage of the RTE Act. If their annual income is under Rs 2.5 lakh they can apply for admission in private schools,” said Dotasra. The state has made elaborate arrangements for quarantine of migrants, especially in schools. Educationist KB Kothari has proposed a rapid assessment test of children aged 5 to 14 years to evaluate their learning outcomes which will help in enrolling them in classes accordingly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/edu-dept-readying-plan-to-enrol-children-of-migrant-families/articleshow/75727051.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Nashik||‘State to mark ’20 as farm productivity yr’||Nashik: The state government has decided to mark the year 2020 as productivity year for agriculture, said agriculture minister Dada Bhuse on Wednesday. “As part of this, the government will take various initiatives to ensure that farmers get loans, seeds and fertilisers in time. Arrangements will also be made for storage and transportation of the agricultural produce,” Bhuse said. A review meeting of all the government agencies, in the backdrop of the upcoming Kharif season was conducted by Bhuse in the presence of the district guardian minister Chhagan Bhujbal and senior government officials. “Due to the lockdown and Covid-19 crisis, the need for grains, vegetables and fruits will be felt very strongly. Hence, the government has decided to mark the year as productivity year,” Bhuse said. “The government is taking all steps to ensure that loan presented to the farmers for the kharif season are disbursed on time. In Nashik district, banks have been given a target of disbursing loans worth Rs 3,300 crore to the farmers and they have to achieve the target,” he added. Meanwhile, Bhujbal in his address said that the government was making a plan to ensure the farmers get electricity for eight hours every day. “All agencies will have to put their best foot forward to ensure the agriculture activity is not hindered at any point of time,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/state-to-mark-20-as-farm-productivity-yr/articleshow/75854029.cms||Abhilash Botekar
May 14, 2020||Jaipur||Registration limit hiked by 10% at 208 procurement centres: Minister||Jaipur: Cooperatives minister Udai Lal Anjana said procurement of 1.16 lakh tonnes of mustard and gram from 45,813 farmers valued at Rs 541.52 crore has been achieved in the state till May 12. The procurement is worth Rs 541.52 crore of which Rs 386.71 crore has been deposited into the accounts of 32,509 farmers. Anjana said in order to allow maximum number of farmers to get the benefit of support price purchase, the registration capacity of such centres has been increased by 10%. Farmers could register at these centres from May 14. Thus far, the registration limit has been increased at 208 centres. About 15,000 farmers will be benefitted. He informed that 61,578 tonnes of mustard worth Rs 272.48 crore has been purchased from 23,619 farmers and 55,186 tonnes of gram worth Rs 259.03 crore has been purchased from 22,194 farmers. Principal secretary, cooperatives, Naresh Pal Gangwar said out of 5,21,279 registered farmers, messages have been sent to 1,60,637 for the date of allotment of produce. Managing director, Rajfed, Sushma Arora said 1,598 procurement centres have been established for mustard and gram. She informed that the centres have been directed to send e-receipts immediately after the endorsement of the produce so that farmers could be paid on time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/registration-limit-hiked-by-10-at-208-procurement-centres-minister/articleshow/75727056.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Chennai||Need for speed defines road to recovery for builders, developers||Chennai: The real estate sector is all set for a churning post Covid-19 as the Tamil Nadu government and developer community, the key stakeholders in the sector, vowed to do everything possible to speed up projects and bring down cost of apartments to make them more attractive for buyers. They were speaking at the real estate session of The Times of India virtual conclave, Making Tamil Nadu Future Positive on Wednesday.Casagrand MD Arun Kumar said delay in the approval process was costing developers `400-`500 per sqft as interest on land cost. Developers raise loans from non-banking financial companies (NBFCs) and housing finance companies (HFC) to purchase land and develop apartment projects. When the process of approval by regulatory agencies like CMDA and DTCP takes a lot of time, the interest keeps mounting. It ultimately adds to the cost of apartments, he said. If the approval is accorded within one-and-a-half months, the developer community would be able to pass on the savings to the homebuyers, he said.Confederation of Real Estate Developers’ Association of India (Credai) Chennai chapter president T Padam Dugar called for doing away with redundant NOCs that the developer has to secure from 15 to 20 departments to get a project plan approved. It takes six months to one year to get approval for a building, he noted. Doing away with unwanted processes and procedures would ultimately bring down the cost of projects, he said.The developers also emphasised the need to infuse additional liquidity into NBFCs, banks and HFCs. Further, the subsidy under Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana for purchase of houses should be increased from `2.5 lakh to `4 lakh, they demanded.Prakash Challa, chairman and managing director of SSPDL, suggested the state government come out with a land policy on the lines of what Karnataka has done to permit companies to purchase land directly from farmers for industrial purposes. Calling for bold reforms, he said Tamil Nadu should encourage conversion of land use to attract investments.Allaying fears about the downfall of IT parks and SEZs because of companies encouraging employees to work from home (WFH), Ajit Kumar Chordia, MD of Olympia Group, said WFH was a temporary phenomenon. People would get back to offices. Assuming that about 25% of the employees in the IT sector are going to work from home, to accommodate the balance 75% in line with social distancing norms, 33% extra space is required in offices. "I see the demand going up," said Chordia.Housing and urban development secretary Rajesh Lakhoni, who moderated the discussion, said it was heartening that apartment buyers were not withdrawing from their bookings. He said the government would introduce single-window clearance in DTCP in a month’s time to speed up the approval process. By bringing agricultural department also under the single-window clearance for land use conversion, the process had been speeded up, he said. Lakhoni also offered to look into the issue of doing away with redundant processes in approving projects.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/need-for-speed-defines-road-to-recovery-for-builders-developers/articleshow/75726593.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Keralites in Lagos, Basra plead to return||Thiruvananthapuram: Keralites trapped in Lagos in Nigeria and Basra in Iraq are seeking the urgent intervention of the union and state governments to arrange for their transportation back to the state citing poor healthcare systems in these countries that have put their lives at severe risk in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic. When around 220 Keralites in Lagos, the largest city in Nigeria, have booked a chartered flight to Kochi and are awaiting permission from the directorate general of civil aviation (DGCA), at least 12 Malayalis are trapped in Basra, the city in Iraq worst affected by the virus infection. According to the Indian Embassy in Iraq, around 250 Indians have registered with the Indian Mission seeking immediate evacuation. Meanwhile, opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala sent two separate letters to Union Minister of External Affairs S Jaishankar demanding immediate measures by the central government to bring back Keralites trapped in these two countries. In his letter, the opposition leader demanded the Centre’s approval for the chartered flight from Lagos to land at Kochi Airport. The chartered flight from Lagos has been booked by the group of stranded Malayalis led by public health expert Dr Arun Gangadhar Balaganga. The Malayalis, who are now trapped in Basra, have already contacted the Indian Embassy seeking evacuation. But the embassy officials informed them that there were around 250 Indians registered for returning to India and they were told to wait, Ramesh pointed out in his second letter sent to the Union Minister. “Malayalis, who are now trapped in Basra, which is the leading city in Iraq in case of the number of Covid-19 patients, are living in extreme fear. Immediate action should be taken to rescue them from this life-threatening situation,” the Opposition Leader demanded in his letter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/keralites-in-lagos-basra-plead-to-return/articleshow/75724406.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad man shoots dog dead for sitting on his car||AHMEDABAD: A resident of the Ranip area of city on Tuesday shot and killed a stray dog with an air gun as he was irritated that the canine used to sit on his car roof and had put scratches on the vehicle. According to an FIR filed with Ranip police, Jigar Panchal, 35, a resident of Geeta Apartments in Ranip, shot the dog and abused residents of his flat when they objected to his action. Jigar PanchalIn his FIR with Ranip police, a resident of Geeta Apartments, Manoj Thakar, 56, who works for private firm, states that he saw Panchal firing in the air on Tuesday at around 6pm. Panchal was scaring away dogs sitting on and around his car, parked outside the complex. Thakar opposed this and told Panchal not to shoot and scare the canines. After this, Thakar went to his place and Panchal went to his. At around 8pm on Tuesday, Thakar and other residents of Geeta Apartments heard a shot and rushed outside. Thakar and other residents saw Panchal holding an air gun in his hand and a stray dog lying in front of Panchal’s car, states the FIR. Resdients called the police who reached the spot and began proceeding in the case. Inspector J B Khambhla of Ranip police said that Panchal shot the dog from his balcony, and the animal died on the spot. Panchal was charged with IPC Section 294 for abusing other residents of the flats along with violation of the Cruelty to Animals Act, which has a provision for a jail term of up to seven years, said Khambhla. He said that they got a Covid-19 test done on the accused first and as it came negative, he was arrested on Wednesday evening.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/man-shoots-dog-dead-for-sitting-on-his-car/articleshow/75725824.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Mangaluru||Most labourers wanting to return home in Dakshina Kannada from Jharkhand||Mangaluru: Deputy commissioner Sindhu B Rupesh said, “Streamlining the movement of migrant labourers has been a challenge. Ever since inter-state movement was permitted during the lockdown, so far, 40,510 people have registered on the Seva Sindhu portal to return home. Of them, a majority are from Jharkhand, Bihar and Uttar Pradesh, followed by Odisha and West Bengal. Since the numbers are increasing, train services resumed from Mangaluru on May 9.” She told reporters on Wednesday that it is important for the states that the labourers are headed to, to take a call on passenger movement. The first train was to Jharkhand with 1,148 passengers on May 9, this was followed by two trains to Uttar Pradesh and Bihar on May 10, a train to Uttar Pradesh on Monday, a train to Bihar on Tuesday, and trains to Bihar and Uttar Pradesh on Wednesday. So far, 10,490 people have travelled from Dakshina Kannada to their respective states. As per an estimate, there are around 7,000 migrant labourers from Jharkhand in the district, and about 1,460 passengers can travel in a train. “We appeal to the migrants not to fall prey to rumours. Trains will operate after clearance is received from states they intend to travel to, and it will happen in phases. There are certain protocols to be followed, and complete details of the passenger has to be provided to the state they are going to,” the DC said. “When the lockdown was announced, shelter homes were created, and wherever labourers were staying, food kits or packed food was provided to them. The district administration has distributed more than 20,000 food kits, and about 3.9 lakh food packets,” the DC added. “When inter-district movement was allowed, 12,970 people were sent to 25 districts in 500 buses. Of them, more than 3,000 labourers were from Bagalkot, followed by Vijayapura and Gadag,” she said. She said that the district received 6,489 applications for people wanting to come back to Dakshina Kannada. In one vehicle, there could be 2-3 people travelling, that means about 25,000 people are expected to enter the district. “Since institutional quarantine is compulsory, passes are cleared in phases. The maximum number of applications are from Maharashtra. Institutions have been decentralised at the taluk level. The district administration has received more than 31,000 calls at its control room so far,” the DC said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/most-labourers-wanting-to-return-home-in-dk-from-jharkhand/articleshow/75724372.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Ahmedabad||364 cases, 29 deaths in 24 hours; state tally crosses 9,000 cases||Ahmedabad: Gujarat on Wednesday added 364 Covid-19 positive cases and 29 deaths from the viral infection in 24 hours ending 5pm. The number of positive cases in the state cumulatively went up to 9,268 and crossed the 9,000-mark on Wednesday. Death toll for the state is 566. The last 1,000 cases were recorded in past three days. Jayanti Ravi, principal secretary (health & family welfare), said that 316 Covid-19 positive patients have been discharged in last 24 hours, taking the total to 3,562. “The state’s recovery rate has improved to 38.4% with those discharged on Wednesday,” she said, claiming that the situation is ‘under control.’ In an announcement on the treatment protocol, Ravi said the state government has approved use of Tocilizumab injections and have placed an order for the same. The drug is an immunosuppressant used to treat arthritis. “As part of WHO’s solidarity trial, we have got stock of Remdesivir, a patented drug, for clinical trial in Gujarat, which is likely to start from tomorrow. Likewise, Interferon, another drug for treatment, has also been received for trial,” said Ravi. On Wednesday, Amreli recorded its first positive case. Now all 33 districts of Gujarat have recorded at least one Covid-19 positive patient. In May, three districts of Gujarat had recorded their first Covid-19 positive cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/364-cases-29-deaths-in-24-hours-state-tally-crosses-9000-cases/articleshow/75726595.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Ahmedabad||AMC set to hike rates for private hospitals||AHMEDABAD: The Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) has assured private hospital owners that they will move a proposal to double the rates that they have offered. While 21 hospitals have been acquired by the AMC so far through notification under the Epidemic Diseases Act to treat Covid-19 patients, the civic authority is yet to sign MoU with the hospitals. The AMC had earlier decided to pay the hospitals based on an existing GR. But as no hospital came forward for the MoU, the civic authorities held a meeting with the stakeholders and got to know that the existing rate is too less. A senior AMC official said that they have moved a proposal to increase the existing rate by 100% for both empty and occupied beds. “We are hopeful of getting an amicable solution soon,” said the official, adding that the charges were compared with SVP Hospital that was spending up to Rs 3,500 per patient. Moreover, the civic authority will also pay Rs 15 lakh to the hospital for operative expenses. The state government has already announced that the employees of these hospitals will be treated at par with government employees if they contact Covid-19 infection or die on duty. Meanwhile, Ahmedabad Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association (AHNA) wrote a letter to the municipal commissioner to allow the hospitals to charge patients at normal rate. The members argued that no hospital will charge extra in this difficult time and they are charging fees to ensure quality treatment. The association thus advocated identifying hospitals with ICUs and other facilities to treat critical patients instead of acquiring specialty hospitals. The letter also asked the civic body to first consider full utilization of government, semi-government and trust hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/amc-set-to-hike-rates-for-pvt-hospitals/articleshow/75726604.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Chennai||Online shopping gets bigger, stores an add-on||Chennai: For those who still like to window shop, visit a number of stores with the best deals and then zero in on a product, shopping may not be the same again. Keeping in mind the virus scare and norms, ‘phy-gital’ will be the future for retail, feel retail experts."Purely digital is not the way. Physical stores will be needed. But retailers have to figure out a combination of the two to survive. The way a customer is going to shop is going to be different," said Kumar Rajagopalan, CEO of the Retailers Association of India. With Tamil Nadu boasting of the largest number of retail stores in the country, and some of the oldest as well, but on the other hand with a large number of those stores accounting for no sales in the past 47 days, a roadmap to recovery for the sector is critical. Industry experts say on account of the lockdown, operational costs have risen by 30%, while footfalls are down by 50%. "With one retailer for every 130 people in the country, the sector has a vital role to play in the economy," said Rajagopalan.Nitesh Giria of Girias Investments said, "Covid is here to say but life must go on. Retailers have to incorporate technology on the shop floor." In his stores, real-time virtual demonstrations of consumer durables have been introduced for customers. "People are getting used to this and it has resulted in sales," he said. At Vivek, B A Srinivasan, joint managing director, said until now, only 3% of his sales were through digital. "Post-Covid, I foresee digital sales going up to 30%."But support from the banking sector and the government were crucial for recovery, said Anantha Padmanabhan, managing director of NAC Jewellers. "Until then, retailers will have to look at sales of small-ticket items to keep up the revenues. Big-ticket items may take a while to move," he said.To get customers back, retailers need to put standard operating procedures in place and instil confidence that a store is safe to step in, said Srinivasan. Customers will have to wear masks, physical distancing has to be mandatory and sanitizers kept handy.Covid-19 is going to change the consumer patterns as well, with shopping no longer being an impulsive act as before. "Customers will think twice before going to shop. Retailers will have to think in terms of what will work best for them – click and collect, door delivery or online shopping or in store shopping. Also, retailers will have to consider diversifying as customers may want to visit fewer shops to get everything they need."The one-stop-shop of modern retail therapy – malls, which provide thousands of jobs, will have to open soon. "While malls are seen as spaces that customers will shun, it is actually one of the most controllable spaces," said Rajagopalan. "The entries, exits, parking, and hygiene can be completely controlled."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/online-shopping-gets-bigger-stores-an-add-on/articleshow/75726601.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: Wear masks or else face action, warns police chief Loknath Behera||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: As public life slowly attaining normalcy, state police chief Loknath Behera once again stressed on the importance of wearing a mask. In a statement issued on Wednesday, Behera said that he had noticed several hawkers were selling masks on sides of the road and warned people from buying such masks. Masks should be kept in disinfected packets, which is not the case with the ones available with wayside hawkers. Hence, purchasing masks from them is discouraged, he said. The DGP also directed all district police chiefs to intensify the vigil against individuals who were not adhering to rules. This is because many people are still reluctant to wear a mask in public places. The government had made masks compulsory in the second phase of lockdown. A week later, the state police started imposing penalty on individuals who were not following the order. The first penalty is Rs 200. If an individual repeats the offence, an amount of Rs 5000 is levied as penalty.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/wear-masks-or-else-face-action-warns-police-chief/articleshow/75724420.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Mysuru||Covid-19: Mysuru woman recovers after near 5-week stay in hospital, discharged||MYSURU: A 48-year-old woman Covid-19 patient, hospitalised for the past 34 days, was discharged on Wednesday. The case of P-204 had posed a challenge for the doctors. Suspecting that virus strain in the patient may be different from others treated in the district so far, health officials adopted a wait and watch policy in her case. She is one among four people in Mysuru who have spent more than 14 days in the hospital. Mysuru Medical College and Research Institute dean and director Dr CP Nanjaraj, who heads the Covid lab, said the woman tested positive in tests even after two weeks. She was discharged after testing negative in two successive tests. The woman remained healthy and asymptomatic during the period of hospitalization. Sources confirmed that her husband and son were cured and discharged within two weeks. Her case had baffled the authorities as the woman tested positive in subsequent tests conducted after 14 days. Once a patient is tested positive, they are treated at dedicated Covid hospital and tests are conducted on the 14th day and another within 24 hours before declaring them cured. Patients are discharged from the hospital only if two back-to-back test results turn negative. Many are usually discharged within two-three weeks. Health officers said the patients are treated with a combination of three drugs: hydroxychloroquine, tamiflu and azithromycin. Also on Wednesday, a man who had attended the Tablighi Jamaat convention in Delhi was discharged after 26 days in the hospital. Deputy commissioner said the number of active cases in Mysuru district stands at two now. These two patients have also spent more than 14 days in the hospital. The district reported 90 positive cases since March 20 with no fresh cases since two weeks. The district could be declared as a green zone if cases are not reported for another week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/48-year-old-woman-discharged-after-34-days-man-after-26-days/articleshow/75724415.cms||Lawrence Milton
May 14, 2020||Jaipur||202 test positive, highest single-day spike in state||Jaipur: The state on Wednesday reported the highest number of Covid-19 cases in a single day with 202 positive cases. The previous highest was 175 recorded on May 4. With the new cases, the total number of infected people rose to 4,328. The overall death toll has reached 121 with the addition of four casualties on Wednesday. While two deaths were reported from Jaipur, Alwar and Pali registered one death each. A 75-year-old woman from Kutisawdas Kherli of Alwar district died while undergoing treatment for Covid-19 at SMS Hospital on Wednesday. Admitted on May 7, she was suffering from chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. An 87-year-old woman from Ramnagar in Pali district, who was admitted to Bangur Hospital on Tuesday, died on the same day. She had no co-morbid conditions. Besides, a 68-year-old man from Ramganj Bazaar in Jaipur who was admitted to SMS Hospital on Tuesday died on Wednesday. He was suffering from diabetes and chronic lymphocytic leukemia. The fourth victim, the details of whom are yet to be ascertained, was also from Jaipur. The districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (61), Jalore (28), Pali (27), Udaipur (33), Rajsamand (5), Sawai Madhopur (6), Jodhpur (8), Sirohi (3), Churu (3), Kota (5), Dholpur (3), Alwar (1), Tonk (2), Banswara (2), Dungarpur (2), Dausa (1), Barmer (1), Bharatpur (2), Sikar (1), Jhunjhunu (1), Jaisalmer (1), Nagaur (2), one BSF personnel and three from other states. Jaipur reported cases from 35 places. These include five from the district jail, JK Lon Hospital (1), Ramganj (9), Shastri Nagar (4), Chandpole (4), Swami Basti (5), Paldi Meena (3), Mandi Kahitan (2) and Purani Basti (2). One case each was also reported from Gokulpura, Durgapura, Vishwakarma, Madhav Nagar, Kotputli, Kunda Chauraha, Govind Nagar, Amer Road, Krishna Nagar, Vaishali Nagar, Malviya Nagar, Adarsh Nagar, Batheri Bassi, Jawahar Nagar Tila No.5, MI Road, Chandi Ki Taksal, RD Hostel, Luniyawas, Jagatpur, Bhatta Basti, Bhrampuri, Panch Batti, Khatipur, Ambedkar Nagar, Sodala, Dushad Nagar. Minister admitted to SMS Hospital Social justice and empowerment department minister Bhanwarlal Meghwal was admitted to SMS Hospital after he complained of weakness. “He was brought to our hospital. We examined him and he had weakness in his right side. We immediately referred him to SMS Hospital,” said Dr Ish Munjal, superintendent of a hospital in Mansarovar area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/202-test-positive-highest-single-day-spike-in-state/articleshow/75727057.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Kochi||Finally, students from Jammu to return home on Friday||Thrissur: Decks have been finally cleared for the return of students from Jammu, who were stranded at the National Research Institute for Panchakarma (NRIP), Cheruthuruthi, due to the national lockdown. The students will be leaving from Kochi by train on Friday to New Delhi, assistant director of the NRIP Sanjay Kumar said here. They got confirmed tickets in the train from here to New Delhi and from there to Jammu, he said. The group of students from the Jammu campus of Central Council for Research in Ayurvedic Sciences (CCRAS), New Delhi, had landed in Kerala on March 12. They had to undergo a 14-day course at NRIP from March 14. However, they were stuck at NRIP even after the course due to the lockdown. The group comprised eight students, including four girls. A teacher from Jammu and his wife too accompanied the students. Chelakkara MLA U R Pradeep had written to Kerala chief minister for necessary support to the students. But delay in resumption of rail and air traffic had made their return trip uncertain. NRIP assistant director said the visitors from Jammu will be screened by health officials before they leave.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/finally-students-from-jammu-to-return-home-on-friday/articleshow/75724432.cms||T Ramavarman
May 14, 2020||Ahmedabad||44 new cases from western part of city in 24 hours||Ahmedabad: The number of Covid-19 cases and deaths are not showing any signs of abatement with the western part of the city on Wednesday reported 15% or 44 new cases in the last 24 hours. The city reported 288 fresh cases and 24 deaths. Four cases each were reported from Vejalpur, Satellite, Ranip areas of the city. Two cases were from a family from Amravan Society in Satellite, one case each was reported from Parishrah Apartment, Sangh Mitra Flats in Satellite. Also the first case from Panchvati area was reported on Wednesday. Of thee 44 cases, Ranip reported six cases, which was the highest number of cases reported from any area in the western part of the city on Wednesday. A technical supervisor in the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) in Nava Vadaj ward and his family members have tested positive for the virus. Also, one more assistant municipal commissioner tested positive. The western part of the city now has 7,210 active cases as of Wednesday.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/44-new-cases-from-western-part-of-city-in-24-hours/articleshow/75726603.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Kolkata||Lockdown has added to mental stress||By - Anushka Ghosh My neighbourhood has been an a containment zone since March 30 when an elderly man next door tested positive for Covid-19. Two days later, the man died, worsening our fear as the cops and civic authorities sealed all lanes around our home, conducted a door-to-door health survey followed by a disinfection drive. Since the start of the lockdown, my work started getting affected. I no longer had access to the library and the department computers that had the necessary software, which are extremely important to complete my thesis. Our work requires a lot of field work and that has come to a standstill. This is troubling for some of my junior colleagues. After the containment zone was demarcated, life got more troublesome. With most shops in our locality being closed, medicine shops running out of stocks and no outsiders — including delivery personnel — being allowed in the locality, it has become extremely difficult to lead a normal life. More than the trouble associated with the physical aspects, the mental stress has aggravated manifolds as I have elderly residents and kids in the house. (Ghosh, 28, from Sukeas Street, an ISI researcher specialising in biological anthropology spoke to Tamaghna Banerjee and Mayukh Sengupta)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/lockdown-has-added-to-mental-stress/articleshow/75726605.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Ahmedabad||Veggie, grocery sales in Ahmedabad to start on Friday||AHMEDABAD: The sale of vegetables and groceries will resume from Friday in the city. The sale will be allowed only between 8am and 1pm in the ten containment zones. In the other parts of the city, the sale will continue till 3pm. The AMC said the ten containment zones are Dariapur, Khadia, Jamalpur, Shahpur, Behrampura, Danilimda, Jamalpur, Saraspur, Gomtipur, and Asarwa. Rajiv Gupta, the additional chief secretary, forest & environment, and the overall in-charge of the anti-Covid mission in Ahmedabad, said that people in containment areas can visit shops only near their homes. Gupta said that citizens will be allowed to venture out of their homes only to buy essential items such as medicines, milk, and vegetables and fruits. The AMC has said that all people, including vegetable and fruit vendors and shopkeepers, will have wear masks, gloves, and caps. Gupta said vegetables have to be cleaned at home in line with the latest guidelines. He said shops will have to use trays for taking and giving money so that buyers and vendors do not come in direct contact. “Each vendor will be given a health card. There should be 5-10 feet distance between larris,” said an officer from the estate department. “Outside all grocery shops, circles will have to be painted on the ground to ensure that customers maintain distance from each other. But vegetable vendors will be responsible for ensuring their customers maintain social distancing. Vendors can allow only two customers at a time at their larris. The estate department has been given the responsibility to ensure that social distancing is followed. AMC officials said that they are expecting a heavy rush around shops and larris on Friday and hence they will have more teams on the ground.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/veggie-grocery-sales-to-start-on-fri/articleshow/75725821.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Pune||At 511 cases, Bhavani Peth has 20 per cent of PMC’s disease burden||PUNE: Bhavani Peth has become the only ward in the Pune municipal limits to cross 500 Covid-19 cases mark, with its patient count rising to 511 on Monday. The ward now accounts for 20% of the total 2,569 case burden in the PMC limits. This sharp rise in cases in the area prompted the civic administration to initiate stricter containment measures there. As per the PMC, the ward has about 57,980 households and about 49,760 shops. “Additional medical teams are deployed for continuous monitoring of people’s health in the ward. Besides, rigorous contact tracing is under way there to arrest the Covid-19 spread. People with symptoms akin to Covid-19 are being sent to institutional quarantine,” a civic official said, adding that the Bhavani Peth was the only ward in the PMC limits with over 500 cases. With a population of 2.11 lakh, the Bhavani Peth ward has the highest population density of 70,873 per sqkm among the five most-affected wards in the PMC limits. Besides, two major slums, Kasewadi and Lohiyanagar, located in the central area of the ward have emerged as hotspots for Covid-19 infection. While Lohiyanagar slum has a population of about 17,500 with about 3,850 huts, over 16,000 people reside in Kasewadi slum pocket that has about 3,180 huts. Sources from the PMC said Covid-19 cases continued to rise in Bhavani Peth ward due to dense population and congested locality. “The ward is spread over 2.99sqkm, which is smallest in size among the five most-affected civic wards. Dense localities have been a major challenge in the ward. The access roads are narrow while the entire locality hardly has any notable open space. The internal roads are encroached upon too. The entire ward has clusters of smaller houses and old wadas unlike the suburban areas that have taller buildings and bigger housing complexes. The administration has been facing an uphill task to ensure social distancing due to congested areas there,” a source said. Officials from the civic administration said both the slums had been sealed. A vigil has been beefed up since last week. People are strictly asked to remain in their homes. “Initially, people used to hide the symptoms and refrain from undergoing screening. Contact tracing was a difficult task as basic information on contact used to come late from symptomatic patients. Things have improved a lot in the last few days,” a civic official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/at-511-cases-bhavani-peth-has-20-of-pmcs-disease-burden/articleshow/75726608.cms||Sarang Dastane
May 14, 2020||Kozhikode||3 more Covid-19 cases in Malappuram on Wednesday||Malappuram: Three more Malappuram natives, including two Gulf returnees, were tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday. The viral infection was confirmed in a 50-year-old man from Maranchery, a 64-year-old man from Tavanur and a 31-year-old police officer from Peruvallur, according to district health administration. The Maranchery and Tavanur natives, who returned form Gulf in repatriation flights last week, have been admitted to Government Medical College, Manjeri (GMCH). The Peruvallur native, who is working as civil police officer in Mananthavady in Wayanad, has been admitted to isolation ward in District Hospital in Mananthavady. The Maranchery native was working as tailor in Abu Dhabi for last two years. On May 7, he returned in IX452 Air India flight to Cochin International Airport. After preliminary screening at the airport, he along with 13 others were shifted to international hostel in Calicut University. From there, he was sent to his house in Purangu near Marachery where he was in home quarantine. On May 10, after experiencing difficulties, including cough, he was shifted to GMCH Manjeri where his sample was tested. The Tavanur native was a contract worker in Sharjah. He returned to the state in IX452 Air India Express flight to Karipur on May 7. After health check-up at the airport, he was shifted to Covid-care centre in Safa Hospital in Kalikavu on May 8. On May 10, he experienced health issues and was shifted to GMCH, Manjeri. The police officer from Peruvallur got the infection through contact of a truck driver who returned to Wayanad from Chennai. Now, Malappuram district has six active Covid-19 cases. A total of 28 positive cases were reported in the district, including eight Gulf returnees. Among these, 21 people have recovered from infection, including an 85-year-old man who died due to age-related illness. A four-month-old-baby from Manjeri, who tested positive, died on April 24 at Kozhikode Medical College Hospital. More than 300 return in repatriation flights at Karipur More than 300 Indians who were stranded in Gulf countries returned in two repatriation flights that landed at Karipur International Airport on Wednesday night. A total of 155 people returned in the flight from Kuwait which landed at Karipur around 9pm. There were 98 male passengers and 57 female passengers from Alappuzha (2), Ernakulam (4), Idukki(1), Kannur (^), Kasaragod (6), Kollam (2), Kozhikode (77), Malappuram (37), Palakkad (13) Pathanamthitta (3), Thrissur (3) and Wayanad (1) in the Air India flight. Meanwhile, a total of 152 people returned in the special flight from Jeddah which landed at Karipur around 12am on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/3-more-covid-19-cases-in-malappuram-on-wednesday/articleshow/75724431.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Jaipur||Army chief Naravane visits forward areas in Bikaner, Sriganganagar||Jaisalmer: The Chief of Army Staff, General M M Naravane visited forward areas in Bikaner and Sriganganagar of the Sapta Shakti Command in Rajasthan and Punjab on May 12 and 13.The Army Chief, accompanied by Sapta Shakti Army Commander Lt Gen Alok Kler, visited the formations in the field and reviewed operational preparedness, including logistic aspects.The COAS interacted with troops, and lauded them for their high morale and motivation. He appreciated the high state of operational preparedness of the Sapta Shakti Command to thwart any threat that inimical forces may pose across the Western Front. General Naravane commended efforts of the formations in the ongoing fight against Covid-19 pandemic. Addressing the officers, the Army Chief declared that IBGs (Integrated Battle Groups) will be operationalised soon. He advised optimisation of funds allotted under defence budget in view of the economic constraints due to Covid-19 and said the funds should be utilised judiciously giving highest priority to operational needs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/army-chief-naravane-visits-forward-areas-in-bikaner-sriganganagar/articleshow/75726613.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Ahmedabad||GBRC: ‘100 samples to be sequenced to study mutations’||AHMEDABAD: The state government-funded Gujarat Biotechnology Research Centre (GBRC) has collected 100-plus samples of the Covid-19 virus from various parts of the state. Analysis of the samples will give an insight into it’s characteristics and mutations, said C G Joshi, director of GBRC on Wednesday. He was speaking at a webinar ‘Genome Sequencing in Search of a Vaccine for Coronavirus’ organized by Gujarat Council on Science & Technology (GUJCOST). Analysis of the viral strain in Gujarat is of great interest to the state government and the scientific community as mortality rate in the state is the highest among Indian states so far. GBRC was among the early public sector labs to sequence the Covid-19 virus genome in India in mid-April. The officials at the lab indicated that they needed to study more samples to understand the behaviour of virus in the state and understand the high mortality and virulence. “So far, we have collected 100-plus samples in Gujarat and are analysing them to understand mutations. We will be able to understand country and region-wise mutations and differentiate between geographic locations,” said Joshi, adding that it would also help identify mutations taking place in ‘hotspot regions.’ Joshi talked about different methods of sequencing and how understanding the virus is the first step to developing a vaccine. GBRC has signed MoUs with three labs – Hester Bioscience, Supratech Micropath Laboratory and Vekaria Healthcare – for vaccine development and in-depth research on viral strains. “GBRC has submitted 56 genomes to GISAID (for Covid-19 research). India has submitted 185 so far,” said Joshi. GISAID is a global government-private partnership that is collecting sequencing for quicker development of vaccines. Joshi said that at least 30 attempts are being made in India to find a vaccine for Covid-19. About the difficulty in developing a vaccine, Joshi said that the virus is mutating with every attack. “According to one study, it is mutating twice every month. When movements are restricted, there are better chances that the virus situation can be stabilized,” he said, adding that hotspot analysis is crucial to find reference virus strains against which the vaccine can be developed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/100-samples-to-be-sequenced-to-study-mutations/articleshow/75726609.cms||Parth Shastri
May 14, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: Duo held for spreading rumours||PUNE: The rural police on Tuesday arrested two persons on the charges of spreading rumours about a Covid-19 positive person being traced to a multinational company at Ranjangaon MIDC. Inspector Sureshkumar Raut of the Ranjangaon MIDC police said the men were residents of Shikrapur.  “The duo had posted via social media that a Covid-19 patient had been traced to a multinational company in the MIDC,” Raut said. “This created panic among the locals as well as the employees of the company,” he said. Verification revealed that no such case existed. Talathi Satish Palande of Ranjangaon lodged an FIR with the police. “We have arrested the duo. Our probe is on,” an officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/duo-held-for-spreading-rumours/articleshow/75726612.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Ahmedabad||Four booked in Ahmedabad for vegetable sale||AHMEDABAD: City police late on Tuesday night arrested the chairman and secretary of a housing society in the Ghatlodia area, for organizing a sale of vegetable for residents in the dark of night to evade police action. Police officials said that the accused persons were identified as Bhogilal Shah, 70, chairman of the Gaur Tower housing society near Prabhat chowk in Ghatlodia; Paresh Gandhi, 59, secretary of the society; Arvind Patel, 51, a resident and Prakash Patel, 38, a farmer and vegetable seller from Mansa. Though they maintained social distancing while selling the vegetables they disobeyed the notification of the city civic body barring the sale of vegetables and groceries for a week. Acting on an input, a patrol team of Ghatlodia police reached Gaur Tower late on Tuesday night and found that the chairman, secretary and other residents had gathered in common plot of the society. Police also found that that chairman and secretary had called a farmer from Delvada village of Mansa taluka to sell vegetables to the residents. He had come in a van from Gandhinagar and entered the city despite police deployment. Police held the four accused and brought them to the police station with a van. Inspector Pushpa Gamit of Ghatlodia police said that Shah and others were booked for disobeying the notification barring the sale of vegetables and groceries, and charges under the Epidemic Diseases Act, Disaster Management Act and the Gujarat Police Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/four-booked-for-vegetable-sale/articleshow/75725819.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Kolkata||Strict policing is keeping people in||By - Siddhartha Shankar Sen My daily life has changed after my locality was declared a containment zone. I have discovered new ways to order everything. Now bread, vegetables, groceries, fish and meat are delivered straight to my home. I am getting up a lot earlier as everything gets delivered early in the morning — between 8 and 9. I also am getting industry-ready to prepare myself for this new normal of working from home. In fact, I compiled videos sent by my colleagues and made a motivational film about the work-from-home culture. Our neighbourhood has been a containment zone for the past one month with multiple instances of Covid-19 cases surfacing in the area. Hence, most lanes and bylanes in our area have been shut and we are dependent on deliveries and volunteers for daily essentials. A few residents of our neighbourhood, however, continued to violate the lockdown by having addas on the road. But strict policing has now been able to keep some of them indoors. At the professional end, I have got used to long video calls and the odd work-from-home hours. (Sen, 45, senior executive at an IT firm and a Gorakshabasi Road in Nagerbazar, spoke to Tamaghna Banerjee and Mayukh Sengupta)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/strict-policing-is-keeping-people-in/articleshow/75726611.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Ahmedabad||Congress urges speaker to declare Dholka seat vacant||Gandhinagar: One day after the Gujarat high court declared the election of education minister Bhupendrasinh Chudasama in 2017 void, the opposition Congress on Wednesday urged assembly speaker Rajendra Trivedi to declare the Dholka assembly seat vacant.Chudasama had won the Dholka seat in Ahmedabad district narrowly defeating Congress candidate Ashwin Rathod in the 2017state assembly election.After the high court’s verdict, leader of opposition (LOP) Paresh Dhanani, in a letter sent on Wednesday, urged Trivedi to immediately declare the seat vacant, especially as the high court had refused to stay its order invalidating Chudasama’s election.“In view of the HC order, Dholka assembly seat of Gujarat is required to be declared vacant forthwith and without any delay and hence I have to request you to do so immediately. It may be noted that Gujarat high court has declined to stay the order passed by it and hence it has become operational with immediate effect, i.e from May 12,” Dhanani wrote in his letter to Trivedi.The high court had declared Chudasama’s election in 2017 void on grounds of corrupt practices and manipulation as alleged in a petition filed by Congress candidate Ashwin Rathod, who challenged the BJP leader’s victory from Dholka by a margin of 327 votes in the 2017 Gujarat Assembly polls.In his election petition, Rathod alleged that Chudasama indulged in “corrupt practices and breach of many of the mandatory instructions of the Election Commission, at various stages of the election process, more particularly at the time of counting of votes”.Chudasama holds charge of the education, law and justice, legislative and parliamentary affairs, and some other portfolios in the Vijay Rupani government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/congress-urges-speaker-to-declare-dholka-seat-vacant/articleshow/75725816.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Bhopal||More recoveries, but spike in positive cases too in May||Bhopal: May month has been a mixed bag for Madhya Pradesh with a substantial spike in Covid-19 cases and recoveries also going up considerably. In the first 12 days of May, seven days reported more recoveries than fresh infections, but infection rate has increase compared to the same time last month. As per official figures, 1,378 Covid patients have recovered since May 1, while 1,361 new people have tested positive in the same time period. On seven days this month, May 2, May 4, May 5, May 7, May 8, May 9 and May 10, the state reported more recoveries than infections. Overall, 3,986 patients have tested positive for Covid-19 in MP since the first four cases were reported in Jabalpur on March 20. Of these, 1,860 or 46% have recovered. The overall recovery rate has dropped in two days, as 378 patients were tested positive on May 10 (171) and May 11 (201). These are the third and second highest number of cases reported in a single day in the state ever since the viral infection spread. The highest number of cases reported in a single day in MP is 391 — on April 16. Explaining the recovery trend, experts said, “Recovery varies from case to case and person to person ... it ranges from 7-8 days to 20-22 days.” “Initially, Covid patients are divided into three categories based on symptoms — normal, moderate or severe. Doctors, later, divide the patients into five categories —with normal conditions, with minimal conditions, with mild conditions, moderate patients and Covid-19 plus which is a serious patient needing ventilator and other support,” said Dr Ajay Goenka director of Chirayu Hospital where over 500 patients have recovered so far. “The recovery time would depend upon the patient. A patient who is positive, but is normal asymptomatic generally recovers in 7-8 days while those with minimal conditions recovers in 7-9 days. A patient with mild conditions takes 9-11 days for recovery while those who develop moderate conditions take 14-15 days to recover. The Covid-19 plus patient who develops severe conditions generally takes 20-22 days for recovery,” Goenka said, adding, “And then it also depends on person to person.” GFX Date +ve Cases Recoveries 01-May 73  42 02-May 49 100 03-May 105 174 04-May 107  58 05-May 89 144 06-May 114  99 07-May 89 132 08-May 116 118 09-May 157 131 10-May 171 196 11-May 201  71 12-May 73 113 Total 1,361 1,378||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/more-recoveries-but-spike-in-positive-cases-too-in-may/articleshow/75726622.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Pune||Cops seal Vimannagar entry points after infection spike in nearby slums||Pune: Police and civic authorities in Vimannagar temporarily sealed off almost all the entry points to the area dotted with large housing societies following a spurt in Covid-19 cases at a couple of nearby slums.The sealing of entry points started on Tuesday after cases of coronavirus infection were reported from Siddharthnagar slums and the slums adjacent to Sanjay Park. Most of the lanes and bylanes were sealed through Wednesday.At the Hyatt Regency junction, or at the junction of the Airport Road and the older Symbiosis campus, the sight was familiar. Large iron sheets were tied to bamboos to create a literal barrier to cordon off the area.Only two points have been kept open to facilitate the entry of essential services vehicles, or for locals to travel where they need to. One of them is at the junction of the Airport Road and Sakorenagar, and the other is through the new Symbiosis campus.“The cases are rising in nearby areas and so I feel it is necessary to seal off some entry points into Vimannagar to stop the coronavirus spread. We were in touch with the police and civic authorities over the matter, and they took the final call on this matter,” said Vinayak Ragho of Vimannagar Residents’ Association.Shops that were permitted to, largely remained open in the area. But people, other than the ones associated with essential services like grocery or food delivery services, were subjected to checking by police.“Till now, our security staff have not faced any problem in getting through the barrier, as they were uniformed and carrying identity cards. I don’t know whether our housekeeping staff will be allowed into the campus tomorrow (Thursday), as the barrier is right outside the old campus,” said Col (retd) CV Mohan, the administrator of Symbiosis’ (older) Vimannagar campus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cops-seal-vimannagar-entry-points-after-infection-spike-in-nearby-slums/articleshow/75726619.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Rajkot||BJP worker in Morbi tries to crush cop under his SUV||RAJKOT: Stopped for violating lockdown orders, a BJP worker allegedly tried to crush a police inspector under SUV in Halvad town of Morbi district on Tuesday night. Police said the accused, identified as Ashoksinh Jadeja, first hurled abuses at Halvad police station inspector S G Khambhala, pushed him to the ground and tried to run him over with his SUV. Khambhala had tried to stop him at a checking point. Khambhala rolled to the other side of the road and saved himself. “Jadeja was enraged after Khambhala after the police had booked his co-BJP worker Rawji Dalwadi for the alleged violation of the lockdown order. Before committing the crime, Jadeja had also allegedly hurled abuses at Khambhala,” said an official from Halvad police station. “Jadeja has been booked for attempt to murder and obstructing police from performing their duty,” added the official. Meanwhile, the police have launched a manhunt for Jadeja who has gone absconding after committing the crime.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/bjp-workers-try-to-crush-cop-under-suv/articleshow/75725777.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Pune||Women with babies stopped before trudge to North India||PUNE: Construction site workers from Uttar Pradesh and Chhattisgarh, unwilling to wait for Shramik Specials or the passenger trains, have begun their long walk to their homes. A group of 45 construction workers, including two women with two-month-old babies, from Sus and Baner, who planned to walk to Rath in UP and Bilaspur in Chhattisgarh, were intercepted and sent back to their shelter homes by the Shivajinagar police. There were two women in the group with two-month-old babies in their arms and their belongings on their heads. “It was painful to see them,” Zende added. Their labour contractor told the police they had confirmed tickets for a Shramik train a week later, but had started walking to their home towns. The workers were restive but were told to wait for a week, inspector Manisha Zende said. “Our team stopped and brought all of them to the police station for seeking details, including those of their employers. On Monday morning, we summoned the labour contractor, and the Hinjewadi and Chatushrungi police personnel where the two sites are located. After giving them food, the workers were dropped back to shelter camps,” she added. Labour contractors and the local police have been providing them food and essentials, but the workers felt they may get stuck at the sites if the lockdown is further extended, the police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/women-with-babies-stopped-before-trudge-to-north-india/articleshow/75726624.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat trade body seeks easing of curbs from May 18||AHMEDABAD: Gujarat Traders’ Federation (GTF) on Wednesday wrote to Gujarat CM, Vijay Rupani, seeking to ease curbs on trade from May 18. A slew of suggestions were made to the state government to help lift the restrictions on trade, especially for stores selling non-essential items, which have been under a shutdown for 50 days now. “There are various discrepancies which need to be resolved in the interpretation of the orders issued by the Union ministry of home affairs (MHA). The state government needs to take cognizance of the fact that traders are facing major losses in business owing to the lockdown, and therefore need to resume business to be able to bear the overheads and get their economic cycles rolling,” said Jayendra Tanna, president, GTF. GTF has also suggested that entire districts should not be demarcated as red, orange and green zones and instead, specific areas which are defined as containment zones may be kept under restrictions and the trade activity should be allowed to resume in other areas. GTF has also sought that guidelines issued by the government may be issued to police personnel in a simple language so that there are no unnecessary restriction on movement of traders or their employees arising out of confusion or misinterpretation of guidelines. The trade body has also sought that the arrangements for screening and testing of traders and issuing of health certificates be made at local trade association offices.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/trade-body-seeks-easing-of-curbs-from-may-18/articleshow/75725813.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Pune||550 leave for MP, Chhattisgarh||Pune: The Pune police on Wednesday got 35 buses from the MSRTC to transport 550 migrants to Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh from Vishrantwadi and Mahalaxmi Lawns area on Ahmednagar Road. DCP (zone IV) Pankaj Deshmukh said, “They will be dropped off at the border.” They also arranged for 67 private buses on Tuesday for migrants within Maharashtra. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/550-leave-for-mp-chhattisgarh/articleshow/75726627.cms||Asseem Shaikh
May 14, 2020||Goa||Vegetable vendors at Panaji market struggle to sell produce||PANAJI: Battling the scorching summer heat and carrying fresh greens from distant villages to sell at the Panaji market at a loss, the hawkers stationed opposite the Inox parking lot are bearing the brunt of the new normal in the bazaar. Prior to the lockdown, the hawkers would usually occupy the space adjoining the exit gate of the Panaji municipal market complex. However, after the market partially opened, the vegetable vendors who had their kiosks inside the complex were shifted on to the road along the exit gate. With the road being barricaded to avoid the influx of vehicles , the space doesn’t see as many footfalls. “I used to be able to sell anywhere between 100-150 coconuts a day prior to the lockdown. Here, selling even five coconuts is an achievement,” said Krishna Gaude who brings dozens of the nuts from Marcaim. Around 10 hawkers at this location start their business at 8am and are supposed to wait till around 1pm. But the extreme heat is unbearable due to which they are forced to pack up and leave before 12pm. The lack of proper transportation facilities is an additional burden for these small time vendors. “Since there are fewer private buses on the road, we are forced to bring the greens using our own transport,” said Shubhangi Nerkar. “I take a bus from Siridao early in the morning to come here. To return, I hitch a ride with someone, usually one of the vegetable trucks returning in the afternoon,” Kanti Mangueshkar from Siridao said. Vaishali Vasant Kare said she has appealed to CCP inspectors multiple times to relocate hawkers to the space near Panaji municipal market complex but her request has fallen on deaf ears. “We are not in the line of sight of shoppers. They purchase their requirements from the vendors sitting outside the Panaji municipal market complex,” she said. The venture is therefore proving to be loss-making for them. However, the miseries of the lockdown have left them with no choice but to continue coming to the Panaji market and selling whatever little they can.  This is a temporary arrangement during the lockdown, mayor Uday Madkaikar said, adding, “If the government gives approval to restart the municipal market in a full-fledged manner after May 17, we will bring them back to their original space.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/veg-vendors-at-panaji-mkt-struggle-to-sell-produce/articleshow/75727896.cms||Nida Sayed
May 14, 2020||Pune||SPO helps 4 from Raj with ration||Pune: Four construction workers gave away their grain before leaving for the station, but the train to Rajasthan was cancelled, and they returned to their construction site.“We had nothing to eat on Monday night. We contacted the SPO of our area, Rajendra Parihar, who came with atta, rice, dal, oil, and vegetables,” Radhe Mohan Sharma, who fits tiles, told TOI. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/spo-helps-4-from-raj-with-ration/articleshow/75726629.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Kozhikode||Increase in no. of people in quarantine a cause for worry||Kannur: The next phase of handling Covid-19 is not likely to be an easy task in the district with the return of expatriates and the corresponding increase in the number of people quarantined, coupled with the relaxation of lockdown restrictions. Authorities have been claiming that the system for home and institutional quarantine are very stringent. Several hotels and lodges in the towns have been converted into quarantine centres, but it is a cause of concern as once the shops and establishments nearby are opened, it might lead to an increase in virus infections. Though there has been no major increase in the number of positive cases, the number of people under observation has gone up considerably and quite a few of them are in isolation wards. In Kannur, one more case has been reported and also a couple of people who came in the flight from Dubai has exhibited symptoms of the disease following which they have been admitted in the Covid hospital at Anjarakkandy. At the same time, the authorities have claimed that a proper system is in place in the third stage of containment of the disease. The district planning committee in Kannur, which met on Wednesday, said those advised home quarantine should strictly stay in their rooms and should not venture out. Local body chiefs, police and the PHCs should ensure that the people are adhering to quarantine protocols, said district panchayat president K V Sumesh. Kasaragod has also been facing the same issue, since many people are going out after the relaxation in lockdown. Moreover, people from other states are sneaking in through interior roads evading officials. At the same time, the district administration has put in place a clear-cut strategy to handle the situation, said district collector D Sajith Babu. People coming from other states should have passes and priority would be given to pregnant women, kids, ailing people, senior citizens and women, he said. Those who come without passes would be shifted to government quarantine facilities and legal action would be initiated against them. Those who enter the district from other states should come via the Manjeshwar border only, said the collector. But how effective would be home quarantine is what worries the officials though they have a surveillance system in place. If people under quarantine step out, it might lead to serious complications. But at the same time, if an entire locality is cordoned off it would also complicate the scenario further, which is worrying the authorities now.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/increase-in-no-of-people-in-quarantine-a-cause-for-worry/articleshow/75724487.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Mangaluru||Passengers signed undertaking before boarding flight: DC||MANGALURU: The Dakshina Kannada district administration absolved itself from the allegations levelled against it, stating that every passenger had to give an undertaking before boarding the flight, that they would undergo mandatory institutional quarantine for a minimum of 14 days upon arrival in India, at their own cost, and that they were making this journey at their own risk. Confusion prevailed at the Mangaluru International Airport (MIA) after a few passengers on landing on Tuesday evening, were allegedly not keen to adhere to the 14-day government prescribed paid quarantine. Deputy commissioner Sindhu B Rupesh told reporters on Wednesday, “This being an evacuation flight, passengers who were pregnant were given priority. This was a paid flight, as per the government guidelines, every passenger had to give an undertaking before boarding the flight that they would undergo mandatory institutional quarantine for a minimum of 14 days upon arrival in India, at their own cost, and that they were making this journey at their own risk,” she said. On the alleged delay in screening at the airport, she said, “Before lockdown too, screening was being undertaken at the airport and that took about four hours. This was not a regular flight. As soon as the flight landed, people were allowed to disembark in batches of 20, and the rest had to keep waiting in the flight. After the preliminary screening procedure in the form of a thermal scan, if the repatriate was found to be unwell, they are taken directly to the hospital. If asymptomatic, they are divided on the basis of their local destination. Immigration and customs clearance also takes time, as social distancing has to be maintained. By the time they complete this, they are given options to select their place for being quarantined. Only after that were they taken to their destination. The only difference between the previous system and now is that earlier, those under ‘C’ category were sent to home quarantine, but now everyone has to undergo institutional quarantine,” she said. Meanwhile, the state government has issued fresh guidelines with certain relaxations. Under the new guidelines, if the first swab results are negative for pregnant women, children below 10, senior citizens above 80 and terminally ill- patients, they will be stamped and sent for home quarantine. With this, the waiting time for institutional quarantine for international passengers will be reduced. “About three more flights are expected to land next week. The schedule is yet to be finalised for the same,” the DC said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/passengers-signed-undertaking-before-boarding-flight-dc/articleshow/75724470.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Ahmedabad||Cops pulled up over Shahpur stone pelting case||AHMEDABAD: The metropolitan court on Wednesday pulled up city police for their 4-day delay without intimation in producing the accused of the Shahpur stone pelting case before the court, on pretext of waiting for their Covid-19 reports. Besides, the court also questioned the police as to how they invoked charge of attempt to murder against 25 persons for pelting stones on a police team. The judge, before whom the accused were produced, told the police that a couple of policemen have been hurt in this incident. There are more grave injuries found in other cases in which people are beaten up badly, but police apply only Section 323 and 324 of the IPC. “What was so special in this case that the police applied Section 307 of the IPC?” the judicial officer asked, sources said. The lawyers representing the accused said that the judge told cops that he was pained looking at this, though attacking the police force is really wrong. But cops must not commit excesses. With these remarks, the court recorded complaints made by five of the accused persons accusing cops of beating and ill-treating them. The court questioned the police for delayed production of accused persons. They had been arrested on Friday, but instead of producing the accused before the court on Saturday, they were brought five days after the incident. The police told the court they had been kept under detention and their Covid-19 test was awaited. Three persons had tested positive and they were sent to the Civil Hospital for treatment. The police did not book one person, Ahmedbhai Starwala, who was aged and infirm. The court, however, was not satisfied with the explanation by the cops and told them that it was the duty of the police to intimate the court about the delay. But the police cannot keep an accused in their custody for more than 24 hours. After the proceeding, the court sent all 25 accused persons to judicial custody because police did not seek their custodial interrogation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/cops-pulled-up-over-stone-pelting-case/articleshow/75725811.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Special hygiene protocol in Barmer police stations||JAISALMER: A new system has been adopted at police stations in Barmer district to fight Covid-19. Considering the increasing number of corona positive cases due to migrants returning to Barmer and Jaisalmer districts and the possibility of the infection spreading further, the police stations have put in place many preventive measures. Barmer SP Anand Sharma said to keep police personnel safe from possible infection from complainants coming to police station, anyone coming there is first asked to sanitise their hands. Tents have been put up outside the police stations to protect the complainants from heat, while maintaining social distancing. Increasing number of migrants are coming to Siwana, Samdadi and other areas in Barmer and many of them have tested positive for Covid-19. At present, the system has been implemented in three police station areas that are under containment and high risk zones. In the remaining 22 police stations, many preventive steps will be taken in coming 3-4 days. Around 400 migrants from Dharavi area in Mumbai have come to Siwana area in Barmer and so far, three of them have tested positive. Barmer SP said that two days ago, three persons tested positive under Siwana police station area and that he had gone there to enforce curfew, which is when he saw a huge crowd at the police station. He thought if any infected person were to come to police station, then there is a possibility of many police personnel getting infected, and thus, he immediately directed all the SHOs to take the preventive measures. He said measures have been adopted in three police stations including Siwana, Samdadi and Sadar and changes are being made in the remaining 22 police stations. Arrangements for hand wash and use of sanitisers have been made at police stations. Glass counters have been put up so that the police personnel can talk to the people without coming in close contact. He said police personnel at all police stations are being provided masks, sanitisers etc. Directions have been given to lodge complaints at this counter and efforts are being made to maintain social distance. Tents have also been put up, where people will be provided water.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/special-hygiene-protocol-in-barmer-police-stations/articleshow/75726637.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Pune||Two drones to monitor rail lines in Pune, stations||PUNE: Two drones will soon be used to monitor illegal movement of poeple in Pune railway station and the areas along the tracks, a source from the city’s rail division said.  “We will need strict monitoring of different areas of the rail division in the coming days,” a railway source told TOI. “Teams can be sent immediately when people are spotted on rail tracks. Some drones have public announcement systems, which will come in handy to tell the people to keep off the tracks. Even though many spots have been sealed, people still manage to enter the tracks section illegally,” the source told TOI. The source said the drones would be helpful in all conditions, such as monitoring landslides along the ghat section during monsoon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/two-drones-to-monitor-rail-lines-stations/articleshow/75726636.cms||Joy Sengupta
May 14, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: Coronavirus robs parents of work, children of their schooling||PUNE: Shankar Patale, 9, and his sister Vedika, 8, children of landless workers from Mopked village in Nanded district of drought-prone Marathwada region, are happy living in Sinhagad Road area. They have friends and they love the school run by Pune Zilla Parishad in Nanded village on Sinhagad Road. But the coronavirus may rob them of their small pleasures. They have to drop out of school as their parents get ready to return to their village. “I like the school here. I want to study here. I do not want to go back to the village,” said Vedika. Her parents try pacifying her with the promise that they will enrol her in the village school. Neither Vedika nor Shankar are convinced. “We need to move out at the earliest as my mother-in-law is ill and has nobody to attend to her,” their mother Shobha said. Their father Balaji was not hopeful of coming back. “We have been working at construction sites here for five years. Each of us got Rs 800-900 per day. We could send some money and run our family smoothly. The biggest cost head was Rs 2,000 per month as room rent,” he added. But construction work is at a standstill. “We have used up our savings. This city was kind to us for years, but life has become a living hell since March. We would be living in near poverty in our village but at least the risk of disease is not as grave there. We will be among our relatives and friends,” he said. But Shobha breaks down just thinking about her children’s future. “ The situation is too adverse for us. The school is closed and we have not collected their leaving certificates. I hope God will be merciful, and we are able to start our life afresh,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/virus-robs-parents-of-work-children-of-their-schooling/articleshow/75726631.cms||Shyam Sonar
May 14, 2020||Mangaluru||Covid-19: A fresh case, a fatality and a discharge in Dakshina Kannada||MANGALURU: The Covid-19 arc did a complete circle in Dakshina Kannada on Wednesday, with a fresh case being reported, a patient being discharged after effecting a successful recovery and one person succumbing to the infection. The number of active cases in the coastal district now stands at 16. As many as six patients who were not residents of Dakshina Kannada, but were treated here, have all recovered and have been discharged. A 38-year-old woman, a primary contact of an infected patient traced to the First Neuro Hospital in Padil, was confirmed with Covid-19 by Dakshina Kannada deputy commissioner Sindhu B Rupesh. The woman in question is a resident of Pilar in Someshwar village in Mangaluru taluk. Following the development, the DC designated Pilar, with a population of 430 a ‘containment zone’. It was around 3pm on Wednesday that the death of a 58-year-old woman from Bolar was confirmed. The woman, who had been suffering from TB meningitis had undergone treatment at the Padil hospital between April 10 and April 17. DC Sindhu said that her condition had remained critical, and she had kept in the ICU at the Wenlock Hospital since her admission. However, the discharge of a Bantwal resident having been discharged helped dispel some of the gloom that the other tidings had cast on the day in Dakshina Kannada.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/a-fresh-case-a-fatality-and-a-discharge-in-dk/articleshow/75724499.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Ahmedabad||Alert issued about drugs concealed in Covid cargoes||Ahmedabad: The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has alerted all central agencies, states and union territories about an intelligence input warning of drug trafficking with a link to Covid-19.CBI officials said that based on inputs received from Interpol, they issued an alert about international drug trafficking activities taking advantage of this global pandemic and warned that drug shipments may be concealed in cargo such as Covid-19 protective equipment.A Gujarat ATS official said that after getting the input they have been on high alert as the state has the country’s longest coastline, 1,600km. “There have been at least four instances where Gujarat ATS has seized heroin along the Gujarat coast,” said a senior official of ATS.Gujarat police officials said that Kutch police has mainly asked to stay on high alert as the coast there is very vulnerable and several drug consignments have been landed on the Kutch coast.“We sounded an alert for all marine police stations to increase patrolling near the coast and the Coast Guard are looking out for suspicious vessels at sea. Fishing will cease when the monsoon sets in on June 15 and patrolling will then become much easier,” said a top Gujarat Police official.Top officials of Gujarat police said Interpol had got inputs about drug shipments concealed in cargo relating to Covid-19, such as protective equipment, could be smuggled in. “We have even alerted all ports and custom officials to check every consignment which coming in in the name of Covid-19 related equipment,” a top Gujarat official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/alert-issued-about-drugs-concealed-in-covid-cargoes/articleshow/75725808.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: Loco pilot says practising caution must to avert tragedy on tracks||PUNE: Less than a week ago, loco pilot Murlidhar Tiwari saved the lives of 20 migrant workers walking on the railway tracks but the real life hero has been careful not to let all the praise get to his head. Instead, he said he wants to stay alert and continue doing his daily duty. Tiwari managed to stop the goods train he was operating barely 100 meters away from a large group of migrant workers, who were walking on the railway tracks between Urali Kanchan and Loni stations on May 8. Speaking with TOI, the 38-year-old said loco pilots like him are on high alert these days. “After May 8, I have made trips from Daund to a station near Shirdi. On Wednesday, I was on the way to Pune from Shrigonda. I cannot let the May 8 incident play on my mind at all times,” said Tiwari, who hails from Jhansi. Tiwari and assistant loco pilot Anand Kumar won praise from the railways for their presence of mind. Barely 14 hours earlier, another goods train had run over 16 migrant workers sleeping on the tracks in Aurangabad district. “It is scary considering that people are walking down the railway tracks to reach home. It has made the job even more challenging. We are keeping a close watch on and around the tracks. On May 8, I just think that I was doing my job and nothing else,” Tiwari said. Meanwhile, the authorities have asked all loco pilots to remain alert and ensure that the speed of the train is under control. Instructions have been given to the trackmen, staff at the signals and station superintendents to coordinate activities on rail tracks. “One needs to keep a very sharp eye nowadays. I am grateful to my superiors, who recognized our effort and gave us certificates. The goods trains are in full operation transporting different commodities from one end of the country to another,” said Tiwari, who joined the railways in 2012.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/loco-pilot-says-practising-caution-must-to-avert-tragedy-on-tracks/articleshow/75726640.cms||Joy Sengupta
May 14, 2020||Rajkot||Four booked for kidnapping trader in Morbi||Rajkot: Four persons were booked for allegedly kidnapping a trader in Lajai village of Tankara taluka in Morbi district on Tuesday. However, the accused released the victim on Tuesday evening after they learned that the victim’s family had approached the police. The police said the accused, identified as Devendra Merja, Ashok Merja, Shailesh Manji Merja and Hitesh Merja allegedly kidnapped Shailesh Merja who also shares his name with one of the accused, in a car. The incident occurred when Shailesh was going to Morbi in his car along with his wife Neeta Merja. “The accused waylaid Shailesh’s car at Lajai village and kidnapped him in their car. Then Ashok called up Shailesh’s father Gangaram Merja and demanded Rs 1.10 crore from him, which Shailesh and his relatives owed him in a land dealing,” said an official from Tankara police station. However, after they came to know that Shailesh’s family member were in the process of lodging a police complaint against them, the accused released Shailesh. Later, Shailesh lodged the complaint against the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/four-booked-for-kidnapping-trader-in-morbi/articleshow/75725803.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Chennai||Traders staying put led to cluster: Tamil Nadu CM||CHENNAI: Refuting charges of mismanagement that resulted in the huge Koyambedu cluster, chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami on Wednesday alleged that traders did not heed to his government’s advice to move to a temporary market fearing loss of business. Since March, his government had been persuading them to move to an alternate site, the CM said. The workers and others, who have moved to their native districts from Chennai, will be tested for Covid-19 in three or four days. During a video conference with district collectors from the Secretariat, the chief minister detailed the series of talks held at various levels with the traders, warning them of infection due to lack of adherence to social distancing norms. “The government took serious efforts. But this problem (Koyambedu cluster) was caused by their hesitation to shift their business elsewhere fearing it would suffer, and they would suffer losses,” the CM said. Since several workers went to their native places from Koyambedu, the respective districts have also seen a spike. This is the reason for spike in Chennai too, he said. Deputy chief minister O Panneerselvam had assured adequate facilities in the new market, but the traders ignored his pleas to shift. On the guest workers waiting to return home, the CM said the Tamil Nadu government was bearing the cost of their travel to their states. But, there was a delay due to lack of consent from the states, and due to less number of trains, he said. “The government will make arrangements to send the guest workers to their native states. I request them to remain patient until then,” the CM said. Similarly, the state has also taken efforts to bring Tamils from Maharashtra and other states. Palaniswami told the district administrators to intensify the campaign to contain the virus. “You have to wear masks while stepping out, maintain social distancing norms, avoid going out unnecessarily, wash hands and feet with soap when you return home. You can prevent the virus spread by doing this. This is what medical experts say,” he said. He issued a slew of directions such as spraying disinfectants in public places, strong surveillance of containment areas and monitoring of drivers and cleaners of freight vehicles from other states. Earlier, while inaugurating the conference, the chief minister sought the support of people to enforce lockdown measures. “Public should extend full cooperation. The lockdown will gradually be eased based on that. Normalcy will be restored then,” the CM said. The administrators have been told to make vehicular arrangements for students to appear for Class X board examinations, ensure uninterrupted drinking water supply in the summer, execution of kudimaramath — the restoration of water bodies ahead of the monsoons — and ensure industries are opened with 50% strength in the non-containment areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/traders-staying-put-led-to-cluster-eps/articleshow/75726644.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat cop kills self after tiff with wife||AHMEDABAD: A constable with Dakor police of Kheda district on Tuesday evening allegedly committed suicide by hanging himself at his home in police lines after a domestic quarrel, said officials. The deceased was identified as Divyant Parmar, 39. Parmar had been in the police since 2009. Parmar and his wife had a quarrel on Tuesday evening after they both reached the police station. After a while, Parmar threatened his wife and cops saying he would commit suicide. As he rushed home, his wife and the cops followed him. But he managed to lock himself inside the house and kill himself.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/cop-kills-self-after-tiff-with-wife/articleshow/75725806.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Bundi Covid-19 free till date, thanks to strict enforcement of protocol||KOTA: Bundi district administration’s strict enforcement of guidelines by the central and state governments has helped the district remain in green zone with not a single Covid-19 patient detected so far. Bundi city is not only a tourist hub, but also shares its borders with Kota, Bhilwara, Chittorgarh, Sawai Madhopur and Tonk districts, which are now red zones. The sampling, however, has been very little in proportion to the district’s population of nearly 12 lakhs. The officials, though, termed the sampling to be as per the guidelines. Around 600 samples in the district were collected and none tested positive for Covid-19. Over 25,000 people were home quarantined and nearly 3,500 are still under quarantine. District collector Antar Singh Nehra said the main focus was on strict enforcement of the guidelines by the central and state governments, identifying and treating ILI patients, tracing secondary contacts, home quarantine to those coming from outside and sealing of district boarders. “Besides tracing the secondary contacts, intensive sampling as per the guidelines, was carried out to check community spread in areas like ward number 44 of Bundi city, in Keshoraipatan town and Jajawar village on Tonk border,” Nehra said. “Since sampling is limited, we have not been provided with adequate number of Viral Transport Medium (VTM) kits so unnecessary sampling was not carried out,” Nehra said. Plying up and down for the government staff from other district was strictly prohibited. Since the onset of Covid-19, the main focus was on door-to-door survey, which was carried out in three phrases by 268 teams comprising anganwadi workers and medical staff, chief medical and health officer (CMHO), Bundi Dr Gokul Meena said. On the report of detection of ILI patients, sampling was carried out in the particular area and the medical officer of the concerned CHC immediately administered required medical treatment to the ILI patients, Meena added. The high risk groups that included people over 65 years and children below 5 years, pregnant women, cancer and diabetic patients were identified in the first phase of the survey from March 17 to March 28 and they were put under watch, he added. Besides, emphasis was laid on creating awareness on hand wash with SUMAN K (Seedha Ulta Mutthi Angutha Nakhun Kalai) formula, he added. The staff of guest houses in the old city were thoroughly screened and samples were collected when required. However, some health experts termed the lack of testing a reason behind non-detection of Covid-19 cases in Bundi. “I take it just as a coincidence and stroke of luck that our district is still left out of the list of red and orange zone districts, otherwise no intensive sampling and screening in the residential areas of the district has been carried out,” a medical officer in the district hospital said on condition of anonymity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bundi-covid-free-till-date-thanks-to-strict-enforcement-of-protocol/articleshow/75726641.cms||Rajiv Saxena
May 14, 2020||Hubballi||Travel history of nine Covid-19 patients in Dharwad revealed||DHARWAD: The district administration on Wednesday revealed the travel history of nine people who came to Dharwad from Ahmedabad and tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday. P-879, P-880, P-881, P-882, P-883, P-884, P-885, P-886 and P-887 reached Dharwad on May 8 along with two others. Of them, six are from Hubballi, two from Kundgol, one from Kalghatagi in Dharwad district. Two others are from Nargund taluk in Gadag district. They left Sarkaz Hali Masjid in Ahmedabad at 7am on May 5 by vehicle with registration number GJ 01, BU 9986 and reached Nippani in Karnataka via Mumbai at 7pm on May 5. They spent three days at the checkpost near Nippani waiting for permission from the Karnataka government. On May 8, they left Nippani in a cab (Tata 407) with registration number KA 09-C 2579 and reached the UAS campus in Dharwad at 8.30pm. At UAS, their throat swab and blood samples were collected and sent for test. All the 11 people were quarantined at the Government Boys Hostel in Doddanayakanakoppa, Dharwad. After turning positive, nine of them were admitted to KIMS in Hubballi. Deputy commissioner Deepa Cholan has urged those may have come in contact with these people to inform the district administration by calling the corona helpline 1077 and themselves medically checked at the nearby hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/travel-history-of-nine-covid-19-patients-in-dharwad-revealed/articleshow/75723101.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Jodhpur||Rajasthan: Lockdown spells doom for horse and bullock cart owners in Jodhpur||JODHPUR: Lockdown has raised a question mark on the livelihoods of bullock cart and horse tonga owners as they are neither in a position to feed their cattle or their families. They had somehow managed to feed their animals for some time, but the extended lockdown and ceasing of all kinds of economic activities proved disastrous. “Now, the big question before us is whether we arrange food for our family or our animals. We could not desert them either as they are not just part of our family but bread winners for us as well,” said Chand Mohammad, who owns a bullock cart and earns by transporting petty goods on it in the industrial areas of Sangaria. There are about 30-40 ox carters here. “We have somehow managed to feed our oxen with vegetables and watermelons, but those are not enough as they need fodder, which we cannot afford,” said Mohammad, adding that it was not available either. They have been trying to meet the administrative officers for the past three days but in vain. “We have been trying to meet the administrative officer but are not being let in. We wish that fodder is provided to us until the lockdown is lifted and trade activities begin,” said Ghanshyam, another bullock cart owner. The woes of tonga owners in the city are no different, who earn their living by ferrying tourists around the city. About two dozen tonga owners have been sitting idle in absence of tourists and are unable to feed their animals. A tonga owner Mohsin Khan, said that it is not just the lockdown period but they will be affected for longer, as tourism industry suffers across the globe in the wake of the pandemic. “Even now, we are not in a position to feed our animals, but there is no hope for future either,” a dejected Mohsin said, who has been looking for some alternate work. The cancellation of weddings during lockdown has led to a similar predicament for those, who rear and provide mares for grooms in baraats (wedding processions). Even they have been finding it difficult to feed their cattle.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/lockdown-spells-doom-for-horse-bullock-cart-owners-in-sun-city/articleshow/75726647.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Rajkot||ILT uses Google G Suite to connect with students||Rajkot: The Institute of Language Teaching (ILT), an English medium BEd college, has claimed to become the first college in Gujarat which has used Google G Suite to connect with its students. “During the lockdown period when our college has remained closed and the students are unable to attend the classes, it is through Google G Suite that we are able to connect them. The Google has not charged us anything for this service and provided it free of cost,” said Nidat Barot, the college principal in a release issued on Wednesday. The ILT is run by Saurashtra High School Trust.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/ilt-uses-google-g-suite-to-connect-with-students/articleshow/75725831.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Stimulus can help MSMEs, but it’s time to walk the talk||CHENNAI: For more than 50 days, the small businesses or micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) in Tamil Nadu were in the dark on the way forward as the Covid-19 lockdown brought their operations to a complete halt. The stimulus package announced, including collateral-free loans, dismantling global tender requirements for purchases by state-owned units up to Rs 200 crore, redefinition of MSMEs which will ensure units remain in that category and get the benefits even after they grow bigger, liquidity measures for non-banking financiers who lend more to these businesses, are seen as a big push. Some of these units are doubtful if the funds will percolate down the banking system as earlier measures did not result in any tangible benefits since banks were shy of lending. But with credit guarantee becoming part of some loans, this time around, funding tap should open. “This is the most ground-level thrust given to MSMEs and hence, a big day. This injection should stimulate growth for the much struggling sector. Since Tamil Nadu is the MSME engine of India, the sector’s survival and growth is paramount for not only the growth of Tamil Nadu, but also India,” R Ganapathy, president, of industry body South India Chamber of Commerce and Industries (SICCI), told TOI. “The Rs 30,000 crore special liquidity scheme for NBFCs among others, will go a long way to help MSMEs leverage their trust-based relationship for more credit,” he said. M Balachandran, VP, Ambattur Industrial Estate Manufacturers’ Association (AIEMA), agrees. “Just about 10% of MSMEs are part of the formal banking system and avail loans. Most others depend on NBFCs and this liquidity scheme will help several small and micro units,” Balachandran said. The reclassification will throw the MSME lot on to tougher competition, but with scope for growing bigger through economies of scale. “In the case of certain orders from Defence and PSUs, there were not enough MSME units to compete. By doing away with global tenders up to Rs 200 crore will surely pave way for MSMEs to come on the scene,” A N Sujeesh, president, AIEMA said. Any help at this juncture for the struggling MSMEs will surely be beneficial, says M Rafeeque Ahmed, former chairman, Council for Leather Exports (CLE). “But the Rs 3 lakh crore credit puts the onus on the bankers. If the bankers cooperate, then it will benefit the MSME segment. It is one thing to make an announcement but entirely another thing to ensure it is implemented in letter and spirit,” says Ahmed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/stimulus-can-help-msmes-but-its-time-to-walk-the-talk/articleshow/75726646.cms||D Govardan
May 14, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||KSRTC to begin special services for govt staff||Thiruvananthapuram: Kerala State Road Transport Corporation will operate special bus services in all districts to cater only to government employees. The corporation has been operating services for Secretariat and health department employees during the lockdown and the same model will be replicated. An order issued by K R Jyothilal, principal secretary, transport, directed KSRTC to operate bus services for employees at civil station, collectorate and High Court. As per government order, 50% of group A and B government staff and 33% of group C and D government staff have to report to duty. But, many are unable to report for duty due to unavailability of public transport. The government has given directions to KSRTC to operate services as contract carriages with fare upto twice the stage carriage fare from the boarding point to destination. The government has directed KSRTC to finalize the route map in consultation with government offices. KSRTC officials at Thiruvananthapuram are finalizing the route map, and services to Thiruvananthapuram civil station are proposed to start from Thursday. A bus service from Kottarakara to Kollam district collectorate will be operated from Monday to Friday. The service will start from Friday. The services to Kasaragod collectorate will begin from Thursday, said C V Rajendran, head of north zone. Transport minister hints at bus fare hike Transport minister A K Saseendran said state government employees will have to shell out more for travelling in KSRTC buses during lockdown period. The minister said it has also been decided to increase bus fare when public transport resumes in the state. The demand of the private bus owners is justifiable and the government will have to consider this. “However this increase will only be for a limited period,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/ksrtc-to-begin-special-services-for-govt-staff/articleshow/75724553.cms||Anasooya.S
May 14, 2020||Pune||Rs 8 crore from CM’s Fund for Pune to transport migrants by train||The state has allocated Rs 8 crore from the CM’s Fund for rail fare for transportation of migrant workers from Pune district to other states via Shramik trains, Pune collector Naval Kishore Ram said. Workers in other states who want to return to Pune can contact the administration, he added. Stone crushing units will get permission to start so that work outside containment zones can begin. "Many migrants have stayed back for construction. We will start the stone crushing units,'' he said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/rs-8-crore-from-cms-fund-for-pune-to-transport-migrants-by-train/articleshow/75726651.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: No buses yet for special train passengers||NEW DELHI: On Thursday, buses of Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) will pick up migrant workers from different parts of Delhi and ferry them to New Delhi Railway Station. Recently, when some special flights arrived at Indira Gandhi International Airport from different countries, sources said that DTC buses were deployed to transport the stranded passengers to different parts of the city. However, when special AC trains arrive from different cities to New Delhi Railway Station, the rail passengers are on their own after exiting the station premises as no DTC buses have been arranged for them. It was on Monday that Indian Railways announced its plans to restart passenger trains in a phased manner from the next day. On Tuesday, when special trains first started operating from New Delhi Railway Station, passengers had to hitchhike, pay through their nose for a cab ride or reach the station on foot. On Wednesday, when the trains started arriving, the rail passengers, including many NCR residents, were left in the lurch. “Buses are being deployed in arrangement with administration of the 11 districts of Delhi and these are only meant to drop migrant workers to railway stations. There can be no regular bus services till official orders are issued,” an official said. “There are no arrangements yet for passengers of AC trains. For their needs, taxis are better suited than buses, but no decision has been taken on this yet,” he added. When contacted, state transport minister Kailash Gahlot said that Delhi government can’t run public transport as per guidelines of the central government. The DTC spokesman didn’t respond to queries sent by TOI. Recently, Delhi government had sent 40 private chartered buses to bring back hundreds of Delhi students stranded in Kota. More than 60 DTC buses were then deployed to drop them at their homes from the Kashmere Gate inter-state bus terminal. The government has also sent about 2,400 migrants from Madhya Pradesh and Bihar to their hometowns through special trains and buses are being deployed to drop them at railway stations. “Those arriving by AC trains have to depend on family members or friends to come to the railway station and pick them up. But not everyone will have relatives with a vehicle. Also, what is the guarantee that they will be available at the time of the train’s arrival?” asked a resident. 100 buses to be operated from today, claim policeTo help those coming to Delhi by trains, Delhi Police’s railways unit claims that “DTC will operate buses from New Delhi Railway Station to the eleven district headquarters.” The DTC spokesperson was unavailable for a comment on this. “We don’t want any inconvenience for the passengers and with the efforts made in close coordination with railway authorities, the whole operation has been very successful and it will continue in the same way in the coming days. Around 100 buses will be operational from Thursday, but as per the requirement and train arrivals, further arrangements will be made,” said Harendra K Singh, deputy commissioner of police, railways. As per the railway unit’s release, to segregate the movement of passengers, the buses will be available from the Ajmeri Gate side. Those using private conveyance can take Minto Road, while the passengers taking DTC buses can board from the parking area in front of Ajmeri Gate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/no-buses-yet-for-spl-train-passengers/articleshow/75727068.cms||Sidharatha Roy
May 14, 2020||Chennai||Starved of funds, private schools pay staff only half the salary in Tamil Nadu||CHENNAI: A majority of private schools state were able to pay only 50% of salary to teachers while others did not pay faculty for March and April due to cash crunch. Nearly two lakh teachers and non-teaching staff work in more than 12,000 private schools in Tamil Nadu. A majority of the schools collect term wise or monthly fees from parents. But the Covid-19 crisis and subsequent closure of educational institutions affected cash flow and many schools claim they do not have money to pay their staff. Schools that collect fees for an entire year also have paid only half the salary for March and April months, a staff member from a prominent school in the city said. Neelan Arasu, co-ordinator of Federation of Associations of Private Schools in Tamil Nadu, said schools were able to pay only a part of the salary for April to the teachers due to financial crisis. “Covid-19 has completely rattled the functioning of schools,” said N Vijayan, patron of Kancheepuram District Self-Financing Private Schools Association. “Schools are working even harder to prepare quality content and keep students academically active and refreshed through online classes. But the school managements are facing a severe financial crisis, to even pay salary to the teaching and non-teaching staff,” he said. He further said many schools could not afford the salaries as they don’t have any cash reserves. The government can help the schools withdraw a month’s salary from the employers contribution with EPF and ESI as interest-free loan besides allowing them collect fees from parents who receive monthly salaries, he added. “A majority of schools have paid 50% of salary to their staff for March and April. We will pay the remaining salary after collecting fees at the beginning of the next academic year,” said K R Nandakumar, state secretary of Tamil Nadu Nursery, Primary and Matriculation Higher Secondary Schools Association. Schools could not collect the third term fees due to Covid-19 lockdown, but the expenses for schools remain the same as they need to pay taxes, insurance, EB bill and PF contributions, get fitness certificate for school vehicles, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/starved-of-funds-pvt-schools-pay-staff-only-half-the-salary/articleshow/75726659.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Hubballi||27 workers from Mumbai flee through fields near Vijayapura to evade quarantine||BELAGAVI: In order to evade quarantine, nearly 27 migrant labourers from Mumbai, including four pregnant women, escaped through fields in a border village near Vijayapura before health workers could reach there to carry out a mandatory health check-up. The daily wagers, who belong to Muddebihal village in Vijayapura district, had left Mumbai in a tempo and reached Telasanga village in Athani taluk in Belagavi district on Monday morning. Telasanga village is close to Maharashtra border. The tempo had reached the village bypassing border check-posts, creating panic among the local villagers. Dariyappa Maali, a resident of Telasanga, said there were four pregnant women among them and the villagers made immediate arrangements to provide them food. The local villagers gave them food on Monday night and again breakfast, lunch and dinner on Tuesday. “On Tuesday, we alerted the local authorities about their arrival,” said Maali. “We had asked the workers to stay on the ground till additional tahsildar and taluk health workers visit the spot and do a medical check-up,” said Maali. However, on Tuesday night, when the local people left the place, the workers escaped through the agricultural fields. Vijayapura is just 5 km away from Telasanga, said Maali. Several others like them are escaping police surveillance and this has caused panic in border villages, he added. Talking to TOI, deputy commissioner, Belagavi, S B Bommanahalli said he was not aware of the incident but would ask the police to launch a search. Those arriving at border areas of the state have to undergo institutional quarantine and hence it is important that all those entering the border should be checked. Athani tahsildar Dundappa Komar said these workers entered through Belagavi without passes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/27-workers-from-mumbai-flee-through-fields-near-vijayapura-to-evade-quarantine/articleshow/75724525.cms||Basavaraj F Kattimani
May 14, 2020||Jaipur||Workers test +ve, 3 dists get strict on quarantine||Jaisalmer: Following a spike in Covid-19 positive cases among migrant residents in Barmer, Jalore and Jaisalmer districts and with more labourers expected reach the three districts in the coming days, the administration is ensuring that all migrants are kept under strict home quarantine. Officials said case will be lodged against any person who breaks the home quarantine. In Barmer district, cases have been lodged against four persons for breaking home quarantine while 40 migrants have been lodged in institutional isolation. Similarly, in Jaisalmer there is information of 49 people breaking home quarantine.Barmer SP Anand Sharma said around 33,000 migrants have returned and they have been asked to stay in home quarantine for 14 days. Police are ensuring that people follow the order and responsible people in various colonies have been given the responsibility to keep watch on such people.Sharma said monitoring was giving good results and action was being taken against the people breaking the quarantine. He also added that seva Samitis have been formed at the village level to strictly implement home quarantine.Jaisalmer collector Namit Mehta said police and administration had been issued directions for getting home quarantine strictly followed. People were also being tracked through their mobile phones to find out if they breached the order. Migrants have also been told that if they violate home quarantine, they will be kept at isolation centres run by the district administration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/workers-test-ve-3-dists-get-strict-on-quarantine/articleshow/75726654.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Kolkata||Bengal government recommends rheumatoid arthritis drug to fight Covid-19||KOLKATA: Bengal government’s health treatment protocol has recommended to re-purpose Tocilizumab, a drug traditionally used in the treatment of patients suffering from rheumatoid arthritis, to treat severe Covid cases. The protocol spells out the specific conditions, when this medicine can be administered as well as the dosage. According to reports, clinical trials for the administration of this drug on Covid patients have begun in several cities in India. This took place after the Task Force for Repurposing of Drug (TFORD) for Covid-19, constituted by the Centre, marked it to be the most ready and potential in the fight against the disease, doctors said. According to pharmacologists, Tocilizumab is a drug largely used in the treatment of patients suffering from rheumatoid arthritis. A proven drug for rheumatoid arthritis, researchers said it was still in Phase-II clinical trial for therapeutic use on Covid patients, that has shown benefits. “So far, the drug seems effective in reducing mortality in severe cases of Covid infection,” said C M Hossain from the department of pharmaceutical technology at Maulana Abul Kalam Azad University of Technology (MAKAUT). When a person is infected by Covid-19 virus, it affects the lung cells of patients and multiplies rapidly, breaking through these cells; it starts infecting other cells as well. “In severe cases of Covid-19, the virus is known to release certain chemicals, known as cytokine, mainly IL6, and causes cytokine release syndrome. This leads to massive damage of the viral cell as well as the host cell. Tocilizumab can block this IL6 release,” said Subhrojyoti Bhowmick, clinical director at Peerless Hospital. Doctors feel it’s important to hold randomized clinic trial before being used for treating Covid patients. This being an immunosuppressive drug, it should be administered only after thoroughly weighing the risks and benefits of its use and only in cases that showed strong indications that it was required, said a doctor. “The side effects could be severe flaring up of latent TB, of opportunist bacterial and fungal infections, of UTI to lesser impact, like, headache, throat irritation and rashes,” Bhowmick said. “It is an immune-altering drug. Its efficacy on Covid patients is yet to be understood fully,” said doctor Kuntal Biswas, in-charge of the central pharmacy at Medical College Hospital Kolkata. This is not an anti-viral drug. “It checks the exaggerated immune response of the body to the viral attack. The response, if severe, can go out of control and activate cytokines that can lead to inflammation in organs and even lead to multi-organ failure. This drug inhibits cytokine and prevents those reactions,” said Arindam Biswas, consultant at RTIICS.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/state-recommends-rheumatoid-arthritis-drug-to-fight-covid-19/articleshow/75726661.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
May 14, 2020||Goa||Govt considers holding off hike||Panaji: Chief minister Pramod Sawant said the government is considering keeping the water tariff hike in abeyance. “We’ll keep the hike in water charges on hold for now,” he told TOI. Earlier in the day, all the opposition parties slammed the Sawant government for increasing water tariff amid the Covid-19 pandemic. BJP state president Sadanand Shet Tanavade met Sawant in the evening and demanded that the water tariff be reversed. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/govt-considers-holding-off-hike/articleshow/75727913.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Rajkot||Cops sanitize police station after accused tests positive||Rajkot: The officials of Kalavad taluka police station had to sanitize the entire police station and put 20 persons under quarantine after an accused in a suicide abetment case tested Covid-19 positive on Wednesday. Police said the accused, identified as Vijay Chauhan, was booked for the suicide abetment of his sister-in-law Rekha Chauhan. Rekha had ended her life by consuming pesticide on April 10 due to the harassment allegedly caused by her in-laws. Vijay was arrested along with two other accused in the case. “As it is mandatory, we sent the accused to conduct Covid-19 test on them. After the test result of Vijay confirmed him Covid-19 positive, we sanitized the entire police station and put 20 persons under quarantine which included 17 from Vijay’s extended family and three cops from our police station,” said an official from Kalavad taluka police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/cops-sanitize-police-station-after-accused-tests-positive/articleshow/75725859.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Jaipur||Curfew in half of Jaisalmer after three migrants test coronavirus positive||JAISALMER: Curfew was imposed in half of the city from Wednesday morning after three migrant labourers tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday night. As a precautionary measure, the city’s streets and markets were sanitised throughout the day and police barricades put up in two dozen colonies. Partial curfew was imposed in ward numbers 14, 15, 25 and 26. Collector Namit Mehta and SP Kiran Kung inspected the curfew-hit areas and gave necessary directions to officers. The administration on Tuesday night conducted screening of 300 migrants who had come from Pune and Mumbai and took random samples. Concern was raised by people as 300 migrants returned to the city from hotspot areas. Five migrants tested positive in last two days of which two were from city and three from rural areas. Around 7,500 migrants have returned to Jaisalmer. The three who tested positive on Tuesday night were from Kheenya village, Bhadasar village and Goyadani pass in the city. On Wednesday, one more corona positive case surfaced, who is a relative of a corona patient. Mehta has appealed to the city’s residents not to panic. He has urged people to not be hostile to the migrants as they are also from Jaisalmer. People have been persuaded to stay at home. Cabinet minister Saleh Mohammad has appealed to the people to not get scared and asked them to stay at home. He asked people in curfew-bound areas to stay at home and to help the administration by abiding by the curfew. Colonies adjoining the houses of infected persons have been sealed. All movement there has been stopped and ration will be provided through home delivery. If more people are found infected inside the city, then curfew may be extended to entire city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/curfew-in-half-of-jaisalmer-after-three-migrants-test-ve/articleshow/75726658.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Bhopal||54 new cases take Bhopal’s corona count to 858||BHOPAL: Ten days into lockdown 3.0, the state capital recorded 54 new Covid-19 cases on Wednesday taking city’s total corona count to 858. As many as 42 patients were discharged from hospitals in the district after recovering from the deadly infection on Wednesday. Till now, 488 patients diagnosed with Covid-19 have recovered in Bhopal. Twenty five cases were reported in Jehangirabad even as a Union government appointed team visited hotspots in the area to take stock of the situation. Twenty four of the 25 cases reported from Jehangirabad were from Ahir Mohalla. Already, 40 teams of the health department are working in the area. Bhopal district administration has initiated a plan to test all the residents of the area. The mammoth task would involve testing of about one lakh residents. “There are recommendations and we would take note of the advisory,” said Bhopal chief medical and health officer (CMHO) Dr Prabhakar Tiwari. About 2,000 families have been tagged for relocation to other parts city. They would be shifted to Red Rose School (Idgah Hills), Obaidiya School (near Royal Market) and other locations. Around a dozen locations in Bhopal north constituency have been identified. Residents were contacted by police, Bhopal Municipal Corporation staff and revenue inspectors, for relocation to safe zones. City SDM Jamil Khan and Additional SP Ashish Khare were present at the location, overseeing the efforts undertaken by the administration. Union government appointed central team recommended that focus should be on enforcing ‘social distancing’ norms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/54-new-cases-take-citys-corona-count-to-858/articleshow/75726663.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Nagpur||Expectant mothers in Vidarbha being tested for Covid-19||Nagpur: Health departments of municipal corporations and respective district administrations across Vidarbha are testing expectant mothers in Covid-19 containment zones on priority. In Nagpur, NMC conducted special camp in the containment zones and tested many expectant mothers. Out of them, six have been tested positive so far and they are already admitted in the Covid hospitals. In Akola, 3 such women have been admitted and waiting for delivery while one each is admitted in Yavatmal and Amravati. “Pregnant women, whose delivery is expected in next three-four days, need medical care during institutional delivery. If tested positive post-delivery, entire nursing home, delivery room and staff may land into isolation/quarantine. To avoid this, administration is making it a point to diagnose Covid-19 infection in pregnant women on priority,” said Dr Prashant Uikey, HOD of Obstetrics and gynaecology department of IGGMCH. Doctors at IGGMCH had conducted delivery of a Covid-19 positive woman on April 29. She was discharged on May 13 after testing negative. If expecting mothers are tested Covid-19 positive before delivery, special arrangements can be made for delivery and risk of infection to doctors can be avoided. Both covid hospitals in Nagpur have separate arrangements, labour room for covid-19 mothers. Full post-operative theatre clean-up as per national health protection guidance can be ensured after delivery if they are tested before. The number of staff in the operating theatre can be kept to a minimum, and all wear appropriate PPE kits during delivery of Covid-19 mother. Doctors said that it’s always beneficial to test pregnant women at any stage. “ICMR guidelines clearly state that all pregnant women in containment zone need to undergo covid-19 tests. Even if their deliveries are not due in next five-six days, we came to know how vulnerable they are for the infection,” said gynecologist Dr Shama Kedar. According to her, infection can be avoided by boosting immunity of these women if they are found vulnerable for it. There are currently no data suggesting an increased risk of miscarriage or early pregnancy loss in relation to COVID-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/expectant-mothers-in-vidarbha-being-tested-for-covid-19/articleshow/75726675.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
May 14, 2020||Vijayawada||Koyambedu-Related Cases Also Increase Covid Count||Vijayawada: After Andhra Pradesh opened its borders to stranded workers and students about 10 days ago, a new challenge has surfaced. Many of the returnees have tested positive for Covid-19. On Tuesday alone, 38 migrant workers, who deboarded at Guntakal railway station from a special train from Mumbai, were diagnosed with the disease. Meanwhile, Chennai’s Koyambedu market continued to push the numbers up in Chittoor, Nellore, Kurnool, Anantapur and East Godavari districts. In Chittoor alone, nearly 50 Covid confirmed cases have links to the wholesale market. The Tamil Nadu-bordering Nellore district, which witnessed a downward trend in the last few days, registered 15 Koyambedu-related Covid cases. Even distant East Godavari district recorded five Koyambedu market-related infections in Konaseema area, raising concern among district officials. Vizianagaram district, which remained Covid-free till May 6, has only four Covid cases, of which three are migrant workers. Even before the Koyambedu-related cases set alarm bells ringing in the state, 10 pilgrims, who reached Rajahmundry on April 4, tested positive for the disease. While nine pilgrims belong to West Godavari, the tenth person is from East Godavari. Nine among these 10 infected people are aged above 60 years, including four aged above 70. According to official statistics, 73 people from other states so far tested positive for the disease, including Maharashtra (38), Gujarat (26), Odisha (8) and Karnataka (1). However, those who arrived from other states are kept at quarantine centres besides being screened for Covid. Even after the 14-day mandatory stay at government-run quarantine centres, they have to observe a 14-day home isolation period, to ensure that the transmission rate is almost zero. This comes as a relief for state officials as it does away with the need of identifying containment clusters and carrying out disease surveillance activities in those areas. Covid state nodal officer A Srikanth said the containment cluster strategy is not applicable to Covid cases detected in migrant workers or the people returned from other states as they are already in quarantine centres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/koyambedu-related-cases-also-increase-covid-count/articleshow/75724545.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
May 14, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Migrants throng police station hoping to go home||BENGALURU: Thousands of migrant labourers are seen outside Byatarayanapura police station every day, pleading for travel passes to go back home in special trains being arranged for people of their ilk. “I am struggling to find food for myself every day. If this situation continues, I won’t be able to survive. My only hope of beating death is to reach my village in Bihar,” says Shakil, 35, who was spotted waiting in front of the police station on Wednesday. Shakil lives in Guddadahalli, which has a 5,000-strong migrant labour population, mostly from Bihar. Living next to Padarayanapura, a Covid-19 cluster containment zone, these labourers turn up in front of their jurisdictional police station every day, requesting for travel passes. Shakil landed in Bengaluru two months ago to work with a sari-making unit. Before he could get his first payment, the lockdown was announced. “Back-to-back crop failures prompted me to come to Bengaluru in search of livelihood. But to my misfortune, the lockdown kicked in within a few days,” he says. Asked if they got dry ration kits or food from the government or volunteers, Shakil says they haven’t received any till date. “There are about 5,000 migrant labourers in the place I live. No one has got anything here. I’m borrowing money from my family and friends in Bihar and surviving. But how long can I do this?” he says. MD Sada Balam, 19, who is also from Bihar and works in a sari-dyeing unit here, has not got any work since the lockdown began. “Every day we come and stand in front of the police station. We do not have any other option but to return home as we neither have any source of earning nor food. Though police occasionally disperse us, we stand there hoping for some relief.” ‘Can only register names’Byatarayanapura police say whenever a train is announced, migrant workers land in front of the station in hordes. “All we can do is register their names. It is the labour department which must ensure their travel. They assume we are sending people in trains. Despite several requests, these people don’t disperse and do not maintain social distancing. We are forced to work under fear,” said a police officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/migrants-throng-police-station-hoping-to-go-home/articleshow/75726209.cms||Kiran Parashar
May 14, 2020||India||Amid pandemic, some busy exporting terror: S Jaishankar||NEW DELHI: The raging coronavirus pandemic has not prevented terrorism from being a persistent challenge in the region, India told foreign ministers of Shanghai Cooperation Organisation countries in the first-ever virtual conference on Wednesday. External affairs minister S Jaishankar told the group, which included Pakistani foreign minister Shah Mehmood Qureshi, “Even as the world fights Covid-19, some are busy spreading other deadly viruses like terrorism. Fake news and doctored videos are also used to divide communities and countries.” The last was a reference to a social media storm from fake handles that accused India and Indians of Islamophobia in the Gulf states, driving a wedge with India and threatening ties with these states. “Due to Covid-19, we have all seen any prospect of growth evaporate before our very eyes. For a society like India, it means that many will not come out of poverty for no fault of theirs. They have little understanding and even less control over why this happened. The crisis has resulted in disruption of production networks and supply chains reverberating across the globe. It is pertinent for SCO member states to jointly identify and sustain new means of economic growth,” the foreign minister said. Qureshi pushed back against India, saying terrorism-related allegations must not be used as a political tool to malign and victimise any country or religion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/amid-pandemic-some-busy-exporting-terror-s-jaishankar/articleshow/75728169.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Jodhpur||Special train leaves Jodhpur for Ballia in UP with 1,151 labourers||JODHPUR: The first shramik special train for outbound migrant workers from Jodhpur left Bhagat ki Kothi station here for Ballia in Uttar Pradesh on Wednesday afternoon. As many as 1,151 workers, who were stuck here since the lockdown and had registered for returning home, boarded the train. The migrants used to work in various industries here while some had been doing petty jobs. All of them had been desperately been looking forward to go home after spending a lng time here with no work. “All those migrants who had registered for travel were summoned at a government school in Sangaria in the morning through text messages on their registered phone number and were sent to the station in roadways buses after screening and checking their registration credentials,” said commissioner (JMC) Suresh Kumar Ola. Chaos, however, prevailed at the venue as large number of migrants turned up as the word about the train leaving for UP spread. Bewildered, the administration could hardly convince them that the exercise was only for those who had registered. Most of the workers were willing to return once the lockdown was lifted but wanted to go home as they were suspicious that the lockdown period would be extended. “I have been working in a textile unit. Earlier, I thought that work will resume after first lockdown. But it was extended twice, so I decided to leave for home,” said Mohammad Riyaz of Ballia. Dinesh Pal from Gazipur of UP also shared a similar view. He has been living in Jodhpur for the past two years and runs a small toy shop at Nagauri Gate area. “My shop is shut for two months and the lockdown continued to be extended. So I decided to go home as there is not much left for me to sustain,” he said, adding that he will return once things are normal. Interestingly, some migrants left Jodhpur on foot early morning with no information about the train. Some of them were picked up by the administration by sending a vehicle for them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/special-train-leaves-jodhpur-for-ballia-in-up-with-1151-labourers/articleshow/75726668.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Mangaluru||Repatriates complain of mismanagement at Mangaluru airport||MANGALURU: Several repatriates, especially pregnant women and the ailing, who disembarked from the Vande Bharat Mission flight from Dubai at the Mangaluru International Airport (MIA), accused the Dakshina Kannada district administration of not making appropriate arrangements for them. According to sources, chaos prevailed at the airport after health screening was done of the repatriates, but the issue was solved after the intervention of senior officials. MLA U T Khader trained his guns at the Dakshina Kannada district administration, and alleged that the repatriates were not treated well. He said that out of 176 passengers, 33 who couldn’t afford hotels to be quarantined in, were still booked in them. However, they were left at the airport without any food. “The government should have made necessary arrangements for those could not afford to be quarantined. The government had assured of providing necessary help to stranded expatriates once they return home, but in the first flight itself, they were ignored.” Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI) criticised that the district administration had not taken into consideration the requests of Islamic organisations, who had come forward to offer institutional quarantine facilities free of cost. “We condemn the district administration’s move to deny permission to arrange for health officials at the quarantine facilities we offered to them. A majority of passengers who went to Dubai on visit visas were forced to pay for quarantine facilities,” said the SDPI. A woman who was three months pregnant, who came with her ailing husband, said that social distancing was not maintained at the airport. “Me and my husband were made to carry our luggage and no one helped us. Apart from it, we were not given the option to choose hotels according our wish, but were forced to stay in a hotel by district administration officials. The passengers who left Dubai at 4pm were also not given food till 4am on Wednesday,” a pregnant woman told a local TV channel. Some of the pregnant women staying at a hotel alleged that proper arrangements were not made there. They complained that food sufficient for 15 people, had to be shared by 23 people. One pregnant woman complained of developing health complications, due to rash driving by a driver, who transferred her to a hotel from the airport. When TOI contacted Rahul Shinde, probationary IAS officer, who is in charge of the quarantine facilities for the repatriates, he denied all the allegations, and said that the district administration had made all the necessary arrangements to receive the repatriates. Those who couldn’t afford to pay to be put in a quarantine facility were shifted to hostels, and officials left their homes only after they arranged Roza sehri for the minorities among them, he said. Another government official, who was present at the airport, pointed out that each passenger had different requests. “It is not possible to fulfill all the passengers’ requests. We are going by the government guidelines,” said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/repatriates-complain-of-mismanagement-at-airport/articleshow/75724559.cms||Kevin Mendonsa
May 14, 2020||Kolkata||Frontline health workers’ infection cause for worry||KOLKATA: The condition of a senior ENT specialist at SSKM Hospital, infected with the novel coronavirus, is stated to be stable but critical. The doctor was shifted to AMRI Hospital in Salt Lake late on Tuesday after his report arrived, stating that he had tested positive for the virus. A nurse and a two Group-D employees ID Hospial in Beliaghata have also tested positive for Covid-19. Though more than 150 healthcare workers across private and government hospitals in the state have been infected during this pandemic, this is the first time that such a senior faculty member of a state-run teaching medical college have tested positive. Though his symptoms are still not aggressive, what worries the treating doctors are his co-morbid conditions, such as COPD, diabetes and hypertension. “The doctor has fever but has not developed any breathing distress. However, considering his age and co-morbid conditions, we are treating him in the ICU, as a precautionary measure,” said a source at AMRI Hospital. The 63-year-old had got himself admitted to SSKM Hospital on Monday as he felt he was showing Covid-19 symptoms. A swab-sample test confirming the infection arrived on Tuesday night, after which he was shifted to the Covid-dedicated facility in Salt Lake. “Around eight healthcare workers, mostly doctors in his department, have been put on quarantine,” said a source at SSKM. Having made a name for himself in the field of ENT, the doctor is known to bring innovations and projects including, cochlear implant surgeries, that have come as a blessing for several children with hearing impairment. He is among the first few doctors who had chipped in to the state’s emergency fund to fight Covid. At ID Hospital, a nurse working in the Covid ward, along with two Group-D employees, tested positive on Wednesday. All three are admitted to their hospital and their condition are said to be stable. This is the first time, healthcare workers at this Covid-dedicated facility have been infected. “The nurse always wore PPE during work. It is unlikely that she got infected in the hospital,” said an official at ID Hospital. The nurse, who lives in Kidderpore, used to commute to and from the hospital, an official said. Her family members have been put in home quarantine. A nursing home in the Kidderpore locality was also sealed off after a patient admitted there turned positive. Some healthcare workers at the nursing home have been put on quarantine and sanitization has been taken up at the establishment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/frontline-health-workers-infection-cause-for-worry/articleshow/75726712.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
May 14, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Three districts to be part of serological survey||VIJAYAWADA: Krishna, Nellore and Vizianagaram districts have been included in the nationwide serological survey to be undertaken to estimate the prevalence of coronavirus infection. A total of 69 districts from 21 states have been chosen for the survey. The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) will conduct the survey in collaboration with the department of health and family welfare and National Centre for Disease Control, with support from state health departments and key stakeholders, including World Health Organisation (WHO). Blood samples will be collected from 400 randomly selected individuals (one per household) from 10 clusters in each district. The sera from these individuals will be tested for IgG antibodies using the Elisa test developed by National Institute of Virology, Pune.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/3-dists-to-be-part-of-serological-survey/articleshow/75724574.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Goa||GFP slams govt for hike in taxes, water charges||Panaji: Goa Forward Party (GFP) on Wednesday condemned the Goa government’s move to hike water charges, VAT on diesel and excise duty on liquor saying that such a move is akin to “adding salt to injury” at a time when locals and the industry is struggling to survive the Covid-19 pandemic. The party also asked chief minister Pramod Sawant if locals in Goa would benefit from the Rs 20 lakh crore stimulus package announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Questioning the rationale of raising taxes, GFP president Vijai Sardesai said that finance department officials should seek funds from the National Disaster Management Fund instead of only using the Disaster Management Act’s penal provisions to “trouble” locals. “The extra liquor charge on areas for both cities and coastal areas should be abolished as there is no business and no tourism at present,” said Sardesai. He said that former chief minister Manohar Parrikar’s promise to abolish VAT on petrol and diesel had seen the BJP win a clear 21 seats in the 2012 state elections. “By increasing taxes and getting trains from Delhi with propaganda of Corona-free Goa would Sawant get majority for ruling BJP in 2022,” Sardesai questioned. As a party, GFP welcomed the Rs 20 lakh crore stimulus package and the call for a self-reliant India. In the same breath, Sardesai wondered how much of this amount would Sawant get for Goa. GFP said the hike in excise would lead to a decrease in revenue and the promotional fee of Rs 25,000 for Feni is an anti-Goa decision. Speaking about Goa’s categorization as a green zone and the resumption of trains to Goa, GFP said it was strange that without testing even 1% of the population, Goa is using the green tag. GFP said it would be forced to move the high court if the Goa government does not spell out its action plan to rescue and repatriate non-resident Goans and seafarers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/gfp-slams-govt-for-hike-in-taxes-water-charges/articleshow/75727933.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Paid quarantine is big profit for hotels, huge burden for travellers||BENGALURU: The government, which has blocked 10,560 rooms in three categories of hotels — five-star, three-star and budget hotels — to quarantine those returning to Bengaluru from abroad and other states will see these people cough up Rs 30 crore in hotel bills, going by rates fixed by the government. The Rs 30 crore calculation is based on the best case scenario: If all 10,560 rooms are occupied (Rs 4,100 per day per room for 5-star hotels; Rs 1,850 for 3-star and Rs 1,200 for budget hotel rooms). Analysis of various hotel categories show that five-star hotels, which account for about a quarter of all rooms blocked by the government, will rake in nearly 50% of the Rs 30 crore that people are being forced to spend, while budget hotels, which have 6,068 or 57% of all rooms blocked, will take home 34% of the money. The rest will go to 3-star hotels. Even at 70% occupancy in each category, hotels stand to earn Rs 21 crore. Of this, five-star hotels will earn Rs 10 crore and budget hotels Rs 7.1 crore, while the remaining will be billed by three-star hotels. Bengaluru is expected to see at least three times more people returning than rooms booked. As of Wednesday, 55,308 had registered on the Seva Sindhu portal to return to the city. These include 101 applications that were rejected, and 21,166 that are under process. So far, 34,041 applications have been cleared, but officials say many applications are for whole families as only one member of a family applies, but seeks permission for multiple people. And, even as both activists and those returning to Karnataka are critical of the policy of paid quarantine — which they see as an additional burden at a time of job insecurity and pay cuts — the government has continued to keep hotels as one of the options. The other option is to stay at government-run hostels that are available for free, but which are most likely to be used only by returning migrant workers from the unorganised sector. As reported by TOI on Wednesday, on ground, people coming by private vehicles from other states are being told to either take a hotel room identified by the government, or to return to the states from which they travelled.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/paid-quarantine-is-big-profit-for-hotels-huge-burden-for-travellers/articleshow/75726239.cms||Chethan Kumar
May 14, 2020||Kozhikode||The amazing story of teenage entrepreneur's YouTube channel||KANNUR: Teenager Abhinav K T has a dream: His YouTube channel ‘Appuz Tube’ should enter the ‘million viewer club’. Though it might seem a tad ambitious, Abhinav, who is yet to turn 15, is confident as most of his videos have secured 2-3 lakh views and some have even crossed the five-lakh mark, earning revenue. “When I started the channel over three years ago, I never thought it would generate revenue. Last year, I started getting advertisements after some of my videos got huge viewership and now I’m happy. If you have an idea, just present it without pretentions and viewers will enjoy it,” said the teen who uses his spare time to share his visions, inventions and pranks on the channel.  “My policy is to create something useful from abandoned objects or present something that piques curiosity in a simple way so that people understand it,” said Abhinav, who will be joining Class X this year. YouTube has honoured him with a Silver Play Button. When he created an underground house using primitive technology last month, it was watched by over 4.27 lakh people. Another video, ‘How to make aquarium with an old fridge’ got over 5.8 lakhviews. When an idea strikes him, he tries to make it lively and communicates it through visuals to even non-Malayali viewers; his narration is in Malayalam. His brother Abhishek, an engineering student, supports him while little cousin Ashviya (3) makes her presence felt in the videos. The simple video of making a watermelon as a juice dispenser is popular with over 5.37 lakh views. Over the past 50 days, he uploaded 10 videos, including one on making two litres of handwash for just Rs 35. The video uploaded on March 27 secured over 4 lakh views. Mostly, his mother Suchithra shoots the video.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/teenagers-channel-gets-5l-views-dreams-of-hitting-10l/articleshow/75724640.cms||P Sudhakaran
May 14, 2020||Nagpur||Stranded: No transport from city to dist places||Nagpur: The half-hearted move by Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) by not starting any bus service to district places has put railway passengers in a fix as they have no transport to go to their native places. The Indian Railways partially started train operations from May 12 and many passengers from the district places like Bhandara, Chandrapur, Gondia and other districts arrived in the city on May 13 from Delhi and Bengaluru. However, they faced problems as MSRTC has no inter-district services as of now. “As per the state government orders we are only dropping migrants from Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh to border places. We have no orders to drop passengers in between. It is end to end service. In the last four days we ferried around 8,300 migrants in 377 buses,” says Nagpur divisional controller Nilesh Belsare. MSRTC’s stringent condition is hurting passengers coming by trains. On Wednesday there were many who reached Ganeshpeth bus stand from railway station only to find that there was no service for them. Of these passengers, 22 were from Chandrapur. They were already distressed due to joblessness and were frustrated for not getting bus. One of the distressed passengers AK Pande, who lost his 14-year-old son in lockdown in Delhi, said, “I came from Delhi with the burden of losing my lone son and now I come to know there is no transport here.” These Chandrapur passengers were stranded for more than 4 hours at the bus stand. As a special case, MSRTC got permission from police and district officials to drop these passengers to Chandrapur. They reached there at 9.30pm. Pande said he was dropped at Bhadravati on way. Maninder Singh from Wangaon in Warora tehsil deboarded the bus at Jaam and called a bike from the village relative and drove 40km to reach his place. Others were dropped at Chandrapur from where they were told to make their own arrangements to reach their native places. “It exposes the lack of coordination of the various departments, especially when you are fighting Covid-19. When trains have started partially, ST buses should also start parallel operations for at least passengers coming by railways,” demanded Mayur Warke from Ballarshah. Warke had arrived from Delhi after losing his job as temporary workman at Maruti Udyog.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/stranded-no-transport-from-city-to-dist-places/articleshow/75726697.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
May 14, 2020||Mumbai||Confusion at Borivli station over late arrival of migrants for special train||MUMBAI: A video of a huge crowd waiting to enter Borivli station to board a Shramik Special train has gone viral since Tuesday, raising questions in the railways about management of migrant movement and social distancing. Railway officials said they are “upset with the state arrangement for migrants”. A senior police officer, though, denied there was any chaos outside the Borivli (East) station. He said all passengers were made to sit in an orderly manner, with social distancing. A senior railway official said, “There were two trains planned from Borivli, one of of which was for Jaunpur in Uttar Pradesh and the other for Bhagalpur in Bihar. The state authorities were told to bring the migrants as per the departure schedule, but passengers for the second train arrived before those for the first. We did not allow them to enter the station as it would have led to chaos.” The Jaunpur train was to depart at 6pm but its passengers arrived only by 7.30pm. The second train for Bhagalpur was to depart around 8.30pm. Its passengers reached before those for Jaunpur. The Jaunpur train finally left at 8.55pm and the one for Bhagalpur at 11pm. A railway official said, “There was complete chaos as both sets of passengers arrived around the same time. There were some 30 buses but its occupants were not allowed to enter the station area together because of social distancing norms. This led to traffic snarls on the road and the passengers got restless.” A Central Railway official said, “Even our trains depart late at times due to delayed arrival of passengers at LTT.” In Mumbai, passenger movement to stations is handled by the police who dispatch them in batches in BEST buses. An average of 1,500 passengers travel by each train. A police officer said, “The railways had scheduled multiple trains to depart from Borivli station with just a two- or three-hour gap between services. Our personnel had to arrange for passengers to be brought from their houses and then they had to be counted and screened individually. There is no space inside the station, so naturally, passengers would have to wait outside for their scheduled train. The volume of passengers was large so we tried our best to accommodate them in the space outside, by making orderly queues.” (With inputs from Nitasha Natu) Watch Confusion over delayed train for migrants leads to huge crowd outside Mumbai’s Borivali station||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/confusion-at-borivli-over-late-arrival-of-migrants-for-spl-train/articleshow/75724765.cms||Manthan K Mehta
May 14, 2020||Nagpur||342 railway passengers arriving in city sent to home quarantine||Nagpur: All 342 passengers, who arrived in Nagpur by three trains on the first day after operations started, were stamped to be home quarantine by the Central Railway on Wednesday. Among the passengers, 90% were students from coaching classes who were stuck in Delhi for preparation of UPSC exams and employees working in private sector in Gurgaon and Delhi. The 3 trains that arrived at station included Delhi-Bilaspur, Delhi-Bengalaru and Bengalaru-Delhi. While 342 passengers deboarded the trains, there were 326 who boarded these trains to all these directions. Owing to several formalities there were some hiccups in checking out from the station. It took over an hour for the last passenger to move out when the Delhi-Bengalaru train arrived 45 minutes late at 11am. Central Railway spokesperson SG Rao said, “We recorded all details of the passengers. They were allowed one-by-one maintaining Covid distancing. Besides, they were screened and sanitized and stamped for home quarantine for at least 14 days as per the directives from the district administration before being let out. This took time.” Rao clarified that passengers coming from green zones like Bilaspur will also be quarantined. “If any passenger is found symptomatic he will be referred them to IGGMCH or GMCH while asymptomatic will be sent home with stamps on left hands,” he added. TOI noticed that there was some delay in checking out as thermal scanning guns did not function. Rao said these guns were replaced immediately. Some passengers like Gaurav Bahe (Gondia) and Mayur Warke (Ballarshah) said, “Due to error in thermal scanning machine, our temperature was shown abnormal. Later, when it was checked again after replacement of equipment, it was normal.” Overall, the railways ensured there is Covid distancing while boarding of train and deboarding. The arrangement was similar to what it is there at airports. The 342 passengers leaving for Delhi, Bilaspur and Bengalaru had to reach the station 60 minutes before to complete the formalities. Entry or exit from station’s east side has been completely barred. TOI found that 90% passengers were youths, who were either left jobless or were on verge of losing jobs. Mrunal Urade (26), a student, welcomed railway’s move. “I and my friends were stuck in Delhi due to lockdown and things were getting difficult,” he said. “I had qualified CDS exam and had gone to appear for medical exam and was stuck in Delhi for 55 days. I stayed with a mutual friend there at Rajori Garden, a green zone and hence was safe,” said Shivam Singh from Saunsar. Swapnil Patil (Reshimbagh) & Sahil Khan (Ramtek), both worked in Gurgaon. They said, “Many employees got 50% salary and many didn’t. Hence our supervisor advised us to go home. We worked in Gurgaon but due to lockdown getting food was becoming difficult. We will work from home now.” Then there were many like S Manohar from Godhani. She said, “I went to prepare for UPSC. We girls use to live in an apartment but now as everything is closed there, we had no option.” Many like Maninder Singh (Chimur) and Kunal Sahare (Sakoli) worked as temporary workmen at Maruti Udyog in Gurgaon but the plant is closed they were asked to go home. Many passengers were exploited by service providers. “We were charged Rs2,000 for 24km from Gurgaon to Delhi station. A food vendor charged Rs110 for a small box of rice and dal in train near Jhansi,” they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/342-railway-passengers-arriving-in-city-sent-to-home-quarantine/articleshow/75726724.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
May 14, 2020||Mumbai||BMC gets more dialysis machines in its hospitals for positive patients||MUMBAI: The BMC has used corporate donations to increase the number of dialysis machines for Covid-positive patients in its hospitals. Until a week ago, only limited dialysis facilities were available for Covid patients at Nair Hospital near Mumbai Central and Seven Hills Hospital in Marol. “Our analysis showed three categories of Covid patients needed dedicated beds—the critically ill, pregnant women and kidney failure patients needing dialysis,” said Manisha Mhaiskar, principal secretary, on deputation to BMC due to the Covid crisis. While beds for critically ill are being added on a regular basis, those for pregnant women were increased last week. For dialysis patients, the BMC used corporate social responsibility funds to get around 25 machines. Hruday Samrat Balasaheb Thackeray Hospital in Jogeshwari got 10 dialysis machines as donation from Sir H N Reliance Hospital along with water filtration facility. “Funds for the interiors and AC for the dialysis unit were donated by Tata Property,” said Dr Vidya Mane who heads the trauma care hospital that has 185 Covid beds. The Covid dialysis centre here was inaugurated on Monday. Nair got nine dialysis machines and KEM five.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bmc-gets-more-dialysis-machines-for-ve-patients/articleshow/75724954.cms||Malathy Iyer
May 14, 2020||Vijayawada||Covid-19 tests: State crosses 2 lakh mark||Amaravati: Setting a new record, Andhra Pradesh has crossed the two lakh mark in Covid-19 tests. The state has screened 2,01196 people for Covid-19 in the last two months. AP has so far screened 3,768 people per million population. Tamil Nadu is second with 3,447 tests per million among all the states while Jammu and Kashmir leads among the Union territories with 3,980 tests per million. Senior officials of the health department presented the details to chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy on Wednesday during the review on Covid-19 containment measures at the camp office. The chief minister reiterated that all non-Covid-19 emergencies should be attended to without any laxity. He enquired about the measures initiated to provide assistance to patients of other health emergencies. The officials said they have made all arrangements to extend support to pregnant women, chemotherapy and dialysis patients and health staff were in touch with all such patients and bringing them to the hospital as per fixed schedules. The chief minister asked officials to release pending Arogyasri bills to hospitals once every three weeks. He said they have cleared all dues of the previous government to private hospitals and there should not be any pendency for Arogyasri bills henceforth. The CM also asked officials to implement the Arogya Asara scheme without any deviation. Officials said the government had procured 1,060 ambulances for 108 service and is readying them for launch by July 1. The CM directed officials to immediately buy two-wheelers for expansion of YSR telemedicine services in rural areas. The chief minister directed officials to encourage the local sale of marine products to bail out aqua farmers. He said at least 30% should be domestic consumption from any produce — agriculture, horticulture and marine — in order to provide better prices to growers. The CM asked fisheries minister Mopidevi Venkata Ramana to negotiate with marine merchants in other states and take steps to export stocks. The CM asked agriculture, horticulture and marketing officials to focus on construction of cold storages and processing units to provide remunerative prices to horticulture produce from the Rayalaseema region.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/covid-19-tests-state-crosses-2-lakh-mark/articleshow/75724601.cms||Samdani MN
May 14, 2020||Mumbai||Dubai bizman, netas tie up to distribute ration in chawls||Mumbai: Dubai-based businessman Shabbir Patel, his activist son Shadaab Patel and Majlise Ittihadul Muslimeen (MIM) leader Waris Pathan have joined hands to take food ration to the needy in the city. On Monday, they distributed ration at Baba Saheb Ambedkar Nagar Kantawadi in Bandra (West), which has 400 chawl rooms. “It is an area with a low-income population. We have distributed ration which will see each family through at least 15 days,” said Shadaab Patel. He added so far his team has distributed 50,000 ration kits, besides 10,000 meal packets daily. “We had got ration packets from the Congress and other leaders. The ration kit from Shadaab Patel and team will last for at least 15 days,” said Pankaj Nirmal, a resident. Another resident, Ajay Gamer, a temporary worker at Mumbai airport’s cargo section, too, said the help is timely. Pathan said, “The poor are severely affected and we are trying our best to reach out to as many needy people as possible.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/dubai-bizman-netas-tie-up-to-distribute-ration-in-chawls/articleshow/75725169.cms||Mohammed Wajihuddin
May 14, 2020||Hubballi||APMC dilution: Price capturing, dispute redressal key to farmers’ interest||BELAGAVI: The government’s proposal to clip powers of the Agricultural Produce Marketing Committee by (APMC) doing away with the concept of notified market area has evoked mixed response from experts and farmers. Fears have been expressed that the move may exploit farmers in the absence of a comprehensive pricing and dispute redressal mechanism. The proposed promulgation of ordinance by the government to facilitate buying and selling outside notified market yards without the system of licensing will have its own pros and cons. A former IAS officer associated with NCDEX welcomed the move with specific caveats. The officer said the government must to design a digital infrastructure to capture prices of commodities of varied qualities and locations. This will ensure that prices are constant across the board, he said. He pointed that even in the existing system, farmers are not compelled to auction at the yards and there are provisions in the APMC Act to sell directly to traders and carry out transactions outside the gates. However, prices are constant and the APMC committee has powers to deal with any injustice meted out to farmers. “The APMC should continue to have these powers to resolve disputes. Otherwise we are merely going back to the 1960’s when APMCs were non-existent. The then governments felt it was best in the interest of farmers to introduce marketing committees which actually helped resolve several problems,” he opined. Laxman Gowda, an onion grower from Raichur district, said he is ready to sell his produce anywhere, provided the government ensures that he gets to know the prevailing market price. “We learn about the prices of the day through the mandis. For us APMCs are indicators of prices,” he said. Mehboob Pasha, a farmer from Yadgir district said, gullible farmers will be cheated by buyers and traders if prices are not communicated to them on a daily basis. Chikkegowda, secretary a vegetable traders association in Bengaluru, expressed apprehension that in the new system there will be a possibility of buyers going incommunicado after picking up the produce from growers. “Buyers from far-off places may promise to pay online after buying the produce and after paying a couple of instalments they may go incommunicado. In such cases, in the absence of APMC, it will be considered a regular criminal offence by the government and take years to be solved,” Sunil Mande from Bengaluru, who is into selling and buying of vegetables, hailed the government’s new proposal as revolutionary. He said middlemen who eat into the profits of farmers will be eliminated from the value chain providing better market access to farmers. Fears of monopolization Diluting powers of the APMC will help big companies like Monsanto, More, Reliance, Nilgiris and others monopolise the market, compelling farmers to enter the contract system, said Maruti Manpade, farmer leader from Kalaburagi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/apmc-dilution-price-capturing-dispute-redressal-key-to-farmers-interest/articleshow/75724637.cms||Shreyas HS
May 14, 2020||Kolkata||Struggling underbelly adapts to new way of life||Kolkata: Garment shopowners have turned fish-sellers, auto drivers have become vegetable vendors, leather factory employees have taken up selling masks, sanitizers and flowers on cycles and back-office administrative job holders have switched to online marketing. The 50 days of lockdown has seen a sea change in professions of a large number of individuals who have taken up jobs that they had never taken before just to keep their family expenses up and running. Sanjib Roy’s (30) family owns a 40-year-old garments shop at Gariahat, which is shut for more than two months now. With no other alternatives, Roy has started selling fish on footpaths of Dhakuria for the past one month. “This feels odd. But I have to do something to run my family. I have no experience in fish business and I don’t even know how to cut or clean a fish. But guess this is what I have to do for the time being to earn a living,” said Roy, a resident of Panchanantala. Similar has been the fate for Sunil Thakur, a hawker dealing in sofa covers and bedsheets, who is now selling fruits and vegetables outside the containment zone on Kakulia Road. “For weeks I had no income. Then I learnt some other hawkers had started selling vegetables. So I joined in. Selling vegetables and fruits is difficult as they rot easily. But I am somehow managing business,” said Thakur, a resident of Kasba. Life has also been difficult for auto driver Susanta Maiti, who has no prior experience in any sort of business, but has been selling vegetables on a cart. “I used to earn a decent Rs 350 to Rs 400 per day driving a hired autorickshaw between Baguiati and Ultadanga. But as the lockdown kicked in, my earning turned zero. So, for the last three weeks, I have been buying vegetables from a wholesale market in Ultadanga and selling it in and around Baguiati,” said Maiti, who has a family of five. Some white collar professionals, too, have seen change during this period. Payel Adhikari, who used to work at a manufacturing major, lost her job earlier this month and had no clue how to make her ends meet. She pleaded to her employers to reconsider their decision and she has now been put into an online marketing division about which she is clueless.  “I needed the job badly. So agreed to the change in profile when they said they were shutting down the administrative back-office unit considering the current work-from-home scene. I am trying my best to adapt to this new job profile,” said Adhikari, a resident of Behala.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/struggling-underbelly-adapts-to-new-way-of-life/articleshow/75726736.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
May 14, 2020||Mangaluru||First case outside Bhatkal reported in Uttara Kannada||Karwar: For the first time in Uttara Kannada, a Covid-19 case has been reported outside Bhatkal. The two people added to the district’s tally on Wednesday include one from Kumta. Of the 41 cases in Uttara Kannada, 40 are from Bhatkal. Till date, 11 patients have been cured and 30 are undergoing treatment at Karwar Institute of Medical Sciences (KIMS). The man from Kumta is a truck driver, who returned from Ratnagiri in Maharashtra on May 5. He entered the district by providing the false information that he is a cleaner in a fish transporting truck. He was detained at Hiregutti checkpost and quarantined at a school in Kumta. The other case confirmed on Wednesday is that of a 2-year-old whose mother had tested positive earlier. The new patients will be referred to KIMS, officials said. Meanwhile, Karunakar Shetty, a 78-year-old man with quarantine seal on his hand, died of heart attack near Hiregutti checkpost on Wednesday. He was travelling from Mumbai to Udupi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/first-case-outside-bhatkal-reported-in-uttara-kannada/articleshow/75719684.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Goa||Spl train departs to Himachal, hundreds find no space on it||Margao: Hours before the scheduled departure of the Margao-Una (Himachal Pradesh) Shramik Special train, the South Goa district administration authorities were faced with a peculiar situation. With no more room to accommodate hundreds of passengers still waiting to board the 24-coach train, the authorities were left with no choice but to ferry them to the labour camp with a promise to send them home by the next train. For these 400-odd migrants who missed boarding the homeward bound train, it was an emotional see-saw of hope and despair since Tuesday when they began getting messages from the state administration to gather at the Konkan Railway station, Margao, on Wednesday to board the Shramik Special train. “We were overwhelmed with the joy of anticipation of returning home. We stood in long queues since early morning, but were denied tickets as the train got full,” said Rajesjhwar Thapa, before boarding one of the several Kadamba buses arranged to take them to the Navelim shelter home. Many, however, chose to go back to their respective lodging facility.  A senior district administration officer of the Covid-19 task force said, “For the last three special trains, around 60-65% of those who received messages would turn up for registration. However, this time, over 95% lined up. Many who didn’t get the messages also turned up. The registration was closed once the capacity of the train was full.” The district administration had shifted the venue of the pre-boarding health screening from the Jawaharlal Nehru stadium Fatorda to outside the Konkan Railway station, Margao. “The decision was taken by the collector last night to shift the registration counter. This saved time,” a senior administrative official said, claiming that the entire registration process was completed in just 3 hours. “The train was ready for departure much ahead of the scheduled time of 6pm.” a railway official said. This was unlike the earlier three Shramik special trains whose departure from Goa was significantly delayed. The train carrying 1,473 passengers will reach its destination early Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/spl-train-departs-to-himachal-hundreds-find-no-space-on-it/articleshow/75727106.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Bareilly||Ahead of Eid, 19 traders, workers from J&K stranded in UP’s Moradabad go home in bus||Bareilly: Four traders, including a 79-year-old man, and 15 sugar mill workers from Jammu & Kashmir who were stranded in UP’s Moradabad since the lockdown were able to go home in a private bus on Tuesday. Officials from the local administration said permission for their return to the union territory was given so they could spend Eid — which will fall on May 22 and mark the end of Ramzan — with their families. The four traders from Poonch district had arrived in Moradabad to sell shawls and woollen clothes last December. They were scheduled to return at the end of March but got stranded due to the lockdown. Since then, they were living in an inter-college building which is serving as a temporary shelter home. At least 13 people from states like Delhi, Madhya Pradesh, Bihar and Odisha are still at the facility, waiting to go home. Jagdish Chandra, caretaker of the shelter home, said the traders shifted there on March 27. “The oldest among them, Mohammad Bashir, was 79 years old,” he said, adding that all four had undergone tests for Covid-19 during their stay and tested negative. The four were able to go back after a mill manager sought permission to send 15 of his employees from Jammu & Kashmir home in time for Eid. The administration then approached the four traders in the shelter home and along with the mill workers, they were sent home in the bus hired by the mill management. Additional district magistrate (executive) Lakshmi Shankar Singh told TOI, “We spoke to the district administration in Jammu to ensure smooth passage for these people. The bus will drop everyone in Jammu and further arrangements will be made by the local administration.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/ahead-of-eid-19-traders-workers-from-jk-stranded-in-ups-moradabad-go-home-in-bus/articleshow/75723246.cms||Pankul Sharma
May 14, 2020||Bhopal||What can Bhopal expect from lockdown 4.0?||BHOPAL: Even as the district administration waits for state government’s directives on lockdown 4.0, there is a possibility that ‘red zone’ Bhopal would see some relaxations in the coming days. Strict restrictions were imposed in the state capital even during the otherwise relaxed lockdown 3.0. Gradual resumption of construction activities could be one major step towards normalising life in the city, which of late had become so used to digging up of roads for laying of sewage lines, Narmada and Kolar pipelines, Metro Work, Smart City works till they came to a grinding halt in last week of March. “Resumption of construction activities outside the red zone in the city will infuse life in Bhopal, and if properly done it is not going to be that risky either,” said an official of the district administration. The scope of “essential goods and services” would be enlarged and shops of electronic goods, garments, electrical goods, hardware, opticals and private offices may be allowed to open. But, they will not be in the main markets, and if at all, certain category of shops are allowed to open in a market, they would be very few and open by rotation. Standalone shops and neighbourhood shops in residential complexes would, however, be allowed to open. Liquor shops will also open in Bhopal in all likelihood in the lockdown 4.0 , said an official. Hotels, restaurants, tea shops, malls, cinema halls, salons, beauty parlours will continue to be shut. People, while assuring that they would take all precautions to protect themselves against coronavirus infection, desperately want to get back to work. “We shall use disposables. No glasses, no plates. But we should be allowed to open our shop. There is not so much of crowd at my shop in any case that I would be required to regulate it, but even if it has to be done, we shall do it,” said Deepak, a tea stall owner in Chuna Bhatti. Mobile repair shops, automobile repairing shops, puncture shops, hardware shops, salons, laundry, ironing shops, service stations for cars, tea and snacks shops, pan shops, liquor shops — people list all these and more when asked which shops should remain open in the lockdown 4.0. They also have a problem with timings as shops as of now except for “essential goods” may remain open from 7 am to 7 pm.  “As per present timings, shops are closed by 7 pm. With the summer season at its peak, it is unfair to close shops by 7 pm. It should be allowed till at least 9 pm, so that necessary items could be bought,” said Jeewan Sathe, a retired employee. Going to salon scares people, but many of them feel they can't do without a haircut. “I can understand that due to salons, several Covid- 19 cases have been reported. But you can not keep them closed indefinitely. They should be allowed to operate with norms,” said Michael Shinde, a businessman. “One can imagine the situation when no repair or maintenance work is done in the past two months at homes. Several pipelines are choked, which need immediate attention. Plumbers are available but hardware items are not available as shops are closed,” said Raju Khan, a resident of Arera Colony. Those going without their favourite non-vegetarian dishes for the past two months are demanding opening of chicken/meat shops as well.  “Meat is available in black market. Why force people to pay extra? When people want to have it, what is the reason for not opening it? Guidelines should be made for this and strict action should be taken against those who sell without following guidelines,” said Vikas Verma, a private firm employee. District collector, Tarun Pithode, when asked what peopke could expect after May 17, said, “A ctivities would start in the peripheral areas of the city because central Bhopal is still deeply infested by Covid infection." In reply to a related question, he admitted that there was a proposal to start construction activities and open shops other than grocery/vegetables/fruits.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/what-can-bhopal-expect-from-lockdown-4-0/articleshow/75726720.cms||Ashutosh Shukla
May 14, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Private hospitals resume normal services||KOLKATA: Hospitals forced to shut down after patients and health workers contracted the novel coronavirus are set to resume services. While Charnock Hospital off VIP Road, the first private hospital in the city to close on April 15, will reopen on Thursday, Peerless Hospital, which went into a closure on May 4, could reopen next week. Both have sanitized the premises and will resume their Covid units. Insittute of Neurosciences Kolkata (INK), which had restricted services after its CEO and a staffer tested positive in April, is scaling up operations. While the 300-bed Charnock Hospital will resume services with 50 beds, including a 20-bed Covid isolation unit, Peerless has set up a new 30-bed Covid unit, including an eight-bed ITU. The beds will be spread across its three buildings with the Covid unit being housed in a separate building that will have no other patient. While the non-Covid sections of Peerless will function normally, it has revamped its Covid unit with more measures. “We have set up a new suction plant that will maintain negative pressure and prevent air from the Covid unit from reaching other parts. It will be cut off the from the rest of the hospital,” said Peerless medical superintendent Sudipto Mitra. Four Peerless doctors had tested positive and are now in home quarantine. Several other health workers who had tested positive have recovered. “Barring a few, our entire workforce will be on duty,” he said. Charnock, too, is getting most of its health workers—several had tested positive and more than 50 were quarantined—back in service. The hospital has a 1,000-strong workforce. “Apart from sanitization, we needed to make sure we have enough doctors, nurses and health workers fit to work. We now have enough of them, though we are still not in a position to resume full-scale operations. But we are scaling up our services,” said Charnock MD Prashant Sharma. A dialysis patient at the hospital had tested positive last month and several health workers were infected. The hospital shut its dialysis unit for a couple of days. “We are treating around 100 patients at the dialysis unit a day, though the rest of the hospital has been shut,” added Sharma. INK has resumed its OPD services and inpatient admissions that were suspended last month. “We never shut down but admissions were stopped after two of our employees tested positive. While they have recovered, we are crawling back to normalcy. We have around 60 patients admitted, while our capacity is 170,” said head of the neurology department Hrishikesh Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/pvt-hosps-resume-normal-services/articleshow/75726741.cms||Prithvijit Mitra
May 14, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Rlys, postal dept in parcel service pact||Thiruvananthapuram: The Thiruvananthapuram division of Southern Railway has taken an initiative for door delivery and pick up of parcels in association with the department of posts, Kerala circle. It is the first-of-its-kind initiative in the country. Daily parcel special service trains are currently being operated between Thiruvananthapuram Central – Kozhikode and Thiruvananthapuram Central – Chennai Egmore. “These parcel trains are helpful to customers as is evident from the good patronage for these trains. The number of customers utilising these services is constantly growing. To mitigate the difficulties faced by customers in sending and receiving parcels through railway network during the lockdown period, the Thiruvananthapuram division of Southern Railway has taken the initiative,” said a statement from Thiruvananthapuram division. The memorandum of understanding was signed by Rajesh Chandran, senior divisional commercial manager, Thiruvananthapuram division and Sayeed Rasheed, director of postal services, Kerala circle, in the presence of Shirish Kumar Sinha, divisional railway manager, Thiruvananthapuram division. The postal personnel will collect the parcel from the consigner’s premises and will get them booked. The transshipment will be through Railways from the nearest railway station to the destination railway station. From there, the parcel will again be collected and delivered to the consignee at his doorstep by the department of posts. A minimum charge will be collected from the consigner under logistics post levied by postal department in addition to the charges levied by Indian Railways for the parcel service. This service will be initially available at Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Kottayam, Ernakulam Town, Aluva and Thrissur. People may contact rail post: 0471 2464425, 94479 57388, 96339 73640 in advance to book the parcel or call railway parcel helpline number - 95678 69381 for assistance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/rlys-postal-dept-in-parcel-service-pact/articleshow/75724706.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Goa||Denied shelter, migrants stranded at Keri, Morlem spend 3 days in the open||Keri: Unable to obtain travel passes to return to their native villages in Karnataka, groups of migrant workers have been stranded, out in the open without food or shelter, in Keri, Morlem and Parye areas for the last three days. On Tuesday evening, the workers, including families with toddlers, had to grapple with heavy rain and stormy winds. After two stints of the lockdown that began on March 24, migrant labourers — most of them daily wagers— were permitted to travel to their respective native places after availing travel passes. A large number of migrant workers going to Belagavi, Bijapur and Dharwad areas chose to travel via the Chorla Ghat road to Belagavi— most of them on foot. However, most of them were unable to fill the necessary forms online to apply for the travel permits, while others were unaware they needed the document for inter-state travel. At the checkpost, the police did not permit them to cross the borders. For the past three days, the workers, numbering around 1,000 in total, were stranded at various places in Parye, Morlem and Keri. On Tuesday, Valpoi police inspector Shivram Vaigankar picked up the migrant workers and decided to lodge them at the government-owned community hall at Morlem rehabilitation colony. However, when the Morlem residents received the information that the workers would be accommodated in the hall, they assembled in large numbers and restrained the officials. The workers were then dropped back in Morlem where they spent the night, out in the open, taking shelter from the rain under a tree. Dasharath Morajkar, a social worker from Pelavade-Ravan said, “The migrant workers stranded in Parye, Morlem and Keri areas for three days faced numerous inconveniences. We made an attempt to fill the online performa. However, as their number is quite large, they were taken to a shelter home at Mapusa”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/denied-shelter-migrants-stranded-at-keri-morlem-spend-3-days-in-the-open/articleshow/75727120.cms||Rajendra P Kerkar
May 14, 2020||Goa||Tension at Calangute over 20 ‘outsiders’||Calangute: The arrival of around 20 non-Goans at a hotel at Tivaivaddo in Calangute on Tuesday night led to tension in the area as a large number of people came out on the street worried about a possible Covid-19 outbreak in the village. However, it later turned out that the ‘outsiders’ were industrial workers, who have been put up in a paid quarantine facility. “The government has allowed many industries to start operations. A few industries in Goa have been allowed to bring back workers from the neighbouring states. Some of them have been placed in 14-day paid quarantine in Calangute. Their stay is being paid by their companies,” medical officer at the Candolim primary health centre, Dr Roshan Nazareth told TOI. He said that all of them have had their swabs tested at a private laboratory in Porvorim and “if any of them tests positive then they will be shifted to the required isolation facility”. Videos of locals voicing their apprehensions outside the hotel on Tuesday night went viral after a couple of the guests were reportedly found moving around outside the hotel. “We have gone through one-and-a-half month of lockdown during which we suffered a great deal. Now we find that people from hotspots like Maharashtra are being allowed to come and stay here. We may even die if they spread the virus,” a woman can be heard saying in the video.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/tension-at-calangute-over-20-outsiders/articleshow/75727113.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Mysuru||Will launch agitation for bifurcation of Mysuru district: AH Vishwanath||MYSURU: Former minister and BJP leader AH Vishwanath on Wednesday said he will launch an agitation after the Covid lockdown is lifted, seeking the BJP government to bifurcateMysuru district to facilitate better administration. He said the new district should be named after former chief minister D Devaraj Urs and Hunsur should be its headquarters. Vishwanath, who had proposed a separate district during Hunsur by-polls, is now pushing for it vigorously. He said an agitation committee will be formed to take his demand forward. This comes a day after former minister SR Mahesh of JD(S) questioned his intention to take his demand forward. Vishwanath asked Mysuru MP Pratap Simha and BJP MLA SA Ramadas to discuss within the party forum their differences about a project to clear garbage dumped at the sewage farm in Vidyaranyapuram. They should not speak about it publicly, he stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/will-launch-agitation-for-bifurcation-of-mysuru-dist-vishwanath/articleshow/75724685.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Prdesh: Styrene smell still in air, say Venkatapuram residents||VISAKHAPATNAM: Residents of RR Venkatapuram, Venkatapuram, Venkatadri Colony, Padmanabhapuram and two other colonies who were evacuated after the styrene leak at LG Polymers plant have started returning home. On Wednesday, women and men were seen cleaning their houses, utensils and clothes.They have, however, claimed they can still smell styrene inside their homes and have been suffering headaches and burning sensation in their eyes. Twenty-one-year-old K Ayyappa, who lives with his mother K Manga, at Venkatapuram said they have cleaned the house twice but have failed to get rid of the pungent smell of styrene. “Food items, such as rice and pulses smell of the gas and have to be thrown away. We can’t stay in the house as we may have headaches and difficulty breathing. We are planning to stay a few more days in our relative’s home in Gajuwaka,” Ayyappa said. Although the district administration and a group of ministers have claimed there is no need to panic and people can return home, the ground reality is different, claims Y Varalakshmi, a resident of Venkatapuram. “We can still smell styrene. I think it will take at least one more week for normacy,” he said. Meanwhile, a group of residents of Venkatapuram on Wednesday protested demanding the authorities provide essential commodities. “We returned home on Monday evening. The food is unfit for consumption. Grocery stores are shut and we are left with little money. We want authorities to supply essential commodities for a week,” a protestor told TOI. In the meantime, officials of the animal husbandry department advised people in the villages to not milk milch animals. Residents, however, continue to do so, claiming they have no other option. Officials said 25 cows and buffaloes died in the villages following the styrene leak. Milk procurement from the area has stopped and the condition of the animals is being studied. “We also asked villagers to not milk and consume milk from the animals for a month,” officials said. “We expected that government officials would supply milk and other essential commodities as the foodgrains in our home have been spoilt. But no one has come forward. Since we have no other option, we consumed milk from our cow,” said S Eswaramma and S Tatarao, residents of BC Colony. A veterinary surgeon in the animal husbandry department Dr S Kiran Kumar said as green and dry fodder in the villages is not fit at present for feeding cattle, the department is distributing silage, a nutritious and easy-to-digest feed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/styrene-smell-still-in-air-say-venkatapuram-residents/articleshow/75724672.cms||Nalla.Babu
May 14, 2020||Nagpur||Continuing strict lockdown no longer an option: Devendra Fadnavis||NAGPUR: Devendra Fadnavis, leader of opposition in state assembly, feels that continuing strict lockdown in the state was no longer an option and the state government must devise an exit strategy for the period after May 17. Interacting with the media through videoconferencing, Fadnavis said there was widespread economic distress in both urban and rural areas due to the lockdown. “People have lost their jobs and livelihoods,” he added. “There is no end to coronavirus pandemic in sight and hence the government must devise a strategy on how to live with the disease. Economic activity continued even during wars. Now, it is the time to revive the economy. The government must come out with a plan to restart the processes of manufacture of raw materials to finished products. Sector-wise task forces must be set up,” said the former chief minister. Replying to a query, Fadnavis said all shops should be opened now. “However, educational institutions should not be opened for another three months,” he added. Slamming the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government, he said when the state government was required to spend more to reduce economic distress, it was hell-bent on saving money. “I was CM for five years. I know how money can be obtained. However, due to lack of coordination between ministers and bureaucracy, problems of the state have increased by 50%. The government must begin with using Rs10,000 to Rs15,000 crore available in personal ledger account (PLA),” he said. Fadnavis admitted that plight of migrant workers was extreme. “Their exit from the state has now raised a question as to how industries and other sectors would function after lockdown ends. Arrangement should have been made by the state government so that they did not go back,” he said. The ex-CM stressed that state government needed to change its industrial policy to attract units from other states. “This should be done after offering protection to workers. Uttar Pradesh has already done that, but Maharashtra government is in deep slumber,” he said. Fadnavis said orders issued by local administration and state and central governments were completely contradictory in Nagpur district and hence people were confused. “Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) advises home quarantine for coronavirus patients with mild symptoms, but reverse in happening in Nagpur,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/continuing-strict-lockdown-no-longer-an-option-fadnavis/articleshow/75726739.cms||Ashish Roy
May 14, 2020||Visakhapatnam||South Korean team starts styrene leak probe||VISAKHAPATNAM: An eight-member technical team from South Korea’s LG Chemicals headed by company president Noh Kug Lae arrived in Vizag city on Wednesday and visited the LG Polymers plant at RR Venkatapuram. The team consists of production, environment and safety experts and will ascertain the cause of styrene leak that killed 12 people and led to hospitalisation of hundreds of residents from five villages adjacent to the plant on May 7. The state government has already taken measures to shift the chemical from the plant to South Korea. Around 8,000 tonnes of styrene were loaded onto a ship on Tuesday. The remaining 5,000 tonnes will be sent soon. “The team interacted with technical staff and higher authorities of LGPI and examined the storage tank from which the styrene had leaked. They would be here for another two to four days to work closely with the concerned authorities,” a senior official of the plant said. The state government has already appointed expert committees to investigate the incident and disbursed compensation of Rs 1 crore to family members of the deceased. Affected people are still undergoing treatment. The technical team will also meet victims and affected families, an official statement said, adding it would work to resolve the situation and assist with real-time remedial and rehabilitation measures. The experts will explain support measures to affected families and victims and hold meetings with local officials, the statement said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/s-korean-team-starts-styrene-leak-probe/articleshow/75724713.cms||Siva G
May 14, 2020||Goa||157 seamen to reach state this week||Panaji: Two cruise vessels in Mumbai with around 157 Goan seamen are yet to disembark their crew. Karnika with 86 crew with Goa domicile have already received an NOC from the Goa government, but are yet to receive clearance from Mumbai police, ports secretary P S Reddy said. Meanwhile, the Norwegian cruiseliner Seven Seas Voyager with 160 crew, of which 71 are Goans, is expected to disembark them on Thursday evening. The crew of both vessels will reach Goa by road before the end of week and are likely to be undergo 14-day paid quarantined in hotels in South Goa.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/157-seamen-to-reach-state-this-week/articleshow/75727125.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur: Schools start freezing fees, parents’ association demands 50 per cent cut||NAGPUR: Many schools in city have announced that there won’t be any hike in fee for the 2020-21 academic session but a parents’ association says that educational institutes need to do more. Maharashtra government had last week asked all schools to freeze fees and, if possible, try to reduce it. Rashtriya Shikshak Palak Sangh (RSPS) said all schools must reduce fee by at least 50% in view of the economic crisis brought upon by coronavirus pandemic. The parents association has written to Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) and also chief minister Uddhav Thackeray seeking their intervention. Yogesh Pathare, national coordinator of RSPS said, “We all are aware of the financial hardships being faced by parents. There are so many who have either lost their jobs or faced salary cuts. Some are self-employed and due to lockdown, have lost their source of income. To help parents tide over this problem, schools must reduce fee by half.” In Nagpur many schools have proactively announced their no fee hike policy, but told TOI that reducing fee was impossible. A school’s trustee said, “Cutting fee by half will mean teachers’ salaries will also be halved. That means teachers will then reel under financial stress as their home budget will all go for a toss. And then schools will be blamed for jeopardizing teachers’ financial future.” Another school owner said that educational institutes are the ‘easiest targets’. “Is 50% cut being demanded from electricity provider? Are they demanding 50% deduction from their grocer? Is their internet and cable TV service provider also giving 50% discount?” asked the trustee, who said that vested interests are behind such movements. “Do people even understand what it means to reduce anything by 50%. It’s illogical talk and unfortunately right from media to politicians just lap it up because it appeals a huge mass,” the trustee said. Another trustee, who is also member of a schools’ association said that it was time to take the government to court. “We will announce this officially soon as right now we are looking at our legal options. Government is interested in dishing out populist decisions and majority of parents are taking unfair advantage of this,” said the trustee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/schools-start-freezing-fees-parents-association-demands-50-cut/articleshow/75726748.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
May 14, 2020||Mangaluru||Over-the-counter sale of paracetamol witnesses sharp decline in Mangaluru||MANGALURU: Restrictions on sale of paracetamol, coupled with an increase in the number of people opting for home-made remedies such as kashaya, not to mention increase in awareness on the perils of self-medication has resulted in bringing down the demand for what many pharmacists refer to as the over-the-counter ‘wonder drug’. As part of its efforts to trace possible Covid-19 patients, the department of drug control issued strict directions to chemists and pharmacists to refrain from dispensing paracetamol tablets to those seeking them without a doctor’s prescription. In fact, even those customers who arrive at the stores armed with a prescription, have to provide their names, address and the name of the doctor they are being treated by, in order to collect the drug. The department has warned chemists of stringent action in the event of failure to adhere to the guidelines. The department is compiling details of all those seeking paracetamol. Mohammed Kunhi, proprietor of Unity Medicals in Mangaluru, said that, at his store, the number of people who visited seeking paracetamol without a prescription had come down from 40 prior to the lockdown to five. “But among them are those who don’t hesitate to threaten us to dispense the medicine,” said Kunhi. Another pharmacist in Mangaluru opined that people were more careful about popping pills these days. However, he enjoined on fellow pharmacists across the state to abide by the new guidelines. “Those wishing to leave one district or state and travel across borders may want to purchase paracetamol so it brings their temperature down, and they can escape detection at various screening points. So, chemists must ensure that they do not supply these medicines without a prescription,” he warned. Consultant for infectious diseases at KMC Hospital Dr Farhan Fazal said that the new guidelines served as an instrument to keep track of those suffering from influenza-like illnesses (ILI). “Eventually, this will lead to a reduction in the number of people opting for self-medication, and citizens will have to approach fever clinics in case they have any symptoms,” Dr Fazal said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/over-the-counter-sale-of-paracetamol-witnesses-sharp-decline-in-mangaluru/articleshow/75724729.cms||Deepthi Sanjiv
May 14, 2020||Madurai||Status report sought on plea for PPE kits||MADURAI: The Madras high court has directed the state government to file a status report on the steps taken so far to provide personal protective equipment (PPE) kits to non-medical frontline workers A division bench of justice P N Prakash and justice B Pugalendhi was hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by executive trustee of ‘People’s Watch’ NGO in Madurai, R Sathiamoorthy, who sought to provide PPE kits to non-medical frontline workers in the state. Sathiamoorthy said that though the state had taken effective steps for the containment of Covid-19, there was concern over its spread among non-medical frontline workers like police, fire and rescue services personnel, cleanliness workers, ambulance staff, revenue officials, volunteers and mediapersons. All the non-medical frontline workers, more particularly police personnel and volunteers who are involved in duty for managing crowds and traffic are not wearing any PPE kits except masks. Also, several police personnel, cleanliness workers, mediapersons have tested positive for Covid-19 and that the Koyambedu market incident stands as a clear example of why all these workers have to be properly protected by providing them with PPE kits. Stating the need for protecting them, the petitioner said the state government should ensure that PPE kits gloves, masks, face shield, gown, rubber boots are provided to them. The non-medical frontline workers who are involved in Covid-19 prevention works in the state should also be subjected to routine medical checkup, said the petitioner. The case has been adjourned to May 20 for further hearing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/status-report-sought-on-plea-for-ppe-kits/articleshow/75726747.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Goa||275 Malaysian students leave Goa for home||Panaji: Malaysia sent a rescue flight to evacuate 275 of its citizens who were studying at USM-KLE medical college in Belagavi. The medical students were brought from Belagavi to Goa by 11 buses and dropped at Goa International Airport, Dabolim, from where the students flew home on an Air AsiaX aircraft. The repatriation flight marks the 35th special flight to depart from Goa since the lockdown was imposed on March 22. Airports Authority of India (AAI) ensured that the students were able to fly home after a nerve-wracking time in India. “The purpose of the plane stopping in Goa was to give students in Belagavi the chance to go back to Malaysia,” said an official. The flight was arranged after the Malaysian government contacted the Union ministry of external affairs and the ministry of civil aviation to operate the relief flight to Goa. “The 35th relief flight took off from Goa airport. An Air AsiaX Airbus 330 picked the 275 Malaysian students for Kuala Lampur. Strict following of social distance and hand sanitisation was maintained, the new normal,” said Goa Airport officials in a tweet. USM KLE International Medical Programme is a joint venture between Universiti Sains Malaysia (USM) and KLE Society, India, to run an MBBS course solely for Malaysian students while giving them exposure to KLE’s hospitals. First year to fourth year students of the five-year international medical programme were allowed to fly back home, while the final year students, around 100 of them, continue to remain in Belagavi. The students who have returned to Malaysia will continue their studies through online classes, said a source.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/275-malaysian-students-leave-goa-for-home/articleshow/75727129.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Madurai||Sentences to run concurrently for man convicted of 5 thefts||Madurai: Granting relief to a 60-year-old man who was convicted and sentenced for his involvement in five theft incidents, the Madras high court has directed that his sentences would run concurrently by interpreting Section 427 CrPC, which deals with ‘sentence on offender already sentenced for another offence’. The court was hearing a plea moved by Sheik Madhar who was involved in thefts at five optical shops at Trichy in 2017. Since the petitioner had pleaded guilty, he was convicted and sentenced to undergo three years imprisonment and fined Rs 5,000 for each offence by the Trichy judicial magistrate court in 2018. In 2019, the Trichy sessions court modified the sentence of imprisonment to two years and fine of Rs 100 for each offence. However, as the trial court and appellate court did not pass any direction as to whether the sentences would run consecutively or concurrently, the petitioner had moved the high court Madurai bench seeking for a direction. Justice G R Swaminathan observed, “Suppose on a single day, an accused is found guilty in more than one case and sentenced, it is for the court concerned to clarify as to when the sentence in the subsequent case will take effect. If the court is silent and had not given any direction that the sentence given in the subsequent case will run concurrently, it will run only consecutively. Adverse consequence emanating from the silence of the court has a serious implication for personal liberty. The Constitution attaches a very high value to personal liberty.” The judge observed that Section 427(1) of Cr.PC states that if the sentencing court fails to give a specific direction that the subsequent sentence shall run concurrently with the previous sentence, it would run only consecutively. A closer reading of the provision would indicate that the condition precedent for the application of Section 427 of CrPC is that the person must be already undergoing a sentence of imprisonment when he is convicted and sentenced on a subsequent occasion. Citing that the whole issue turns on the expression ‘already undergoing a sentence of imprisonment’, the judge observed, “’Already’ means ‘before a particular time in the past or before now’. ‘Undergoing’ means ‘experiencing something’. The legislature has carefully added the words ‘already undergoing’. This is significant. No word occurring in a statutory provision can be ignored.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/sentences-to-run-concurrently-for-man-convicted-of-5-thefts/articleshow/75726754.cms||Kaushik Kannan
May 14, 2020||Delhi||Many want curbs eased in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Within 17 hours of chief minister Arvind Kejriwal inviting suggestions through calls, emails and WhatsApp for relaxations during lockdown 4.0 after May 17, nearly 5.5 lakh proposals have flooded the government’s inboxes. While the government is yet to analyse the suggestions, sources said people have asked for lifting curbs with all precautions across the city, except the 81 containment zones. Many have also suggested resuming public transport, but with social distancing. A total of 4.76 lakh WhatsApp messages, 10,700 emails and 39,000 calls were received by the government. Also, 22,700 responses were received on a Change.org petition. The responses were received under various categories, including industrial and MSME operations, transportation, education, and day-to-day commercial and non-commercial activities. Delhi government will analyse the suggestions and pick up ideas, which will be discussed with doctors and experts to prepare a final proposal to be sent to the Centre on Thursday. A majority of merchants, both retail and wholesale, have suggested that markets should be allowed to open because they won’t be able to bear the economic loss for long. They also stated that traders have been the worst sufferers of the extended lockdown. Niranjan Poddar, president of Automotive and General Traders Welfare Association of Mori Gate, suggested that wholesale markets of agricultural implements be allowed to open as this would not only affect them, but also farmers as this is the harvesting time. Associated Chamber of Trade and Industry suggested that markets should be opened on odd-even basis and the timings could also be varied. Some traders, however, said that the odd-even formula should be applied to wholesalers and not retailers. Some associations suggested opening of markets with guidelines for masks, sanitisers and social distancing. “Many labourers have already left the city. If the markets are not allowed to open, the remaining workers will also leave,” said Brijesh Goyal, AAP trade wing convener. Traders Gurmeet Arora and Sandeep Bhardwaj said public transport and metro should be made operational, otherwise it will be extremely difficult for traders and labourers to reach shops. Almost all economic activities in the city have been shut for over 50 days. Though some relaxations were allowed in the first week of May, not all shops selling non-essential goods were allowed to open. “We are staring at a deep crisis, which will only get aggravated if the curbs are not lifted,” said a trader. The government fears that keeping economic activities frozen for a longer period will cause severe damage to businesses as well as livelihoods. Recently, Kejriwal had said that the novel coronavirus was here to stay and it was time that people learnt to live with it. He had added, “Delhi is ready for it.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/many-want-curbs-eased-in-city/articleshow/75727146.cms||AlokKNMishra
May 14, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Call to ensure social distancing in schools||VIJAYAWADA: The Andhra Pradesh Child Welfare Committee has asked the government to initiate social distance measures in schools and hostels for the safety of children. The committee wrote a letter to chief minister Y S Jaganmohan Reddy on Wednesday asking him to instruct the education department to have social distance measures in the light of Covid-19 pandemic. Committee Krishna district chairman B V S Kumar said schools and hostels should be reorganised to provide safe environment for students. He urged the chief minister to relook at classrooms and hostel rooms and ensure physical distance is maintained. The classroom benches should be reorganised with required gap between the students, he said and wanted the government to make use of this lockdown and the subsequent summer vacation to make these arrangements. The chairman said seating arrangements in school and college buses should ensure social distancing. He said hand wash facilities, masks, isolation facilities should be arranged at schools and hostels.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/call-to-ensure-social-distancing-in-schools/articleshow/75724742.cms||Gopi Dara
May 14, 2020||Dehradun||‘Corona Warriors’ app with interactive games, quizzes on Covid-19 launched||DEHRADUN: A mobile application made by State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) for training and creating awareness regarding Covid-19 in Uttarakhand was launched by chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on Wednesday. The application has dedicated sections for government employees involved in essential services such as police, anganwadi workers, sanitation personnel, drivers of essential services and general public to gain knowledge about the virus and ways to curb its spread. Besides, the app also has games and quizzes meant to educate people about Covid-19. People scoring high in games and quizzes will collect ‘immunity points’ and get vital information related to Covid-19, SDRF officials said. CM Rawat also inaugurated a web portal “Hope” (Helping Out People Everywhere) at the state secretariat on Wednesday. A communique from the CM’s office said that the main objective of this portal is to create a database of skilled and unskilled youth and to provide employment / self-employment opportunities based on the data base. “The ‘Hope’ portal will act as a bridge for skilled professional youth of Uttarakhand who are working in various states at present and want to get training through skill development department in Uttarakhand. The database of this portal will be used by all departments of the state and other employment providers to provide employment opportunities to youth,” the communique said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/corona-warriors-app-with-interactive-games-quizzes-on-covid-19-launched/articleshow/75724761.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Dehradun||U’khand HC directs state and Centre to explore possibilities of testing migrants before they enter state||Nainital: Pointing out that thermal screening is not enough to check the spread of Covid-19, Uttarakhand high court (HC) on Wednesday asked the Centre as well as the state government to inform whether antigen or any other test can be performed on migrants returning to the state. The HC also ordered the state government to provide all facilities such as food, shelter and medicines to migrant workers living in 49 shelters across the state while also saying that the people who want to leave Uttarakhand should be provided free transport and passage. The directions came from the bench of Justice Sudhanshu Dhulia and Justice Ravindra Maithani while hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) which highlighted the plight of migrant workers living in Uttarakhand as well as the people of the state stuck elsewhere who want to come back. On Tuesday – while hearing the same PIL -- the court had held that though migrants have the right to move freely but “in these strange and difficult times, reasonable restrictions must be imposed…” The court had also explained the rationale for conducting tests before allowing people to enter by saying that it was both for their own safety and of the people living in the state. “We make it very clear that those who wish to come to Uttarakhand cannot be shown the shutters. It is their right to move freely anywhere. Yet in these strange and difficult times, reasonable restrictions must be imposed, for the safety of those who enter Uttarakhand as well as for the safety of those presently residing in Uttarakhand.” On Wednesday, the court said that it is seeking a “definite reply” from both the Centre and the state government on the possibility “whether antigen tests, or any other rapid test, can be performed on such persons because even interior areas such as Uttarkashi and Almora are reporting Covid-19 positive cases.” The court further directed the District Legal Services Authorities to “co-ordinate and co-operate” with the district administration for management of rehabilitation centres by their para-legal volunteers. The bench which was hearing the case through video conferencing has given both the Centre and the state two days to file their replies. The court added that since difficulties are being faced in holding the court through video conferencing, the next hearing will be held in an open court at the HC premises.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-hc-directs-state-and-centre-to-explore-possibilities-of-testing-migrants-before-they-enter-state/articleshow/75723330.cms||Prashant Jha
May 14, 2020||Goa||KTC to pick up 60 nursing students||Panaji: Sixty nursing students from Goa, stranded in Karnataka’s Gadag district, will be brought back home after over a month due to the Covid-19 lockdown. Kadamba Transport Corporation limited (KTC) had earlier sent five buses to Gadagto drop people who were stranded in Goa due to the lockdown. Three of those buses will further venture to Ghataprabha, from where Goan students studying at nursing institutes will be ferried back home. “These students were stuck in the area due to the lockdown, and have appealed to (us to) shuttle them back home. Following the procedure of permissions from district collectors, we have made arrangements to pick them up on the way back,” said KTC managing director Venancio Furtado. In addition to this, the other two buses are returning to Goa via the Hubbali-Belagavi route. On the way, they too will pick up stranded Goans who have permission to travel. “The buses will halt at the Peeranwadi junction to pick up these stranded people,” said Furtado. While Gadag falls under Karnataka’s green zones, Belagavi is in the red zone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ktc-to-pick-up-60-nursing-students/articleshow/75727141.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Goa||12 smart kiosks for random Covid-19 screening in Goa||PANAJI: To ramp up testing for Covid-19, 12 walk-in sample collection kiosks have been erected across the state for random population-based screening. They have been set up by the Goa government with assistance from Wipro GE Healthcare as part of its corporate social responsibility (CSR) and have begun operations at industrial estates in Verna and Mapusa, and at border locations in Dodamarg, Keri and Patradevi. Health minister Vishwajit Rane said the smart kiosks have been introduced to ensure the safety of both, healthcare staff and other citizens. “They will go a long way in controlling the spread of of Covid-19 in Goa,” he said. The smart kiosks comprise two enclosures, one for the citizen and the other for the healthcare staff. They are separated by a see-through, airtight partition. Both enclosures have separate entries, lighting and ventilation arrangements and a microphone and speaker for communication between the healthcare worker and the citizen. The partition holds a pair of replaceable gloves and a sanitising gel dispenser to enable safe sample collections. A Wipro GE Healthcare official said an attendant — wearing protective gear — will first collect basic information about people coming in for the test, check travel history and ask whether he/she had come in a contact with a Covid-19 positive patient. Temperature is then taken and the information received is stored on an app. After this, the citizen will be provided with a kit (swab) to collect samples for testing. “They move to the sample collection enclosure where the healthcare worker — from a separate enclosure — collects the samples, hands it back to the person who puts in a vial, drops in an ice box and walks away. The kiosk is disinfected after every sample collection. “Doctors and healthcare workers getting infected with Covid-19 when passionately carrying out their duties is a disturbing and unfortunate fallout of the treatment process,” said Nalinikanth Gollagunta, MD at Wipro GE Healthcare.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/12-smart-kiosks-for-random-covid-19-screening-in-state/articleshow/75727137.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Nashik||Maharashtra: 24 cops, SRPF jawans contract Covid-19 infection||NASHIK: The number of security personnel testing positive for Covid-19 went up by 24 in Malegaon on Wednesday. The latest Covid-19 patients are from the Nashik rural police and State Reserve Police Force (SRPF). With this, the total police and SRPF personnel infected with coronavirus while performing their duties in Malegoan has crossed 130. Out of the 24 personnel, 16 are residents of Nashik city, attached to the rural police and performing their duty in Malegoan, said a release issued by the district administration. The others are six jawans of Jalna SRPF and two of Amravati SRPF. Teams of the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) have taken up the work of tracing the contacts of the personnel from the city and begun sealing the residential areas of the police personnel testing positive. Additional superintendent of police Sandeep Ghuge said one of the reason for the high infection is that the personnel are performing their duty in the containment zones. “We are taking all precautionary measures to ensure that the personnel do not catch the infection of the virus. All the personnel on duty have been given N-95 masks, santizers, PPE kit and other necessary services that would prevent them from catching the infection,” he said. Superintendent of police Arti Singh, who is staying in Malegoan for more than three weeks, is ensuring that police personnel on duty are provided with the best of facilities. A team of five officials and 25 policemen has been set up only to ensure to that police personnel on bandobast do not lack any facility.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/24-cops-srpf-jawans-contract-covid-19-infection/articleshow/75726031.cms||Santosh Sonawane
May 14, 2020||Madurai||Boy killed, two hurt in wall collapse in Ramnad||Ramanathapuram: A five-year-old boy was killed, while two others were injured after a wall collapsed on them. The incident took place in Ramanathapuram district on Wednesday. The deceased was identified as S Jabrirohit, elder son of Sureshkumar-Saranya couple from Gandhi Nagar in Ramanathapuram town. He was studying in a private school in the same locality. He, along with a few other boys including Manishkumar from same area were playing at a church in MSK Nagar. A wall, which was recently construction near the church collapsed and fell on the two boys. A 31-year-old woman, Pricilla, too suffered injuries. The three were rushed to Ramanathapuram government hospital, where doctors declared Jabrirohit as brought dead. Based on a complaint, a case was registered with the Ramanathapuram town police station. Manishkumar and Pricilla, who suffered injuries on their legs and head are undergoing treatment. Police said the town was witnessing moderate rain for the past two days and this could have weakened the wall.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/boy-killed-two-hurt-in-wall-collapse-in-ramnad/articleshow/75726759.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Coimbatore||Only time will tell if Covid-19 recurs in people: Varun Sundaramoorthy||On the day the last active Covid-19 patient was discharged from ESI Hospital, Pratiksha Ramkumar caught up with Dr Varun Sundaramoorthy, infectious diseases expert from Kovai Medical Center and Hospital, to talk about whether the district is free of novel coronavirus and its impact on the lives of people.How different is Covid-19 compared to H1N1 virus and common flu in terms of symptoms and behaviour?While symptoms are broadly similar, their onset is different. In the case of H1N1, symptoms include high fever, nasal congestion and severe fatigue. But in the case of Covid-19, symptoms progress gradually from a low fever, fatigue, nasal congestion to pneumonia in five to seven days in senior citizens or people with comorbidity. How is pneumonia caused by Covid-19 different from the one that follows H1N1 or common flu?Pneumonia could be caused by any viral or bacterial infection. When a patient with pneumonia shows up, we will not know which virus caused it. We will have to diagnose it based on clinical syndrome while running tests. Whether to start antiviral, antibiotic or both depends on the severity of problem and clinical syndrome of the patient. We have specific antivirals for treating influenza. However, there is no definitive treatment options for Covid-19 for now. Randomised control trials are coming up with the best possible treatment options. What are the consequences of children getting infected?Infected children would have low fever, fatiguability and throat pain. Other symptoms include diarrhoea and conjunctivitis. Compared to adolescents, chances of children developing complications due to the infection is lesser. There are multiple reasons for this. One of them is that most of them remain asymptomatic or have milder infections. Then, the number of ACE-2 receptor to which Covid-19 virus binds to enter human cells is not well expressed in children. Another reason is that Bacille Calmette-Guérin (BCG) vaccination has some protective effect, which needs further study. Should children prone to wheezing be protected more?Children with a history of asthma or wheezing, if infected and develop symptoms, need to be hospitalized. This is because post viral encounters, the normal mucosal barrier, which restrains microorganisms from invading, could be breached due to non-specific inflammation. This would result in invasion and disease due to secondary bacterial infection from the community and may progress to pneumonia/sepsis and multi organ dysfunction. Also, children with wheezing who requires nebulization, which if done at houses, could easily infect caregivers because their respiratory droplets will remain in the air for longer. Caregivers need to follow precautions like wearing proper N 95 masks, physical distancing and proper hand hygiene. If symptomatic patients get some other illness, will it take them longer to recover?Definitely yes. Patients on steroids for long or immunosuppressants for other health conditions and those suffering from heart, kidney lung and liver problems, among others, if infected, will take longer time to recover, because they are vulnerable and may develop complications. If patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) or other lung issues get infected, they might also develop complications like respiratory failure. They may then require ICU care. Why are people in their 50s in India dying of Covid-19? It is again because of comorbid conditions like heart diseases, COPD and diabetes that are common among the Indians in this age group. We call them vulnerable, especially if the primary disease is in poor control. In that case, there is a fair chance of them developing complications like respiratory failure, cardiac rhythm abnormality, decreased cardiac pumping ability, stroke and coagulation problems, leading to mortality. This is because diffusion of oxygen into blood is compromised resulting in hypoxia, which in turn affects hemodynamics and causes organ dysfunction. However, those without comorbidity generally recovers in a week or two. Those with complications might take three to six weeks to recover. Is Covid-19 a mutating virus? Any chances of it becoming less lethal?From the 82 strains from India that were studied at the Commonwealth Industrial and Research Organization in Australia by Indian born researcher Dr Vasan, 50 were mutated ones. Strains with D614G mutation seem very contagious and most prevalent among the mutated strains. However, studies on its behaviour is yet to come. And among the 7,000 strains from across the world, two-thirds had D614G mutation. As it is a slow mutating virus, it will take years to evolve into a newer strain unlike influenza because of its ability to proofread and correct the mistakes in the genome while replicating. Can covid-19 recur in people who have already developed antibodies to it?Unlike H1N1, which could easily shift its genomic sequence prone for mutations as it does not have proofreading capacity, SARS CoV-2 has a viral protein (RNA dependant RNA polymerase) that proofreads while replicating genomes and are able to fix some mistakes. Hence, the chance of a complete mutation is less likely. However, it may pick up some mutation over the years that might help to evade our immune system. But studies on it and the effectiveness of antibodies in prevention of reinfection are yet to commence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/only-time-will-tell-if-covid-19-recurs-in-people-varun-sundaramoorthy/articleshow/75726770.cms||---
May 14, 2020||India||Most Shramik trains from Gujarat, Punjab and Telangana||NEW DELHI: Over eight lakh stranded migrant workers, students and tourists had taken Shramik Special trains till Wednesday evening with 642 trains with 7.8 lakh passenegers of the total 690 trains run so far reaching their destinations, rialway ministry officials said. Uttar Pradesh was the destination for 301 trains, followed by Bihar (169) and Madhya Pradesh (53). Maximum number of these special trains originated from Gujarat, Punjab and Telangana. Official data show while only four such trains started their journey on May 1 carrying 3,645 passengers, the number touched 101 by Tuesday with 1.43 lakh passengers, the highest number of travellers in the past thirteen days since the operation started. On Sunday, another 101 Shramik Specials had carried 1.22 lakh passengers. Officials said while some states like Maharashtra have high concentration of migrants in different pockets, the number of trains originating from the state has been less as compared to others. “There are several issues including more containment zones in the state. There have also been issues with the West Bengal government not taking interest to send or receive such trains,” said a source. Till Wednesday morning, three trains had terminated in Maharashtra and seven in West Bengal. The railways run these trains only after receiving concurrence from both the originating and destination states.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/most-shramik-trains-from-gujarat-punjab-and-telangana/articleshow/75728205.cms||Dipak K Dash
May 14, 2020||Delhi||Bored games! Dice loaded against going out, Ludo sees second coming||NEW DELHI: In the nearly four decades that he has been managing his family’s century-old stationery wholesale business in the Walled City’s Khari Baoli, Satendra Pratap Garg hasn’t ever sold a non-staple as he is now doing the Ludo board game. There is a sudden demand for Ludo of all sizes, foldable or rigid, handcrafted or machine-made, cardboard or plastic. But 70-year-old Garg, owner of Ramesh Chand and Co, is not the only one handing out the game to enthusiastic buyers. “After the Covid lockdown, when only kirana stores were allowed to open, people came asking us whether we had Ludo,” said Mahendra Kumar, a grocery store owner in east Delhi’s Shahdara. “The some I managed to get were lapped up immediately.” With the nation locked down by the novel coronavirus, families have perhaps never spent as much time together as they have since March 25. To add variety to television or the internet, home-bound citizens have fallen back on the old-world pastimes of Ludo, chess, Snakes and Ladders, Scrabble, carrom and, of course, playing cards. Manufacturers, however, are unable to meet this demand because production is hampered by lack of manpower and raw materials. For many of this generation, the lockdown was also the opportunity to learn how to play these games. Though available online, these were all but forgotten in their physical formats. But the latter is eminently suitable for a family than the mobile phone version. “Smartphones may have made life comfortable, but they have disrupted family time,” said voiceover artist Manvi Kukjreja. Nostalgically recalling the days she played Ludo or carrom with her parents at her Rohini home, she and her husband, Amit Nanchahal, an MNC executive, introduced son Kabir to Ludo, carrom and Amit’s childhood favourite, Monopoly, during the lockdown. “It’s been years since we engaged in these activities as a family,” said Kukreja. “I don’t remember the last time my parents and my son sat together without a smartphone and enjoyed such precious moments.” Mayur Vihar Phase I resident Sanjay Bhargava was also happy to be transported to the old times. “I can see families in my neighbourhood playing Ludo and other games on terraces. It is good that old things are being revived and bringing families together,” he said. Business instinct has led many grocers to start stocking such board games. Garg’s main customers, earlier toy stores, are today grocery shops and stationers. “The demand is phenomenal. Our stock of cardboard games was the first to sell out, followed by the plastic ones. These days people are settling even for Ludo printed on thick paper,” said Garg. Old stock of board games, slightly damaged sets, or just the accessories — like the Ludo dice and counters — are all flying off the shelves. Carrom and playing cards are popular too, but board games allow the entire family to play together. That is why, Devraj Baweja of the Confederation of Sadar Bazar Traders’ Association, says shops have exhausted their stocks of these games. “There is a huge demand for these but absolutely no supply from the manufacturers,” said Baweja. “Most board games and playing cards are manufactured in the city and in Mumbai, but due to lockdown, there has been no production.” He added that carrom — boards and carrom men — usually come from Jalandhar and Meerut. Manufacturers claimed they were unable to resume manufacturing because of paucity of manpower and raw materials. “The demand is nothing like we have seen before, but there is no way we can meet it. Making board games and carrom boards is labour intensive, and we don’t have workers in Delhi at the moment,” said Azimuddin of AD Glass Works, which other than glass items specialises in manufacturing board games and carrom boards. Non-essential raw materials have not been coming to Delhi from other states, he said, and manufacturers don’t have enough stocks to resume work.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/bored-games-dice-loaded-against-going-out-ludo-sees-second-coming/articleshow/75727159.cms||Sidharatha Roy
May 14, 2020||Mysuru||FAIFA appeals for relief package for tobacco farmers||MYSURU: The Federation of All India Farmer Associations (FAIFA), a non-profit organisation representing the cause of millions of farmers and farm workers of commercial crops across the states of Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Karnataka and Gujarat on Monday urged the Central government to come out with special relief package, incentives, subsidies, loan facilities to save the livelihood of tobacco growers in the present pandemic as the demand for the crop has weakened during the lockdown. FAIFA said an urgent rescue package measures is required as tobacco crop worth Rs 4,400 crore is lying unsold in tobacco growing states. The Centre must immediately sanction a compensation amount of Rs 25,000 to each registered tobacco grower for their survival and re-schedule the crop loans, the federation said. Failure to revive demand for tobacco products results in significant price drop in auctions and causes loss to farmer’s income which will have devastating impact on livelihoods of small and marginal farmers, particularly the drought-prone and degraded tracts of Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh depending on income from tobacco crops, it added further. The federation also appealed for temporary reduction of taxes on cigarettes as flue-cured virginia (FCV) tobacco demand has drastically fallen under prolonged lockdowns. FAIFA has also demanded for a comprehensive FCV Tobacco Production plan for 2020-21 and promote Indian exports at international level using the available opportunity. “We request the government to immediately start the auctions in all the tobacco bidding platforms. The government should also direct the Tobacco Board and other bodies/officials to coordinate with FCV Tobacco manufacturers, exporters and traders to facilitate reasonable prices at the auctions in Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka,” said Javare Gowda, president of FAIFA. FAIFA general secretary Murali Babu urged Union finance minister Nirmala Sithraman to direct Reserve Bank of India (RBI) and the State Level Bankers’ Committee to reschedule the crop loans for next 2-3 seasons and allow the farmers to repay the loan amounts in tranches of 30% each per season while continuing to sanction the regular seasonal loans.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/faifa-appeals-for-relief-package-for-tobacco-farmers/articleshow/75724802.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Visakhapatnam: Meghadri Gedda water safe, says report||VISAKHAPATNAM: In a major relief tests have proved that the water in Meghadri Gedda is safe. Following the styrene leak from LG Polymers plant on May 7 there were apprehensions that the water of the reservoir was contaminated. Officials from the water supply management department of the Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation stated, following GVMC’s request the regional water testing laboratory had collected water sample from the reservoir on four consecutive days and the result showed that has not been contaminated by the gas. Even the pollution control board had conducted a test, which too suggested that water is safe. “Although the test report of the pollution control board (PCB) is yet to be published officially, the team who conducted the test found nothing dangerous in the water. GVMC had earlier stated the first report had claimed that the water is safe,” said a GVMC official. On May 10, in a meeting with the high level committee, city environmentalists had expressed their apprehensions that the Meghadri Gedda and Mudasarlova reservoirs and even the water body inside Kambalakonda Wildlife Sanctuary had been affected by the gas leak. “Considering the general wind velocity of Visakhapatnam such gas leak incident can have an adverse effect on areas within a radius of five to 10 kms. These places are well within the 10 km radius and the effect on the two reservoirs and the flora and fauna of the sanctuary is yet to be ascertained,” JV Ratnam from Green Climate NGO told TOI. Although the GVMC has ruled out possibilities of commination at Mudasarlova reservoir, it had stopped water supply from the reservoir with immediate effect. “For the last few days we were supplying water from Mudasarlova, Yeleru and Tatipudi reservoirs. Once we get the report of the PCB we will resume water supply from Meghadri Gedda reservoir,” the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/meghadri-gedda-water-safe-says-report/articleshow/75724789.cms||Arpit Basu
May 14, 2020||Delhi||Delhi cops look at technology to check photo leaks, child porn||NEW DELHI: To prevent private photos from being leaked online, like it happened in the “Bois Locker Room” case, or images being used in child pornography, Delhi Police is procuring technology that can scan and filter out “illicit images” on a suspect’s computer. The software will help police nail paedophiles, former lovers uploading revenge porn, and sex criminals using photos and videos to blackmail people. “It detects and analyses faces, flesh tone, shapes and curves, but leaves no trace of use. This makes it immensely useful in a case requiring secrecy, for instance a honeytrap probe,” said an officer. Sources said the software can scan computers for porn images, videos and chats, even if these have been deleted. “After investigation and securing evidence, the technology will permanently delete the images and videos so that they can’t be recovered again and ensure privacy of the victim,” the officer added. The system will have a blurred picture viewer to stop policemen from seeing unwanted illicit images or pornography. Delhi Police has gone on the offensive to curb child pornography. Recently, it launched a dedicated campaign called “Operation Masoom (Mitigation of Adolescent Sexually Offensive Online Material)”, to act against sexually offensive content involving children being circulated online. In a crackdown on circulation of such content, Cyber Cell recently registered multiple cases and arrested people involved in child pornography in Delhi. As part of an international proactive monitoring collaboration against child pornography, Delhi Police has begun receiving technical inputs from social media giants and instant messaging platforms, such as Facebook. The cyber tips are collated by an international forum called National Centre for Missing and Exploited Children and shared with Delhi Police as per the digital trail of the sexual offender. Acting on such tips, police develop the digital trail of the sexual predators and perverts. “This tech will help us in technical investigation and nailing cyber criminals who use technology to hide their trail on electronics devices,” added the officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cops-look-at-tech-to-check-photo-leaks-child-porn/articleshow/75727163.cms||Raj Shekhar
May 14, 2020||Dehradun||For many migrants, homecoming to village more painful than being stranded in cities||DEHRADUN: Taboos, misinformation and apprehension related to Covid-19 has made homecoming painful for many villagers in the hills. Take the case of Vijendra Dangwal for instance. Coming back to his home in Tehri’s Bagyan village a few days ago from Delhi after his father passed away, Dangwal was met with a hostile reception by his fellow villagers since he had come from a ‘red zone.’ “When I reached the village, the pradhan as well as others in the village didn’t allow me to enter inside to participate in the the last rites of my father as I was coming from a red zone and they feared I might be infected although I had been allowed to proceed to the village only after screening,” said Dangwal while talking to TOI over phone. “When I insisted that I be allowed, some of the villagers got so angry that they threatened that there would not even be four people to give shoulder to my father’s bier if I did not relent,” he added. However, after his repeated pleas to let him take a last look at his father, the villagers agreed to bring his father’s body up to a point from where he could see him from a distance. “Subsequently, along with my 10-year-old son and wife, I was placed in quarantine at a village school. My mother comes to give me food, but even in this time of grief, I can neither hug her nor console her,” he said. Naresh Kotiyal, pradhan of the village, when contacted by TOI, alleged that Dangwal wasn’t ready to be quarantined due to which he entered into arguments with authorities. Denying allegations that Dangwal wasn’t allowed for the cremation, Kotiyal said, “As a pradhan, I have to take care of everyone in the village. People in the village are afraid of those coming from cities. I have sympathy with the family but the situation became unpleasant because Dangwal wasn’t ready to follow the rules.” In another instance, a woman, Kavita Rawat and her two children, were forced to walk 15 km in heavy rain through a forest area inhabited by leopards and other wild animals to reach their village in Pauri Garhwal, because no taxi driver was ready to take them home as they were returning from Gurgaon, again a red zone area. Jaspal Singh Rawat, Kavita's husband, who is still in Gurgaon, told TOI over phone that he had sent his wife and kids back to his village Kameda in Nainidada block of Pauri a few days ago thinking that they might be safer there. “I put my wife and kids, one 13 and the other 10, in a bus to Dehradun. After reaching Dehradun, they were put in another bus to Pauri by the administration. The bus dropped my family at a point around 15 km from my home. The children were hungry and thirsty. They tried to buy snacks from a shop at the bus stop but the shopkeepers refused to sell them anything since they were apprehensive to take money from them, fearing it might be infected as they were coming from a red zone area,” Rawat alleged. He added that he told his brother in the village to get a taxi arranged for his family but no one was willing to come, “even when I said that I will pay double.” “Finally, my wife and children were forced to walk to the village with their luggage amidst pouring rain, crossing a jungle area that was infested with wild animals.” Anand Swaroop, pradhan of Kameda when queried about the incident, told TOI that “it was unfortunate” but “many villagers are scared since there has been a spike in cases since migrants started coming back.” State government spokesperson Madan Kaushik meanwhile reacting to the incidents, said, “We are constantly trying to create awareness among people. If villagers are found ostracising people coming back home, strict action will be taken against them.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/for-many-migrants-homecoming-to-village-more-painful-than-being-stranded-in-cities/articleshow/75724792.cms||Ishita Mishra
May 14, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Visakhapatnam: Parents refuse Rs 25,000 ex gratia, want Rs 1 lakh||VISAKHAPATNAM: Around 30 child victims of LG Polymers styrene leak, who were being treated at King George Hospital (KGH), are all set for discharge but their parents are refusing to take the children back, saying the government has given them only Rs 25,000 as compensation, and not Rs 1 lakh as promised. G Hymavathi, chairperson of state commission for protection of child rights (SCPCR), visited KGH on Wednesday along with child rights activists and district child protection officer (DCPO) and interacted with the children and their parents. They also met residents of RR Venkatapuram village. “The parents want a long-term health care insurance coverage for their children till they become adults. It should be separate from Aarogyasri. Hopefully, the children will get the compensation their parents are asking for,” Hymavathi said. Child rights activist Abdul Raqueeb, who is also a panel advocate of juvenile justice board, also interacted with the children at KGH. “The government should pay the premium for a long-term insurance policy for these affected children, their parents should be given nutrition packages, and the children should also be provided free education till college,” he said. DCPO A Satyanarayana said the parents and children have been counselled about health and nutrition, usage of masks and told to report to nearest health centre in case of any issues. “We also told the doctors at KGH that if some parents are undergoing treatment and there is nobody to take care of the children, we can shelter them till their parents recover,” Satyanarayana said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/parents-refuse-rs-25k-ex-gratia-want-rs-1l/articleshow/75724839.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Goa||We have been ‘abandoned’, say Goans in UAE||Panaji: After finding that Goa doesn’t feature in the second phase of the Vande Bharat mission, Goans in the UAE have appealed to the Prime Minister and chief minister to assist them back home safely. In a letter expressing “sheer desperation and absolute hopelessness” the Goans in the UAE say they have been abandoned and orphaned by their own country in difficult times. “To make it worse there has been no comforting message from any of you to even update us on what is happening regarding our return. We have Goans who have come on holidays and are stranded, people who have fallen sick, pregnant women, children and some of us without valid visa and proper place to stay too. It is depressing to hear from other members on daily basis how each one of us here in UAE are literally surviving minute by minute,” they stated in their mail. The Goans in the UAE added that most have lost jobs two months back due to Covid-19 and are struggling to survive . “...We have been abandoned and orphaned by our own country and its leaders in this tough time. Till date whatever communication we have done with various departments in Goa have been in vain with no replies at all ,” the letter stated. The group consist of pregnant women, senior citizens and those with health issues among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/we-have-been-abandoned-say-goans-in-uae/articleshow/75727155.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Visakhapatnam||10 migrant workers cycling their way from Vij to Odisha||Visakhapatnam: Tired of the long wait, a group 10 migrant workers from Odisha, who worked in hotels in Vijayawada, decided to cycle their way home. “We reached the conclusion that there was no point in staying back in Vijayawada after the lockdown was extended. So we decided to leave. All of us have ageing parents at home, we have to return to them” said Subhrantha Panda, who came up with the idea to buy second-hand cycles. Panda said the lack of regular means of transport has created a demand for second- hand cycles in Vijayawada and neighbouring areas, where many migrant workers are stuck. He and his group bought their cycles from a dealer for Rs 20,000, which they pooled. He lived close to the hotel where he worked. Braving the heat, the group of 10 from Jhankeshwar (Jagatsinghpur district) set upon their long journey, almost 850kms on May 11 evening and have been on the road since. On Wednesday they reached Visakhapatnam. One of the group members, Badal said, “Our main worry was finding food and water. However, a number of kind-hearted strangers came to our aid. They provided us with much-needed nourishment. In many places, policemen on duty were kind enough to share with us their food packets and water, which were given to them by local people. So far the journey has been tough but not rough.” However, the one problem the group is facing is that their phones are running out of charge, “We are seeking the help of locals, especially, those working in petrol bunks to keep our phone batteries charged.” The petrol bunks are also supplying the group with drinking water. Keeping the scorching summer heat in mind, the group cycles from 0400 am to 1200 pm and again from 0400 pm in the evening to late in the night. As for finding a place to sleep, the youngsters are making do with bus shelters and open heaths. They are, however, worried about their fate and fear that they would either get stuck at a the border or end up in quarantine shelter far away from home.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/10-migrant-workers-cycling-their-way-from-vij-to-odisha/articleshow/75724851.cms||Venkatesh Bayya
May 14, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Power bills to be explained, says energy department||VIJAYAWADA: The energy department has decided to write letters to all 1.45 crore consumers in the state to dispel misconception on electricity bills generated for March and April. The electricity department has drawn flak after issuing electricity bills for two months together as no bills were issued for consumption in March due to the lockdown. Following public outrage, the state government deferred the due date to pay bills till June 30 without late fee or disconnection of service. The energy department has calculated the bills based on two tariff orders. While the bill for March was calculated according to the old tariff order, the April bill was calculated according to the new order that decides the slab on a dynamic basis based on consumption. In a bid to dispel the doubts, energy secretary Srikant Nagulapalli has asked discoms to put consumption details of all consumers for the past two years on their respective websites for ready reference. Srikant also directed the officials to conduct random checking of electricity bills. Srikant also directed the officials to send SMS to all 1.45 crore consumers giving details about their power bills. Officials told Srikant in a teleconference on Wednesday that there has been an increase in power consumption in domestic sector because of the lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/power-bills-to-be-explained-energy-dept/articleshow/75724836.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Bareilly||Shelter in-charges trade allegations after rescued cattle found dead in a heap||Pilibhit: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath’s ambitious plan of rescuing stray cows and lodging them in shelter homes that provide shelter, food and drinking water appeared laid to waste in the district, when villagers of Bhara Pachpeda under Amaria tehsil found dozens of cows lying dead near a state-sponsored cow shelter in their village.Taking serious cognisance of the issue, district magistrate Vaibhav Shrivastav ordered a probe under officiating chief veterinary officer (CVO) Dr Ahilesh Kumar Garg.Ranjit Singh, in-charge of the cow shelter at Bhara Pachpeda, said most of the cows were brought dead from a Barkhera-based cow shelter, while the rest were extremely feeble and almost dying.He said in view of their condition, he had declined to keep these cows in his shelter, adding that by then, some of the cows collapsed and died, after which, their bodies were dumped by a hydraulic trailer in a heap next to the road near the cow shelter, Singh added.According to CVO Garg, Barkhera town area committee had shifted 40 cows from a cow shelter in town to Bhara Pachpeda, as their shelter had become overcrowded. Following the DM’s order, he said he will probe the matter carefully.Executive officer of Barkhera town area committee, R K Chaube, could not be reached. Head clerk of his office, Nafees Ahmad, denied that any dying cow had been sent to Bhara Pachpeda on hydraulic trailer.However, workers of Hindu Yuva Vahini alleged Chaube had sent the dead and dying cows from Barkhera to save his skin, after they had sent a report with photographic evidence on the shelter, to the CM a fortnight ago.DM Shrivastav said the matter was serious, that he was waiting for the inquiry report. “I’ll ensure stringent legal action against whosoever found guilty for the wretched condition and deaths of cows.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/shelter-in-charges-trade-allegations-after-rescued-cattle-found-dead-in-a-heap/articleshow/75704383.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Coimbatore||Mill workers seek reopening of units||COIMBATORE: A group of textile mill workers staged a protest in the city on Wednesday demanding reopening of the units and payment of pending wages. The protesters affiliated to CITU said though several industries in urban as well as rural areas have been opened, there was no announcement yet on reopening of textile mills. There were five mills under National Textile Corporation, a central government entity, in Coimbatore, they said. These mills employ more than 1,000 workers, both permanent and contract. While contract workers have been rendered without livelihood for the past 50 days due to the lockdown, the permanent workers too have their cup of woes brimming. They alleged that salary has not been paid for the month of April. NTC authorities pacified the protesters and held talks. The management representatives have assured that the pending salary would be settled immediately. As for the reopening of mills, the demand of the workers would be conveyed to the centre, they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/mill-workers-seek-reopening-of-units/articleshow/75726781.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Nashik||37 people booked for not wearing masks||Nashik: The Nashik city police booked 37 people on Tuesday for violating lockdown norms and stepping out of their homes without wearing a face mask. They have been booked under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code IPC), said police. With this, the total number of people booked for not wearing masks in the city has reached 1,280. Police said that ever since the lockdown was announced on March 22, they are taking strict action against people for not wearing masks in public places. Meanwhile, in the last one week, there has been certain relaxation in the lockdown norms with many shops allowed to operate in the city. As a result, the number of people on roads has also increased, said police, adding that they have step up their measures to ensure that the spread of Covid-19 is prevented. Police said that it is essential for people to understand the importance of staying indoors, especially at a time when Covid-19 infection is rapidly spreading across the country. Also, staying indoors means curbing community spread of virus, said police officials. In addition to booking people for not wearing face masks, police have also undertaken various other measures such as taking action against motorists for violating traffic norms. Between March 25 and May 11, police have slapped motorists with a fine of Rs 23.15 lakh. Between March 22 and May 12, police have booked around 5,550 people under Section 188 of the IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/37-people-booked-for-not-wearing-masks/articleshow/75726096.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Salem||Staying in quarantine in Karnataka a costly affair||SALEM: Karnataka is apparently making a killing off people who are returning to resume their work by charging a hefty amount from them for the 14-day mandatory institutional quarantine. On offer are three categories of facilities that are priced at Rs 5,900, Rs 2,500 and Rs 1,400 per day for twin occupancy. Without knowing this, many people from neighbouring Tamil Nadu and Kerala are returning to the state to rejoin their firms. Like many others, 27-year-old S Karthik didn’t know what was awaiting him when he headed to Bengaluru with his wife, two children and parents from Tiruchengode in Namakkal district on Tuesday. At the border, they were stopped by Karnataka police officials, who explained to them about the 14-day compulsory institutional quarantine and facilities available for the same. Karthik said, “They said the facility with the best in class amenities will cost Rs 5,900 per couple a day, while the next category was priced at Rs 2,500 per couple. There are ordinary facilities as well for which one has to shell out Rs 1,400 a day for twin occupancy.” Single occupancy is also available in all the three categories, with a marginal price difference. Karthik said he had to send back other members of the family as he couldn’t afford to spend lakhs of rupees for the 14-day quarantine. “I am put up in an ordinary facility near Attibele, the entry town of Karnataka. I have paid Rs 16,800 for my stay. Even if I test negative for Covid-19, I have to be in quarantine for 14 days.” George Joseph, of Thrissur in Kerala, also faced a similar situation. He was asked to return to work by his Bengaluru-based firm. He too had to send his family back to Thrissur when he learned about the quarantine conditions. “When I informed my employers, they promised to reimburse the expenses. I have opted for the second category of facility.” Dr Ravikumar Surpur, special commissioner for projects and health, Karnataka government, said they have fixed the rates for quarantine facilities for inter-state passengers in consultation with the deputy commissioner of Bengaluru urban. “We have been keeping international passengers under institutional quarantine for 14 days. Now, we have extended it to inter-state passengers, who will be provided rooms in hotels based on their choice.” Pointing out that Tamil Nadu government had turned educational institutions into institutional quarantine facilities, a senior officer attached to Attibele police station said, “In Karnataka, we are providing star and non-star category hotels.” N Ramachandran, president, Kannada-Tamil Harmony and Social Welfare Trust, said nearly 40% of IT workforce in Karnataka was from Tamil Nadu and Kerala. “They are not aware of the quarantine model in Karnataka. Hundreds of them are stranded on Karnataka-Tamil Nadu border in Jujuwadi near Hosur, despite having e-passes issued by both the states.” Kavyasri Madhavan, 38, a beautician from Madurai, said she was stuck in Jujuwadi without knowing where to go. She is employed with a beauty parlour in Bengaluru. “I did not know about the compulsory institutional quarantine. And I don’t have enough money to either spend on it or for a taxi to go back home. I have asked my relative to deposit some amount to my bank account to pay for the taxi.” Hariharasudan Anandaswaroop, a businessman from Salem city, said he was also forced to remain in 14-day quarantine while he was returning to his hometown from Bengaluru on Tuesday with necessary travel passes. “Police officials stopped me at Attibele. I argued with them for nearly an hour following which they allowed me to cross the border after getting a written undertaking from me that I would remain in home quarantine for 14 days,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/staying-in-quarantine-in-ktaka-a-costly-affair/articleshow/75726793.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Akhil Ennamsetty, first Telugu to donate his plasma for trials||VISAKHAPATNAM: After the Indian Council of Medical Research approved convalescent plasma therapy trials to assess its effectiveness in treating Covid-19, Akhil Ennamsetty, a Covid survivor from Warangal became the first person from the Telugu states to donate plasma. Speaking to TOI, Ennamsetty who is pursuing his PG in Human Rights Law from University of Edinburgh, Scotland, said, “I hope to save lives by donating my blood to treat other patients. I had consented to donate plasma on April 2. I thought that it was my call of duty and responsibility to contribute to the society during the pandemic.” On being asked about the misconceptions about donating blood and stigma surrounding particpation in medical research, Ennamsetty said, “After donating plasma two days ago, I started calling other survivors requesting them to donate. However, I was appalled by their answers. Most of them were unwilling to help. There are still a lot of myths surrounding plasma donation, hence my goal is to dispel the myths and encourage people to donate their blood.” The 24-year-old added, “Around 500 ml of plasma was collected from my blood at Gandhi Hospital, Hyderabad. I have told doctors that I would volunteer for medical research on Covid-19.” It takes around three hours for a person to donate his/her plasma. Before collection, a blood sample is taken for investigation to ensure that the plasma from it does not pose any risk to the recipient patient. Once it gets the green light, the donor’s blood is passed through a processor called apheresis machine, which separates the blood from plasma. While the plasma is collected in a bag, the remaining blood is redirected to the donor’s body. An alumna of AMC, Dr Madhavi shares her insights:Sharing insights about plasma therapy, Dr Madhavi Gorusu, hematologist and president of Connecticut Association of Physicians of Indian Origin, said, “Possible mechanism of action by which this passive antibody therapy would mediate protection is viral neutralisation. Other possible pathways are antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity and/or phagocytosis.” Dr. Madhavi GorusuDr Madhavi, who is an alumnus of Andhra Medical College, said, in a recent discussion, it was pointed out that for all cases where convalescent serum administration is considered, a risk benefit assessment must be conducted to assess individual risk versus benefit. The doctor, said, "SARS1 in 2003 and Middle East respiratory syndrome (MERS) in 2012 were epidemics when this treatment was used. The SARS1 epidemic was contained, but MERS became endemic in the Middle East and triggered a secondary major outbreak in South Korea. In both outbreaks, the high mortality and absence of effective therapies led to the use of convalescent serum. Only few details are available from the epidemic in China and published studies involved small numbers of COVID-19 patients. The available information suggests that convalescent serum administration reduced viral load and was safe, although data is limited. “For passive antibody therapy to be effective, enough antibody must be administered. When given to a susceptible person, this antibody will circulate in the blood, reach tissues, and provide protection against infection,” she said while speaking to TOI. A comprehensive discussion of issues of convalescent plasma procurement, administration, infectious disease input through a webinar was recently organised by American Association of Physicians of Indian origin. Dr P V Sudhakar, Principal of Andhra Medical College (AMC) who participated in the webinar, said, “The designated plasma donation collections centre will ask donors to fill the questionnaire about diagnosis, symptoms recovery, time period etc.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/akhil-ennamsetty-first-telugu-to-donate-his-plasma-for-trials/articleshow/75724867.cms||Reshma Jain
May 14, 2020||Nagpur||Row over NMC’s mega quarantine centre near Kalmeshwar, media banned||Nagpur: A controversy has broken out over the Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s (NMC) ambitious plan to start a mega quarantine centre on 190 acre land of a religious group near Kalmeshwar. On Wednesday, deputy mayor Manisha Kothe, NMC standing committee chairman Pintu Zalke and health committee chairman Virendra Kukreja visited the spot. Later, district guardian minister Nitin Raut too visited the facility. The NMC administration claims to have set up around 5,000 beds, and made it ready for use, though no suspect has yet been shifted there. TOI too visited the venue but police deployed at the entrance said entry has been banned for media by the civic chief. This correspondent found that half of the structure — a sprawling shed stretching over 100 metres — still houses construction material and heavy lifting equipment. TOI couldn’t independently confirm the arrangements in the rest of the structure. The claims by NMC also seem to be in contravention of the guidelines issued by ministry of family health and welfare (MoFHW). As per the norms, quarantine centres must have rooms or dormitories separated from one another, with in-house capacity of 5 or 10 beds or rooms. However, this shed is open from all sides. After the showers on Wednesday night, NMC sources said water had entered the shed at many places. The shed may also expose inmates to intense heat as the summer temperature soars later this month. No thought for recreation too has been given though norms prescribe it. Toilets, bathrooms and taps too are for common use, which may increase risk of infection spreading among suspects quarantined here. In a press release, NMC refuted the claims that arrangements made at the upcoming centre were not in place, though it didn’t issue any fresh photographs or allow media to visit the premises. After his visit in the afternoon, NMC standing committee chairman Vijay Zalke said he has made several suggestions as per central government guidelines. “On coming back, I held a meeting with NMC chief medical officer (health) Dr Yogendra Savai and engineers. I told them to follow central government guidelines and they assured me that the instructions would be complied with,” Zalke said. Zalke said the arrangements seemed to be satisfactory but needed some improvements. Some of the suggestions Zalke made are in line with SOPs set out by MoFHW. NMC has created several blocks within the space frame structure. In one block, 200 positive persons will be kept. Zalke suggested there should be no mixing of positive persons with suspected patients. Washroom for positive patients too must be separate. Zalke said bedsheets and pillows, which were earlier kept on the beds have been removed. “Since there is no one there now, there is no need to leave them on,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/row-over-nmcs-mega-quarantine-centre-near-kalmeshwar-media-banned/articleshow/75726786.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
May 14, 2020||Delhi||Another corporation teacher tests positive, 4 others isolated||NEW DELHI: On Wednesday, another teacher from a primary school under South Delhi Municipal Corporation in Bindapur village, who was involved in distribution of ration in Uttam Nagar, tested positive for Covid-19. All four teachers working with him were asked to go into home quarantine and the concerned DSO was directed to take care of him and his family regarding their treatment, government officials said. When TOI contacted the teacher, he said that he got himself tested after he felt uncomfortable. “I went to work till May 9, but got myself tested when I started feeling pain in my hands and legs. The staff were not provided with proper safety kits at our centre, though the people turnout was low. Sanitiser was there but no gloves or masks were provided and we used to get masks from homes,” said the teacher. The civic body, however, said it had provided all safety gear to the staff on Covid-19 duty including masks, gloves and sanitisers. This was the fifth school in the past two weeks where a corporation teacher deputed for ration distribution was found to be Covid-positive. Three cases had been detected in north corporation schools, including one in Bhadola where a teacher died of Covid-19. The other two cases were at Teliwara in east and the recent one in Uttam Nagar, south Delhi. The report again increased worries of the teachers associations which had been demanding check-ups and Covid-19 tests of teachers and other frontline staff engaged in Covid-19 duty at special centres. The associations had also pointed out the issue of mismanagement at some distribution centres and no social distancing being followed by the beneficiaries thereby increasing the chance of spreading of the infection. “On Monday, after residents gathered in large numbers inside school no. 2 and started arguing with teachers during ration distribution in Ambedkar Nagar, the dispersal had to be stopped. Situation at school no.1 in Ambedkar Nagar was nowhere different as the vegetable market — with 80 shops — as well as the food distribution exercise was being carried out from the same campus at the same time, leading to a complete chaos,” said Deepak Pant, secretary of Akhil Delhi Prathmik Sikshak Sangh. A government official, however, said that only five-six shops from nearby mandi were shifted to the school campus and no problem was noticed when they visited the place. On Wednesday, some north corporation teachers, who were also unhappy over non-payment of two months’ salaries in addition to the above-mentioned issues, wore black bands as a mark of protest during Covid-19 duties. “We took back the decision for mass leave on Wednesday but decided to wear black band expressing our discontentment with the system,” said Kuldeep Khatri of Shikshak Nyaya Manch Nagar Nigam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/another-corpn-teacher-tests-ve-4-others-isolated/articleshow/75727168.cms||Vibha Sharma
May 14, 2020||Nashik||Three arrested for attacking, robbing man in Nashik's Panchavati||NASHIK: The Panchavati police arrested two robbery suspects after a hot chase and their accomplice from his residence after they allegedly attacked and snatched Rs 6,000 from a person late on Monday night. The suspects were identified as Akash Khairnar (22), a resident of RTO Corner, Peth Road, Harshad Kailas Kute (24) of Shivam Colony, Rasbihari Link Road, and Ganesh Shergil (21), a resident of Gayatri Nagar, Panchavati. Police said the complainant, Pravin Dhatrak (37), a resident of Dindori Road in Panchavati, and his friend Pradeep Raut were proceeding towards their residence when the three suspect intercpted their bike near the vegetable market yard. “The trio barred Dhatrak and his friend from going forward from the area around 10.30 pm. Soon, one of them drew a knife and attacked Dhatrak, injuring him on the left palm. The two others then snatched a bag containing Rs 6,000 from Dhatrak,” said police. A police team, however, reached the spot immediately as a people started gathering and someone informed them. The duo soon escaped on a bike, but police arrested them after a hot chase. Police said the accomplice of the duo managed to escape on a bike, but he was arrested from his residence within a few hours. The suspects were produced before a court, which remanded them in judicial custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/3-arrested-for-attacking-robbing-man-in-panchavati/articleshow/75726105.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh: ‘Telemedicine programme meant to help patients during pandemics’||VISAKHAPATNAM: The state had introduced the telemedicine programme to continue providing healthcare facilities to patients even during pandemics, said Dr D Raghunatha Rao, founder director of Homi Bhabha Cancer Hospital & Research Centre. Sharing his views about YSR Telemedicine here on Wednesday, Dr Rao said that the guidelines were framed with the sole purpose of enabling registered medical practitioners to treat patients with non-coronavirus ailments. “The programme aims to ensure uninterrupted medical consultation to every single patient along with provision of home delivery of drugs for all common ailments and to pick up any patient with symptoms that might be indicative of coronavirus infection and quickly get help to the doorstep of the patient,” Dr Rao said. YSR Arogyasree Trust was given the task of strengthening the programme and it prepared an online application system and roped-in all willing specialists already enrolled under Arogyasree schemes, trained them online to address patients on three shifts a day, from 8 am to 6 pm. Dr Rao said, “The success of this telemedicine programme is immeasurable. It not only brought succour to distressed patients with various ailments, but also identified how efficiently Covid-19 patients could be identified, screened and cared for.” “It is a fore runner of how health can now be brought to the doorstep with precision, certainty and at a lower cost for several chronic, lifestyle disorders like diabetes, hypertension, stroke, renal failure, rheumatic disorders, seizures, psychiatric disorder, etc that do not need more than two to three visits to a specialist or hospital in a year,” added Dr Rao.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/telemedicine-prog-meant-to-help-patients-during-pandemics/articleshow/75724887.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Rajkot||Release water from dams, farmers demand||Rajkot: Bhartiya Kisan Sangh (BKS), a farmers’ body, has written to chief minister Vijay Rupani demanding water from Aji-2 and Nyari- 2 dams be released for irrigation. The Rajkot unit of the organization has also asked for removal of water hyacinth from both the dams. “As the water in Aji-2 and Nyari- 2 dams is not potable, it should be released into the farms for irrigation on an immediate basis,” said Dilip Sakhiya, president of Rajkot unit of the BKS. “As the government collects charges from the farmers to provide water for irrigation, it should also ensure that farmers get sufficient amount of water for irrigation too,” said Ramesh Chovatia, vice-president of BKS. The farmers’ body also demanded the cleaning of both the dams. “Both the dams are filled with water hyacinth which has reduced the water level. In this summer season when hyacinth is dry, we urge the government to clean both the dams,” said Prabhudas Manvar, secretary of the organization.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/release-water-from-dams-farmers-demand/articleshow/75855629.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Delhi||Turn Shalimar Bagh into red zone: RWAs||NEW DELHI: While Delhiites in many parts of the city are getting ready for more lockdown relaxations, a group of 12 residents’ welfare associations (RWAs) in Shalimar Bagh and local councillors have written to the chief minister urging him to declare the entire area a red zone. According to the RWAs, 110 active cases, including 18 shopkeepers and 10 vegetable vendors linked to Azadpur Mandi, have been detected in their areas. As the area lies in close proximity to Azadpur Mandi, even residential quarters witness a lot of non-destined traffic, they claimed. Ritesh Dewan, general secretary of Delhi Residents’ Forums and a member of Shalimar Bagh RWA, said residents had urged the North Delhi Municipal Corporation and Delhi government to immediately declare Shalimar Bagh a hotspot and ban entry and exit of people. Tilak Raj Kataria, a local councillor who is also leader of the house in the north corporation, said new cases had been coming up in the area quite frequently. Dewan, who lives in CA block, said more than 12 cases were reported recently at Majlis Park Street in a single day. The letter to the chief minister and the North West district authorities also argued against an order to use Fortis Hospital in Shalimar Bagh as a Covid-19 facility as it was located in a densely populated area. “The declaration has led to anxiety in the area. The facility is surrounded by AA and BK blocks, Sewa Basti and Azadpur Mandi that has already become a vulnerable spot,” Kataria said. A large number of traders and vendors who frequent Azadpur Mandi live in Shalimar Bagh and surrounding areas, the councillor said. “A spurt in cases has prompted many RWAs to demand that the entire area be locked down and no new relaxation be allowed here for the time being,” Kataria said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/turn-shalimar-bagh-into-red-zone-rwas/articleshow/75727170.cms||Paras Singh
May 14, 2020||Goa||Goa: Startup offers free app-based robotics course for students||PANAJI: A Goa-based IT startup has stepped forward to offer online classes in robotics, free of cost, to students of state board schools, during the lockdown period. Students will have to download an app created for the purpose, which will allow them to practice what they learn via a simulator. The Goa outreach programme launched by the startup ‘Inventrom’ is being offered to students from Class V to IX. The programme has been conceptualised along with the education committee of Goa Chamber of Commerce & Industry as one of its efforts to promote industry-required skills in academics. The Goa Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education is facilitating the workshop through its website, where students of Class X will also be allowed to enrol following their upcoming board exams. The programme will go on till June 30. Students will have to download the ‘Inventrom Robotics’ Android App from Google Play Store. For free access, students need to use the code ROBOGOA. Board officials said the course will help students to learn the concepts of robotics, electronics circuit design, mechanical hardware design and software programming. “Students can learn all this sitting at home. It will be hands-on learning via a simulator where they could write a code to control the robot. The students also have an option to purchase the Robotics hardware kit and use the skills learned from the mobile app to build real-life robots. Considering that students could get stuck at any point while building the projects, there is live chat support for those building hands-on projects using the kit,” said the programme organisers. Students can also earn a certificate upon completion of all the Robotics projects using the robotics kit. Inventrom has been offering its workshops for school and engineering students since 2012. Till date, the startup has trained more than 30,000 students across 62 different countries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/startup-offers-free-app-based-robotics-course-for-students/articleshow/75727186.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Nashik||3-year-old female leopard rescued in Nashik||Nashik: A three-year-old female leopard was trapped in a cage installed by the forest department in the wee hours of Wednesday at Pimpalgaon Khamb in Nashik Road. The big cat was spotted by the locals around a week ago and had requested the forest department to install a cage for trapping the animal. The trap was installed on Tuesday in a farm and the leopard was trapped at around 2am on Wednesday. A forest department official said, "The locals had complained to us about spotting the big cat in Pimpalgaon Khamb areas — on the outskirts of the city. Accordingly, we installed the cage on Tuesday to trap the animal. The leopard was trapped within few hours after the trap was installed." He added, "We have conducted health check-up of the leopard by veterinary doctor and the animal is medically fit. We will keep the animal under observation for a day and release it after getting the fitness certificate from the doctor." There have been several incidents of leopard spotting and attacks in the district. Two boys — a four-year-old in Donwade village near Bhagur area and 12-year-old — have been killed in the attacks. On May 7, a six-year old male leopard was trapped into the cage in Lalpadi village in Niphad taluka of the district, while on May 2, a leopard was trapped in a cage at Shivade village near Sinnar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/3-year-old-female-leopard-rescued-in-nashik/articleshow/75726121.cms||Tushar Pawar
May 14, 2020||Hubballi||Lockdown helps tobacco addicts seek ways to kick habit||HUBBALLI: The closure of several petty shops that sell cigarettes, beedis and guthka during the lockdown has left habitual users of these tobacco products high and dry. However, the protracted period of going without their addiction appears to have strengthened the resolve of many to kick the habit for good. Several addicts have enrolled themselves in nicotine replacement therapy (NRT) to achieve this end. Some of the addicts have switched to nicotine gums and patches to go through this phase, while several others have consulted psychiatrists for the use of bupropion tablets. Pharmacists have asked the government to consider the addition of nicotine gums to the list of ‘emergency medicines’ to prevent the eventuality of these accessories falling short. The psychiatry wing helpline of Karnataka Institute of Medical Sciences (KIMS) and Dharwad Institute of Mental Health and Neuro Sciences (Dimhans) have been receiving calls on a daily basis from those addicted to tobacco products, seeking help to deal with withdrawal. Dimhans director Dr Mahes Desai said that, he received around two to three calls on his personal number and helplines every day. “NRT is the best way to quit tobacco. It makes the process of switching off the habit a lot smoother,” Dr Desai added. The Dimhans director, pointing to the prevalence of tobacco chewing in North Karnataka, said that the addicts ought to look on the lockdown as a blessing in disguise, one that could help them get rid of the unhealthy practice. Siddhant Kathewad, a private firm employee, is among those who, after initially struggling with withdrawal owing to the non-availability of guthka, to which he is addicted, was compelled to contemplate NRT. “The non-availability initially made me very irritable. I paid a huge sum initially to get my hands on some packets in the first few days of the lockdown. I have never gone a single day without tobacco for the past 15 years, and in the past fortnight, I have not used any tobacco product. I started using nicotine gums as per the advice of doctors, and my craving for tobacco has decreased considerably,” Kathewad said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/lockdown-helps-tobacco-addicts-seek-ways-to-kick-habit/articleshow/75724878.cms||Kishan Singh Bhorde
May 14, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: In Durgi, sculptors struggle to stay afloat amid lockdown||GUNTUR: The lockdown has pushed the already-struggling Durgi sculptors deeper into trouble. The art itself is dying a slow death as sculptors have had no work for the past two months. With the markets closed, there are no buyers even for those few crafts readied before the announcement of the lockdown. The stone craft of Durgi village in Guntur district is a rare heritage art form.  “Owing to poor revenue, many artisans have switched to daily-wage labour. We are continuing in the profession due to our unending bond and love for the stone,” said Peddoju Bhavani of Durgi village. “It takes at least one week to 10 days to ready a craft depending on its design. And it is painful when we fail to find buyers for our work,” said another sculptor of the village. A social activist NV Sarathchandra noted that while the sculptors were already struggling to manage their livelihood, the Covid-19 pandemic has put the last nail in the coffin. “Sculptors are no longer keen on encouraging their children to take up the profession in view of the poor patronage from the public,” said Sarathchandra. The craftsmen of Durgi stone art believe that they have inherited the treasure from their ancestors who since centuries have been involved in temple architecture of Nagara type in north India and Dravidian style in south India. “We need urgent intervention from the government for our survival as well our art. It should not be a big issue for the government as only a few dozens of people are still in the profession,” said G Pavan Kumar of Obulesunipalle near Macherla. Interestingly, Kumar is a graduate in pharmacy and is continuing his father’s work out of his passion for the craft. “We have readied many idols for the temples. We are forgotten once the vigraha pratishta (installation of deity) is over,” rued Peddoju Nageswara Rao, a renowned artisan who was involved in readying the famous Buddha statue of Tank Bund in Hyderabad. In the meantime, Durgi sculptors, who gave life to temples and chief deities, are praying to the gods for help.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/in-durgi-sculptors-struggle-to-stay-afloat-amid-lockdown/articleshow/75724889.cms||Samdani MN
May 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Two more Covid-19 deaths, 41 new positive cases in Telangana||HYDERABAD: Health minister Eatala Rajender on Wednesday urged people not to come out in large numbers, even as two persons died and 41 new Covid-19 cases were reported in Telangana. The state also released 111 patients who recovered from the virus on Wednesday, making it the highest number of people getting discharged on a single day. “With a more relaxed lockdown, more people are coming out. But these people needs to be careful,” Rajender said as the state added 10 migrants, who tested positive to its overall tally of 1367 cases. “Because of migrants also, there is a fear of the virus spreading, but people must cooperate with the government to help contain the spread,” the minister said, Health department officials said 798 people have reached Telangana from other countries recently, 229 by trains and 41,805 using the road network. Rajender will hold a video conference with all employees and officials of the department on Thursday to take stock of the situation. Two employees working in the GHMC Charminar circle also tested positive apart from two from RK Puram and one from Rajendra Nagar. A 38-year-old woman from Jiaguda with co-morbid conditions and a 74-year-old man from Saroonagar with kidney diseases died, raising the death total to 34. The coronavirus caseload stands at 1367 with 939 people discharged and 394 active cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/2-more-covid-deaths-41-new-ve-cases-in-t/articleshow/75726125.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Ranchi||Ranchi: Hazaribag’s iconic Sohrai tribal art gets GI tag||RANCHI: Jharkhand on Tuesday received the Geographical Indication (GI) tag for the iconic Sohrai-Kohvar art form from the Geographical Indications Registry headquarters in Chennai. Mainly practiced by tribal women of remote villages in Barkagaon block in Hazaribag district, these traditional and ritualistic paintings, made with only naturally available soils of different colours in the area, adorn adivasi homes made of mud or brick. A GI tag is a symbol used on products that have a specific geographical location and possess qualities unique to that place of origin. With this status, no state or country can lay claim over the origin of Sohrai-Kohvar art. The recognition, a first for any product from the state, will help 360 tribals showcase this 5,700-year-old art form on national and international platforms and boost their income Tribal women generally use Sohrai-Kohvar technique to decorate the walls of their homes during harvest and marriage season. Kohvar (koh means cave and var depicts a couple getting married) is generally associated with marriages, whereas Sohrai celebrates harvest and fertility. Ranendra Kumar, director of Tribal Research Institute in Ranchi, said, “It is a matter of great pride for the entire state and art aficionados that the traditional painting form has been granted a GI tag. The art form may be more aptly called folk painting rather that a tribal art form. The recognition will give economic and social boost to Sohrai-Kohvar experts.” Hazaribag DC Bhuvanesh Pratap Singh said he expects a surge in the number of tourists and students to Hazaribag once after the lockdown is lifted. “Art enthusiasts will visit the district, particularly areas where these paintings are made, to learn the unique technique. The recognition will have a great impact on the income and social status of tribals engaged in the practice.” The recognition is the result of two years of hard work. In 2018, the then DC Ravi Shankar Shukla collaborated with Satyadeep Singh, a professor at National Law School of India University (NLSIU) in Bengaluru, to pursue a GI tag for the dying art form. Sohrai Kala Mahila Vikas Sahyog Samiti Limited, a cooperative of the artists practicing this art form, said, made an official application for it in August 2019. While processing GI tag applications usually take five to six years, but the managed to get the recognition in just nine months. Samiti member Alka Imam “We are happy to get the tag. We are grateful to Shuklaji and Satyadeep sir for the legal and administrative help. It will give the artists much-needed exposure and increase the demand for our paintings.” Currently posted as the DC of East Singhbhum, Shukla said, “It gives me immense pleasure that Sohrai-Kohvar paintings have got the GI tag. It will help the area socially and economically.” Shukla and Singh are now working on getting a GI tag for Paitkar, another art form with its origin in East Singhbhum. In the neighbouring states, the status had earlier been accorded to Darjeeling Tea, Madhubani paintings. In 2017, Bengal got the tag for Rosogolla after a long battle with Odisha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/hazaribags-iconic-sohrai-tribal-art-gets-gi-tag/articleshow/75725437.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Ranchi||Trader dies after falling from eighth floor in Ranchi||RANCHI: A trader on Wednesday died after reportedly falling from the eighth floor of an apartment near Piska More in Ranchi. The trader, identified as Saurav Agrawal (35), was engaged in a doorstep delivery business. He had gone to a flat owned by his maternal uncle in the apartment. Police said the relatives informed that Agarwal was engaged in furnishing works of the flat in the recent days and visited the flat in this regard, but fell from one of the windows that did not have iron grills. SP (city) Saurav said, “Police would examine the the case on the information provided by the relatives.” Local officer added Agarwal’s mobile phone has been taken for examination of its call detail records. Meanwhile, in another incident, Sunil Birhor was found hanging from a tree under Sadar police station area of Chatra district on Wednesday. Police took the body in custody and started an investigation. Chatra SDPO Varun Rajak said, “Police will register a case of unnatural death and investigate the matter.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/trader-dies-after-falling-from-eighth-floor-in-city/articleshow/75725264.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Ranchi||Water minister Mithilesh Kumar Thakur inspects Kanke Dam||RANCHI: State drinking water and sanitation minister Mithilesh Kumar Thakur inspected Kanke Dam on Wednesday and asked his department officials to remove the ‘illegal’ fisheries cage in the dam by getting in touch with the department concerned. He also directed the officials to construct boundaries around dam to keep the encroachers at bay. Ever since Thakur took charge of the ministry, he has been visiting dams in the city to check for any irregularities. Before visiting Kanke, he had inspected Hatia Dam and Getalsud (Rukka) Dam earlier. Speaking to media persons after the inspection, Thakur said, “Though my visit to Kanke Dam was scheduled to take place much earlier, it got delayed due to the coronavirus threat. I am happy to see that most of the encroachers have been removed from the area. Only 20% of the encroachers are left now and they will be removed shortly.” He added, “The fisheries’ cage in the dam’s catchment area is illegal and I have directed the officials to talk to the department concerned and get it removed.” The minister also pitched for renovation of the fountain at the filtration plant in Kanke and said that the dam can make for a day-long excursion for schoolchildren. Thakur also expressed concerns over the absence of the department’s secretary during his visits. He said, “The secretary should be present during the visits as she has more information on technical terms than the officials. I will talk to her regarding this.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/water-minister-thakur-inspects-kanke-dam/articleshow/75725291.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Jamshedpur||Over 100 fined every day in Jamshedpur for traffic violation||JAMSHEDPUR: Over 100 persons were fined every day in the city during the nationwide lockdown, Jamshedpur traffic police said on Wednesday. Deputy SP (traffic) Shivendra said: “Fines to the tune of Rs 1 lakh have been collected every day from vehicle-checking drives. Around 100 cases of violation of Motor Vehicles Act were reported every day on an average. People who availed the vehicle pass during the lockdown have also been caught driving without helmets or without seat belts.” Earlier, vehicle checks were being carried out at important intersections, but now they are being conducted at all checkpoints across the three urban municipal bodies — Jamshedpur Notified Area Committee, Mango Notified Area Committee and Jugsalai Municipality. According to a traffic cop, violations of MV Act increased after the commencement of Lockdown 3.0 on May 4. “On May 4, 161 cases of MV Act violation were recorded, and 143 cases were registered on May 6,” the inspector said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/over-100-fined-every-day-in-steel-city-for-traffic-violation/articleshow/75725246.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Ranchi||‘Covid-19 positive migrants did not enter Hazaribag village’||HAZARIBAG: The Hazaribag village from where the six migrants who recently returned from Mumbai and tested positive for Covid-19 hailed has not been sealed as they were not allowed to enter the village, DC Bhuvanesh Pratap Singh clarified on Wednesday. “We have set up 16 check posts across the district along with one composite check post at the interstate border. As soon as the bus (which all ferried the six positive patients) carrying 17 migrants reached Bishungarh block, police diverted it to a quarantine centre set up at Kasturba Gandhi Balika Vidyalaya.,” Singh said. He added, “After their blood and swab samples tested positive, the six were shifted to the Covid-19 isolation centre at Hazaribag Medical College and Hospital.” Aged between 38-45 years, the six patients are all asymptomatic and worked as masons in Mumbai. All village heads have been directed to keep an eye on returning migrants and report it to district authorities. Singh also said 255 quarantine centres have been set up at the district to handle the arrival of migrants. “We have more than 500 beds in these quarantine centres. The district is well-equipped to handle larger numbers of Covid-19 cases,” he added. As on Wednesday, the district’s total positive cases stood at 10. SP Karthik S said, “We have stepped up vigil. So far, 70 cases have been registered for flouting lockdown and social distancing norms and Rs 7 lakh has been collected as penalties.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/covid-ve-migrants-did-not-enter-hazaribag-village/articleshow/75725343.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Ranchi||Palamu CS lodges FIR against fraudsters posing as employers||DALTONGANJ: Palamu civil surgeon Dr John F Kennedy on Wednesday said he has lodged an FIR against two persons who were allegedly trying to dupe people by promising them jobs. In his FIR lodged with the Town police station on Tuesday night, Kennedy named one Aman Mishra and Subhal Patra. Talking to TOI, Kennedy said he lodged the FIR on the basis of complaints of two men, D Vishwakarma and K Tiwari. “Vishwakarma and Tiwari complained that Mishra and Patra telephoned them and asked them to deposit Rs 30,000 and Rs 50,000, respectively if they wanted to bag the job of ANMs,” Kennedy said. The district health machinery had in 2019 invited applications for recruitment to the posts of ANMs, nurses and others, but the recruitments were stalled due to Lok Sabha polls and state assembly election. Slated to resume in March this year, the process was stalled again due to the Covid-19 pandemic. More than 240 applications have been received for these posts. Palamu SP Ajay Linda said: “The numbers of these two men have been noted down for tracking and the officials of the nationalized bank concerned have been asked to freeze the account.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/palamu-cs-lodges-fir-against-fraudsters-posing-as-employers/articleshow/75725299.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Ranchi||Nothing substantial in relief package: Rameshwar Oraon||RANCHI: State finance minister Rameshwar Oraon on Wednesday dubbed the Union government’s announcements of economic stimulus package as hollow and said the package has nothing concrete. “The MSMEs, which contribute to one-third of the country’s GDP, were not given even 5% of the special package. The industrial units will now have to spend more for sanitation and hygiene and work on pruned manpower to maintain social distancing. There was a hope that the government will bear a part of the expenses, but nothing happened,” Oraon’s statement said. Oraon also hit out at the announcement of 2% reduction of EPF contribution for all business and workers. “The announcement does not promise anything for those who lost their jobs. Giving financial assistance to power companies is a welcome step, but making state governments as guarantors proves that the Union government will not take any responsibility in the long run,” Oraon said. Former chief minister Raghubar Das hailed the announcements in a statement by saying, “The Rs 3 lakh crore package, announced by finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman, will drive the Union government’s vision of self-reliant India. The package has taken care of employees and employers. Power companies, NBFC, real estate and middle class will benefit from the package.” In her announcement, Sitharaman announced a Rs 3 lakh crore collateral free automatic loans for business with a 12 month-moratorium and Rs 20,000 crore subordinate debt for equity support aimed at benefiting 2 lakh stressed MSME units.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/nothing-substantial-in-relief-package-oraon/articleshow/75725167.cms||Dhritiman Ray
May 14, 2020||Ranchi||Rims caters to 1,200 patients through online OPD||RANCHI: E-consultations are gradually becoming the new normal for patients in Jharkhand. Though the National Health Mission’s e-Sanjeevani is yet to gather steam in the state, Rims’ online OPD services has already catered to over 1,200 patients. On an average, the e-OPD at Rims receives around 60 patients per day, whereas, e-Saneevani get only 40 a day and officials rue procedural glitches. Rims director D K Singh said, “Around 1,300 patients have been provided consultations by doctors from ten different departments through the e-OPD service. Our team of doctors from the superspecialty departments are also attending to patients who are being referred for specific ailments.” The hospital administration has constituted a five-member special team of senior doctors which include Dr Arpita Roy, Dr Lakhan Manjhi, Dr Mithilesh, Dr Anshul and Dr Nishant to co-ordinate the day-to-day operations of the e-OPD which is functioning out of the multimedia resource centre at the administrative block. Roy said, “A total of 988 patients who had registered themselves for consultation have been provided assistance by doctors from 18 departments between April 20 to May 13. Around 225 patients who had earlier consulted doctors at Rims were also provided follow up treatments by doctors from different departments.” Adding further, Roy said 14.55% of the total calls were from patients who were being treated by Rims before the lockdown and the rest of the 85.48% were new patients who have never visited Rims or called for the first time due to the lack of healthcare services owing to Covid-19. Meanwhile, the e-Sanjeevani OPD initiative by the state unit of the National Health Mission received a lukewarm response due to its procedural glitches as a patient opting for consultation by a doctor on this portal requires a laptop or desktop with an internet connection and a web cam, microphone and speakers for having a two way conversation with the available doctor. “A total of 371 patients have been attended by our medical officers since its inception on May 1, including 22 on Wednesday,” said L R Pathak, the nodal officer for e-Sanjeevani in Jharkhand. On being inquired about the response from the patients on their portal, Pathak said, “We are advertising about the portal among the masses and its five-step registration process through our district healthcare authorities. We have also directed our community health officers in villages to facilitate consultations of patients from their respective areas and are planning to rope in Pragya Kendras to act as centres for facilitation to boost the number of patients.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/rims-caters-to-1200-patients-through-online-opd/articleshow/75725084.cms||Gaurav Pandey
May 14, 2020||Ranchi||Jamshedpur: Panic grips civil surgeon’s office as 2 employees get quarantined||JAMSHEDPUR: Two employees at the East Singhbum district civil surgeon’s office have been put in home quarantine after it emerged that they had come in contact of the two Kolkata-return youngsters whose swab samples tested positive. The duo had collected swab samples from the youths after the latter returned to Chakulia by road. As one of the employees lives in Ghatshila and the other in Chakulia, and they had travelled to and fro from their Jamshedpur office, efforts are on to trace the people they had come in contact with in the last few days. Civil surgeon Dr Rameshwar Prasad told TOI that his office has been sanitised. He also urged residents of the Steel City to refrain from unnecessarily venturing out of their homes. Prasad said many people, especially youths, were violating lockdown norms. He cautioned the residents and said that East Singhbhum is no longer a green zone, and it has turned turned orange after the two Covid-19 cases surfaced. Chakulia is a part of the Baharagora assembly constituency that is located close to the borders of West Bengal and Odisha. On Wednesady, former Baharagora MLA Kunal Sarangi demanded proper screening of people entering Jharkhand through East Singhbhum. Meanwhile, 12 people from Makdampur area in Jamshedpur, who had gone to Asansol in West Bengal to attend a marriage ceremony, have been put in an isolation camp in Jugsalai, after they returned to the Steel City. Health department sources said their swab samples have been collected and sent for testing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/panic-grips-civil-surgeons-office-as-2-employees-get-quarantined/articleshow/75725362.cms||Debasish Chatterjee
May 14, 2020||India||PM CARES for migrants, vaccines and ventilators, releases Rs 3,100 crore||NEW DELHI: The government on Wednesday said it would release Rs 3,100 crore from the PM CARES Fund to help migrants workers, for purchase of ventilators and support vaccine development for coronavirus. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has thanked all donors for generous contributions to support India’s fight against the pandemic. The opposition has been alleging lack of transparency in the fund which was set up in the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak. The Trust is headed by the PM with ministers of home, defence, and finance as members. A government statement said of the total amount to be released, Rs 2,000 crore will be used to purchase 50,000 ‘Made in India’ ventilators to augment healthcare infrastructure; Rs 1,000 crore will be handed over to state governments to provide accommodation, food, medical treatment and transport arrangements for migrant labourers, the worst sufferers of the lockdown; and the rest Rs 100 crore to catalyse vaccine development for Covid-19 and will be utilised under the supervision of the principal scientific advisor to the PM. The government also said that states will receive funds in proportion to their population as per 2011 Census, and the incidence of corona cases. An equal share of 10% will also be given to all states and UTs to ensure a basic minimum sum for all states. The funds will be relea- sed to district collectors thro- ugh state’s disaster relief commissioners, the statement said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pm-cares-for-migrants-vaccines-and-ventilators-releases-3100-crore/articleshow/75728221.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Gurgaon||Gurugram: 60 workers pool Rs 1.2 lakh for truck ride to Bihar||GURUGRAM: At the beginning of this week, around sixty migrant workers in Manesar’s Bass village put together every penny they had to create a pool of Rs 1.2 lakh. They have been out of work since the lockdown and after a prolonged struggle to survive in the city and desperate attempts to go home, they found a local truck driver who promised to help them bypass the border restrictions and take them home in Patna, in return for the money. On Tuesday night, they scrambled into the back of the truck, their children in tow, and in a space barely enough to breath, they clutched on to their belongings and the hope to reach the safety of their homes. The truck left the village but could not even manage to go beyond Gurugram. Police stopped them and asked them to get off. Scattered along the road at night, they watched the vehicle that was supposed to take them home drive off. Ayush Kumar, one of the workers who was in the truck, told TOI that the group spent the night at the police station, restless with fear that they have lost all their money, although they couldn’t return home. “We gave away everything that we had to the truck driver, and he managed to flee while we are left behind. I heard of so many people who have managed to reach home in trucks. Why not us?” he said. In distress, they didn’t realise that the truck driver had also been apprehended by police. By Wednesday morning, the cops managed to retrieve the entire sum from the driver and handed it over to the workers. The driver was booked for violation of lockdown norms. Though they were relieved, they still want to go home. “We are thankful to the police for helping us get our money back, but we do not want to stay here any longer, we want to return home,” said Shah. A senior police official told TOI that arrangements will be made to send them home in the next Shramik Special train bound for Bihar. On Wednesday, the first batch of trains with migrant workers left from Gurugram, one for Madhya Pradesh and another for Bihar. More trains are scheduled over the next week. However, not being able to sustain any longer without a livelihood, and unaware of the government guidelines, the gullible stranded workers fall prey to misinformation and continue with such desperate measures. Also, the waiting list for these special trains is long. “We had registered for going to Bihar, but hardly any of us got a call for the train journey. Someone told us that we will have to pay Rs 2,000 per train ticket,” said Mahesh Yadav, who worked at a restaurant in Gurugramand wants to return home in Bihar’s Gaya.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/60-part-with-savings-for-truck-ride-to-bihar/articleshow/75726951.cms||Shubhra Pant
May 14, 2020||India||In 3 states, 50% of death penalty rulings came on day of conviction||NEW DELHI: Almost half the death penalty judgments given by criminal courts in three states were done so on the date of conviction, according to a report by the National Law University, Delhi’s Project 39A which looked at 215 capital punishment orders awarded between 2000-2015 by courts in Delhi, Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh. The report expressed concern over this haste in sentencing. “In MP, same-day sentencing was observed in 76.9% of the cases. Maharashtra had same-day sentencing in 34.4% of the cases, but 57% of the cases had sentencing either on the same day or with just a 24-hour gap. Delhi fared relatively better with 53.4% of sentencing hearings taking place at least one week after the conviction,” the report said. About 322 prisoners across the three states were sentenced to death of which nearly half or 49% of the prisoners were found guilty of murder while 28% had the death penalty imposed for murder involving sexual offences. The three states were chosen because the death penalty was frequently imposed and a large number of the decisions in capital cases were overturned at appellate level. The report also found that death penalty in India is imposed in a manner that is subjective, arbitrary and does not adhere to the “rarest of rare” principle. “We found that this principle, mandated to be used for death penalty, is an empty doctrine,” Anup Surendranath, 39A executive director, said. Life imprisonment was not even considered in many cases. According to section 354(3) of the CrPC, life imprisonment is the default option and the death sentence requires special reasons. Instead, courts have considered life imprisonment only in eight out of 43 in Delhi, 22 of 82 in MP, 27 of 90 in Maharashtra. The courts appeared to have given more importance to brutality of the crime and lack of remorse rather than to mitigating circumstances like socio-economic conditions of the accused, age, or the circumstances that led to the crime. The inadequate nature of arguments made by defence lawyers had an impact on the courts’ not even considering mitigating factors during sentencing. The trial courts mainly relied on aggravating circumstances to impose death sentences. The MP trial courts’ reliance only on aggravating factors to impose death sentence was particularly high. In as many as 51 judgments out of a total of 82 in MP, no mitigating circumstances were considered during sentencing while 41 out of 90 cases from Maharashtra adopted this approach. In Delhi, in 18 out of a total of 43 cases, the decision did not include consideration of mitigating factors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/in-3-states-50-of-death-penalty-rulings-came-on-day-of-conviction/articleshow/75728233.cms||Himanshi Dhawan
May 14, 2020||India||Post-Nirbhaya, sex offenders are more likely to get death||NEW DELHI: A criminal found guilty of sexual violence is more likely to hang now than four years earlier as trial courts in some states have an increasing propensity to award death for such crimes, suggests a report. In 2016, MP awarded death in 33.3% of such cases; this rose to 81.8% in 2019. Similarly, in Maharashtra, 45.5% of such cases were awarded capital punishment four years ago which rose to 71.4% in 2019. The data on the two states was collated by NLU, Delhi’s Project 39A, which studies death penalty cases in India. Project 39A executive director and NLU assistant professor Arup Surendranath said, “In the post-Nirbhaya context, social and political conversations have been inclined towards harsher punishment as a means to address the growing concern over such cases.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/post-nirbhaya-sex-offenders-are-more-likely-to-get-death/articleshow/75728237.cms||Himanshi Dhawan
May 14, 2020||Business||Realtors give mixed reactions on Central package||Kolkata: There was a mixed reaction from real estate player about the sops announced by Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Wednesday. Real estate players welcomed announcement of Force Majeure Clause to reduction in TDS and incentives announced for MSMEs a lot of developers have turnover less than Rs 100 crore. However, some felt that there should have been a reduction in interest rate as the repo rate has hit all time low. Some also exercised caution in their reaction as real estate firms have till now not been recognised as MSME by banks. But they hope the revised definition of MSME by the government would lead to their inclusion in the segment and enable them to avail of loans to complete projects faster. “If real estate companies can avail of loans extended to the MSMEs, projects will get completed and delivered faster,” said N K Realtor vice-president Biplab Kumar. Anshuman Magazine, chairman & CEO (India, South East Asia, Middle East & Africa), CBRE, was positive about the proposed extension of completion timeline by six months. Nandu Belani, the president of the Bengal chapter of Confederation of Real Estate Developers Association of India (Credai-Bangal), welcomed the announcement by finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman and said it would infuse money in a big way into the industry. “Once liquidity comes back, the industry will start rolling. Naturally, customers will also benefit,” he said. Sushil Mohta, chairman, Merlin Group, and president, Credai West Bengal, appreciated the additional fund flow available to NBFCs and housing finance companies, which will ultimately flow to MSME as well as housing projects. He also added, “The real estate sector is very important and can become the engine for restarting the economy, as such, there is much more to be done. We are expecting a reduction in interest rate. On one hand, the banks are parking their funds at sub-4 repo rate, but interest charged to us for loan against rental income, as well as construction funding is 10 to 12%. In these times, while we are not getting rents from our tenants, the interest should be substantially reduced.” Harsh Patodia, chairman, Unimark Group, and president elect, Credai National, pointed out that the measures announced for the MSME sector and other sectors will go a long way in kick starting the economy going back to track. “Real Estate industry is awaiting announcements for their customers to bring them back to the market immediately and on availability of finance and one time restructuring for developers. Real estate can be a engine to revive economic growth,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/realtors-give-mixed-reactions-on-central-package/articleshow/75727011.cms||Subhro Niyogi
May 14, 2020||India||Army chief plays down rising border tension with China||NEW DELHI: Army chief General M M Naravane on Wednesday played down the ongoing heightened tensions between Indian and Chinese troops in eastern Ladakh after a violent clash left several soldiers injured on both sides in the Pangong Tso sector last week. “These face-offs, which have no connection with any domestic or international situation prevailing today, have been happening in the past also. We will deal with the current one as per protocol between the two countries,” Gen Naravane told journalists. Several Indian soldiers, including two officers, were injured in the violent face-off between around 250 Indian and Chinese soldiers, armed with rods, batons and stones, in the disputed ‘Finger 5’ (mountainous spur) area on the northern bank of Pangong Tso on May 5 and 6, as was earlier reported by TOI. Both India and China also forward deployed additional troops during the clash, who are yet to be pulled back. Almost concurrently, around a dozen soldiers from the two sides were also injured in the Naku La in north Sikkim after another violent brawl on May 9. “The Line of Actual Control (with China) isn’t very well defined. When patrols of both sides reach same place at the same time, then such faceoffs do occur. It is just a matter of chance that the face-offs in easter n Ladakh and Sikkim happened during the same period,” said Gen Naravane. As for Pakistan, the Army chief said his force was well-prepared to tackle any incident of terrorism emanating from the other side. India expected Pakistan to “do some extra actions to draw attention back to Kashmir” after failing to garner any support internationally, said Gen Naravane.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/army-chief-plays-down-rising-border-tension-with-china/articleshow/75728259.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Influx of migrants gives Telangana the jitters||HYDERABAD: Even before the dust on Tablighi Jamaat attendees could settle down, 41,000 migrant workers, who have returned recently, are giving fresh jitters to Telangana now. After a fairly lean run till last week, Telangana has been witnessing a big surge in the last 3-4 days in Covid-19 positive cases, a fact borne by 21 migrant labourers testing positive till Tuesday. The government is worried over the spike in the numbers in the coming days. Senior officials said the government’s main worry is that many districts, which had zero Covid-19 cases for over a month, are likely to become ‘hotspots’ for the coronavirus cases. An official said it had become a herculean task for the government to keep tabs on migrant workers, as some of them have reached villages by walking or using personal vehicles. Of the 41,000 who had returned, about 30,000 had come from Maharashtra alone, which is the hotbed for Covid-19 cases in the country. Sources said the government is worried about a sharp spike in Karimnagar, Nizamabad, Jagtial, Adilabad, Mahbubnagar and Warangal districts. Tests ramped up as migrant workers returnWasting no time, the government has asked sarpanches and villagers to identify the returned workers and inform the authorities immediately. “Migrant workers are coming back in a large number, which is definitely a major concern for us. We are testing asymptomatic and highrisk contacts of confirmed cases,” health minister Eatala Rajender told TOI on Wednesday. He said they were being identified at various levels and placed under home quarantine. “As per guidelines of ICMR, we will tests those having symptoms and treat the positive cases.” He, however, ruled out indiscriminate testing. A senior health department official said that apart from these migrant workers, about 700 people have arrived in Hyderabad from various countries. “We put them in various hotels. More people will land here once domestic flights resume,” he said. Officials said six districts had not reported any fresh positive cases for over 40 days. Bhadradri did not have fresh cases for past 50 days, Siddipet 43 days, Mulugu 42, Nagarkurnool and Mahabubabad 41 days and Peddapalli in the last 40 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/influx-of-migrants-gives-telangana-the-jitters/articleshow/75728265.cms||Koride Mahesh
May 14, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Garage owner had his last ride amid trial for 2018 crash||MUMBAI: The accident involving Hitesh Golchha in Andheri (East) on Tuesday occurred barely six hours after the son of a prominent businessman died after the car he was in rammed into a stationary bus on Marine Drive. His friend, who was driving, is in hospital with serious injuries. This wasn’t Golchha’s first car accident. On July 23, 2018, he was allegedly drunk when driving a car through a narrow stretch of RTO lane in Andheri (West), the police said; he hit 10 vehicles head on before injuring four pedestrians. Golchha’s now-deceased father, Kamalchand, had at the time said his son, an MBA, had returned from the UK a week before and wasn’t drunk. Trial began in the case after the Amboli police filed a chargesheet. On Wednesday evening, the police filed an FIR against Golchha under several sections of the IPC, under the Motor Vehicle Act and for violating lockdown orders. Drunk driving would be added to the charges based on the autopsy report, said an officer. “The case will be submitted in court. Based on its order the matter will be closed as the accused victim is dead,” said senior inspector Jagdish Shinde of MIDC police station. Police reached Tuesday’s accident spot after getting a call from locals. “Golchha was found in the car unconscious. He had grievous injuries. He was pulled out and taken to hospital,” Shinde said. Police were unable to obtain details about from where Golchha was coming. “We will get CCTV footage of the spot and technical expertise to know the speed at which he was driving,” said a police officer. The Jaguar was registered in the name of Golchha’s mother, Ushadevi, on January 10. Ushadevi, who too is a director at Kamal Air, told TOI, “My son wasn’t drunk. I rushed to Cooper Hospital when I received a call from his fiancée. I lost my son on Tuesday and my husband a year and a half ago. I was not at home (in Andheri-West) yesterday (Tuesday), so I don’t know when and why my son left home.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-garage-owner-had-his-last-ride-amid-trial-for-2018-crash/articleshow/75728256.cms||V Narayan
May 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana gives 150 doctors jobs to fight Covid-19, only three take up offer||HYDERABAD: Even as doctors bravely battle the novel coronavirus pandemic, recruitment of medical professionals by the Telangana government seems to have hit a roadblock. The state government recently offered temporary contracts to 150 doctors after receiving more than 2,500 applications. The doctors would be employed for as long as they were needed to fight the pandemic. Those who were selected for the job were asked to report at the Gachibowli sports complex, one part of which has been converted into a Covid-19 hospital. Only six turned up and three of them are believed to have changed their mind and left the hospital. Doctors, who are being hired on contract, will also be paid a special allowance apart from remuneration. They can be deployed anywhere in the state based on their preference mentioned in the application. “For all practical purposes only three doctors have accepted our offer,” said a source. The salary is on a par with any government doctors at the entry level. While a specialist is being offered Rs 1 lakh per month to work as a medical officer, for MBBS doctors Rs 40,000 per month is offered. For those doctors who have completed their AYUSH degree, the remuneration is Rs 35,000 per month. “I don’t think salary is the issue here. There are MBBS doctors who are working for Rs 18,000 to Rs 20,000 per month in private hospitals. At the ground level, some of these doctors are not willing to take up Covid-19 duties because of the risks involved. They may also be worried about the quality of PPEs in some hospitals,” an official said. He added that the temporary nature of the job was also a hindrance. Majority applications came from nursesThe state department of health, medical and family welfare’s recruitment notification was issued on March 29 and April 1 for doctors, nurses and lab technicians. A majority of the applications came from nurses working in private hospitals. The nurses asked for a month’s time to join duties as they need to serve the notice period. “With nurses, there is a hope that their jobs might get regularised, but doctors know that their services are not needed post Covid-19,” the official added. The state is now mulling to hire doctors through regular recruitment, but added the process is time consuming. “What would happen to us post-Covid? We cannot leave our jobs now and work in rural and remote parts of the state, only to go back and start job hunting in a few months. Further, PPE kits available at the hospitals are of poor quality. Our lives will be in danger,” said PS Vijayender, state convener, Telangana Doctors Federation. Chief minister K Chandrashekar Rao had recently said that the state managed to create a pool of 25,000 doctors and paramedics and was working on getting more personnel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/telangana-gives-150-doctors-jobs-to-fight-covid-19-only-three-take-up-offer/articleshow/75728277.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
May 14, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Small danger zones to be clubbed to reduce pressure on BMC staff, cops||MUMBAI: BMC has decided to club smaller containment zones together so that civic staff and police are not under pressure to patrol several localities in an area. With hundreds of new Covid-19 cases being reported from Mumbai daily, containment zones have sharply increased. BMC’s website showed 2,643 containment zones. At a meeting with ward officials over the weekend, recently-appointed civic chief Iqbal Singh Chahal told them to be more “practical” while marking out containment zones. A ward official said, “He said that as we are on ground we should decide on clubbing small containment zones into one large zone, if it will help contain spread of the virus. This would mean that instead of several teams of civic staff and police being deployed in containment zones in an area, one team can be posted to inspect the entire new zone.” Civic officials said clubbing of zones will help bring down numbers considerably. “After an area is marked as a containment zone, cases emerge in the buffer zone. This is a problem in slums and other congested localities. Therefore, these directions on locking out larger areas will probably help manage the situation better,” said another official. In case of housing societies, the plan is to mark out a larger area as a containment zone only if there are many buildings near each other which have positive cases. “In case one building in a large housing society has a positive case, the complex may be marked as a containment zone. But those on the field can assess the situation and see if those from other buildings can be sent out,” said a official. Activists said containment zones are not being taken seriously by residents and authorities. “After a positive case is found, authorities only barricade the area with bamboos but several residents jump over them. Civic staff and police cannot be blamed, as with cases increasing, they have many areas to patrol,” said activist Anil Galgali.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-small-danger-zones-to-be-clubbed-to-reduce-pressure-on-bmc-staff-cops/articleshow/75728278.cms||Richa Pinto
May 14, 2020||Nagpur||Pros helping citizens stay fit and healthy amid lockdown||Nagpur: Instructors, yoga lovers and fitness enthusiasts are making the most of online social media sites to stay fit and help others remain healthy amid the prolonged Covid lockdown. Experts have started uploading fitness videos on online fitness platforms apart from teaching proper yoga postures to help others overcome specific body problems such as back pain, weight loss etc. Such videos have become immensely popular as they help viewers practise in the confines of their home.Many fitness and yoga organizations are making the best use of Internet to spread information about usefulness of yoga in keeping oneself calm and healthy, mentally as well as physically. National School Propagation Team is conducting several such webinars through its official website Sahajyoga. Over 650 people, especially students, are attending these sessions. “The sessions are recorded by trained yoga instructors in the form of tutorials which help members to keep themselves fit and fine. Our members and participants are spread all over the country and they make use of this online portal,” said Vijaya Deoghare, member of Sahaj Yoga organization.Doctor Anuradha Punyani too is conducting a unique blend of scientific yoga and exercises to encourage people to stay indoors and stay healthy. She believes in walking out pain-free from the lockdown by following her fitness videos that she posts on her official Facebook and YouTube page. Her sessions address targeted issues such as upper back pain, diabetes, strengthening exercises, how to burn calories etc.Sachin Deshmukh is a physical education teacher who posts videos of fitness and muscle strengthening exercises on his WhatsApp group, which has a large number of participants. “Doing any exercise in the wrong way could lead to problems and hence following a professional is advisable, at least for beginners. I post videos about stretching, yoga, jumping exercises, suryanamaskar and several others targeted at specific body problems. One must follow the exercise routine alternate days initially,” he said.Giving some insights and benefits of following such online fitness routines, city’s renowned physician Shankar Khobragade said knowing one’s body is a must, especially for elders. “While doing any kind of exercises, a physician’s advise is necessary. One must get ECG, blood sugar level checked as he or she may have heart or sugar problem. Doing exercise is important but eating healthy is also equally important. Consuming oily and fatty food and doing exercises makes no sense.” he said.Doctor Sarang Kandurwar also follows and trains under a professional Amit Samarth who uploads several body weight exercises which are different every day. “As no training video is repeated, members don’t get bored. The videos, mostly 1.5-hour-long, show proper way of running, strengthening, balancing and some amount of marshal art training,” said Samarth.Kandurwar said, “I love cycling, but as I am not able to go out and also don’t want a break in the fitness routine, online professional training videos come handy. We can exercise at home under a pro without leaving the place,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/pros-helping-citizens-stay-fit-and-healthy-amid-lockdown/articleshow/75726731.cms||Shreya Tinkhede
May 14, 2020||India||Congress forces Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury to delete China tweet||NEW DELHI: Congress has sent out a message to party members to desist from comments against China that are not in conformity with the party position on the neighbouring country. The instruction came as the party forced its member in Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury to withdraw a strong comment against China to berate the neighbour in the wake of reports about stand off between Chinese and Indian forces near LAC. In the tweet that was later deleted, he wrote, “Be careful China, Indian forces know how to defang the venomous snakes like you, entire world is watching the sinister design of yellow expansionist.” He urged Modi government to accord diplomatic recognition to Taiwan that China considers part of its territory. Senior member Anand Sharma intervened to disown Chowdhury’s outburst as his personal comment which did not reflect the views of Congress. “Indian National Congress recognises and values the special strategic partnership between India and China. As two ancient civilisations and large economies of the world both countries are destined to make a significant contribution in 21st Century,” he tweeted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/congress-forces-adhir-ranjan-chowdhury-to-delete-china-tweet/articleshow/75728280.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Nagpur||NMC partially relaxes lockdown, liquor home delivery allowed||Nagpur: Municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe on Wednesday partially relaxed the lockdown in the city, after about seven weeks of complete closure. He has now allowed some shops to open and private offices to function at 15% capacity. Only home delivery of liquor has been permitted for permit holders within city, while liquor shops will be allowed to remain open in the rural areas of the district. After Mundhe’s relaxation order in the afternoon, collector Ravindra Thakre issued an order late on Wednesday night permitting liquor shops to open in rural areas of the district from Friday. Home delivery has also been permitted. However, country liquor can’t be supplied through home delivery. After NMC and collector’s permission to operate, liquor shop owners are waiting for orders from the excise department, which comes under the collector. The liquor shops will remain open from 9am to 6pm. The owners will have to draw circles in front of their shops on Thursday to ensure social distancing among their customers. Mundhe and Thakre’s permission notwithstanding, liquor shop owners are not very keen on home delivery of liquor. “If we have to ensure home delivery, we will have to open our shutters. The moment we do it, people will throng our shops. If we refuse to sell them liquor, they may create ruckus and even damage our shops,” said Rajesh Chaurasia of PVK Wines. Chaurasia further said shop owners wanted government to suggest a safe way of doing business. Some more shops selling non-essential goods will also be allowed to open, with many conditions. Only those which are stand-alone (single), neighbourhood (colony) and shops in residential complexes will be allowed to function. There is also a condition that there should not be more than five shops selling non-essential items, besides those selling essential goods, in a lane. Even these shops will not be permitted to remain open on all days. Shops of electrical items, including those selling air coolers, hardware and building materials, will remain open on Monday, Wednesday and Friday. Auto spare shops, garages, puncture repair shops, shops selling oils and lubricants, opticians, stationery and hosiery will remain open on Tuesday, Thursday, Saturday and Sunday. Private offices can now function, but only at 15% capacity. Rest of the employees will have to work from home. Government offices can function at 33% capacity for junior staff. Earlier, it was only 5%. Shop and office owners need not apply to NMC for permission to open their establishments. However, all these relaxations are not applicable to containment zones. Schools, colleges, gymnasiums, cinema halls, saloons, malls etc will continue to remain closed. Autorickshaws, cycle-rickshaws, cabs etc will not be allowed to ply. INFOGX SHUTTERS UP * Standalone shops, neighbourhood shops and those in residential complexes allowed to open * However, there should not be more than five shops selling non-essential items in any lane * Shops selling electrical items, air coolers, hardware and building materials to operate on Monday, Wednesday and Friday * Shops selling auto spares, oils and lubricants, opticians, stationery and hosiery will remain open on Tuesday, Thursday, Saturday and Sunday. This is applicable for garages and puncture repair shops too * Private offices can function at 15% strength. Government offices at 33% strength * Construction permitted in urban areas, where workers should live on site * None of these activities permitted in containment zones||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nmc-partially-relaxes-lockdown-liquor-home-delivery-allowed/articleshow/75726742.cms||Ashish Roy
May 14, 2020||Nagpur||Plea seeks amt collected under PM Cares Fund, audit by CAG||Nagpur: The Nagpur bench of the Bombay high court on Wednesday issued notices to PM Cares Fund chairperson, secretary and others seeking their reply by Thursday on a plea filed by a city lawyer Arvind Waghmare. The Union Cabinet on March 28 formed ‘PM’s Citizens Assistance and Relief in Emergency Situations’ (PM Cares) – a public charitable trust – to raise funds to fight Covid-19 pandemic with PM as chairperson and Union defence, home and finance ministers as ex officio trustees. Being a donor to this fund himself, Waghmare claimed that the estimated funds collected in the first week of its formation were around Rs 6,500 crore. Therefore, he demanded declaration of the total amount collected so far on the government’s website for the knowledge of common public. He also demanded to fund’s audit through Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) instead of an independent auditor to be nominated by the board of trustees. Waghmare has named Union defence, home and finance ministries as respondents along with divisional commissioners of Nagpur and Amravati, city collector and municipal commissioner. The plea was listed before Justice Madhav Jamdar. While setting up the fund, certain guidelines were issued that specifically mentioned that apart from the ex officio chairperson and ex officio trustees, three more trustees will be appointed/nominated on the trust. Waghmare argued that the three other trustees have not been appointed till May 9, but donations to the tune of crores of rupees are being accepted. The petitioner insisted on immediate appointment of other trustees for fortifying confidence of the general public. He prayed for nominating at least two members from the opposition parties in the Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha to maintain transparency of the national fund. Assistant solicitor general Ulhas Aurangabadkar and government pleader Sumant Deopujari accepted the notices on behalf of Union ministries and state officials, respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/plea-seeks-amt-collected-under-pm-cares-fund-audit-by-cag/articleshow/75726762.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
May 14, 2020||India||Editors Guild slams police action against journalists||NEW DELHI: The Editors Guild of India said on Wednesday reports of police action against journalists across the country were “deeply disturbing” and condemned the “growing pattern of misuse of criminal laws”. The Guild cited two instances, one of a sedition case being slapped on Dhaval Patel, the editor of a Gujarati news portal for carrying a news report of a likely change at the top in the Gujarat government. The second instance the Guild cited was of Indian Express reporter Mahender Singh Manral being summoned by the Delhi Police to participate in an inquiry into the Tablighi Jamaat chief Maulana Saad’s case. “The government and the police must recognise that the media is an integral part of the governance structure in any democracy,” the Guild said in a statement. “The Guild condemns these actions and asks the state and central governments to desist from misusing the law to threaten the free press,” it added. Patel was charged with sedition and for spreading false panic. “This is a misuse of special laws, besides sedition and the Indian Penal Code,” the Guild said. In the case of Manral, the Guild said this was an instance of “egregious and high-handed action” from Delhi Police. “While Manral wasn’t charged under any law, he was threatened that failure to join the probe could result in legal action under Section 174 of the Indian Penal Code with punishment of a prison term and fine,” it said, adding that this action appears to be a “little more than a fishing expedition to try and extract the journalist’s source” and, thus, warn other reporters. Press Club of India condemned Delhi Police’s a tion. “We stand in solidarity with our journalist colleague and urge a consolidation of support from the media and the general public on this vital issue,” it said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/editors-guild-slams-police-action-against-journalists/articleshow/75728284.cms||---
May 14, 2020||Chennai||ACP, police commando, fireman test Covid-19 + ve in Chennai||CHENNAI: A commando of the state police, and assistant commissioner of police posted in north Chennai a fire and rescue services worker tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday. All three were later admitted to the Omandurar Government Medical College and Hospital and Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital. The commando who tested positive for the infection is attached to the training centre-cum-school at the Marutham complex in Raja Annamalaipuram. Next door to the commando school, close to the posh Boat Club area, is a building housing the core cell CID which handles the chief minister's security arrangements and escorts his convoy every time he steps out. The commando training school was sanitized thoroughly and closed temporarily. The source of the commando's infection is being analysed. The ACP, the second man to test positive, is thought to have contracted the infection from a containment zones in Royapuram which he recently visited as part of his duty. After he was admitted to the hospital, police advised all his family members to stay under home quarantine. His office was sanitized before being shut. When news of the fire services man testing positive came and it was known that he had been attached to the Raj Bhavan, there was consternation. Immediately, a press release issued by the additional director of the Raj Bhavan fire station clarified that the said worker had once served there but had been transferred to the T Nagar fire and rescue services station on April 14. So far, about 100 police personnel have tested positive for the Covid-19 in the city. Of these, 54 police personnel have been shifted from the Omandurar government medical college and hospital to the temporary quarantine centre set up on the IIT-Madras campus. Two doctors who have been infected have also been shifted to the temporary centre, police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/acp-police-commando-fireman-test-covid-19-ve-in-chennai/articleshow/75728285.cms||---
