May 15, 2020||Bengaluru||Is taking a gap year a viable option for students this year?||The Coronavirus pandemic has thrown life out of gear for people from every walk of life. In the case of students, especially those waiting to move from school to college, and the many who aspire to study abroad, the future holds a lot of uncertainty. With the official directive suggesting that colleges may not begin until September, as opposed to June and July, many parents feel the stress to complete a year’s syllabus in less time may be too much for their wards. This has brought forth the discussion surrounding the concept of students taking a gap year. Is it a good idea, is it feasible, and will it work in favour of or against the student later? Bangalore Times finds out... What students say... I applied for a scholarship in Italy for my Masters. I was supposed to get my letter of acceptance in June and go for my higher studies later this year. I may have to defer my plans till next year. In the meantime, I am exploring my options and prefer to work. — Josna Joseph, 20-year-old student I had applied for higher studies in the UK, but I’m thinking of withdrawing my application and redoing it next year. My parents understand and support me completely. My friends’ parents too, are are okay with them taking a break. — Shreyas Abhishek, 21, who is currently pursuing his BBA in finance What parents say... My son Zahan is currently pursuing culinary arts in New York. As soon as news broke out, we asked him to return home. Though his classes are still conducted online, his course is more about practical knowledge. The situation now will not allow him to be physically present for the course. So, if he wants to take a gap year, we were okay with it. — Aslam Gafoor, hospitality consultant What Educational institutions say... A gap year will prove to be an advantage if the students use this time productively. It will help if students can indulge in recreational sports or career-related activities. The lockdown may be in place for a long time and it may become a way of life for a while — especially for students. It’s better if they continue to apply to colleges if they have just graduated out of high school and continue their regular plans. — Pawan Jain, associate professor and placement chairperson, The Institute of Management Technology (IMT), Nagpur Can a gap year be beneficial? Students can utilise this time to find their passion and work towards it. Working in the field of their choice gives them exposure to the professional world. It is the best time to take up courses — offline or online — and learn new skills.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/is-taking-a-gap-year-a-viable-option-for-students-this-year/articleshow/75744748.cms||Sandra Marina Fernandes
May 15, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru’s art, music and showbiz frat discuss the challenges of content creation during lockdown||Addressing the challenges and prospects of content creation during the lockdown, was our panel of artistes comprising filmmakers and actors Pawan Kumar, Pannaga Bharana, artiste Baadal Nanjundaswamy and musician Vasu Dixit. Excerpts from the discussion.... Pawan, you've organised podcasts, live chats with startups and even a marathon fundraising session during the lockdown. What keeps you innovating?What motivated me was a newspaper article about the lockdown that read - Indians want the government to do everything, they don't want to do anything themselves. This made me sit up to do things and see how far can it go. It was all organic. I'd just do what I felt like doing, without any planning. It keeps me occupied, as well as connects me to newer audiences. Pannaga, you've put together a celebrity video and even done one of the first Instagram live theatrical performances. What were the challenges?When the lockdown started, the first two weeks were all about relaxing. Then we woke up and realised that we should do something creative. We decided to do a song where wanted to show people that together even this shall pass. The major challenge was to get people to send us videos and content, as everyone was used to relaxing. Work that usually takes two hours, took two days under the current situations. Vasu, you made a lot of music, including a home series called Gyan Mandali...For most artistes, necessity is the mother of invention. Artistes love constraints and challenges. Personally, I really wanted a time like this. It might sound selfish and greedy, but I really wanted to work on my stuff that I had procrastinated on. Even Gyan Mandali was a spontaneous thing. My wife and I would do such things when we would go to friends' houses. Since we were together for such a long time and not travelling - we decided that we should do something besides music. Since this was a common ground that we both enjoyed, we just wanted to have fun. And Baadal, you use the city as your canvas...I first panicked when news of the pandemic broke out. It took a while for me to compose myself. When I wanted to do something there weren't any materials. I found a few sketch pens and pencils and charcoal. I tried to create something using those. It was hard, as I have enjoyed using walls or roads as I wanted the art to reach the common people too. So I used three walls in my house as the canvas. Many days later, I created some awareness artwork on the streets near my house. Commissioner of police Bhaskar Rao dropped by to see it. What has the lockdown taught all of you?Vasu: This lockdown has been all about going deeper within myself - with or without my art. For my art, it is about what I can improve. Pawan: I have looked at it as a process of reboot. It is about starting something fresh instead of going back to old practices. These days have taught me what I need and don't need. In terms of work, it has helped me connect to people through newer mediums, in a simple way. Pannaga: We have a false idea of our needs. These days have taught me what is actually required. As a creative person, it has taught me self-motivation. It has also taught the importance of human connection - to work together and help one another. Baadal: As artistes, it has helped us connect and find inspiration with things that are closer home - quite literally. It has made us more mindful of our surroundings. This is a time for sharing and change. Watch Webinar on challenges of content creation during lockdown||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengalurus-art-music-and-showbiz-frat-discuss-the-challenges-of-content-creation-during-lockdown/articleshow/75746533.cms||Sunayana Suresh
May 15, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru’s art, music and showbiz frat discuss the challenges of content creation during lockdown||Addressing the challenges and prospects of content creation during the lockdown, was our panel of artistes comprising filmmakers and actors Pawan Kumar, Pannaga Bharana, artiste Baadal Nanjundaswamy and musician Vasu Dixit. Excerpts from the discussion.... Pawan, you've organised podcasts, live chats with startups and even a marathon fundraising session during the lockdown. What keeps you innovating?What motivated me was a newspaper article about the lockdown that read - Indians want the government to do everything, they don't want to do anything themselves. This made me sit up to do things and see how far can it go. It was all organic. I'd just do what I felt like doing, without any planning. It keeps me occupied, as well as connects me to newer audiences. Pannaga, you've put together a celebrity video and even done one of the first Instagram live theatrical performances. What were the challenges?When the lockdown started, the first two weeks were all about relaxing. Then we woke up and realised that we should do something creative. We decided to do a song where wanted to show people that together even this shall pass. The major challenge was to get people to send us videos and content, as everyone was used to relaxing. Work that usually takes two hours, took two days under the current situations. Vasu, you made a lot of music, including a home series called Gyan Mandali...For most artistes, necessity is the mother of invention. Artistes love constraints and challenges. Personally, I really wanted a time like this. It might sound selfish and greedy, but I really wanted to work on my stuff that I had procrastinated on. Even Gyan Mandali was a spontaneous thing. My wife and I would do such things when we would go to friends' houses. Since we were together for such a long time and not travelling - we decided that we should do something besides music. Since this was a common ground that we both enjoyed, we just wanted to have fun. And Baadal, you use the city as your canvas...I first panicked when news of the pandemic broke out. It took a while for me to compose myself. When I wanted to do something there weren't any materials. I found a few sketch pens and pencils and charcoal. I tried to create something using those. It was hard, as I have enjoyed using walls or roads as I wanted the art to reach the common people too. So I used three walls in my house as the canvas. Many days later, I created some awareness artwork on the streets near my house. Commissioner of police Bhaskar Rao dropped by to see it. What has the lockdown taught all of you?Vasu: This lockdown has been all about going deeper within myself - with or without my art. For my art, it is about what I can improve. Pawan: I have looked at it as a process of reboot. It is about starting something fresh instead of going back to old practices. These days have taught me what I need and don't need. In terms of work, it has helped me connect to people through newer mediums, in a simple way. Pannaga: We have a false idea of our needs. These days have taught me what is actually required. As a creative person, it has taught me self-motivation. It has also taught the importance of human connection - to work together and help one another. Baadal: As artistes, it has helped us connect and find inspiration with things that are closer home - quite literally. It has made us more mindful of our surroundings. This is a time for sharing and change. Watch Webinar on challenges of content creation during lockdown||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengalurus-art-music-and-showbiz-frat-discuss-the-challenges-of-content-creation-during-lockdown/articleshow/75746535.cms||Sunayana Suresh
May 15, 2020||Kochi||Lockdown has turned life miserable for this speech and hearing-impaired couple from Thiruvananthapuram||Anil John Itty and his wife Lin Anil are speech and hearing impaired by birth. All these years, the disabilities hadn’t bothered them. But things changed once the lockdown was announced. The simplest things of everyday life have now become a challenge for them. Be it to purchase anything from shops, communicate with officials or even contact the coronavirus helpdesk, the duo who work in Technopark, Thiruvananthapuram, have to struggle. Lin, a senior finance executive, says over a text message, “Lockdown has made us feel a lot more secluded from the society than before. So far, we have been relying on lip-reading and facial expressions for communication. Now, with everyone wearing a mask, it is difficult. The need to stay six feet away to ensure social distancing makes communication even more tough.” She quotes an example of trying to make a purchase from shops. “When we give a written list of items to buy to shopkeepers from small provision stores - which are the only shops open - they refuse to read it and get us the items. Either because they can't read well, have too many customers to attend to or are just arrogant. Also, as they wear masks, we can’t read their lips either. Some of the shop keepers have even cheated us with goods of compromised quality and by charging extra.” Anil says that earlier, in his office, he used to have face-to-face meetings with his stakeholders and team members, relying on body language interpretation and lip reading. “Now, it is a challenge through video calls, as at times, internet crashes and disrupts communication. And as there are no disabled-friendly helpdesks or internet services either, it is very tiresome for us,” he says. Anil quotes another instance. “A while ago, I was walking once to a shop near our place to buy some essentials. Suddenly, I was grabbed by a policeman, who was all set to swing his lathi at me. I stopped him, but couldn’t understand what he was trying to say, as he was wearing a mask. When I gestured that I am deaf, and tried to convey to him where I was going, he gestured to just go back home. As I feared that he would hit me, I walked back home. We feel its better not to step out, as the situation outside is not disabled-friendly at all.” Now, Anil and wife are trying to escape the isolation through organic farming, cooking experiments and texting their friends and family. The couple says, “Our eight-year-old son isn’t deaf or mute and he stays with our parents now in Kottayam, as his school is closed. We miss him a lot now, as he is our voice. We are looking forward to the day on which we can get back with him, and escape this lonely environment around us.” Photo Courtesy: Satheeshan Karicheri||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/lockdown-has-turned-life-miserable-for-this-speech-and-hearing-impaired-couple-from-thiruvananthapuram/articleshow/75741079.cms||Arya UR
May 15, 2020||India||'Non-exclusive agreement' signed with Zydus-Cadila for Covid-19 antibody test kit: ICMR||NEW DELHI: The ICMR has signed a "non-exclusive agreement" with Zydus-Cadila, an innovation-driven health company, for producing indigenous antibody detection kit for Covid-19 after three other firms refused the offer, the apex health research body said on Thursday. In a statement, the Indian council of medical research said on external validation, the IgG ELISA test kit produced by ICMR and national institute of virology (NIV) in Pune has been found to have sensitivity and specificity of 98.7 per cent and 100 per cent respectively. The ICMR said based on the potential of companies, SPAN, J MITRA, Zydus-Cadila and Cipla were offered to take up the production of the kit. "Except Zydus-Cadila, the three others refused to accept the offer. Zydus Cadila, which is an innovation-driven global health company, accepted to produce the ELISA. This have been named as "Covid KAVACH ELISA," the ICMR said. ICMR's statement comes after the Congress on Wednesday alleged a conspiracy behind the grant of licence to manufacture ELISA testing kits to Zydus Cadila as it questioned the government's decision in creating a monopoly in this field. The ICMR said it has signed a "non-exclusive agreement" with Zydus Cadila, which means the apex health research body continues to have the right to offer any other company which comes forward to take up the production of ELISA. The ICMR said it has also been approached by Cipla Pvt Ltd. and NextGen Life Sciences for providing non-exclusive license for "COVID KAVACH ELISA", which is under process. The ELISA test has the advantage of processing 90 samples together in a single run of two-and-a-half hours, the ICMR said. "Moreover, ELISA-based testing is easily possible even at the district level as the test kit has inactivated virus. There are also minimal bio-safety and bio-security requirements as compared to the real-time RT-PCR test," it said. The ICMR further said this test has an advantage of having much higher sensitivity and specificity as compared to the several rapid test kits. "While real time RT-PCR is the frontline test for clinical diagnosis of SARS-COV-2 robust antibody tests are critical for surveillance to understand the proportion of population exposed to the infection," it said. The ELISA test would be used in a survey initiated by the ICMR in collaboration with other key stakeholders to estimate the prevalence of coronavirus infection among the Indian population, an ICMR official said. The household level cross-sectional survey which would be conducted in 69 districts of 21 states and Union Territories and cover 24,000 adults can help ascertain if there has been community spread of the disease in those areas, an expert associated with the survey said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/non-exclusive-agreement-signed-with-zydus-cadila-for-covid-19-antibody-test-kit-icmr/articleshow/75746622.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Agra||Mute patient dies after waiting for 4 hours in Agra hospital's OPD||AGRA: In another case of inadequate health services for non-Covid-19 patients, a 60-year-old mute man succumbed on a bench at the district hospital in Agra on Thursday as he was made to wait at the OPD counter for four hours and then made to visit at least four different doctors within the premises. District magistrate Prabhu N Singh has ordered a probe into the matter. The deceased, identified as Shahid Ali, a resident of Idgah Katghar, had complained of weakness and difficulties in passing urine and stool. His eldest son Salman Ali told TOI, “I brought my father to the district hospital at 6 am but the doctor examined him at 10 am. The doctor later told me that his life could have been saved if he was brought here just 10 minutes earlier.” Salman said, “My father had been unwell for the past few weeks. On May 2, we took him to Sarojini Naidu Medical College’s emergency ward, but no medical aid was given to him. We were told that due to Covid-19, only corona cases, pregnant women and accident cases are being taken up. We then consulted a private doctor, who managed to stabilize his health. But, on Thursday, his condition deteriorated.” “The district hospital is merely 10-15 minutes away from our home. We took him there at 6 am." " We were told that the OPD counter will open at 8 am. The queue of patients was long. At 9:24 am, the OPD receipt was issued and we were asked to take him to the doctor’s chamber. Since there was no doctor there, we were referred to another chamber, where a woman medical staff sent us to another chamber. From there, we were sent to another chamber, where a doctor declared him dead,” said Salman. “He said we should have brought him earlier and asked us to take my father’s body immediately back home,” said Salman. When contacted, Dr Satish Verma, superintendent in-charge of Agra district hospital, denied any delay in treatment. “The patient was provided a stretcher when he arrived at the hospital. The paramedic staff and policemen on duty suggested that the patient was not unresponsive on arrival. His registration was done at 9:24 am. He was officially recorded brought dead at 10 am,” Dr Verma said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/mute-patient-dies-after-waiting-for-4-hrs-in-agra-hosps-opd/articleshow/75746550.cms||Arvind Chauhan
May 15, 2020||Agra||Agra: 5-year-old spots mother with her paramour, killed||AGRA: Two days after a five-and-a-half-year-old child was found dead just stone’s throw away from his home in Sadar area, police on Thursday arrested the mother’s paramour. The apprehended accused was as identified Dherender Singh. He was booked for murder IPC 302 and 201 (causing disappearance of evidence of offence) along with his brother Ajay Kumar. Rohan Botre, superintendent of police (city), said, “The accused had an illicit affair with victim’s mother. A few days ago, the child saw the two alone. Singh was worried that the child might tell others about them.” “On Tuesday, the accused took the child and killed him in shrubs. Both the victim and accused are neighbours in Gopalpura area,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/kid-5-spots-mom-with-her-paramour-killed/articleshow/75746204.cms||Arvind Chauhan
May 15, 2020||Agra||Agra: Alumnus of Sarojini Naidu Medical College found dead in his flat||AGRA: A 32-year-old radiologist working at private CT scan/MRI diagnostic centre was found dead under suspicious circumstances at his rented flat in Tajganj. The man was a 2016-17 pass out of Sarojini Naidu Medical College after completing Masters in diagnostic radiology. He used to work at a Bagh Farzana-based centre and lived at an apartment in Tajganj alone. However, he originally belonged to Chapra in Bihar and was youngest among three siblings. Late on Wednesday, around 1 am, the police broke into his flat to find his purportedly three days old body lying on the floor. Station house officer of Tajganj, Anuj Kumar, said, “Prima facie, we didn’t found any foul play. The house was locked from inside. There was nothing missing from his home, nor there was any sign of forced entry or exit. We found that the man had spoken to a certain patient three days ago. However, there were several missed calls in his mobile phone from relatives and friends.” “The body was sent for autopsy. Once his relatives arrive the post-mortem would be done and cause of death would be ascertained,” he added. Dr Abhay Kumar, a third-year student of SNMC and acquaintance of the deceased, said, “We all were trying to contact him for past three days. He was seen last on May 10. When he did not take our calls, I along with my senior Dr Chandramohan visited his flat around 11:30pm. The guard only allowed me. As soon as I reached his door, there was a strong pungent smell coming out from his flat - on first floor. I, immediately, informed Dr Chandramohan and we called the police, who broke open the door and we found him lying on the floor.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/alumnus-of-snmc-found-dead-in-his-flat/articleshow/75746500.cms||Arvind Chauhan
May 15, 2020||India||Tata to upgrade 2 government hospitals in state for Covid treatment||MUMBAI: Tata group has begun the process of upgrading two government hospitals in Maharashtra into Covid-19 treatment centres to assist the authorities in fighting the virus. The conglomerate is upgrading a 50-bed hospital in Sangli and a 106-bed healthcare facility in Buldhana with plans to hand these over by June 15. The facilities, which will include in-patient and out-patient wings, will be permanent units for the area’s healthcare even after the pandemic is over. Other than the two hospitals, the group, through Tata Projects, is in the midst of setting up five healthcare facilities in Mumbai. The conglomerate, including controlling shareholder Tata Trusts, had pledged Rs 1,500 crore to combat coronavirus that has impacted lives and businesses. The hospitals in Sangli and Buldhana will be armed with critical care capabilities, minor operation theatres, basic pathology and radiology, facilities for dialysis and blood storage and telemedicine units, said Tata Trusts in a statement. In Mumbai, the group has transformed KEM Hospital’s two wards with 65 beds and has turned its orthopaedic centre into a 115-bed isolation centre. It has completed a 100-bed facility at St George hospital. It is also finishing a 70-bed and a 300-bed facilities at HBT Trauma Center in Jogeshwari and Seven Hills Hospital in Marol; and is setting up a 75-bed ICU cum isolation facility at Tata Memorial Centre in Kharghar. Elsewhere in the country, the Tata group is upgrading/setting up healthcare facilities in Uttar Pradesh, Kerala, Bengaluru and Noida. The conglomerate is upgrading a 168-bed healthcare centre in Gautam Buddha Nagar and a 106-bed facility in Gonda, both state-run units located in Uttar Pradesh, into Covid-19 treatment centres. It is constructing a 500-bed Covid-19 hospital in Kasaragod, Kerala, which reported 26 fresh infections on Thursday. It has commenced work in setting up a 200-bed quarantine facility at TCS’s premises in Noida. This is expected to be completed by June-end. It has developed facilities for 288 general ward beds, 36 ICU beds and 36 private ward beds at Rudrapur Medical College in Uttarakhand besides setting up a 20-bed facility at Sir CV Raman General Hospital in Bengaluru. These moves follow Tata Trusts chairman Ratan Tata’s statement that “urgent emergency resources need to be deployed to cope with the needs of fighting the Covid-19 crisis, which is one of the toughest challenges the human race will face”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/tata-to-upgrade-2-government-hospitals-in-state-for-covid-treatment/articleshow/75747014.cms||Reeba Zachariah
May 15, 2020||Guwahati||With 7 fresh cases, Assam's Covid-19 tally rises to 86||GUWAHATI: Seven people, including three cancer patients and a 13-year-old girl with heart surgery along with three attendants, all of who had returned from Mumbai on Tuesday and have been on institutional quarantine since then in Guwahati, tested positive for Covid-19 in Assam on Friday. With these, 22 positive cases have been reported in Guwahati in the past 24 hours, which have pushed the state's tally to 86. On Wednesday, 15 cases were reported in Guwahati, which was the biggest single-day spike so far. “All the seven positive people have been admitted in Guwahati Medical College and Hospital and the other patients who had come with them from Mumbai, have tested negative and have been sent to 14 days home quarantine,” health minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said. “When we were bringing 132 patients and their attendants from Mumbai we knew that some of them would test positive because they have been staying in Mumbai where there are so many cases and also two other patients staying with them at Assam Bhawan had tested positive there,” Sarma said. “One of the cancer patients, who has tested negative, is still in institutional quarantine because his attendant has tested positive and taken to GMCH. We want to keep this cancer patient under observation for few more days,” Sarma added. Popular singer Zubeen Garg, his wife and his two friends, who had come from Mumbai by a hired bus on Tuesday, have tested negative and have been shifted from institutional quarantine to 14 days home quarantine. Since May 4, as many as 11,102 people have returned to Assam from other states and only 18 of them have tested positive so far. “I do not want to interpret this ratio between number of people who have come in and the positive persons among them. It is just the beginning and the pandemic is an evolving situation…nothing final can be said now,” Sarma said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/guwahati/with-7-fresh-cases-assams-covid-19-tally-rises-to-86/articleshow/75747028.cms||Prabin Kalita
May 15, 2020||India||Bengaluru hosts national body to drive biomedical innovation||BENGALURU: Two days after Prime Minister Narendra Modi urged India to become self-reliant — Atmanirbhar — the department of biotechnology (DBT) has constituted a new national body, the national biomedical resource indigenisation consortium (N-BRIC) with a mandate of driving indigenous innovation. Constituted as a Public Private Partnership (PPP) focused on developing reagents, diagnostics, vaccines and therapeutics for Covid-19, the consortium will be based out the Centre for Cellular And Molecular Platforms (CCAMP). Confirming the development to TOI, Taslimarif Saiyed, CEO and director, CCAMP, said that CCAMP will be the lead institute and the governing council that will oversee the initiative will be headed by Biocon CMD Kiran Mazumdar-Shaw. Stating that N-BRIC aims to provide a collaborative platform for building indigenous biomedical resources towards a self-reliant biotech ecosystem, Saiyed added that Covid-19 is only the starting point and that the initiative hopes to provide solutions beyond this pandemic and help India become self-reliant in the sector. Dr Renu Swarup, secretary, DBT said, “To meet our biotech and biomedical needs, the country needs to be self-reliant for product manufacturing and also the components, reagents, resources across the product development chain, N-BRIC brings together academia, industry, startups and MSME to serve not just the country but the world.” She added this was a good start to meet the Covid-19 challenges and that the DBT hopes to enlarge this to include all required resources, platforms and facilities. Saiyed, also the convener of N-BRIC said: “During these difficult times, we have realised the dire need of biomedical resources for the healthcare system and research community. This consortium, a converging platform for all stake-holders, is a major effort by DBT, conceptualised by the DBT secretary to address this need across the country and promote indigenous development and manufacturing.” While Shaw did not answer TOI’s calls, a CCAMP statement quoted her as having said the consortium is of immense national importance at a time of an unprecedented global health emergency. “This will enable us to synergise and optimise the latent capabilities we possess across the pyramid of academic research labs, start-ups, MSMEs and large enterprises to deliver innovative solutions at scale for India and the world. I congratulate Dr Renu Swarup for spearheading this vital initiative,” Shaw was quoted as having said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/bengaluru-hosts-national-body-to-drive-biomedical-innovation/articleshow/75747110.cms||Chethan Kumar
May 15, 2020||Mumbai||Can NMMC contract workers get Covid-19 benefit of PM's insurance scheme, Bombay HC asks||MUMBAI: The Bombay high court on Thursday asked if the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kamgar Package Insurance Scheme for health workers fighting Covid-19 can be extended to contract workers of Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC). During a hearing via video conferencing by justice Shahrukh Kathawalla of a petition regarding contract workers, the court was informed that central government has been added as a party. NMMC and the state government's response was also sought on payment of daily allowance of Rs 300/- to them as given to permanent employees. On Tuesday, the NMMC was directed to submit the number of masks, gloves and sanitizers in its possession before announcement of the lockdown and a detailed break up of their distribution. The petition was filed by Samaj Samata Kamgar Sangh on the behalf of 6,277 contract workers saying they are only provided with 2-3 drops of hand sanitisers before they start work and at the end of the shift. There is not protection provided from Covid-19 including hand sanitisers, gloves, masks, personal protection equipment (PPE) except for low-quality masks and gloves given once. An affidavit by Tushar Pawar, deputy municipal commissioner (Solid Wastes Department) denied the union's claim. He said protective material such as masks, gloves and sanitisers are provided by their contractors. ``Such protective material are procured by the contractors at their own costs, as well as provided by the corporation to the contractors,''' he added, and sought time to give details of procurement of protective material. The sangh's advocate countered that false statements have been made on oath and fabricated documents relied upon by NMMC which bear forged signatures of workers admitting to receiving protective material. ``The above statements of the petitioner union and the corporation amounts to the word of one against the other. Since there are 225 contractors, it is not possible for this court, and that too at this stage, to enter into an inquiry and determine as to which side is speaking the truth,'' noted Justice Kathawalla in his order. He directed that on every Monday at 10am, the representative of the NMMC, the sangh and the contractor shall meet at the head office of NMMC and the necessary protective material for an entire week for the contract workers shall be handed to the sangh's representative who will distribute the same to its members according to their duties. The court will take an update on May 15.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/can-nmmc-contract-workers-get-covid-19-benefit-of-pms-insurance-scheme-bombay-hc-asks/articleshow/75747123.cms||Rosy Sequeira
May 15, 2020||Guwahati||Healthy woman refuses to be separated from Coronavirus positive daughter; Assam govt bends rules||GUWAHATI: A mother is known to put her love for her children above everything else. But, when a healthy mother stays back with her Covid-19 positive daughter at an isolation ward, love then is heavenly. On Thursday, this mother’s love shook the entire Assam government and they could not say no to the mother’s decision to remain besides her 13-year-old daughter, who had a heart surgery not long back in Mumbai. Rules were bent, for the first time for a mother. The duo had just returned from Mumbai by a bus along with 130 other people, mostly cancer patients, and their attendants on Tuesday and were quarantined in Guwahati. On Thursday, when the test results came, it turned out that daughter was a positive but her mother was fit and healthy. As per the protocol, the positive person has to be isolated immediately in a hospital, but that did not happen here. “For the first time, we have allowed a negative persons to stay with a positive patient in one room in a hospital. Here is a mother who knows very well that she has high chance of getting infected with the virus and yet she refused to part with her daughter. This is an extraordinary example of motherly love,” health minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said. The duo have been brought to Guwahati Medical College and Hospital and have been given a separate cabin away from the isolation ward for the coronavirus positive people. “Cardiologists are also keeping watch on the child and working with the core team for Covid,” Sarma added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/guwahati/healthy-woman-refuses-to-be-separated-from-coronavirus-positive-daughter-assam-govt-bends-rules/articleshow/75747200.cms||Prabin Kalita
May 15, 2020||Business||ONGC awards 49 marginal fields to 7 companies amid corona crisis||NEW DELHI: ONGC late on Thursday night awarded 49 marginal producing oil and gas fields to seven companies under a government plan to raise production from these acreages that are not economical for the state-run flagship explorer. The awarded fields make up 13 onshore contract areas spread across Gujarat, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu and Assam, the company said in a statement but did not identify the winners. The winners were selected through an international competitive bidding for 17 onshore contract areas. ONGC had invited bids for partnership to raise production from 64 marginal fields that were given to the company by the government without bidding. Being small in size, these fields are uneconomical for a large company for ONGC. The government had originally planned to farm out these fields but later changed tack ans asked ONGC to induct partners with a view to ramp up production from these fields. ONGC had invited bids in June last year. The fields are being given on revenue-sharing basis, with the revenue being shared on incremental production over and above the baseline production under business-as-usual (BAU). The selected contractors will not be required to reimburse any expenditure on the fields already incurred by ONGC. These contracts will be for a period of 15 years, with an option to extend by five years. Royalty rate will be reduced by 10% in case of additional production of natural gas over and above BAU scenario, according the statement ONGC has issues after inviting the bids The contract will allow complete marketing and pricing freedom to sell oil and gas on an arm’s length basis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/ongc-awards-49-marginal-fields-to-7-companies-amid-corona-crisis/articleshow/75747284.cms||Sanjay Dutta
May 15, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra governor files case against news portal for 'defamatory news'||MUMBAI: A non-cognizable (NC) offence has been registered against a news portal for allegedly publishing a defamatory news article against Maharashtra governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari. The Cyber police station at Bandra Kurla Complex (BKC) lodged the case based on the complaint it received from the Raj Bhavan on Thursday. The cyber police will seek the court’s permission to carry out a probe in the matter. In the complaint, an official from the Raj Bhavan said, “They came across a defamatory news article published on a news portal recently and the same was circulated on social media that the governor facilitated the travel of a model from Maharashtra to Dehardun enroute Delhi. The news contents were false, fabricated and with an intent to malign the image of the governor.” DCP (Cyber Crime) Vishal Thakur confirmed the development.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maharashtra-governor-files-case-against-news-portal-for-defamatory-news/articleshow/75747292.cms||Narayan Namboodiri
May 15, 2020||Kolkata||Little puppy rescued by city animal lovers||This lockdown has shown several faces of humanity all over the world. In a similar incident, a group of social workers has recently rescued a small puppy that was tangled in wires around the High Court area. The group was feeding the other strays in the iconic office para that is closed due to the lockdown. Elaborating on the incident, wildlife activist and one of the rescuers Joydip Kundu said, “I was really a drama. Like every day, we went to the court area to feed the strays and heard a puppy screaming. We are receiving immense support from Kolkata Police and luckily, we had one of the senior police officers with us on that day. We went inside the premises and found a small puppy — all tangled in wires — hanging from a height of no less than 20 feet. It was bizarre. We somehow managed a ladder from a nearby area. Since it is the lockdown time, there were not many people with us. Upon climbing up, we realised the puppy is still not reachable. After that, we got hold of a banner that was lying around and somehow managed to drop the pup on the banner that was held like a net. We saved it finally.” The puppy is now safe and can be spotted enjoying his regular meal along with his gang at High Court Area. The group of animal lovers are distributing about 15 kg of food — rice, chicken, soybean, potato, carrot, daal — to the strays around the old office area of central Kolkata, including Esplanade, High Court area, Netaji Indoor Stadium, Raj Bhavan and so on. “We have been doing it for nearly 10 days. These areas are quiet now hence the strays here are in need of food. We are immensely thankful to culturist Sundeep Bhutoria, director Arindam Sil and other members of the community who came forward to help us,” Joydip said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/little-puppy-rescued-by-city-animal-lovers/articleshow/75744859.cms||Shamayita.Chakraborty
May 15, 2020||Kolkata||From carrying your own cutlery to pre-ordering on apps, here’s how the eating-out experience is about to change post #lockdown||Even as the economy limps into the fourth phase of the lockdown, restaurateurs are grappling with what could be the new normal — social distancing, stringent sanitation and hygiene checks, restricted access to resources and ingredients, reduced manpower, and wary customers unwilling to spend a fortune on elaborate dishes with imported ingredients. With WFH being the new norm, and the government encouraging home delivery and takeaways across cities, the challenge for restaurateurs who are burdened with expensive real estate, is to reimagine the business model and lure customers back to their tables again. While they await the government guidelines for reopening their outlets, chefs, restaurateurs and other stakeholders list the ways your dine-out experience is about to change. Bring your own cutlery Standard guidelines say a minimum of 30 minutes of stantisation before restaurant cutlery can be used. If you are not confident about the sanitation process, just BYOC or Bring your Own Cutlery. Some restaurants are planning to use disposable cutlery too, though they say supply is erratic. Minimal interaction with service staffDigital menu, QR codes, pre orders on restaurant apps - just some of the tech enabled ideas that restaurateurs are considering. While some of them had already been using i-pads and customised apps to take down orders before the pandemic, you can expect more restaurants to go the digital way. New-look serviceServers will sport a whole new look. Besides the mandatory masks, gloves and head covers, some of them may also wear face shields while serving. Uniforms will have a more conservative look with maximum coverage and zero fuss. Keeping safe distanceCrowded bars are a thing of the past. Resto bar and pub owners will follow social distancing guidelines while tables will be six-feet apart. This would however mean operating with only a third of the capacity, and fewer bartenders and service staff. Tweaking the menu With the focus on local produce, and a greater awareness of the farm to fork cycle, customers are likely to ask for simple, homegrown dishes. Restaurateurs and chefs are expecting a deeper engagement with guests on the menu, recipes and the ingredients. So no to imported Basa and a resounding yes to Kolkata Bhekti! Talking Heads Anjan Chatterjee, founder-chairman Speciality Restaurants “Focus will be on safety and hygiene with only 25% of existing seatings because of the social distancing guidelines. Intelligent menu, no buffet, contact-less ordering with apps, using a QR code that will directly inform the kitchen - are the other changes. We have already started using only local produce and we have a plan to stick to that." Vikas Kumar, Executive Chef, Flury’s“During the lockdown, we have had the whole nation in the kitchen, learning how to cook. The fact that food does not appear on its own, is perhaps dawning on millenials for the first time. Mindful eating will be the norm around the world.” Sushanta Sengupta, chef-owner 6 Ballygunge Place“Contact-less service, more space between tables, digital menu will be the norm. Disposable cutlery may not work in a fine dine or speciality restaurant, and we do not have enough suppliers who can meet the demand for high grade cutlery.” Suborno Bose, founder-chief mentor IIHM, Indismart group“By using your hands to eat, especially when you are having Indian food, you can save lakhs of rupees on sanitisation and cutlery expenses. Disposable cutlery is not sustainable.” Avantika Saraogi, partner Monkey Bar and Fatty Bao, Kolkata“We need to reimagine the menu with more bite sized portions, easy to handle foods on the menu. We will operate with a reduced team strength, and the menu is likely to reflect that.” Pritha Sen, food consultant and researcher“I know I will carry my own cutlery when I step out to eat and encourage others to do the same. It’s also a time to think Indian in all aspects of the business.” How restaurants around the world are serving> A restaurant in Amsterdam, Netherlands, has introduced ‘quarantine greenhouses’ so as to enable customers to maintain social distancing. > Burger King is trialling an app for ordering food and booking a table at its outlets in Italy, as it seeks to persuade locals it is safe to eat out again after more than two months of coronavirus lockdown. > In Hong Kong, guests are required to sign a health declaration form before entering the restaurant. Besides, they are offering a hygienic option for guests to store their masks in during the meal. > When going out for drinks or dinner in Switzerland, one customer in each group will also be asked to leave their contact details with the bar or restaurant to enable contact tracing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/from-carrying-your-own-cutlery-to-pre-ordering-on-apps-heres-how-the-eating-out-experience-is-about-to-change-post-lockdown/articleshow/75747495.cms||Shamayita.Chakraborty
May 15, 2020||Business||2nd tranche of relief focuses on poor, migrants, farmers||NEW DELHI: The government on Thursday focused on the poor and lower middle class as finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman unveiled the second set of measures of the stimulus package, which included affordable rental housing facility for migrant workers, free foodgrains for those without ration cards and loan schemes for farmers and street vendors. If micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) were the thrust of the nearly Rs 6 lakh crore package on Wednesday, the measures unveiled by Sitharaman on Thursday were aimed at addressing the problems of migrants. Ratings agency CARE said Thursday’s package could see an outflow of up to Rs 3.2 lakh crore, although the impact on the budget may be only Rs 5,000 crore. Moving to address the problem the poor have faced in accessing foodgrains in the wake of the pandemic, the Centre announced free grains and a kilo of chana dal for these families for the next two months. Sitharaman said the Modi administration would bear the Rs 3,500-crore cost of distributing eight lakh tonnes of wheat and rice and 50,000 tonnes of chana dal. The “one nation, one ration card” scheme will use Aadhaar to allow those entitled to access the public distribution system to draw their quota from anywhere in the country. Sitharaman said the facility should be operational by next March Relief expected to blunt charge of insensitivityThough this milestone, universally described as a big step towards food security, will be reached a few months later than originally scheduled, the FM said the government hoped to cover 83% of beneficiaries — a number equal to 67% of the population — by August 1. Another big announcement was the decision to launch affordable rental housing complexes or workers’ hostels, meant to provide social security to the urban poor and students, on a PPP basis. The measures come against the backdrop of the movement of millions of workers from large industrial hubs such as Delhi, Maharashtra and Gujarat to the less affluent states they come from — an exodus which has come to define the misery wrought by the coronavirus. The relief announced on Thursday is expected to blunt the charge of insensitivity, and consolidate PM Modi’s constituency among the poor who played a big role in his two LS poll victories. One nation, one ration card and affordable rental housing for migrants, in particular, are seen as projects whose benefits will far outlive the depredations of the virus. Unlike PDS portability, the immediate impetus for the scheme for residential complexes for migrants came from their harassment by landlords and the problem their departure from industrial hubs might cause for the objective of early resumption of economic normalcy. The packages, crafted through extensive consultations, have seen the Centre being criticised for piggybacking on banks and financial institutions instead of using its own budgetary resources. The government, however, is trying to balance the need to provide succour to vulnerable sections with the imperative to maintain control over the fiscal situation: a duel which is also expected to result in a denial of tax concessions to the corporate sector. Watch FM Sitharaman announces 2nd tranche of economic stimulus: Key points||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/2nd-tranche-of-relief-focuses-on-poor-migrants-farmers/articleshow/75747572.cms||---
May 15, 2020||India||India has ensured there’s been no starvation: Piyush Goyal||NEW DELHI: The government has focused on the health of citizens and ensured that no one was left wanting for food during the Covid-19 pandemic, commerce and industry minister Piyush Goyal said on Thursday. “We have gone through the entire three months without a single person starving. That’s not just the effort of the Centre or state governments. It is the effort of 130 crore Indians,” he said in his keynote address at the global online conference on ‘Covid 19: Jaan Bhi, Jahan Bhi’ organised by The School of Management of Bennett University, a part of the Times Group. “If one was to research on how different nations responded to the Spanish Flu, 100 years ago, those that focused on lives and health of people... be it with limited resources at that point, progressed much faster and became prosperous. Those that only focused on their economies suffered,” he said. We took care of our needs and of others’ too: GoyalUnion commerce and industry minister Piyush Goyal on Thursday said India has helped other countries during the novel coronavirus pandemic. “Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam (the world is one family) is ingrained in the Indian ethos,” he said. “While you are on a flight, if there is turbulence, what are you advised? Tie your seat belt first before you help others. We ensured that India’s requirements are taken care of, but we also ensured that the seat belt is tied for over 3-4 billion people across the globe with the supply of medicines to over 120 countries,” he said while speaking at a global online conference on “Covid 19: Jaan Bhi, Jahan Bhi’ organised by The School of Management of the Bennett University. Read AlsoWhat do we need to do to revive the economy?NEW DELHI: The challenges arising from the Covid crisis are far from over and relief measures need to be carefully directed to revive the economy, experts said on Thursday at the global online conference, ‘Covid 19 — Jaan bhi; Jahan bhi’ organised by The School of Management of Bennett University,Speaking at the same conference, former chief economist at the World Bank and chief economic advisor to the Indian government, Kaushik Basu said measures needed to be taken to protect the vulnerable. “The immediate concern should be the hundreds of thousands who are walking hundreds of miles only to go home, those who are walking in large groups but are Sall alone,” Basu explained. According to Basu, the financial package announced by the finance minister is necessary but not sufficient given the dark clouds of recession and unemployment. Basu said that while government spending would create inflationary pressures in six months, there was a need to move ahead now to protect the vulnerable sections and take corrective measures later. “If this Rs 20 lakh crore were an additional amount this should be enough. People who are scraping through the details are saying that it is not additional and it includes what RBI has done. If the additional amount is half (of what is announced) it is not enough,” added Basu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-has-ensured-theres-been-no-starvation-piyush-goyal/articleshow/75748157.cms||---
May 15, 2020||India||Covid-19: Destination address must when booking rail tickets||NEW DELHI: Indian Railways has started taking the destination address of all passengers booking train tickets from Wednesday, which can be helpful in contact tracing, if required later. This will be a permanent feature for rail travel as India gets ready for a long battle against Covid-19. The railway ministry has also announced that all tickets which were booked for normal trains before the lockdown for the travel period up to June 30 stand cancelled. There will be full refund of the ticket amount. Lockdown 3.0: Live updatesCoronavirus outbreak: Complete coverageRefund of fare for those with symptomsIn the case of tickets booked from counters, passengers can apply for refunds within six months from the date of journey. Passengers can also cancel tickets booked from counters through 139 or through the IRCTC website and get refund across the counter within six months from date of journey. More on Covid-19 Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage Lockdown 3.0: What's allowed and what's not in the three zones It's time to mask up and stay safe: Join TOI's #MaskIndia campaign MHA's guidelines for home isolation Trust the newspaper for your daily verified news The ministry had said on Wednesday that there will be full refund of fare if a passenger is found having Covid symptoms during screening. It said in case of a group ticket if one of the passengers is found unfit and others on the same PNR also do not want to travel, the railways will make full refund of the total fare. Watch Destination address must for train ticket booking: Railways to passengers||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/destination-address-must-when-booking-rail-tickets/articleshow/75748376.cms||---
May 15, 2020||India||Purists fume as Army plans to convert 61st Cavalry into armoured regiment||NEW DELHI: The Army is planning to convert its famous 61st Cavalry, the only active serving horse cavalry regiment in the world, into a regular armoured regiment with tanks. It has sparked outrage among purists in military circles, who assert the “short-sighted step will destroy a glorious historical tradition”. A senior officer at the Army headquarters, confirming the move to TOI on Thursday, said the aim was to transform the Jaipur-based 61st Cavalry into “a combat force” from its present role of being “largely a ceremonial unit” that also engages in sporting activities like polo. “But the cavalry’s 200-odd horses, some in Jaipur and the others in Delhi, will be retained,” he said. Sources, however, said the commanding officer (CO) of 61st Calvary, which is likely to be rechristened the 61st Armoured Regiment at Jaipur, will have three “independent squadrons” of tanks under him. “The horses are likely to be moved to Delhi to set up an ‘equestrian excellence node’ or something,” said a source. The purists contend this will “demolish the special character and historical legacy” of the 61st Cavalry, which was raised in August 1953 after amalgamating the horse-mounted cavalry units of the erstwhile princely states of British India. The striking Teen Murti Memorial in New Delhi, incidentally, was constructed during the British Raj to commemorate the heroic role played by the Hyderabad, Jodhpur and Mysore Lancers during the legendary Battle of Haifa (now in modern-day Israel) in 1918 during World War I, which was among the last victorious cavalry charges around the globe. The Indian Army, in fact, celebrates “Haifa Day” on September 23 every year as part of its overall tradition to honour the valour of its regiments. At present, the ceremonial President’s Bodyguard (PBG) based at Rashtrapati Bhavan and the 61st Cavalry are the only horse-mounted units in the Army. But this could well change now, though the Army is tight-lipped about the exact contours of the conversion plan for the 61st Cavalry. The 12-lakh strong Army currently has around 1,100 Russian-origin T-90S main-battle tanks as well as 124 indigenous ‘Arjun’ and 2,400 older T-72 tanks in its over 65 armoured regiments. Each armoured regiment typically has three squadrons of 14 tanks each under it. With additional T-90S and Arjun tanks in the pipeline, the Army wants to raise new armoured regiments. The CO of the new armoured regiment (61st Cavalry) at Jaipur will be given “command and control” over three independent T-72 tank squadrons, as per the plan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/purists-fume-as-army-plans-to-convert-61st-cavalry-into-armoured-regiment/articleshow/75748390.cms||Rajat Pandit
May 15, 2020||Business||Close to 1 lakh foreign citizens have flown out of India since March||NEW DELHI: Close to one lakh foreign nationals have flown out of India over the last two and a half months. As many as 388 special flights have taken an average of 250 passengers per flight from various cities in India since March 6, said a civil aviation ministry official. Among the airlines that have operated several such flights are Lufthansa Group carriers, Singapore Airlines, Qatar Airways, Singapore Airlines, British Airways, KLM, Air Canada, Japan Airlines, Ukraine Air, Aeroflot and United. Operating these flights was not easy as foreigners were stranded all over India. Several Russians, for instance, were stuck from Manali to Rishikesh to Goa when Russia decided to fly them out. First, these countries took India’s assistance in bringing them to the city from where charter flights would take them back home. Some Indian carriers operated charters to fly foreign citizens from one Indian city to another from where they would catch flights to their country. Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport authorities said they had facilitated repatriation of over 8,950 passengers with 53 evacuation flights from March 25 to May 14 to destinations such as Tehran, Zurich, Bali, Addis Ababa, Paro, London, Atlanta, Amsterdam, Singapore, Paris, Frankfurt, Kenya, Mauritius, Muscat, and Tokyo. Of the total repatriation flights facilitated by CSMIA, Atlanta saw over 2,000 passengers evacuated with a total of eight flights operated by Delta Air Lines, highest to any destination from Mumbai during this lockdown period. While a number of flights were arranged from Ahmedabad by the British high commission to facilitate travel of its citizens stranded in Gujarat — with flights being operated by British Airways evacuating roughly 1,500 people — 13 relief flights have been operated from Ahmedabad over the past month and a half, including two by Air India to Mumbai and linking flights to New York, operated by Delta. Nearly 1,000 foreign nationals have been repatriated from Kolkata by Atlantis Armenian Airlines, British Airways, Swiss Air, Sri Lankan Airlines, Biman Bangladesh and Druk Air. Kerala has seen a number of flights operating — Oman Air airlifting 53 Omanis from Kochi to Muscat, British Airways airlifting 170 UK nationals, Air Arabia airlifting 18 UAE nationals to Sharjah and Swiss Airways flight evacuating 164 Swiss nationals to Zurich. From Thiruvanthapuram, 110 British nationals were evacuated to London while 206 Kuwaitis were evacuated on a Kuwait Airways flight and two Maldivian Airlines flights airlifting 160 to Male. Since the lockdown, three special flights have flown out of Hyderabad, including a British Airways flight to Bahrain with 135 passengers, an Air Arabia flight to Sharjah with 72 passengers and an IndiGo flight with Kenyan nationals to Mumbai who were then airlifted by Kenyan Airlines. As many as 3,000 foreign nationals flew on 22 flights to 17 destinations across the globe from Kempegowda International Airport in Bengaluru since the lockdown. Goa saw 35 international relief flights take off with over 6,000 passengers since March 22. The flights have flown to the UK, Russia, Israel, France, the US, Italy, Spain, Poland, Kazakhstan, Finland, Belarus, Germany, Switzerland, Armenia and Malaysia. A number of people — from students to pilgrims — have also been evacuated to neighbouring countries like Bhutan and Myanmar. As many as five International flights have been operated by foreign airlines from Gaya to evacuate people stranded. Myanmar Airways International, Thai Air Asia and Thai Smile Airways have evacuated people from Gaya to Bangkok, Yangon and Laos. Druk Air flew a large number of students from Chandigarh to Bhutan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/close-to-1-lakh-foreign-citizens-have-flown-out-of-india-since-march/articleshow/75748445.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Patna||Submit assignments by month-end, PU students told||PATNA: As the nation is heading towards another lockdown, Patna University is keen to start its next academic session as early as possible. The varsity has already uploaded more than 1,000 e-contents prepared by the teachers of different subjects for postgraduate courses to its website. The PU administration is also ensuring that online submission of assignments and study projects by students are completed by May end. All the PG departments have been informed about online submission of assignments and project reports by students of different semesters as per UGC guideline. Some of the PG departments like geography have already collected assignments from the students. The department heads have been asked by vice-chancellor H N Prasad to send the topics of assignments online and receive the completed assignments at the earliest. “The last date of submission may be extended after reviewing the situation towards the month end,” the VC said. “PU had earlier notified a time-table for online classes for PG students from April 15 to 30. Now, a new time table has been prepared for this purpose till May 30,” said PU coordinator of e-content and online classes Ashok Kumar Jha. Meanwhile, PU has received more than 2,500 online applications for admission to different courses for the next academic session (2020-21). The process of online admission of students to all the UG and PG courses of PU commenced on April 30, but applications are being received mostly for undergraduate courses. PU students’ welfare dean N K Jha told the newspaper that students will apply for PG courses only after publication of results of Degree Part-III honours examinations of the university. Even the examinations are yet to be over. “The examination of the remaining papers will be held only after the situation becomes normal and students are able to come from far-off areas,” he said. As far as the number of sanctioned seats for conventional undergraduate courses in different colleges of PU is concerned, there are altogether 1,206 seats in science stream, 1,650 seats in faculty of arts and altogether 650 seats in commerce stream. Admission to all these seats will be made on the basis of faculty-wise entrance tests. The entrance tests for admission to BCom, BA, and BSc honours courses will be held on June 28, 29 and July 2 respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/submit-assignments-by-month-end-pu-students-told/articleshow/75745141.cms||B K Mishra
May 15, 2020||Patna||Youngsters miss out on fun with friends||PATNA: With the Covid-19 lockdown in force for nearly 50 days, a large number of people, especially youngsters, have become restless because they can neither meet friends nor attend social gatherings. Staying at home 24X7 is no less than being placed under house arrest for many. Fitness freaks like Ashish Singh “cannot stay at home for long”. The Rajendra Nagar resident told this newspaper, “After my morning walk, I used to work out for 45 minutes every day. After the lockdown was imposed, I began doing push-ups and jogging at home, but was not satisfied. Now, I have become moody.” Many youngsters, who visited parks, restaurants, malls or theatres every weekend, are missing out on all the fun they had with friends. Some, however, have come to terms with the present situation and are hosting virtual birthday, anniversary, kitty and bachelorette parties. Boring Road residents Shibasis Sahu (29) and Shivam Mishra (25) organized a virtual birthday party for their friend Slish Kumari recently. Shibasis said, “We dressed up and wished her together. It was no less than attending a real party because we danced on our favourite music.” Ashiana Colony resident Pranjal and her friends stay in touch with each other through video calls these days. “We munch on chips and snacks and play online games,” she said. Kids, who are attending virtual classes amid the lockdown, cannot wait to join school again and meet their friends. Bishop Scott Girls’ School student Shweta Kumari rued, “Seeing friends on a computer screen is no fun. I really want to go out with them and watch films.” Class VII student Aman Raj also wants to go back to school and “have fun during lunch breaks”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/youngsters-miss-out-on-fun-with-friends/articleshow/75744966.cms||Faryal Rumi
May 15, 2020||Goa||One-year-old, seafarer among eight Covid +ve cases in Goa||Panaji: After over a month of remaining Covid-free, Goa on Thursday reported eight positive cases—all with travel history—including a one-year-old child, among a family of five from Solapur, and a seafarer. Except the driver of a goods carrier, who came from Gujarat, the rest were all asymptomatic, health department officials said. “Five have travelled from Solapur, two from Mumbai and one from Gujarat. Currently, they are at ESI Hospital, Margao and their condition is stable,” said director of health Dr Jose D’Sa. Chief minister Pramod Sawant said the seafarer, who tested positive on his arrival in Goa on Thursday morning, had completed 14 days in quarantine in Mumbai and had tested negative for Covid-19 on April 30. On Wednesday, seven persons, including the Solapur family and their driver, tested positive for Covid-19 when they underwent the mandatory check after entering Goa, a Green Zone. The goods carrier driver tested positive when he approached the sub-district hospital at Ponda complaining of breathlessness. When the confirmatory tests were conducted at the virology laboratory of the Goa Medical College, all seven tests came positive on Thursday morning. “The goods carrier driver, who arrived a day before, had visited two places. His travel history was taken to trace his contacts. Suspected contacts have been quarantined,” Sawant said. A health department official said the driver of the goods carrier had also visited Corlim industrial estate. “His travel history has been taken to trace his contacts. Suspected contacts have been quarantined and police have been given the task to track all his contacts,” he said. Health minister Vishwajit Rane said the details of the driver, who drove the seafarer to Goa, has been passed on to the Maharashtra government “for necessary action”. “He (the seafarer) has tested positive for Covid-19 after 14 days. We want seafarers to remain in facility quarantine and another 14 days under home quarantine for this reason,” Sawant said. He also said the 60 seafarers, who were released from the facility quarantine on Tuesday, should strictly complete another 14 days in home quarantine. “They should not mix with the community for 14 days and think about their families and people of Goa,” Sawant said. These eight positive cases have come after over a month when the state had detected seven persons—six with a foreign travel history and the seventh the brother of one of them. The last Covid positive case in the state was detected on April 3 and all of them have recovered. Sawant also said the government has “has taken the responsibility to ensure that there was no community transmission due to these cases”. Earlier in the day, names of six patients went viral on social media and Sawant said an inquiry has been ordered. “Action will be taken against those involved in revealing the list,” he said. Rane also warned against the disclosure of confidential laboratory reports and said it is an act of violation of the patient’s privacy. “Confidential laboratory reports of Goa Medical College and directorate of health Services are being currently circulated on WhatsApp and social media platforms. I request you all to not indulge in leaking or sharing such information,” Rane tweeted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/one-year-old-seafarer-among-eight-covid-ve-cases-in-goa/articleshow/75747843.cms||Bindiya Chari
May 15, 2020||Business||Diet watch pushes demand for pricer snacks||Chennai: Seated at home during the lockdown and having a sedentary lifestyle for almost two months, customers appear to be snacking healthy. Consumption of healthy variants of premium brands in the biscuits, snacks seems to be on the rise with brands including Unibic seeing customers go for their healthy variants. Most brands are recording a growth of 50% in a month in the category, products priced at 30%-80% premium over the mass segment. Srini Vudayagiri, CEO, Unibic says that their oatmeal and nutritive variants are flying off shelves. “From the initial panic buying now with constant supply in place; their focus is on eating healthy. They don't mind paying a 20%-30% premium,” he said. Customers are either building their immunity with healthy eating or reducing their calorie intake while having a sedentary lifestyle during the lockdown. Vudayagiri adds that early trends in May shows that the month is poised to record the highest ever sale for their healthy biscuits category.Mayank Shah, category head at Parle, adds that their digestive categories are seeing a 50% growth in consumption, predominantly in metros, mini metros and tier 1 cities. “Consumption of snacks is also reducing and these biscuits — which are priced at Rs 200 a kg as against the mass category which is priced at Rs 120 a category — are seeing increase in consumption from the weight conscious,” he added. The trend is also reflected in the sale in stores. Data from retail tech company Snapbizz that has captured data from over 8,000 stores shows that the price has been indexing higher than quantities. Considering baked goods, biscuits, snacks and cooking oil, there is a 30% drop in quantity — indicating no more panic buying and hoarding. On the other hand, the price movement has not changed. “This means that customers have been buying more expensive alternatives but in limited quantities. Categories include yoghurt and real fruit juices,” said Prem Kumar, founder, Snapbizz K Rathnam, CEO, Milky Mist observed a 300% jump in demand for yoghurt in the last month. Even as the category is considered premium, consumers are lapping up the product because it’s fruit based and has live bacteria. “We have this product for 2 years now, but have not seen this demand,” he adds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/diet-watch-pushes-demand-for-pricer-snacks/articleshow/75746628.cms||Aparna Desikan
May 15, 2020||Mangaluru||Karnataka: Trek fall turns Spaniard’s trip into a journey she’ll never forget||MANGALURU: When Marta Martin Islas picked up her bags for a solo trip in January, she was hoping to explore ‘incredible India’ — the hills, the beaches, the monuments, hiking and yoga. It turned out to be a discovery of India, said the 24-year-old dancer from Spain, as she fell off a cliff during trekking and spent three months in hospital here, surrounded by the friends she made on her journey even as the pandemic wrought havoc worldwide. Dr M Ajith Kumar, Dr M Shantaram Shetty, Marta Martin Islas and Diana Islas Norris. (From left to right)Marta is set to fly back home with her mother, Diana Norris, from Bengaluru late Thursday — finally back on her feet and fit enough to travel. The psychology post-graduate is eager to get back to her life after the 14-day quarantine on return. “We hope to come back to India and spend Christmas in Gokarna, thanking all the doctors and hospital staff,” said Marta. She is also penning down her experiences in India. “Marta was always smiling. Covid did not allow her to leave the country,” said Dr M Shantaram Shetty, chairman of Tejasvini Hospital and Shantharam Shetty Institute of Orthopaedics and Traumatology (SSIOT), where she underwent surgery and rehabilitation. Marta arrived in India on January 9, on the back of a tour of Australia. She landed in Kolkata and over the next month and a half, did the tourist circuit in north India, spent some time in Goa and headed for Gokarna in Uttara Kannada district. “On February 25, I met Sukesh from Bengaluru at a beach in Gokarna. We accidentally bumped into each other again at dinner, where we exchanged numbers. The next day, I decided to go hiking between Half Moon Beach and Om Beach,” she said. On February 26, she lost her way during the hike. “Even as I was figuring out my way back, I slipped near the edge of a cliff and fell 6-7 metres. I landed on rocks, next to the sea. I was conscious but I could not move my left foot while the right one was dangling. I realised that I had injured my back too,” she recalled. “The emergency numbers for police and ambulance were not connecting. I remembered Sukesh and tried to call him but he did not pick my calls. I then called a friend from the Czech Republic whom I had met in Rajasthan and requested her to arrange for an ambulance. I spent almost an hour frantically trying to get help. Then Sukesh got back and he and a friend of his from UK, Robert, decided to reach me in a tourist boat,” said Marta. Spaniard: Brought to shore on kayak“They found me after almost 90 minutes. Sukesh and Robert had met two more guys — Mark from UK who was on an inflatable kayak and Eden from Israel. It was not an easy rescue. With the help of local fishermen, they lifted me onto the kayak, walked amidst the rocks and swam holding the kayak to reach Half Moon Beach. I was then shifted to the boat and on reaching the shore, got into an ambulance and visited a few clinics.” It was Mark who realised the situation was grave and called up Nirmala Jain, a pharmacist. Mark had met Nirmala and her husband Suveer in Gokarna. She suggested Tejasvini Hospital and by 9pm they were at the hospital. Nirmala too landed up and signed as Marta’s guardian. “Surgeries were conducted and the next morning I woke up to find myself in the ICU, with Nirmala feeding me breakfast. I then called up my Mom,” said Marta. Diana, a dermatologist in the Spanish city of Las Palmas, was eating breakfast when he got her daughter’s call. “Mark and Sukesh spoke to me and said it would be good if I travelled to India as my daughter needs someone to be with her. I flew down on February 29. Mark and Sukesh received me at the airport and we came straight to the hospital,” said Diana. “On March 3, Marta underwent a major surgery for her spine, ankles and wrist. Skin grafting was also done. For a month she could not put weight on her foot. Nirmala and her husband, her brother Nelson and his wife Veena were always there to help us. Senior orthopaedic resident Dr Piyush Vaghasiya, Dr Shrinivas and hospital staff were also very supportive and helped us through the recuperation. Mark and Sukesh stayed for almost two weeks before returning.” “She had an open fracture, dislocation on the right ankle and needed plastic surgery, in addition to the orthopaedic procedure for the bone,” said Dr M Ajith Kumar, MD of Tejasvini Hospital and SSIOT. “In the left foot, she had multiple fractures including in the toes, and a fracture dislocation in the left wrist. She had a spinal surgery and rehabilitation took a while.” “Had Marta left earlier, she would have had to go in a wheelchair,” said Dr Shetty. “She is back on her feet now.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/trek-fall-turns-spaniards-trip-into-a-journey-shell-never-forget/articleshow/75745366.cms||Deepthi Sanjiv
May 15, 2020||Patna||Patna: Cinema halls in a fix as movies go digital||PATNA: The two-month closure of cinema halls and multiplexes to contain the spread of coronavirus has hit theatre owners, distributors and exhibitors hard, bringing them to the brink of bankruptcy. They are, therefore, waiting for the government’s nod to reopen theatres with social distancing norms and staggered seating arrangements in place. Many fear that theatres, which were closed much before the nationwide lockdown was imposed, will be reopened quite late. The owner of a Hajipur-based multiplex, Vishal Boobna, told this newspaper on Thursday, “Our only source of income has stopped. To make matters worse, new films are now being released on digital platforms.” Another cinema hall owner, Ajay Sinha, is more concerned about his employees. “The entertainment industry has come to a standstill and small workers like ticket booking staff, managers and cleaners are the worst hit. Reopening of cinema halls will help them sustain themselves and their families.” Asked about the challenges in the post-lockdown period, Ajay replied, “Even if the theatres reopen, attracting people and regaining their trust will be a huge challenge for us. Even training our own staff will be a Herculean task.” Film distributors agreed that the entertainment industry was going through a difficult phase. Nishant Ujjwal, a Bihar-based distributor and producer, claimed, “There is nothing like social distancing in our industry. Hundreds of people — from the crew to the audiences — are involved in making a film successful. So, getting the business back on track after the lockdown ends will not be easy.” Meanwhile, the state art, culture and youth department is planning to step into the digital world to entertain art lovers amid the lockdown. Minister Pramod Kumar said, “We are in the process of creating a software that will help showcase the talent of our local artists. We will also start a YouTube channel to telecast live videos of famous museums and cultural sites in Bihar.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/cinema-halls-in-a-fix-as-movies-go-digital/articleshow/75744945.cms||Archi Rani
May 15, 2020||Patna||Bihar: BJP, Congress trade barbs over liquor recovery from MLA’s car||PATNA/BUXAR: The recovery of liquor bottles from the private car of Congress MLA Sanjay Kumar Tiwari alias Munna Tiwari in Buxar district on Wednesday took a political turn on Thursday with the BJP and the grand-old party trading barbs over the issue. Altogether eight bottles of the Indian-made foreign liquor (IMFL) were recovered from the lawmaker’s car near Nagpura village under the Simri police station area in Buxar district. Four people travelling in the car were arrested. A day after the recovery, Congress state president Madan Mohan Jha came out in the defence of the MLA and demanded a fair investigation into the matter. “It’s a sinister design to defame the legislator. It should be investigated how the liquor bottles found their way into the lawmaker’s car. Moreover, the MLA was not present in the car when the seizure was made,” Jha said. The MLA, on the other hand, said his vehicle was currently being used for distribution of ration to the people in Jagdishpur area. “How the vehicle reached Simri is a matter of investigation. I am yet to contact the workers who were there in the vehicle for ration distribution,” Tiwari said. The BJP has attacked the Congress for violation of prohibition norms. BJP spokesperson Prem Ranjan Patel said, “One can easily understand why the RJD-Congress combine is opposed to prohibition in the state. The seizure of liquor consignment from the party MLA’s car has exposed its links with liquor smugglers.” Dumraon SDPO K K Singh said seven people, including the MLA, were named as accused in the FIR lodged with the Simri police station under relevant sections of Bihar Excise and Prohibition Act, 2016. During investigation, it came to light that the seized vehicle was registered in the name of the MLA in question. Those arrested included the driver of the car Sushil Kumar Prasad, Anil Mishra, Vicky Tiwari and Nitesh Tiwari. ADG (headquarters) Jitendra Kumar said raids were on to arrest three other accused. Buxar SP Upendra Nath Verma said though the MLA was not in the vehicle, he was booked as he owned it. “The FIR against the MLA was lodged on the basis of the statement of the arrested people,” the SP added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bjp-congress-trade-barbs-over-liquor-recovery-from-mlas-car/articleshow/75745046.cms||Ramashankar
May 15, 2020||Hubballi||Hospet is now Covid-free city in Ballari district||Hubballi: Following the discharge of P-331, the last of the 11 patients was cured of Covid-19 on Thursday, making Hospet free of the infection. District surgeon Dr N Basareddi offered a bouquet to P-331 during the farewell. “The patient was disturbed after being tested positive. Our counsellors helped him overcome his fear. Our concerted efforts paid off with his discharge today,” he said. P-331 thanked the doctors and the medical staff for boosting his confidence. Dr N Basareddi said 13 of the 17 patients in Ballari have been cured and discharged. “Four are under treatment and they will also be discharged soon,” he added. Hospet recorded the highest number of positive cases in Ballari district. The entry of coronavirus into Hospet was felt on March 30 when three members of a family tested positive. They had travelled to Davanagere by bus, and to Bengaluru by train on March 14 and 15. After visiting a relative in the capital, the three returned to Hospet on March 19. Subsequently, they caught fever and showed symptoms of Covid-19. After they tested for the infection, the district administration declareed the city a containment area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/hospet-is-now-covid-free-city-in-ballari-district/articleshow/75744299.cms||Basavaraj Kattimani
May 15, 2020||Patna||State tweaks labour laws to woo investors||PATNA: Bihar has joined the list of states that have tweaked their labour laws to attract investments and boost the economy. “The state government has changed the shift hours in manufacturing and other units to 12 hours per day, or 72 hours per week,” labour resources department minister Vijay Kumar Sinha said on Thursday, adding that workers will get remuneration for the additional four hours of work. He added that it has been done to entice capital investment and also give boost to industrial and related activities, which have been hit by the lockdown due to the coronavirus pandemic in the state. The notification in this regard was issued by the ministry on Wednesday. Changes have been made in the working hour shift by amending the pertinent sections in the Bihar Factories Act, 1948, which also vests powers in the state government under its relevant Articles and sections to make such changes. The existing working hours was eight hours per day with half an hour break in between, or 48 hours work per week. “Workmen performing duties for 12 hours per day – that is, fours in excess of the existing eight-hour schedule – would now get enhanced remuneration for the additional four hours of work performed,” Sinha said. As per the notification, the changes made warrant that the employers allow for half an hour break to the workmen after six hours of work, and no workman would work in excess of six hours if the half an hour break is not given. Also, the remuneration that they would get would be as prescribed by the relevant articles of the Factories Act, 1948. Further, no workman would work more than 12 hours per day. Sinha said the “process” and “consultations” have also been going on at the level of CM Nitish Kumar to see which of the labour laws needed to be amended or abolished. At present, there are around 52 labour laws, including on ‘beedi’ and construction workers, and also inter-state migrant workers in the state. With the increase in the daily work hour to 12 hours, Bihar has joined more than half a dozen states in the country which have also brought similar changes. UP, Rajasthan, Gujarat, Punjab, Himachal Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Odisha are among the states that have tweaked labour laws. While the changes made by a few other states are drastic, the Standing Parliamentary Committee on Labour Reforms has already issued notices to them to explain the changes made as the labour laws fall in the concurrent list, and, therefore, require President’s assent before any changes or amendments are made in the states’ labour laws.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/state-tweaks-labour-laws-to-woo-investors/articleshow/75744875.cms||Abhay Singh
May 15, 2020||Business||Sensex dives 886 pts as stimulus disappoints||Mumbai: Dalal Street’s disappointment with the government’s stimulus package and a sharply lower close in the US market led to strong selling on Thursday in domestic bourses. The sensex lost 886 points, or 2.8%, before closing at 31,123 points. Selling was led by foreign funds and across the broad, with Reliance Industries, HDFC Bank, HDFC and Infosys accounting for most of the index’s loss. The day’s fall more than wiped out the 637 points the sensex had gained on Wednesday on hopes of a stimulus package. Since the immediate spends of the fiscal stimulus package that was announced on Wednesday were relatively small, there were doubts if economic growth will revive soon. This was a concern for the market, HDFC Securities MD & CEO Dhiraj Relli said. On the other hand, in the US on Wednesday, its central bank’s chief Jerome Powell had said that the Covid-19 pandemic may leave a lasting impact on the global economy. This also spooked investors and US stocks closed lower, which in turn had an impact on Asian markets. As foreign funds led the selling, Thursday’s session here recorded a net outflow of Rs 2,153 crore, while domestic funds were net buyers at Rs 802 crore, according to BSE data. The day’s strong selling also left investors poorer by a little over Rs 2 lakh crore, with the BSE’s market capitalisation now at Rs 122.6 lakh crore. According to Religare Broking VP (research) Ajit Mishra, the rise on Thursday in the number of Covid-19 infections in India and lack of clarity over the impact of the stimulus package weighed on sentiment. Going forward, “the focus would remain on the FM’s announcements over the next few days”, which will detail the probable beneficiaries of the stimulus package. “Markets will react to those announcements in the following sessions.” In addition, the guidelines for the next phase of lockdown will also be on the mind of market players, Mishra said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sensex-dives-886-pts-as-stimulus-disappoints/articleshow/75746450.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Kolkata||Delhi returnees get last-mile link||Howrah: When the New Delhi-Howrah AC special train rolled into Howrah station at 12.20pm on Thursday, two hours late, the 979 passengers breathed a collective sigh of relief. For them, the two-hour delay was nothing compared to the wait of more than two months to return home. But there was still some way to go. Most said that the journey had been uneventful and they did not face any problem, though they had to make their own arrangements for food. However, there was no mad scramble to disembark, even though the urge was greater than ever. One by one, the passengers got off and were screened by healthcare workers sent by the office of the chief medical officer of health of Howrah. That done, they were made to walk through a special channel created on the platform with ropes. Finally, after another two hours, they were led outside via the cab-way by cops from the RPF and GRP. Most passengers were tense about getting vehicles to home because of the lockdown. Unlike the Sramik specials bringing back migrant workers, where the transport department is working in tandem with the district administration and railway authorities to provide buses for the onward journey, people in these special passenger AC trains are expected to make their own arrangements. However, much to their relief, the transport department had arranged for 40 buses outside the station to drop off passengers to the nearest point from which they could find transport to get them home. These buses were arranged keeping in mind the address details provided by the passengers on their tickets. There were buses to the districts and some were earmarked for different points in the city. For Imran, who was stuck in Delhi for two months and two weeks, and was now headed towards Bongaon, there was a bus marked for North 24 Parganas. Similarly, Seema Kumari, who was travelling with her baby, took a seat on a bus travelling towards New Town. “It is finally feeling real,” she smiled. Senior citizen Sarbasree Basu was returning to Kankurgachhi from his daughter’s place in Delhi after two and a half months. “I am thankful for this last-mile connectivity. Otherwise, it would have been another round of struggle,” he said. Though buses were supposed to ply with only 20 passengers each, 35 passengers had to be fitted in due to shortage of vehicles on some routes. This created an initial tension among passengers, but it soon dissipated. Some yellow taxis that had brought in passengers early for the evening train were also kept waiting outside the station so that passengers could hire them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/delhi-returnees-get-last-mile-link/articleshow/75746587.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
May 15, 2020||Patna||Keep quarantine centres in readiness: Nitish Kumar||PATNA: Chief minister (CM) Nitish Kumar on Thursday asked the officials concerned to keep the panchayat level quarantine centres for migrant workers and other facilities for those returning from abroad in utmost readiness. The CM said the number of migrant workers coming from other states would be large, and all required facilities should be in place at the panchayat level quarantine centres in close coordination with panchayat representatives. Similarly, facilities should also be made at the quarantine centres where foreign returnees will be lodged, he said. The CM asked the officials concerned to take note of the zones/states/regions from where the migrant workers are coming. Accordingly, the arrangements, including with regard to conducting their corona testing, should be kept in place at the quarantine centres, he said. Nitish directed the officials to create testing facilities in all the districts expeditiously so that the testing for corona could be maximized as this alone would help in combating the corona pandemic. The CM said the Shramik special trains would be bringing back the migrant workers, but buses and smaller vehicles should also be used to bring the willing migrant workers from the neighbouring states. Anticipating the rush of the migrant workers and those coming from abroad, the CM advised the officials to remain alert.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/cm-keep-quarantine-centres-in-readiness/articleshow/75744979.cms||Abhay Singh
May 15, 2020||Patna||Bihar: ‘21-day quarantine must for returnees to get dues’||PATNA: The state government has announced that only those migrants who complete the mandatory 14-day quarantine at their respective centres and seven days of home isolation will receive reimbursement of train fares and other financial assistance. Pratyaya Amrit, principal secretary of the state disaster management department, has directed all DMs to spread the message to migrant workers housed in quarantine centres across the state through loudspeakers. “A large number of migrants are at present housed at the block quarantine centres. Some of them are not even putting pressure to go home but also indulging in violating discipline by putting up road blockades etc,” the letter reads. The DMs were told to ensure the directive was implemented within 24 hours to keep the quarantine-cum-relief centres in order. The letter said that though there were control rooms in all district headquarters to listen to the complaints of the migrant workers, but still there were reports coming that some inmates are creating law and order problem as well. According to authoritative sources, around 1.3 lakh migrant workers were staying at 3,665 quarantine centres across the state. On May 4, CM Nitish Kumar announced that the state government would not only reimburse the train fare but also give additional Rs 500 to all those migrant returnees after completion of their 21-day quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/21-day-quarantine-must-for-returnees-to-get-dues/articleshow/75744933.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Families still hesitant to engage domestic workers||PATNA: Domestic helps play an important role in many households in urban areas. But some of the residents in the city have prohibited their domestic helpers as they do not want to take any risk of getting infected by the coronavirus, though their workload has increased substantially. Most of such residents approached for comments said they are staying indoors and the need for a domestic help has increased more than ever. For 61-year-old Asha Devi, life without domestic help has become very difficult. “I had two helpers, one for cleaning and the other one for cooking food. Being a diabetic and arthritis patient, it’s impossible for me to move around and look after the household chores,” the Saguna Mor resident said. She added: “It’s true that people like me having underlying diseases are more vulnerable to getting infected by the virus. But there are other important things to be taken care of.” Kadamkuan resident Neha Shree, who recently started calling her maid, said: “Working from home with a three-year-old kid is next to impossible. My husband and me work from 10am to 8pm. At times it gets very difficult to do everything, from cooking and cleaning to looking after my son,” said Neha Shree of Kadamkuan. At residential colonies and housing societies, more than 50% of house helpers have resumed work. Abhay Nandan, secretary of Pataliputra Vikas Manch, said most residents have started calling their maids after the third phase of lockdown extension. “At least 50-60% houses have engaged their maids and servants again. We are also not stopping them as all sectors have got partial relief from the lockdown,” he said. He said most of the domestic helps had become jobless. “Residents helped them initially, but with the lockdown extensions, most of them stopped helping. At least two-three maids have asked me for work in the last few days as they find it difficult to meet their basic necessities,” Nandan said. Some others said people should not invite the virus to their homes. Usha Jha, president of Bihar Mahila Udyog Sangh, said: “This is a very critical situation for everyone. The government has also asked us to stay in a lockdown and maintain social distancing. Hence, I have stopped calling my house helper. Calling maids and servants at a time like this will not just risk my life but theirs too.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/families-still-hesitant-to-engage-domestic-workers/articleshow/75745041.cms||Archi Rani
May 15, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Conmen devise new e-fraud tricks, but cops say case count lower than before||KOLKATA: From fake promises for jobs to duping good Samaritans trying to donate to emergency relief funds, from home-delivery frauds to conning people trying to head home with emergency passes — conmen are leaving no stones unturned to hoodwink people in this time of crisis. A 44-year-old professional, Payel Adhikari, recently updated her CV on a portal after she lost her job in the middle of the lockdown. Within an hour, she received a call from a person claiming to represent a private bank who asked her to fill up an online form. “I was asked to make a transaction of Rs 200 while filling up the form. The next day, the man called back and said I was selected. He said I needed to pay Rs 3,500 so the company could process my appointment letter. I realised it was a fraud and backed away,” she said. TimesViewMuch of crime has shifted online with the lockdown and so everyone needs to be careful. There is no fool-proof solution but a few basic precautions can prevent grief.In another incident, a group of students and professionals trying to leave Kolkata for Assam transferred Rs 80,000 to a travel agent to arrange for a bus, but were duped. “Two new forms of fraud that have surfaced. Some people trying to donate to PM Cares fund were given fake UPI IDs through which the scamsters stole money. Some conmen dupe people by posing as representatives of restaurants and providing fake links to pay for home delivery,” said an officer. A Bhowanipore woman had ordered groceries for her parents in Hazra. When she discovered some of the items were missing from the delivery, she called up the customer care number she found online and was promised a call-back. The caller asked for her wallet details to return the money. Within minutes of her providing the details, she lost close to Rs 10,000. Mallika Datta, associate professor (gynecology & obstetrics) at Calcutta National Medical College had ordered 1,000 N-95 masks for her department from a Mumbai-based company and paid Rs 52,000 in advance. She neither received the masks nor her money. A stockist of medical equipment lodged an FIR after being duped of Rs 1 lakh in a similar fashion from what was allegedly a Mumbai-based firm. Joint CP (crime) Murlidhar Sharma, however, said there was actually a decrease in online fraud complaints. “The modus operandi is new, but the number of cases has dropped. That is because people have more time now to check what they are doing online,” he said. At present, the detective department is close to tracking down a gang using Kolkata mobile numbers to con people. “We have received multiple complaints. I believe a Jamtara gang is using Kolkata numbers to mislead the probe,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/conmen-devise-new-e-fraud-tricks-but-cops-say-case-count-lower-than-before/articleshow/75746602.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
May 15, 2020||Vadodara||Gang that raped, robbed & killed women held in Anand||VADODARA/ANAND: From heinous crimes like gangrape, abduction of women and murder to temple break-ins and stealing cattle , this gang of three men and two women have done it all. The gang members were arrested by the local crime branch of Anand police over a course of last one week. The trio Dilip alias Dahyo Chavda, Vijay alias Chako Chavda, both residents of Khambhat, and Salim Patel, who hails from Bharuch, were arrested in nine cases wherein they had targeted women, abducted, robbing them ornaments, raping and then murdering the victim. These nine cases were registered at Khambhat rural, Tarapur and Virsad police stations. They had committed these crimes being released on bail from Vadodara Central Jail on September 23 last year. Police said that the Dilip and Vijay, who drove rickshaws, used to abduct the women under the pretext of dropping them to their destination. But, instead, they would rob their ornaments and rape them before killing. “Their modus operandi has been same in all the cases. They would either dispose off the body at an abandoned place or dump it in a canal,” said inspector H B Chauhan of LCB. Most women victims were from villages of Anand district and Vadodara rural. Cops have also detained two women also who were involved with them. “Our team is questioning them about their involvement,” said Ajit Rajian, superintendent of police, Anand. They have confessed to involvement in 10 cases which were registered before their arrest. Police said that their criminal activities are not just limited to Anand district. “They have also committed crimes in the jurisdiction of Padra, Vadu and Karjan police stations of Vadodara rural and in Borsad of Anand which are yet to be registered and investigated,” officials said. In the past too, they have been arrested in Anand, Sanand, Vadodara, Rajkot and Bharuch for thefts, robbery, abduction and murder. “They used to work as rickshaw drivers or casual labourers to earn money and never changed their identity. After committing the crime, they would live a normal life so that nobody would be suspicious about them,” said a police official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/gang-that-raped-robbed-killed-women-held-in-anand/articleshow/75743873.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Lucknow||MLALAD funds in UP can be used to build cow shelters||LUCKNOW: The state government, for the first time, has allowed construction of cattle shelters with help of MLA local area development (MLALAD) funds, a move that underlines chief minister Yogi Adityanath’s resolve to protect bovines. Confirming the decision, principal secretary, rural development and panchayati raj, Manoj Kumar Singh, said, earlier MLALAD funds were not admissible in repair or construction of cow shelters. “Now, legislators can plough in these funds to expedite construction of cow shelters as well,” he told TOI. A May 13 government order (GO) issued by Singh and addressed to legislators states that construction of shelter homes for stray cattle, except by private individuals, can be carried out under MLALAD. Even expansion, storage, capacity augmentation and construction of shades and boundary walls of existing cow shelters, sanctuaries and conservation centres, kanha upvan/gaushalas may be carried out with local area development fund of legislators, the GO stated. In August last year, the state government approved the Rs 30/day scheme to farmers for upkeep of stray cattle. The scheme — Nirashrit/Beshara Govansh Sah Bhagita — was in fact cleared by the cabinet headed by the CM and Rs 110 crore was allocated in the first phase. Money was credited directly in bank accounts of those who tend to stray animals and payments were made every third month. The decision to include cow protection in MLALAD comes more than a year after the state government introduced a gau kalyan (cow welfare) cess, envisaging levy of additional 0.5% on excise items to fund construction and maintenance of cow shelters. The cess was also levied on toll tax and profits made by public sector enterprises and construction agencies, including UP State Construction and Infrastructure Development Corporation Limited, UP State Bridge Corporation Ltd and UPSIDC. Also, mandi cess was raised by 1% to support cow protection and estimated revenue of Rs 165 crore was proposed to be utilized for care of destitute cattle heads. In the 2019-20 state budget, the government allocated Rs 247.60 crore for maintenance and construction of gaushalas in rural areas and Rs 200 crore for upkeep of ‘kanha gaushala’ and destitute cattle shelters in urban areas. The state government also implemented Pandit Deen Dayal Upadhyay small dairy scheme for which a provision of Rs 64 crore was made to set up 10,000 units. Earlier, the urban development department decided to allocate Rs 10 crore under MNREGS to every district for construction of shelters to house a minimum of 1,000 heads of cattle in villages, panchayats, municipalities, nagar panchayats and municipal corporations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/mlalad-funds-in-up-can-be-used-to-build-cow-shelters/articleshow/75747846.cms||Pankaj Shah
May 15, 2020||Patna||Thunderstorm to lash parts of Bihar from May 18 to 20: Met||PATNA: Thunderstorm, rain, gusty winds and lightning lashed Patna and several other parts of the state on Thursday. The India Metrological Centre, in its all-India weather bulletin issued on Thursday, stated that thunderstorm with lightning would occur at isolated places in Bihar till May 18. However, as per a weather bulletin issued by Patna Meteorological Centre, there are possibilities of thunderstorm only on Saturday in north-eastern and north-western parts of the state. However, an official at Patna Meteorological Centre said the intensity of rainfall and thunderstorm would increase in Bihar, except in south-western parts of the state, from May 18 to 20. “We are expecting thunderstorm due to moisture incursion from Bay of Bengal due to cyclone Amphan. The thunderstorm activity is likely to occur mostly in late noon or evening hours,” the meteorologist said. The daily weather bulletin issued by Patna Meteorological Centre stated that heavy rainfall occurred at one or two places in north-eastern part of the state during the last 24 hours. Highest amount of rainfall was recorded at Galgalia (120mm) and Thakurganj (70mm) in Kishanganj district and Taibpur (50mm) in Vaishali district. Patna received 10.8mm of rainfall. Weathermen at Patna Meteorological Centre attributed the inclement weather to Nor’wester, a sudden thunderstorm owing to heating amid moisture incursion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/thunderstorm-to-lash-parts-of-state-from-may-18-to-20-met/articleshow/75745026.cms||Piyush Tripathi
May 15, 2020||Patna||Members of gurdwara reach out to the poor in Patna||PATNA: The Takhat Shri Harmandir Gurdwara Committee has come to the rescue of the needy and the hungry people in the city. The committee members have also set up ‘langar (community kitchen)’ at the gurdwara in Patna City where at least 1,000 people are served cooked food per day. Committee’s secretary M S Dhillon said more than the Covid-19 crisis, hunger is causing hardship to people. “At this point of time, it is very important to support each other and survive as a family. Besides, the gurdwara’s doors have always remained open for people from cross-sections. We are just moving forward with what our gurus have taught us,” he said. From medicines to cooked meals and grocery, the committee has been distributing essential commodities to at least 10,000 daily wagers and homeless people per day since the last 47 days. “We are trying to reach out to as many families as possible as most people have become jobless and are starving,” Dhillon added. The committee members also distributed ration in several villages and towns across the state. “We distributed wheat flour, rice, pulses, spices and other grocery items to the needy in Rajgir on Tuesday,” he said. Dhillon added that apart from distributing essential commodities to the needy, the committee members are also looking after sanitization aspect in several localities of Patna City. “We know how important it is to maintain a hygienic and clean atmosphere at this point of time. Hence, we are contributing our part in keeping the city clean and hygienic,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/members-of-gurdwara-reach-out-to-the-poor-in-patna-city/articleshow/75745075.cms||Archi Rani
May 15, 2020||Patna||Bihar-specific package, special category status need of hour: Shaibal Gupta||PATNA: With many experts seeing Bihar as one of the worst-affected states in the country in terms of economic crisis owing to Covid-19 pandemic, TOI’s Piyush Tripathi talks to noted economist and member secretary of Asian Development Research Institute Shaibal Gupta about the mega financial stimulus announced by the Centre to overcome the financial crisis and the road ahead for the state. Excerpts:How far Bihar will be benefited by the announcements made by Union finance minister on Wednesday?This is supposed to be first tranche of special package. Most of the benefit, if any, will go to developed states, where economic and industrial base is much stronger and wider. This stimulus should have been directed to strengthen the fight against this corona pandemic. However, ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan’ is a welcome initiative. This will strengthen our industrial base and Bihar will be benefited in the long run. Bihar is still not part of the national or international economic and industrial grid. What about the local industries in Bihar? The economic stimulus package will marginally boost industries here. Bihar’s industrial base is limited. With the advent of Britishers in old Bengal Presidency, where Bihar was part, systematic de-industrialization occurred. After vivisection of the state in 2000 with Jharkhand, the scene worsened. In recent years, several MSMEs and non-banking finance companies were established. They will get the benefit of the stimulus. The massive 3 Lakh collateral-free loan to MSMEs will help them reinvent themselves. This will further strengthen those units who are already strong. How badly is the service sector affected, especially in Bihar? If the economy leapfrogs in Bihar, service sector will also get commensurate jump. The definition of MSMEs has changed. Now there is no difference between manufacturing and service enterprises. Earlier MSMEs were defined on the investments put in. Now, the revised definitions will also include turnover of the company. There will be no more distinction MSMEs and service sector, which will help the collateral guidelines. In the process, the service sector will get all the benefits which were limited to MSMEs. Many service sector units can graduate into big enterprises. In Bihar, there is plethora of service sector units. What about the migrant workers returning to the state? Migrant workers should be given highest priority. They subsidized the development in India. They should subsidize development in Bihar now. Migration itself is deep social phenomenon. Migration is necessarily not for job opportunity only, but also reflection of class struggle. People have migrated to avoid feudal grip in the immediate surroundings. It will be difficult to integrate them in the Bihar economy immediately. If the economy takes a giant leap, they can be absorbed based on their skills. Election in Bihar is round the corner. Hence, the migrants cannot be ignored. Their cognitive world is wide and they will influence electorate. What about the impact of lockdown on Bihar’s economy and the way forward?Bihar’s economy is in a big crisis. Even though the state’s public finance is better managed, its financial base is weak. We have been ignored by planning commission, finance commission and central government. So, our plan and non-plan expenditure has been lowest in the country. We had to carry lot of historical baggage. Some changes were visible in recent decades. Those changes should be consolidated. Massive Bihar-specific package is needed along with special category status. If this happened, investment will automatically flow. The Centre should help Bihar build ‘knowledge society’ so that it could become part of the ‘fourth industrial revolution’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bihar-specific-package-special-category-status-need-of-hour/articleshow/75745005.cms||Piyush Tripathi
May 15, 2020||Patna||Eight migrants from Bihar killed in road accidents||PATNA/SAMASTIPUR: As many as eight Bihar migrant workers were killed and 31 others injured, nine of them critically, while they were on their way home in two separate road accidents in the past 24 hours. The first accident took place late on Wednesday evening on the Delhi-Saharanpur highway in UP’s Muzaffarnagar when a bus mowed down six migrant workers walking home. Around 12 hours later, two migrants were killed in Samastipur in Bihar when a bus carrying the workers collided with a truck leaving 24 other injured. In all, 14 migrant workers lost their lives in road mishaps ever since they started returning, some on foot, some on cycles, to their home districts in the wake of nationwide lockdown. The Samastipur accident took place near Shankar Chowk on the Muzaffarpur-Samastipur road under Ujiarpur police station on Thursday morning. The injured were rushed to the Samastipur Sadar hospital and the primary health centre at Ujiarpur for treatment. The migrants workers on the bus had arrived on a ‘Shramik special train’ at Muzaffarpur junction around 1 am on Thursday and were on their way home when a truck coming from the opposite direction hit the bus head-on leaving two dead and 24 injured. The deceased were identified as Tarun Kumar Jha (driver of the bus), resident of Madhubani district and a migrant worker Md. Manzir Alam, a native of Ballia in Katihar district. SHO of Ujiarpur Shambhu Nath Singh said the bodies were handed over after autopsy. “Four of the critically injured were later referred to the Darbhanga Medical College and Hospital for treatment,” he added. The Samastipur accident happened within 12 hours of the accident in Uttar Pradesh in which six migrant workers were mowed down by a roadways bus on the Delhi-Saharanpur highway in Muzaffarnagar around 10.30 pm on Wednesday. Five workers also received serious injuries in the mishap, which took place near Ghalauli check post. The deceased were identified as Harak Singh (51), his son Vikas Singh (22), Guddu (18), Harish (22) and Virendra (28), Basudev Patel (45). While Harak, Vikas, Harish and Basudev were residents of Gopalganj district, the remaining two belonged to Patna and Bhojpur districts. Gopalganj labour superintendent Manoj Kumar Dubey said that the process to provide compensation under migrant workers welfare scheme has been initiated. Arrangements have also been made to provide better treatment to the injured, he added. In a similar incident, a 25-year-old daily wager Sageer Ansari, a resident of East Champaran district, was killed on Shaheed Path in Lucknow on May 11. Sageer was part of a group of migrants returning home from Delhi on their bicycles. On April 23, two migrant workers—Mukesh Yadav and Tulsi Ram—were killed and their friend Guddu received serious injuries on Agra-Lucknow Expressway when they were on way to Samastipur and Muzaffarpur districts on a motorbike. Chief minister Nitish Kumar has expressed grief over the death of six migrants from Bihar on the Muzaffarpur-Saharanpur highway in Uttar Pradesh. He also wished for speedy recovery of the injured and issued directives to provide better treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/8-migrants-from-state-killed-in-road-accidents/articleshow/75744903.cms||Ramashankar
May 15, 2020||Hubballi||Gadag district reports four fresh cases of Covid-19||Hubballi: Four fresh Covid-19 cases were reported in Gadag district on Thursday bringing the total number of active csases to seven. All the infected individuals had returned to the city from Ahmedabad in Gujarat and had been under quarantine. Gadag deputy commissioner M G Hiremath said nine residents of Gadag-Betageri returned to the city on May 12. Upon arrival they were sent into institutional quarantine and their samples were sent for testing. “Four of the nine tested positive,” he added. The infected are a 62- year old male (P-970), a 47-year-old male (P-971), a 44-year-old male (P-972), a 28-year-old male (P-973). “Since they were taken into institutional quarantine the virus did not spread in the city,” the DC added. One more individual (P-913) who returned from the Gujrat had tested positive in the district. The district administration has stepped up measures to monitor the health of the vulnerable groups, including the elderly and children — collecting the samples and sending suspected patients in home quarantine — said officials. Gadag has recorded 12 Covid-19 cases and four patients have recovered, while one patient died while availing treatment for the infection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/gadag-district-reports-four-fresh-cases-of-covid-19/articleshow/75744046.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Patna||‘Poll prospects hang on how we tackle corona outbreak’||PATNA: The multi-pronged disaster wrought by the coronavirus outbreak in the state appears to be hanging over the Nitish Kumar government like a dark cloud ahead of the assembly elections scheduled to be in October-November, observers feel. Asked about the plans in hand with which the three-party NDA government of JD(U), BJP and LJP plan to go to the people, industries minister and senior JD(U) functionary Shyam Rajak said, “On this our leader (read Nitish Kumar) can saying anything.” He added, “At the moment, we are seized with the problem of containing the coronavirus outbreak. There are allied problems of migrant workers arriving from other states, and there is also the total disruption of the economy that has to be tackled, besides improving state’s finances.” Rajak further said that job opportunities were being created for the state’s workforce, including migrant workers, and food support is being given to the needy and the poor through PDS shops. “No one can say that the government has not delivered. A few problems remain here and there, like at a few block-level quarantine centres,” he added. Senior BJP leader and road construction minister Nand Kishore Yadav said there was “no problem other than the coronavirus outbreak”, but conceded that how that government tackles the pandemic will be important. “Any government goes to the polls on the basis of work it has done. We have the Jal Jeevan Hariyali (JJH) campaign. But the big contributory factor to our advantage will be how best we tackle the coronavirus outbreak and the related problems,” Yadav said. Indeed, it is for the first time that Nitish is so near assembly elections, and still seized with the issue of tackling a disaster. In 2005, he was a new face when he ended the near 15-year rule of RJD under Lalu Prasad and CM Rabri Devi. Before the 2010 assembly elections, he brought a turnaround in the state, besides containing the law and order problem, and had also earned a popular sobriquet ‘Relief Baba’ for his handling of the floods in 2007 and 2008. During the 2015 assembly polls he had two new issues —the demand for special category status to Bihar and his government’s ‘saat nischay (seven resolves), besides the obvious advantage of forming grand alliance with RJD and Congress, which he quit in 2017 July to rejoin the NDA. Curiously, even in 2015, disasters had hit the state in the form of squall and rains in March-April, followed by two rounds of earthquake in April and May. However, they were handled effectively as per the standard operating procedure (SOP) that was drafted and prepared in Nitish’s rule for all-time ready reference book to be used by the administration from the top to the district and block levels. However, how the state government contains the coronavirus outbreak and also manages the migrant workers, joblessness and the necessity of providing food support to the needy, will provide the foundational plank to Nitish to lead the NDA’s charge during the October-November assembly polls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/poll-prospects-hang-on-how-we-tackle-corona-outbreak/articleshow/75723779.cms||Abhay Singh
May 15, 2020||Business||State Street lays off some staffers on contract||Bengaluru: US financial services company State Street has laid of some of its contract staffers in India due to the business uncertainties propelled by the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic. No full-time employee of the company has been laid off. State Street has over 5,000 employees in India providing services including financial reporting, fund accounting and administration, corporate actions processing, middle office operations, corporate function support and application development. When TOI contacted State Street, its spokesperson said the company continues to aggressively manage all expenses given its commitment to suspend any layoffs for full-time employees through the remainder of the year in light of the Covid-19 crisis. “As a result, we continue to review all service agreements on a regular basis — including those with contractors -- to make sure they are fulfilling a business need. Following a recent assessment of our support needs in India, a very small number of temporary workers were notified that their contract end dates would be accelerated, and they would be fully paid out per their contractual obligations — which includes the notice period,” the spokesperson said. State Street provides financial services to institutional investors including investment servicing, investment management and investment research and trading. It had $31.8 trillion in assets under custody and/or administration and $2.6 trillion in assets under management as of March 31. State Street operates in more than 100 markets and employs approximately 39,000.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/state-street-lays-off-some-staffers-on-contract/articleshow/75746572.cms||Shilpa Phadnis
May 15, 2020||Varanasi||Migrants increase Covid-19 count in east UP||VARANASI: There has been a spurt in Covid-19 cases in Ghazipur, Azamgarh and Jaunpur with the arrival of migrant labourers as many of them are now being found infected. On Thursday, seven new Covid-19 cases, including six in Ghazipur and one in Azamgarh came to light. Earlier, four cases were reported from Chandauli, Ghazipur and Jaunpur on Wednesday, all being migrants who returned from Mumbai, Surat and Delhi. District magistrate Ghazipur Omprakash Arya said, “Six new positive cases were detected in the district on Thursday. Three migrants had returned from Mumbai, two from Surat and one from Delhi.” Other new cases are from Rajupur village of Nandganj, Mohanpurva of Birno, and Chaukudi of Bhudkuda. “The threat of Covid-19 cases increasing in the district has increased due to return of migrants from cities. People have to stay alert and follow social distancing and other precautions,” Arya added. “In Azamgarh district, a man of Jiyapur village in Mehnajpur area, had returned from Mumbai a week ago and stayed at home without getting screened. He tested positive on Thursday,” said DM Azamgarh N P Singh. “He has been admitted to isolation ward of government hospital while his family members and other contacts have been quarantined. The village has been sealed,” Singh added. “In Jaunpur, a 48-year-old man of Khutahan, who had returned from Mumbai by car a week ago, has tested positive,” said DM Jaunpur Dinesh Kumar Singh. “The infected man has been admitted in Varanasi hospital while the other youths who travelled with him in the same car have been quarantined,” he added. On Wednesday, Chandauli, which was Covid-19 free, also joined the list of affected districts with detection of infection in an auto driver who returned from Mumbai. DM Chandauli Navneet Singh Chala said, “The auto driver from Moinuddinpur village had reached home on May 11. He came from Mumbai with three others. He has been admitted to a hospital in Varanasi and his companions have been quarantined.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/migrants-increase-covid-19-count-in-east-up/articleshow/75747411.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||First special train from Delhi arrives||Kozhikode: The first train carrying stranded Keralites from New Delhi to the state arrived here at 10pm. A total of 216 passengers alighted at Kozhikode station and they will be taken to their respective locations in KSRTC buses and other vehicles. Medical teams were deployed at the railway station to examine the passengers. Fire and rescue team had sanitized the entire station before the arrival of the train. The train that started from Delhi on Tuesday has stops at Ernakulam and Thiruvananthapuram besides Kozhikode. The passengers will be given briefing on the precautions they have to follow before they go out of the station. Intrastate travel will not be permitted in the Rajdhani special trains. Railways has cancelled all such tickets following a request from the state government. The state government had requested the railway ministry to prevent travel within the state on the basis of Covid-19 safety concerns. “The state government informed railways that inter-district travel in the state is only permitted through road, where all safety precautions have been taken. Added to this is the increased chance of the spread of the disease,” a railway official said. E-tickets issued to passengers also stand cancelled. It includes tickets for the Rajdhani scheduled to reach Kozhikode on Thursday night. Passengers will not be permitted to board special trains at Kozhikode and Ernakulam stations. Railways will refund the fare for cancelled tickets. IRCTC will share the data of passengers travelling in the special trains with the state government to arrange quarantine facilities. A train, No 02431, will leave Thiruvananthapuram Central for New Delhi at 7.45pm on the same day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/first-special-train-from-delhi-arrives/articleshow/75745420.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Business||Realty players laud rental housing initiative||Kolkata: Real estate players in the state are bullish about the Day Two of the stimulus package announcement by Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman. Commenting on announcement for affordable rental housing and extension of interest subvention scheme, Sushil Mohta, chairman, Merlin Group, and president, Credai West Bengal, pointed out that extension of credit link subsidy scheme is a welcome move, it will give a relief to lower and middle income group to buy home. He pointed out that affordable rental housing scheme announced today is interesting, if proper business model is developed with support of government. “It can bring a lot of cleanness in our cities and create a new asset class! We need to study the scheme in details and suggest the government to make it workable,” he added. According to him, affordable rental housing for white/blue collar is also great idea, as currently they stay in slums or chawls in inhuman conditions. Anshuman Magazine, chairman & CEO (India, south east Asia, middle east & Africa), CBRE, too, lauded the government for its latest measures. “The announcement on rural infrastructure and affordable rental accommodations for urban and migrant workers under PPP partnership will open newer avenues for the construction industry,” he said. Jain Group MD Rishi Jain feels that the government has reached out to the lowest rungs and migrant workers very effectively. “The CLSS and PPP affordable rental projects proposed should address several problems simultaneously,” he added. Shishir Baijal, CMD of Knight Frank India, also welcomed the proposals by saying, “Today’s announcement has re-emphasized on government’s agenda of promoting ‘affordable housing’ and ‘housing for all’. The extension of CLSS for another year will help demand for the affordable housing sector to inch back as and when the economy starts to revive. This in turn will help the construction sector to restart operations at the earliest possible.” However, for demand for housing to return, irrespective of the category, Baijal thinks the economy must start growing at a stable rate providing individuals financial security.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/realty-players-laud-rental-housing-initiative/articleshow/75747853.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Visakhapatnam: Fewer Covid-19 tests in last two days as KGH shifts virology lab||VISAKHAPATNAM: Many people were pleasantly surprised, while others expressed doubts over coronavirus (Covid-19) testing as the district reported no new case between Tuesday and Thursday noon. However, five new cases were reported in the district once testing resumed on Thursday evening taking Vizag’s tally to 71. No official announcement has been made in this regard so far. Health officials clarified that fewer tests were conducted on Tuesday and Wednesday as the virology laboratory was being shifted to the newly-constructed premises at King George Hospital (KGH). Though TrueNat beta tests were being conducted, RT-PCR tests were stopped for two days. Speaking to TOI, Dr P V Sudhakar, principal of Andhra Medical College (AMC) and a member of district covid control committee said, “Usually, 900-1,000 Covid-19 tests are conducted daily. But we could conduct only around 50% tests on Tuesday and Wednesday as the virology laboratory was being shifted from near the Rajendranagar ward to a building behind the diet canteen near the entrance gate. The central government had given Rs 50 lakh, which was used for reconstruction and renovation of the building to house the virology lab, away from other hospital wards. Two more RT-PCR machines have also been added and now we have four such machines.” “TrueNat tests were conducted daily and on Wednesday evening around 300 samples tested negative,” Dr Sudhakar added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/fewer-covid-tests-in-last-two-days-as-kgh-shifts-virology-lab/articleshow/75745392.cms||Sulogna Mehta
May 15, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Tourism industry expects revival to be slow||VISAKHAPATNAM: With countries like Vietnam and Cambodia gradually opening its borders to tourists, stakeholders in the state’s travel and tourism industry feel that it is time to revive the market, which has been brought to a standstill by the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic. Vietnam has launched a communication campaign ‘Vietnam NOW - Safety and Smiling’, which is a tourism stimulus programme with preferential packages for domestic and Asian tourists. Other countries, such as Bhutan, Laos, Sri Lanka, Australia, New Zealand, Fuji, Seychelles, Mauritius, Madagascar, Macau and Thailand, are also inching closer to resuming tourism activities. “Tourism, both domestic and international, will be different as focus will be on safety and hygiene. Emirates Airlines is already conducting spot Covid-19 tests for passengers. Health authorities in Dubai have also introduced quick blood tests and the results are available in just 10 minutes,” said K Vijay Mohan, president of Travel and Tourism Association of Andhra (TTAA). Members of TTAA pointed out that rapid testing would be more cost effective than flying with middle seats empty as fares for those seats will be charged to the passengers flying. “If an airlines keeps the middle seat empty, the fares of the other two passengers will definitely increase. Assuming that the average fare is Rs 4,000, passengers will be paying an additional Rs 2,000 per seat. However, there is another challenging situation. The aisle seats are less that 1.5 feet apart and do not conform to social distancing norms. So, introducing rapid testing at airports will guarantee that no passenger is carrying the coronavirus onto the flight. If this is introduced soon, aviation and tourism industries can resume faster,” Vijay Mohan said. Dheeraj of DC Holidays and vice-president of TTAA said, “A lot will depend on how safe the destinations are. Once a particular destination is announced as safe, people will look forward to visiting it. Hotel managements also have to conduct frequent tests of their staff to ensure safety to guests.” He added: “Singapore is already rolling out a QR-based app ‘Trace Together’ to keep a tab on tourists.” Speaking about the safety of hotels, Vijay Mohan said, “Hotels will have to introduce mandatory mobile check-ins and check-outs using Bluetooth and RFID technology, cashless payments, protection shields in front desks, a la carte menus, and distant seating in restaurants. Hotel chains have already begun revamping their existing service protocols. Some hotels have identified over 200 standard operating procedures and touch points where they will make changes to meet the new health and safety norms.” “We are already receiving enquiries about hotels in Gopalpur and Bhubaneswar. Initially, people may travel by road to closer destinations and once flights resume, other destinations will see tourist arrivals,” said Srinivas Kumar, TTAA secretary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/tourism-industry-expects-revival-to-be-slow/articleshow/75745410.cms||Reshma Jain
May 15, 2020||Varanasi||Exporters laud MSME package, Cong worries for artisans||Varanasi: While the exporters and industrialists of the city welcomed the economic package for MSME sector, a Congress leader said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi has ignored the artisans of his own constituency which is known for its large network of MSMEs and cottage industries. The PM had on Tuesday announced a special economic package of Rs 20 lakh crore during his address to overcome the adverse impact of the Covid-19 lockdown and boost the economy. Giving details of the package on Wednesday, union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman announced the package of Rs 6 lakh crore for MSME sector. Expressing happiness over the economic package, chairman of Carpet Export Promotion Council (CEPC) Siddh Nath Singh said that the package would push local brands to be more competitive at the international level. “It is appreciable that the collateral free automatic loans be worth Rs 3 lakh crore will be provided to MSMEs. The Rs 20,000 crore subordinate debt for stressed MSMEs is likely to benefit two lakh MSMEs,” he added. CEPC executive director Sanjay Kumar said, “In order to ease financial stress as businesses get back to work, the government has decided to continue EPF support for business and workers for three more months providing a liquidity relief of Rs 2,500 crore. This is commendable.” “To provide more funds at the disposal of the taxpayers, the rates of Tax Deduction at Source (TDS) for non-salaried specified payments made to residents and rates of Tax Collection at Source (TCS) for the specified receipts would be reduced by 25 per cent of the existing rates. This will help reduce financial distress,” he added “The special economic package has energized the entrepreneurs of MSME sector. This package will prove to be a milestone in putting the country’s economy on right tracks,” said vice president of Indian Industries Association (IIA) RK Chowdhary. However, the Congress leader Gaurav Kapoor, who is associated with the party’s research wing, is not happy with the package. “There is no separate relief package for PM’s own constituency Varanasi,” said Kapoor, adding that no heed was paid to the artisans engaged in wooden toy making, metal craft, pink enamelling, soft stone work and other handicrafts. The women engaged in jari and zardozi works and the boatmen community were also forgotten,” he added. He further said that the corona warriors should be brought under insurance coverage.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/exporters-laud-msme-package-cong-worries-for-artisans/articleshow/75747421.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Jaipur||Around 1,000 calls at war room daily; 250 for ration, food packets||Jaipur: On an average, nearly 1,000 calls are received at the collectorate’s war room each day. Of the total, at least 200-250 calls are related to complaints about not having got dry ration kits and food packets.Rest of the calls are mostly related to seeking information about train and bus timings, medical queries etc. “Most of the calls at the war room are made to seek information about train and bus timings, pendencies in issuing passes, how to make travel passes etc, and medical queries. About 200-250 complaints are related to dry ration kits, food packets, difficulties faced by migrant labourers. Some calls are made to seek medical assistance or if there is a need for an ambulance during medical emergency,” said additional district magistrate - IV Ashok Kumar. Meanwhile, nearly 15 buses from Jaipur ferried around 600 migrant labourers to Uttar Pradesh border on Thursday. Two trains left with migrants workers from Jaipur on Thursday. One left for Supaul in Bihar with 1,440 migrants and the other left for Gorakhpur in Uttar Pradesh with 1,440 workers, he said. At present, 12 shelter homes have been set up for migrants workers in Jaipur district, which have a capacity of about 2,500. “Workers going to Uttar Pradesh are being sent in roadways buses to Hathras as per the agreement. For travel to Bengal and Bihar, consensus has not been reached yet,” he added. He said, the Bharatpur district collector has been instructed to make arrangement for 5,000 migrant workers at the border.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/around-1000-calls-at-war-room-daily-250-for-ration-food-packets/articleshow/75747850.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan high court dismisses PIL seeking fee waiver from schools||JAIPUR: A division bench of Rajasthan high court on Thursday dismissed a petition demanding a waiver of school fees for three months. However, the court said the names of the students in the schools should not be removed on the basis of not depositing fees for the next three months as directed by the state government. Advocate Rajiv Bhushan Bansal, who filed the petition, said due to the ongoing lockdown to check the spread of Covid-19 infection, people are facing economic crisis and are unable to pay the fees of private schools. “At present, private schools are also closed. For this reason, the court should stop the collection of fees of schools,” Bansal added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/hc-dismisses-pil-seeking-fee-waiver-from-schools/articleshow/75747859.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Ajmer||10 drones for Rajasthan to kill flying pests||JAISALMER: The Central government is planning to rent 10 drones for aerial control of locusts and has already invited tenders for the same. The tenders will be opened on May 16. On Wednesday night, a locust swarm extending up to 5 km, entered the Indian border adjoining Nachna area in Jaisalmer. A large number of these locusts has reached as far as Nagaur and Ajmer. At least eight districts have been affected by locusts so far. The pests have been controlled in 16,414 hectare of land till now. In the month of May, there has been a huge attack by the locusts coming from Pakistan border, which have reached many districts of Rajasthan. At present, eight districts in Rajasthan have been affected by locusts, which are causing heavy damage to crops and plants. According to Locust Warning Organisation deputy director Dr K L Gurjar, locusts in Rajasthan have been controlled in 16,414 hectare of land. The agriculture department and Locust Warning Organisation teams are continuously working on this. Once the tender is opened on May 16 for taking drones on rent, aerial spraying of pesticide will begin. He said that locusts have reached Barmer, Jaisalmer, Ajmer, Bikaner, Pali, Jodhpur, Sriganganagar and Nagaur in Rajasthan. Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar and union minister of state for agriculture Kailash Choudhary had a meeting with agriculture officers at Krishi Bhawan in New Delhi to ensure availability of pesticides to farmers for stopping locusts. The ministers discussed the matter with pesticide companies and gave them necessary directions through video conference. After this, the agriculture ministry reviewed the efforts being made to control locusts. Choudhary said that it is necessary to control locusts on time to save the crops and plants in affected areas. The government of India and agriculture ministry are providing all facilities and resources to the Locust Warning Organisation. He said that the government of India, in coordination with the state government, will provide drones for aerial spray of pesticides. The teams are surveying the affected districts. The Locust Warning Organisation is spraying pesticides there.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/10-drones-for-rajasthan-to-kill-flying-pests/articleshow/75757504.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Kochi||New system fetches fishermen fair price||Kochi: Fishing harbours in Ernakulam have successfully introduced a system to fix rates of landings at the harbours during the lockdown period. It is more than 20 days now and with the small mechanized boats going to sea, the sales are just getting larger. As crowding is not allowed, auctions cannot be conducted even though small boats are bringing in catches. As a first step, officials of Matsyafed and district fisheries department fixed the sale price after discussion with the fishermen. From May 1, when the mechanized boats started fishing, small harbour management committees have been formed and the prices fixed after consultation with the fishermen bringing in the catch. The committee has fishermen, fisheries and Matsyfed officials, local harbour management council. “The rates are fixed based on the average price of the variety in the week or the latest sale done across Kerala,” Daisy Benny, district manager, Matsyafed, Thoppumpady. She said that this will continue till May 17. The district has the largest and the biggest fishing fleet of all sizes in the four harbours including, Thopumpady, Munambam, Kallamukku and Chellanam. On Friday, Rs 4.39 lakh worth fish and prawns were sold at Cochin harbour through this rate fixing which is one of the highest in the lockdown period. Officials said fishermen are happy as it ensures a single price for the catch throughout the day. The boats bring their landings by 6am and the sale happens from 8am to 3pm in the direct monitoring of the officials. “However, they have been asking us to start at 6am which is a little difficult as our staff can’t reach at that time in the absence of public transport facility. We are now arranging a taxi for pick-up,” an official said. “This new system has been exciting and profitable as the fishermen is having a say in the price of their catch. There are small issues but the state government has initiated discussions with all stakeholders and experts to come up with a proper and fair pricing system of landings,” said Charles George, general secretary of Kerala Matsyathozhilali Aikya Vedi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/new-system-fetches-fishermen-fair-price/articleshow/75745432.cms||Sudha Nambudiri
May 15, 2020||Varanasi||Varanasi: Four new Covid cases found, dist tally reaches 91||VARANASI: With the Wednesday late night reports received from BHU lab, four new Covid-19 positive cases were confirmed taking the district’s tally to 91. Although reports of 65 samples received till Thursday late evening did not add to the figures. Chief medical officer Dr VB Singh said that the report of the patient admitted to ward-7 of SPG divisional hospital, confirmed coronavirus infection on Wednesday late night. The doctors at divisional hospital had detected Covid-19 symptoms in him, one of the staff of the SPG hospital, on May 12 after which they referred him to BHU. Other patients of the ward-7 were immediately shifted to ESIC hospital. The ward, pathology lab and X-ray room of divisional hospital, which were closed for sanitisation, were reopened on Thursday. Reports of three more samples received on Wednesday confirmed the infection in two youths of Chhitauna village of Chaubeypur area, who had returned from Mumbai on a motorcycle on May 11. A 28-year-old woman of Umra Barai village of Chaubeypur, who had returned from Mumbai with her husband and two children in a car, was also tested positive, said Singh. The family had directly approached the flu ward of ESIC hospital for screening, where their samples were collected. Reports of her children are awaited. With the four new cases, the total number of Covid-19 positive cases in Varanasi has reached to 91, he said adding that, 55 have become cured and one had died on April 3 while the number of active cases has become 35. The number of total hotspots in the district has now become 33.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/four-new-covid-cases-found-dist-tally-reaches-91/articleshow/75747428.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Kochi||Op Breakthrough: KMRL takes up drain work worth Rs 42 lakh in city||Kochi: The Kochi Metro Rail Limited (KMRL) has taken up Rs 42 lakh worth projects to address waterlogging issues in the city. The three projects are construction of cross-drain at Changampuzha Park and JLN metro stations and providing additional drain holes along Aluva -Kaloor stretch. The Metro agency has already completed the construction of a cross drain linking drains on both sides of Changampuzha Park Metro station. Arrangements to provide drain holes along the Kalamassery-Kaloor stretch is in the last stage. “KMRL had decided to complete the pre-monsoon work as early as in March itself. A special team was formed to execute and monitor the work. We are also part of the Operation Breakthrough and have been giving technical expertise and support for various pre-monsoon initiatives of the district administration for the past several months.” said KMRL managing director Alkesh Kumar Sharma. KMRL has completed the drain work at Changampuzha Park pursuant to a meeting conducted by agriculture minister V S Sunilkumar at the district headquarters on April 23 regarding the Operation Breakthrough and pre-monsoon initiatives. Also part of the pre-monsoon activities arrangement are made to provide additional drain holes wherever waterlogging is noticed. Lifting drain cover slabs to footpath level along Aluva-Kaloor stretch is going on. This is in addition to construction of a cross-drain connecting Changadampokku Thodu and Karanakodam Thodu near JLN Metro Station. The roughly 145 metre drain and crossing will cost Rs 25 lakh for completion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/op-breakthrough-kmrl-takes-up-drain-work-worth-rs-42-lakh-in-city/articleshow/75738035.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Vijayawada||318 passengers disembark as train stops at Vijayawada station after 51 days||VIJAYAWADA: After 51 days of lockdown period, Vijayawada railway station witnessed the first passenger train arriving from Delhi on Thursday. According to Vijayawada railway division officials, the New Delhi-Chennai Central special train transited the station amidst ‘elaborate and fool proof’ arrangements. As part of partial restoration of passenger services by Indian Railways in a graded manner, Special Train no. 02434 New Delhi to Chennai Central was handled at Vijayawada railway station. The AC special train reached Vijayawada station 2.35 pm, where 318 passengers alighted on platform 1, while another 242 of 282 booked passengers boarded the special train to Chennai. This train is a bi-weekly special that allows passengers from Delhi to reach Chennai, starting on Wednesdays and Fridays. With the railways now announcing that all other train operations to be suspended till June 30, many other stranded passengers living in Mumbai, took two trains to reach Vijayawada. “I was lucky to get two tickets, from Mumbai Central to Delhi on Tuesday and from there got the Delhi-Chennai train at 3.30 pm on Wednesday to make my way back home. I was stranded there for almost two months,” a railway passenger said, while speaking to reporters. Officials said that the station was disinfected prior to passengers’ arrival. All passengers arrived at around 12.30 pm for officials to carry out thermal screening. Separate entry and exit gates were demarcated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/318-passengers-disembark-as-train-stops-at-vijayawada-stn-after-51-days/articleshow/75745422.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Jaipur||10 drones for Rajasthan to kill flying pests||JAISALMER: The Central government is planning to rent 10 drones for aerial control of locusts and has already invited tenders for the same. The tenders will be opened on May 16. On Wednesday night, a locust swarm extending up to 5 km, entered the Indian border adjoining Nachna area in Jaisalmer. A large number of these locusts has reached as far as Nagaur and Ajmer. At least eight districts have been affected by locusts so far. The pests have been controlled in 16,414 hectare of land till now. In the month of May, there has been a huge attack by the locusts coming from Pakistan border, which have reached many districts of Rajasthan. At present, eight districts in Rajasthan have been affected by locusts, which are causing heavy damage to crops and plants. According to Locust Warning Organisation deputy director Dr K L Gurjar, locusts in Rajasthan have been controlled in 16,414 hectare of land. The agriculture department and Locust Warning Organisation teams are continuously working on this. Once the tender is opened on May 16 for taking drones on rent, aerial spraying of pesticide will begin. He said that locusts have reached Barmer, Jaisalmer, Ajmer, Bikaner, Pali, Jodhpur, Sriganganagar and Nagaur in Rajasthan. Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar and union minister of state for agriculture Kailash Choudhary had a meeting with agriculture officers at Krishi Bhawan in New Delhi to ensure availability of pesticides to farmers for stopping locusts. The ministers discussed the matter with pesticide companies and gave them necessary directions through video conference. After this, the agriculture ministry reviewed the efforts being made to control locusts. Choudhary said that it is necessary to control locusts on time to save the crops and plants in affected areas. The government of India and agriculture ministry are providing all facilities and resources to the Locust Warning Organisation. He said that the government of India, in coordination with the state government, will provide drones for aerial spray of pesticides. The teams are surveying the affected districts. The Locust Warning Organisation is spraying pesticides there.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/10-drones-for-rajasthan-to-kill-flying-pests/articleshow/75747855.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Nashik||Telemedicine will be used in Malegaon, says minister||Nashik: State health minister Rajesh Tope has announced the launch of telemedicine and teleradiography in Malegaon in view of shortage of doctors and added that the coronavirus situation is showing a marked improvement in the town. The minister said the the occupancy in quarantine facilities and Covid hospitals in the powerloom town is comparatively low now, which is an indication that the situation is improving. Tope was speaking at a health review meeting in Malegaon on Wednesday. “We are happy to see that the number of patients is coming down in Malegaon. We have still decided to introduce telemedicine and teleradiography to treat patients, and it will cut down the number of doctors required for the observation of patients,” he said. The minister pointed out that he has reserved 300 swab tests for Malegaon at the Pune-based National Institute of Virology (NIV) to help faster testing and thus help doctors take appropriate steps to ensure early intervention.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/telemedicine-will-be-used-in-malegaon-says-minister/articleshow/75745423.cms||Abhilash Botekar
May 15, 2020||Pune||Pune: Industrial units in PCMC limits to resume business||PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: The 10,000-strong industrial unit base in the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation limits got a fillip on Thursday when the state government allowed operations to begin. In a notification, the state government said companies in PCMC limits can work with 33% of their enrolled employees “staying in PCMC area (only)” and can also use personal “four-wheeler” transportation/company-provided transportation to get to work. PCMC houses systemically important companies in Pimpri, Chinchwad and Bhosari regions. The move follows representations by industry bodies, like the Pimpri Chinchwad Small Scale Industries Association and the Mahratta Chambers of Commerce Industries and Agriculture (MCCIA). They had argued that the “never-seen-before crisis” is severely impacting entire businesses in the region. The industry representatives had stated that PCMC, with under 200 positive cases and a high recovery rate, cannot be treated at par with other municipal corporations like Pune and Mumbai. The PCMC said that it will issue directives accordingly in two days. “We will be studying various aspects and then issuing guidelines to the industrial units in the city in the next two days, with details of the authority from which permissions are required, among others. We expect them to resume operations in two-three days,” municipal commissioner Shravan Hardikar said. Some units in Chinchwad MIDC have already resumed operations with skeletal staff — mostly in planning. MCCIA president Pradeep Bhargava has said that companies in PCMC and Pune Municipal Corporation limits are important not just to the region, but also to the country. Pune is among the top five direct and indirect tax contributing zones of the country, most of which comes from the city’s diversified manufacturing sector.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/industrial-units-in-pcmc-limits-to-resume-business/articleshow/75747278.cms||Satyanarayan Iyer
May 15, 2020||Allahabad||Prayagraj: Five more test corona +ve, dist tally now 26||PRAYAGRAJ: Five migrants who recently returned to Prayagraj from Mumbai were among the new novel coronavirus (Covid-19) cases reported from the district on Thursday. The new cases took Prayagraj district’s tally to 26. The five patients included four members of a family. They returned from Mumbai on different dates. While four of them are residents of Lagadiapur area, the fifth one lives in Jhunsi. They are undergoing treatment at Covid-19 Level One Hospital in Kotwa. Additional chief medical officer and nodal officer Dr Rishi Sahai said, “ The four members of a family — a couple and their two teenage children — arrived in the city on May 12 and went straight to Swaroop Rani Nehru Hospital.” As the four were experiencing symptoms similar to novel coronavirus, they were referred to the hospital’s isolation ward. However, they got scared and fled the hospital campus. They went back to their village in Lagadiapur Kanwar area of Sarayinayat. On May 13, a team of medical officials brought them back to SRN Hospital and collected their samples on Wednesday. They tested positive for novel coronavirus on Thursday. “While the man and his wife are 33 and 31 years of age, their kids are 11 and 12 years old. They arrived in the city from Mumbai in an autorickshaw,” said a health department official. A 25-year-old Jhunsi resident, who arrived from Mumbai on May 8, was quarantined at SRN Hospital’s isolation ward. His swab sample was collected on Wednesday and he tested positive on Thursday. With the new cases, Lagadipur Kanwar in Sarayinayat and Kaseruwa Khurd in Jhunsi were added to list of hotspots in Prayagraj. Till now, Prayagraj has reported 26 cases, of which one patient has died and eight have recovered. The other 17 are undergoing treatment at Covid-19 Level One Hospital in Kotwa and SRN Hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/five-more-test-corona-ve-dist-tally-now-26/articleshow/75747449.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana records 47 new cases, tally 1,414||HYDERABAD: The pattern of family members of Covid-19 postive persons contracting the infection continued on Thursday with 47 new cases reported in Telangana. GHMC had the lion’s share with 40 positive cases, while two migrant workers too got infected. Twenty-four persons from three families in Greater Hyderabad tested postive for the coronavirus, while five of a family from Rangareddy got infected. In simple terms, four families contributed 29 of 47 cases. The state’s total number of positive cases shot up to 1,414. Also, 13 people were discharged, taking the number of recoveries to 972, more than double the number of active cases in Telangana, 428. However, the only solace was there were no deaths and the toll stands at 34. A family from Asif Nagar and another from Ghode ki Khabar from Mangalhat reported nine cases each, while six members of a family from Yakatpura tested positive. A government employee from Meerpet tested positive on Wednesday, while four from her family contracted the infection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-records-47-new-cases-tally-1414/articleshow/75746594.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
May 15, 2020||Jaipur||93 migrants test positive in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: Ninety three migrant labourers tested positive for Covid-19 in the state on Thursday. Rajasthan reported 206 covid-19 cases, out of those 45% are migrants. In Jalore only, 22 migrants were found infected with Covid-19, who have reached from Maharashtra and Gujarat. In Udaipur, 10 migrants have found infected with the virus. The health department officials said that most of the migrants tested positive have returned from hotspots such as Mumbai, Ahmedabad, Surat and Indore. All the seven persons found infected with Covid-19 in Sikar on Thursday are migrants. A 20-year-old man from Mochiwada of Sikar city, who had returned from Surat of Gujarat recently, has been found infected with coronavirus infections. Besides, a relative of a labourer, who has already been tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday, has been found infected with the virus. Both had returned from Mumbai to Khandela block of Sikar. A 16-year-old girl has also been found infected with Covid-19, his father was tested positive earlier. One more person, who belongs to Dhod of Sikar was diagnosed with Covid-19 after returning from Surat of Gujarat. Wife and daughter of a person, who had returned from Surat, were tested positive for Covid-19. A person returned from Mumbai, has also been diagnosed with Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/93-migrants-test-positive-in-state/articleshow/75747864.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Vijayawada||Vijayawada: Women take Disha route to put abusive husbands in dock||VIJAYAWADA: Domestic violence cases, especially incidents of husbands harassing wives, have topped the list of complaints received by police on Disha App. Out of 292 complaints received on Disha App after it was launched, 93 cases are pertaining to husbands harassing their wives, said officials in a review meeting with chief minister Y S Jaganmohan Reddy on Thursday. The other categories of complaints that received on Disha App include 42 incidents of harassment by unknown persons, 29 incidents of harassment by relatives, 15 incidents of harassing over phone by making fake calls, harassing children in eight cases, seven women missing and five girl missing cases have been reported. The officials explained that in 167 cases reported after introduction of Disha Act, the cops have filed charge sheet within seven days and 20 cases have been disposed by the courts. Out of the 20 cases got conviction, in two cases capital punishment was awarded and in five cases life imprisonment has been given by the courts. The chief minister lauded the efforts of Disha officers for taking effective measures to deliver speedy justice. He told the chief secretary and other senior officials to coordinate with the Union government to get the President’s assent to Disha Act. The chief minister also directed the officials to speed up the infrastructure related works in Disha police stations and asked to set-up one Disha station at parliamentary constituency level. He said the recruitment of special public prosecutors and establishment of special courts has to be completed as soon as possible. He also told to establish de-addiction centres at all teaching hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/women-take-disha-route-to-put-abusive-husbands-in-dock/articleshow/75745446.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Kochi||J’khand guest workers walk out of camp in search of train||Kochi: Uncertainty regarding trains that would take them back to their native places and an arbitrary registration system have forced guest workers to hit the streets. Around 21 guest workers from Jharkhand who work at a construction site in Kakkanad were intercepted by Angamaly police around 9.30pm at Karayamparampu and sent back to their camp on Tuesday night. Labour department officials said they made their way to Aluva railway station to enquire about trains to Jharkhand. “They were desperate to get back to their homes and were unaware that without a health certificate and a reservation they cannot travel in a train. These labourers were not planning to walk till Jharkhand but were trying to reach Palakkad as someone told them that they might get trains there,” said Jayaprakash, assistant labour officer, Angamaly. He said these labourers had no issues with regard to food or salary. “Many of them were relying on the labour contractor to send money home. Phone calls from kin asking for money has been also building pressure on them,” said Jayaprakash. “Shramik trains have dried up. There is no way they can travel as online reservations gets filled within minutes. The Rajadhani-type AC trains are too costly,” said Benoy Peter, executive director, centre for migration and inclusive development (CMID). Rajesh Gorang, a construction worker in Mattanchery, who hails from Bokaro, said they desperately wanted to get back to their home state but they did not have any information regarding trains.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/jkhand-guest-workers-walk-out-of-camp-in-search-of-train/articleshow/75738071.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Goa||Skip Goa halts of special trains, CM Pramod Sawant tells Centre||PANAJI: With eight Covid-19 positives cases being detected in the state in a span of 24 hours, and that too all “imported”, chief minister Pramod Sawant has asked the Union government to direct the Indian Railways to skip Goa. “We have written to the railway ministry and asked that, if possible, not to make a stop at Goa,” Sawant said. The chief minister said that more than 50% of those due to arrive in the state by the train route are non-Goans and that he has conveyed the state government’s concerns in this regards. “I have spoken to Union home minister Amit Shah, railways minister Piyush Goyal and the ministry of home affairs over the issue. I have not asked them to cancel those trains. I have told them that more non-Goans are travelling to Goa by train than Goans,” he said. In all, 720 people have made bookings for the Rajdhani Express expected to arrive in Goa on Saturday. Stating that he has sought details on how to test all those disembarking at Goa, Sawant said the bigger question was where the non-Goans will stay, as there are a large number of them among those arriving. “Where will they stay, will they follow home quarantine, will they come in contact with the public,” he said. Referring to the seafarer who tested positive on Thursday despite testing negative in Mumbai and undergoing 14-day quarantine there, the chief minister said he is worried that cases may increase in the state in this manner. “This is why I decided to write to the Union government,” Sawant said. He said that he has told the Centre that hotels in the state are closed and that they will not find a place to stay. “We have raised this concern and they have told me that they will study the issue and take a decision accordingly,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/skip-goa-halts-of-special-trains-sawant-tells-centre/articleshow/75747863.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Breather for Telangana as HC says it can't force to conduct Covid tests||HYDERABAD: Days after cornering the government on fewer Covid-19 tests, the Telangana HC on Thursday gave relief to the state, expressing its reluctance to force the government to conduct tests in a massive way and test even those with no symptoms at all. Stating that it would be a huge financial burden on the state, a bench of Justice MS Ramachandra Rao and Justice K Lakshman said forcing people to undergo tests without consent would be a direct infringement on their rights. Hearing a PIL filed by S Varun of Suryapet who wanted HC to direct government to conduct massive tests in red and orange zones, the bench said it would be better to ask the state to allow those who can afford Rs 4,500 per test to get themselves tested at any of the 12 private labs approved by ICMR. “Nothing is finalised,” said the bench which had reserved its judment in similar case. HC issued notices to the state and Centre, sought counters and posted the case to May 18. Gorantla Pujitha, petitioner’s counsel, said as people with no symptoms were also testing positive, it would be better to ask the government to do tests on all in red and orange zones. The bench said the government was doing tests free of cost. “Centre is supplying imported test kits, the number of which is limited. Finances are a huge problem. Moreover, this is a technical issue to be decided by ICMR experts,” HC added. “Government cannot force people to undergo tests. If they catch hold of a normal person, it creates panic in localities,” the bench said. Advocate General BS Prasad said ICMR guidelines also did not specify that tests be done on people who show no symptoms. On another PIL by professor PL Vishweshwar Rao of TJS who wanted state to conduct tests on bodies, HC sought counters from state and Centre. “Let the state follow ICMR guidelines,” the bench said. Prasad said ICMR guidelines did not specify tests on bodies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/breather-for-t-as-hc-says-it-cant-force-en-masse-tests/articleshow/75746586.cms||Sagar Kumar Mutha
May 15, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: AgriGold victims launch email campaign for refund||VIJAYAWADA: The AgriGold victims welfare association has launched an e-mail movement demanding the state government to pay them the money as promised. The victims have been sending e-mails to the CM, finance minister, director general of police and advisors of the CM since May 10. The association alleged that though the government allocated Rs 1,150 crore in the budget for payments to victims with deposits up to Rs 20,000, it has not been distributed. Muppalla Nageswara Rao, honorary president of the association, said CM YS Jaganmohan Reddy had promised during his padayatra to pay the victims within three months. “He had also promised to resolve the issue within six months of coming to power. He will complete a year as CM on May 30 but lakhs of victims are still waiting for refunds,” Rao said. The state government had issued orders to release the amount in two tranches through district legal services authorities. However, Rao said majority of the registered 3.7 lakh victims are yet to receive the amount. The association announced that the victims will write to the CM directly and protest in their homes from May 16.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/agrigold-victims-launch-email-campaign-for-refund/articleshow/75745433.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kollam patient discharged after 45 days||KOLLAM: After fighting against Covid-19 for 45 days, a 43-year-old woman got discharged from the hospital on Thursday. She was tested positive on March 31. Along with her, a couple from Valkkadode, near Punalur, were also discharged leaving the district Covid-19 free. A 65-year-old woman in Pathanamthitta had also undergone hospitalisation for 45 days earlier. She was among those who belonged to the cluster of patients who tested positive for the disease in Ranni in Pathanamthitta. At least 20 samples were taken from this woman before she was tested negative in successive tests. The woman who was discharged on Thursday had arrived from a Gulf country and had got infected after she came into contact with a family member who had also contracted the disease. She said it was the dedicated professional care given to her at the government medical college that saved her life The couple from Valakkode spent 42 days at the medical college after testing Covid positive. Though the 28-year-old youth was tested negative earlier, he was staying back in the hospital till his wife too recovered . The hospital staff, led by medical college superintendent, came out to see off the three. They were sent away with flowers and applause in appreciation of the resilience shown in the fight against the virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/kollam-patient-discharged-after-45-days/articleshow/75745448.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Hubballi||Charges of sexual harassment false: Dimhans||Dharwad: The inquiry into the allegations of sexual harassment against Dr Suresh Arkera of Dharwad Institute of Mental Health and Neuro Sciences (Dimhans) by research student Hemalata N has proved that the allegations are false, according to a release issued by the institute on Wednesday. The release said following allegations of sexual harassment by the research student, Dimhans conducted an internal inquiry. “During the inquiry, those working in Covid-19 testing lab at Dimhans were questioned, and it was proved that the charges were baseless and mala fide. The complainant could not provide any evidence to support her charges. Hence, it is concluded that there is no truth in the allegations made against Dr Suresh Arkera,” the release said. A research student, who was deployed at the lab in the first week of May, had made allegations that a professor deputed there had sexually harassed her. She had also complained to the vice-chancellor of Karnatak University, as the accused is its employee and was on deputation to Dimhans.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/charges-of-sexual-harassment-false-dimhans/articleshow/75742949.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Probe against minister, top officials for lockdown flout||KARIMNAGAR: Taking a serious view of alleged violation of lockdown guidelines by authorities in Karimnagar district, the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) has ordered a probe against civil supplies minister Gangula Kamalakar, Karimnagar district collector K Shashanka, police commissioner VB Kamalasan Reddy and municipal commissioner Valluru Kranthi. Based on a complaint from advocate and social worker Bethi Mahender Reddy, NHRC on Wednesday ordered the authorities to enquire into a mass gathering of over 2,000 people in Karimnagar town on May 3 to celebrate the occasion of the district reporting zero coronavirus cases. Apart from the minister and collector, corporators, public representatives, political leaders and officials had attended the event at a function hall. Mahender contended that no social distancing was followed at the lunch programme and lockdown norms were flouted by the minister and officials. At the event, sanitation workers and municipal employees were feted for their untiring efforts in combating the Covid-19 pandemic. Questioning such a large gathering at the event, NHRC sought to know how did the minister, collector and others flout the guidelines just days after the district emerged out of novel coronavirus scare. Sources said NHRC would soon issue notices to them. After Hyderabad, Karimnagar became a hotspot for novel coronavirus cases, giving jitters to the officials. From nine positive cases in the third week of March, the Covid-19 graph had surged to 19. Now, the district is in green zone thanks to containment measures and effective implementation of lockdown norms. “But, the minister, collector, commissioner and others violated human and fundamental rights guaranteed under articles 19 and 21 of the Constitution. They had shown wilful callousness by violating the guidelines put in place by the central government,” he said and added that they should be booked under section 188 of the IPC, Disaster Management Act and Epidemic Diseases Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/probe-against-minister-top-officials-for-lockdown-flout/articleshow/75746599.cms||Shiva Kumar Pinna
May 15, 2020||Pune||40% industries start operation in rural Pune||PUNE: Around 40% of the industrial units in rural Pune have started operations in the past 48 hours, Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation (MIDC) and Pune rural police officials said. Companies like Mercedes Benz in Chakan and Infosys in Hinjewadi have started operations. Some other companies have started sanitizing their premises and are likely to start work soon, they added. Units in Baramati MIDC, Kurkumbh in Daund, Talegaon Dhabade in Maval tehsil, Ranjangaon and Sanaswadi in Shirur, Markal and Khed in Khed tehsils have also started functioning. “The police and our officials are checking whether guidelines are being followed daily,” MIDC regional manager Sanjay Deshmukh said. Pune rural SP Sandeep Patil said that most of the employees of these companies live in nearby villages or towns and travel to work in personal vehicles. “Transportation of top executives is being allowed in dedicated vans,” Patil told TOI. “More companies will start operations in the coming days. All assistance will be provided to the companies to restart their operations,” said another MIDC official. “In the IT parks in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad, about 1.65 lakh employees are working from home,” MIDC joint director Sadashiv Survase said. Dilip Batwal, secretary, Federation of Chakan Industry, said companies in Chakan MIDC are not able to operate at full capacity. “Senior executives — decision makers — couldn’t report to work due to transport restrictions. Only workers from nearby areas reported for duty, but many units have not been able to start production lines,” he said. Batwal said many ancillary units cannot start as a large chunk of their workforce returned to their native places. “These units mainly supply spare parts to big companies. Without full manpower they can’t meet their targets,” he said. The rural police held a meeting with the human resources (HR) heads of various companies in Ranjangaon MIDC and private contractors, where they said action would be taken against those not following guidelines. Till Wednesday, around 90 companies started partial operations in Ranjangaon. In a statement, Mercedes Benz said, “The production has started in a graded manner with directives from the state government. All necessary safety precautions have been taken ... Only the essential staff are at the production facility, adhering to all the required social distancing protocols and mandated safety and sanitization measures.” Following the government’s nod to allow companies outside of the municipal limits to work with 33% of staff capacity, IT Major Infosys is all set to begin work at its Phase-I facility in Hinjewadi from Wednesday with a “small percentage of employees”. (inputs from Satyanarayan Iyer)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/40-industries-start-operation-in-rural-pune/articleshow/75747281.cms||Sandip Dighe
May 15, 2020||Jaipur||No transport for train passengers reaching Jaipur||JAIPUR: The Delhi-Sabarmati special train introduced this week by the railways has no room vacant between Jaipur-Delhi and Jaipur-Ahmedabad. Also, passengers travelling in these trains are facing a lot of difficulties as they are not getting any local conveyance to reach railway station and to return home when the trains arrive in Jaipur late in the night. TOI on Thursday spoke to some passengers to know about the difficulties faced by them while travelling in the Delhi-Sabarmati train between Delhi-Jaipur and Jaipur-Ahmedabad. “I reached Jaipur at 2.45am and found no conveyance. Also, my relatives, too, did not reach railway station since their entry was not allowed. Thus, I had to walk 6km in the night to reach Vidhyadhar Nagar,” said Aniket Singh, a 45-year-old businessman who was stuck in Ahmedabad. Many passengers were happy to be back in Jaipur, however, some complained that due to lack of public transport they faced difficulty in reaching their homes. “We are in touch with the state government and hopefully we will arrange some buses or other conveyance for the passengers travelling in these trains,” said an officer with NWR. “I was expecting restoration of train services. However, I have not been able to get reservation in this train. Government should plan some more trains,” said Saurabh Rohila, a native of Ahmedabad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/no-transport-for-train-passengers-reaching-city/articleshow/75747865.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Lucknow||UP CM Yogi Adityanath gives Rs 2k cr to MSMEs in loan mela||LUCKNOW: A day after the Centre announced a booster package for the industry, chief minister Yogi Adityanath distributed loans of more than Rs 2,000 crore to 56,754 entrepreneurs and launched the Sathi app for the MSME sector at an online loan fair organised by UP government on Wednesday. The loans, said the CM, would help in providing employment to more than 2 lakh people. “The loan mela was held within 24 hours of the announcement of the economic package by the Centre. Preparations for it were already in place but some roadblocks were being experienced on account of the Coronavirus. Now, the Corona crisis has presented the government with an opportunity to improve the MSME sector and the CM has given relief to it at the first opportunity,” said a government spokesperson. The app contains details of the skill of migrant workers and would help in getting them jobs suitable for their skill sets. “Our workers and labourers are our strength and capital. We will utilize their labour and skills to make UP a manufacturing hub in the country and the world,” the CM said. “This is the best opportunity for us to eradicate the stigma of migration. A record of the skill of every labourer is also being prepared so that those coming from other states can contribute in the rebuilding of the state,” the CM said. The CM said that even idols of Lakshmi and Ganesh that are sold in India during Diwali are manufactured on a large scale in China. This year, he said, the government would try and give local units the opportunity to manufacture these. He added that Gorakhpur was a centre for manufacturing of terracotta goods and craft persons could make superior quality sculptures. The scheme of one district-one product will further help to strengthen the sector, the CM said. “Such units in all districts will benefit from the economic package. These products will be recognized across the world and help establish them as brands. This will help in providing huge employment at the local level through minimum capital and also help in increasing the per capita income of the state,” said the CM. The CM added that simply by providing opportunity, MSME units had managed to make the most of the situation. For instance, he said, during the lockdown, 26 new units of personal protection equipment were established in UP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cm-yogi-gives-rs-2k-cr-to-msmes-in-loan-mela/articleshow/75747867.cms||Neha Lalchandani
May 15, 2020||Allahabad||Heat, official apathy add to homebound migrants’ woes||Prayagraj: Migrants native to Uttar Pradesh continued their homeward journey on Thursday as well, some of them on foot, while others packed in trucks, after being stranded in various states for days because of the lockdown. Many of these were spotted looking for roadways buses to take them to their home districts. On Thursday, migrant workers continued to flock to the city from stateslike Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Karnataka and Maharastra. TOI spotted a group of migrant workers on Sardar Patel Marg searching for roadways buses so that go to their respective homes in Gorakhpur, Bahraich, Deoria and Kushinagar. One of the them, Sumit, said, “I paid Rs 3,000 to a truck driver to take me from Hyderabad to Prayagraj. When we reached the city border, we were told that we could get buses near Station Road. However, when we reached there, police told us to go to Maharana Pratap Marg if wanted to board a bus for Bahraich and Gorakhpur. At the crossing near Maharana Pratap Marg, two policemen on duty asked us to leave the spot.” Shankar Lal, a migrant and a native of Kushinagar said, “A truck driver dropped me and 12 others in Gohania near Shankargarh. He told us he couldn’t take us any further as police were conducting a checking drive. We started from Vijaywada and changed trucks to reach here.” There were many other workers who said they were running out of money. However, despite the hardships, they had rather head home. The scorching heat isn’t making their trek back home any easier. Nandita, who haild from Bahraich and works in a construction firm near Vijayanagaram in Andhra Pradesh, said she and her husband had been working since the last five days to reach the UP-MP border. “We waited for several days for government to make arrangements for us to go back. However, when no help came, we decided to walk on May 7,” said a migrant worker walking along with Nandita. A few of them managed to get a seat in the crowded trucks or DCMs. “There has been no work for over a month now. The contractors have not paid us anything. We started running out of money. Despite our efforts, we could not arrange a vehicle. At last we decided to leave the place by walking,” said Raju, who works as a carpenter in AP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/heat-official-apathy-add-to-homebound-migrants-woes/articleshow/75747474.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Kochi||Walayar effect: Cong MPs, MLAs told to stay at home||Palakkad/Thrissur: The medical board meeting on Covid-19 presided over by Palakkad district collector D Balamurali on Thursday has directed 139 persons to go into home quarantine after they were suspected to have come into secondary contact with men from Chennai who were infected with coronavirus at Walayar border. Those who have been asked to go into home quarantine include three UDF MPs and two MLAs of Palakkad and Thrissur districts. Also in the list are media persons, nurses, police, revenue and other government officials who were on duty at Walayar check post on May 9, when the three men from Chennai who later tested positive for the disease arrived there. Thrissur MP T N Prathapan, Palakkad MP V K Sreekantan, Alathur MP Remya Haridas, Palakkad MLA Shafi Parambil, Wadakkanchery MLA Anil Akkara and other Congress leaders from Palakkad had visited Walayar checkpost on May 9 after reports that a large number of stranded persons from other states, including from red zones, had come without pass to enter Kerala and were being denied entry. A person hailing from Malappuram, who came from Chennai and spent many hours there, was tested positive on Tuesday and two others of his team tested positive on Wednesday. The route map prepared by the health department shows that the person, who collapsed at Walayar checkpost after a long wait and was taken to hospital by health workers and police, had tested positive on Tuesday had 15 primary contacts and some are yet to be traced. They include two male nurses who were on duty at on May 9, the volunteers who supplied food and water and other travellers who were present there at that time. Other contacts include mediapersons and the political leaders who had visited the checkpost. Two other co-workers of the Malappuram man at his Chennai juice shop are yet to be traced, the route map showed. Meanwhile, the MPs Prathapan and Haridas as well MLA Akkara said that they would abide by the directives of health officials to undergo quarantine, “though the directive was evidently a politically-motivated one”. All of them said that they had not received an official communication directing them to undergo quarantine, till 6 pm. While Pratapan said he would be at his home, Haridas said she would also be at her Alathur flat during the quarantine period. Akkara said he would be in his MLA office during the quarantine period. Prathapan alleged the UDF leaders are being asked to undergo quarantine just because they had visited Walayar to enquire about the conditions of Keralites who were stranded there on March 9. “Minister A C Moideen had visited the institutional quarantine centre at Guruvayur. But the minister has not been asked to undergo quarantine, while the Congress leaders are,” Prathapan said. Sreekantan hit out at the health department’s decision, describing it as a “political conspiracy by CPM against Congress”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/walayar-effect-cong-mps-mlas-told-to-stay-at-home/articleshow/75745491.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Nashik||NHAI to miss deadline for flyover project||Nashik: The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) will miss the deadline for completion of the Rs 300-crore flyover project — the construction of which began two years ago — owing to the Covid-19 outbreak. The project was to be completed by October this year. "It would be impossible to complete the project by the deadline. We would be able to complete it by early 2021 provided there are no more hiccups due to the pandemic," an official from NHAI said. The contractors, however, are facing issues like manpower crunch and raw materials. The 2.3-km-long flyover from KK Wagh to Jatra hotel will reduce the traffic chaos at important areas like Amrutdham, Bali Mandir, Jatra Hotel, among others. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nhai-to-miss-deadline-for-flyover-project/articleshow/75745467.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Goa||With coffers empty, state seeks Rs 2k cr package to boost economy||Panaji: Chief minister Pramod Sawant has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi seeking a financial package of at least Rs 2,000 crore to boost Goa’s economy. Sawant wrote that the state’s VAT collection has declined by around 80% and SGST collection has fallen by around 90%. This coupled with the blow to the tourism sector, the last driving force of the Goan economy following the closure of the mining industry, has had “a negative impact on the revenue receipts of the state leading to extreme hardships for carrying out social, economic and infrastructure developmental activities in the state”, he stated. Requesting the PM “to kindly consider our case favourably and provide the state with an assistance of a minimum of Rs 2,000 crore in order to boost the economy”, Sawant stated that the assistance will have a multiplier effect on the local economy and hopefully bring it back on track. “The state will utilise (the assistance) to invest towards various health, social, economic and infrastructure developmental measures. I am also optimistic that the current slowdown in economy will allow us to explore various other opportunities, which will help drive the economy faster,” he wrote. Mining and tourism were the two wheels that moved the Goan economy. However, mining activities came to a halt since March 2018 in the wake of a Supreme Court judgment. “Thereafter, tourism and other associated sectors became the backbone of Goan economy,” he stated in the letter. The chief minister stated that, however, due to the current pandemic, Goa has been adversely affected as tourism and the other allied sectors have come to a standstill and would require considerable time to restart. “The outstanding debt liabilities are continuously on the rise and a major portion of committed expenditure is utilised for servicing of outstanding debt. It appears difficult for us to maintain our essential revenue expenditure with the current income receipts,” he wrote. In the letter, Sawant thanked Modi for allowing the state government to utilise the District Mineral Fund (DMF) for stepping up the preparedness against Covid-19. The state will utilise Rs 170 crore collected under District Mineral Foundations (DMF) and Goa Iron Ore Permanent Fund (GIOPF) for Covid-19. He stated that necessary health infrastructure has been sufficiently created as a precautionary measure to avoid any further hardships. “We are following your directions of being over-prepared,” he wrote.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/with-coffers-empty-state-seeks-rs-2k-cr-package-to-boost-economy/articleshow/75747869.cms||Murari Shetye
May 15, 2020||Kanpur||‘Handle young athletes with care, they are future of India’||Kanpur: Volkar Hermann, the high performance director of AFI/SAI on Thursday suggested to officials and coaches to handle young and junior athletes with utmost care and meticulous planning as they were future of Indian athletics. He was addressing the participants in an online seminar on ‘The technical doping seminar- 2020’ organized by the UP Athletic Association.  CK Sathyam from Chennai and level one technical official spoke on the rules of Start in the athletic meet. Due the entry of electronic and scientific equipments, the technical officials of Start play a significant role . He corroborated his point with pictorial and video clippings. Padma Shree Anju Bobby George, who was the chief guest at the closing session, answered many questions of the participants and appealed to officials and coaches to deal with athletes like their own wards. “The athlete looks at them with hope and as a responsible citizen of our country, we must respect them for the cause of national athletics”, she said. “We officials and coaches exist because of the athletes and when they bring glory at any level, we should acknowledge it with open arms”., she further said. She congratulated the organizers for organizing this seminar. Charu Pragya, Supreme Court advocate and vice-chairperson Anti-doping discipline panel, discussed rues of World Anti-Doping Agency and National Anti-Doping Agency. PK Srivastava while proposing the vote of thanks, said d that this was the first seminar of its kind by any state association in India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/handle-young-athletes-with-care-they-are-future-of-india/articleshow/75747494.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Delhi||DU exam 2020: 2 lakh students to take exams from home||NEW DELHI: Delhi University will be holding an “open book, take home online examination” for close to 2 lakh final-year undergraduate and postgraduate students. The system has been devised for both regular and distance mode students, including those registered with School of Open Learning and Non-Collegiate Women’s Education Board. While the system is being opposed by the teachers, even students have raised concerns over not being able to write the exams because of lack of laptops and high-speed internet connections. In a notification, dean (examination) Vinay Gupta stated that the exams would begin from July 1. The detailed datesheet would be provided later. “All examinations will be conducted through three sessions in a day, including Sundays, and have a duration of two hours. In case the situation isn’t normal due to Covid-19 and maintaining social distancing, safety and health of students become difficult, the university will adopt an alternative mode of examination,” said the notification. Arrears and improvement examinations of final-year students would also be held in this manner. Students would be able to refer to books and study materials while appearing for the exams. However, there’s no clarity about the exams being conducted under the supervision of an invigilator. A senior university official said this was the only alternative left, so the working group overseeing examinations took this decision. “Under the current circumstances, it cannot be said when the university will open. We couldn’t put the process on hold for long as final-year students need to be given their results. Any delay can impact their future plans,” he added. Head of the departments have been sent a letter by the examination branch asking them to prepare question papers and submit them before June 3. Students will have to download question papers from the official website within an hour. They will have to answer a set of four questions within two hours. The answers will need to be written on plain paper, which will then have to be scanned and uploaded. The teachers preparing the papers have been directed to frame questions in a manner that will test the understanding and analytical skills of the students. There should be minimum or no scope for verbatim copying from books. The department will moderate three sets of question papers for each course of both UG and PG programmes, following which they will be uploaded on the portal. Questions have also been raised on whether the website will be able to handle such huge traffic. Earlier, when the examination registration had shifted online, students had faced technical problems. Other universities, like Jamia, have announced holding of offline examinations in July for its final-year students.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/2-lakh-du-students-will-take-exams-from-home-/articleshow/75747289.cms||Shradha Chettri
May 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana man dies of Covid-19 in Dubai||HYDERABAD: A Telangana worker died of Covid-19 in Dubai. Since the death was due to coronavirus the body was not brought to India. The cremation was carried out in an electric crematorium in Dubai on May 13. The victim’s family in Chittapur village of Mallapur mandal in Jagtial district, who were informed about the death, gave a no objection letter for the mortal remains to be cremated in Dubai. The man was employed in a brick making unit. After returning from work on May 3, he suddenly fell ill and became unconscious. He died after after he was taken to the hospital.  Later, tests revealed that he was positive for Covid-19. Kiran Peechara, president, Emirates Telangana Cultural Association and his team assisted the relatives of the deceased in Dubai to complete the formalities of getting the dead body. Meanwhile, the body of a 38-year-old Telangana worker, who died after he accidentally fell off a building in Oman, was flown to Hyderabad on May 13. With the Telangana government providing transport, the body was taken to his village Yousufnagar in Kortula mandal of Jagtial.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-man-dies-of-covid-19-in-dubai/articleshow/75746611.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
May 15, 2020||Vadodara||Covid-19 tally in Chhota Udepur goes up||VADODARA: Chhota Udepur registered four new cases of coronavirus on Thursday, which took total number of cases in the district to 21. District administration officials said of the four new cases, three persons had contracted the virus while in Mumbai. They had recently returned to their native villages of Bamroli, Valothi and Uchapan from Mumbai. The other patient is a relative of one of the patients from Dharoliya village who had tested positive on May 12. Health department had sent samples of 37 people, including that of these four patients, for testing on Wednesday . These four patients will be admitted at the special isolation ward of Dhokaliya Public Hospital in Bodeli. Since the case of Dharoliya is from within the cluster quarantine area, no new quarantine zone will be created there. However, new clusters will be created in three other villages to contain the spread of the deadly virus. The district has currently seven new active cases, including these four registered on Thursday. Three other patients registered on May 12 had also contracted the virus in Mumbai. They had returned to their native villages on May 8.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/covid-tally-in-chhota-udepur-goes-up/articleshow/75743885.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Kochi||CISF personnel at Cial get new safety hoods||Kochi: The State Bank of India on Wednesday distributed new protective headgears to the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) deployed at the Cochin International Airport Limited (Cial) to defend themselves from the pandemic while on duty. The hood covers the upper body from head to lower chest and thus reduces the chance contracting infection through contact or droplets. Around 500 pieces of these hoods were provided by SBI as part of its Corporate Social Responsibility initiatives. “CISF personnel at Cial has been procuring protective gears for its personnel through various centrally-sponsored schemes. We thought of providing them with these hoods which will help them to stay safe while imparting their duties. Each of them costs around Rs.30,” said Ramjith V S, SBI manager, Nedumbassery branch.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/cisf-personnel-at-cial-get-new-safety-hoods/articleshow/75738117.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Nashik||Fair price shopkeepers denounce attack on a shopkeeper||Nashik: The fair price shopkeepers in Nashik district denounced the assault on a fair price shopkeeper in Darhane by some of the villagers for allegedly not giving foodgrain. The incident occurred on Monday in the Darhane village, Indira Nagar of Satana taluka in Nashik district, where the villagers allegedly assaulted a woman and her son who own a fair price shop (FPS). The accused demanded foodgrain though they were not in the list of priority family. The shopkeepers in the district went on a day’s strike. The shopkeepers sported a black ribbon to express solidarity with the ones who were assaulted. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/fair-price-shopkeepers-denounce-attack-on-a-shopkeeper/articleshow/75745478.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Kanpur||Maurya: Engage migrants in construction projects||Kanpur: Deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya, who is also incharge of Kanpur, on Thursday expressed concern over the hardships being faced by the migrant labourers and asked the district officials to engage them in construction work. Maurya through video conferencing talked to the district administration officials, prominent party leaders and ministers including industry minister Satish Mahana, Kamal Rani Varun, minister of state Neelima Katiyar and Devendra Singh Bhole, MP and asked them to prepare a Whatsapp group of local public representatives and district officials in order to know about the coronavirus related activities taking place in the city. He asked the officials to arrange food and drinking water for migrant labourers who were going back to their native places. He has directed village pradhans to inform panchayat representatives and district officials to send in 14 days quarantine the labourers who were going directly to their homes. The deputy CM directed the officials to allow construction work outside red zones so that people could get employment. Industry minister Satish Mahana informed Maurya that several industries in the city have started production where labourers were getting employment. Minister of state Neelima Katiyar urged the government to strictly enforce lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/maurya-engage-migrants-in-construction-projects/articleshow/75747515.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Lucknow||In UP, pay Rs 100 fine if caught without mask||LUCKNOW: Be ready to pay a fine of Rs 100 if you are caught without a face mask or cover next time. The government has introduced spot fines for failure to cover one’s face in an attempt to ensure strict compliance with the rule. Additional chief secretary, home, Awanish Awasthi on Thursday said that instead of issuing challans, which could take several days to see result, the CM had recommended spot fines where a person would be fined there and then. “District administration and police have been directed to take action where necessary and carry out a drive to reinforce this rule. The state is appealing to every single person to ensure that they cover their face when stepping out and practice social distancing to ensure that they keep themselves safe from Covid-19,” Awasthi said. As there is a huge demand for face masks, the CM has said that women and self-help groups should be encouraged to make masks and scarves. This will also provide employment along with ensuring a steady supply of face masks. The CM has also said that all districts should ensure that they have a sufficient number of thermal scanners and ultra-red thermometers, especially with several lakh persons coming into the state regularly. With industries also starting, more people were being expected to be out in public places and the administration should ensure availability of thermal scanners at public places like offices and markets. The CM has also said that testing should be increased in the state. From a little more than 3,000 tests daily in the beginning, the current number of tests being carried out each day is about 5,000-6,000. This, the CM has said, should be increased to 10,000 tests a day. For incoming migrant workers, pool testing should be carried out. A drive will also be carried out to identify those who have not received ration and in case they do not have ration cards, the government should ensure that they are provided with fresh cards.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/in-up-pay-rs-100-fine-if-caught-without-mask/articleshow/75747874.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Delhi||Delhi University exams from home: Plan gets a thumbs down from many quarters||NEW DELHI: Naseem Bhatt (name changed), a final-year student at Delhi University, returned to his home in Baramulla, Kashmir when the lockdown was announced in March. The science student has been unable to access a stable internet connection and even sending an email takes him about 20 minutes. For many like him, giving an online open book exam is not just difficult, but almost impossible. Prerna Barooah, a St Stephen’s college student from Jorhat in Assam, said feedback from students was never taken for holding such exams. “Most of us don’t have a printer or scanner at home with which we can print question papers and scan answersheets to upload on the DU website,” added the history (hons) student. Many students have called DU’s decision “discriminatory” and pointed out that this methodology is problematic for all those without access to internet and electronic devices. “In rural areas, internet connectivity is unstable and there are hardly any cyber cafes. Moreover, the electricity supply is erratic and available for hardly 3-4 hours a day,” said Abhishek, a second-year masters student from Churari village in Bundelkhand, Madhya Pradesh. A final-year student at Ramjas College, Jaishree Kumar, said, “Many students do not have laptops. Those who aren’t in Delhi may not have proper resources to appear for the exam.” Many students’ groups have condemned the varsity’s decision and asked the administration to take back the notification. A Twitter hashtag #DUAgainstOnlineExams was started by Left-oriented student groups on Thursday against “the blatant ploy of the administration to conduct discriminatory online exams.” In a recent survey, AISA found out that 74% of students would have difficulty in appearing for an online exam and 68% didn’t have adequate technology for it. Even teachers are opposed to the exam pattern claiming that DU’s pedagogy and system are not structured for open book examinations. Delhi University Teachers’ Association wrote to vice-chancellor Yogesh Tyagi saying the decision was taken without adhering to the statutory processes. The 15-member working group that gave the idea was also criticised by them. “The university is giving piecemeal instructions instead of outlining a complete comprehensive proposal with suitable modifications to the academic calendar. This has added to uncertainties faced by teachers and students who believe that online exams are discriminatory,” DUTA said in a statement. DUTA also pointed towards problems in the online mode. On April 20, when DU started registrations, the portal crashed causing concern among students. Questioning the idea of the open book examinations, NDTF member AK Bhagi said, “Open book examinations allow you to take notes, texts or resource materials, which makes it clear that it is beneficial to those who have access to experts or tutors.” Executive Council members Rajesh Jha and JL Gupta raised the question about how DU would check impersonation and violations of statutory provisions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/-but-plan-gets-a-thumbs-down-from-many-quarters/articleshow/75747298.cms||Mohammad Ibrar
May 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Siren would have helped people escape after styrene leak, says experts||HYDERABAD: In a report on the Visakhapatnam styrene leak, two Hyderabad-based scientists have faulted all stakeholders for the failure in saving lives. The report suggests that if a siren had been sounded in time, people at a distance of 0.5-1 km (in the red zone) would have had 30-40 minutes to escape, enough to prevent loss of life. The spread of the vapour was to an extent of 6.3km. Peak concentration could have been as high as 3,12,000 parts per million (ppm) within 0.1 km of the tank. For Styrene monomer vapour concentrations of >1,100 ppm, exposure for up to 60 minutes can cause death. The report has been penned by Sagar Dhara, environmental scientist and former member of AP Pollution Control Board’s committee on Consent for Operations, as well as K Babu Rao, former chief scientist, Indian Institute of Chemical Technology. The report “Preliminary modelling of the vapour release from LG Polymers, Visakhapatnam on 7 May 2020” maps the vapour spread. The radii of the various vulnerable zones computed are: yellow zone 6.3 km from the source, orange zone 2.6 km, red zone 1 km. It states: “If a siren had been sounded five minutes after temperature had risen to 65 degrees C, persons staying in orange and yellow zones had 45-70 minutes and 80-170 minutes, respectively, to evacuate. Persons in red zone between 0.5-1 km had between 30-40 minutes. Only persons in the red zone, who lived within 0.5 km, would have had 18-27 minutes.” Authors note that the study was done under constraints of not having all necessary source data. Dhara said, “30 minutes is adequate time for evacuation, yet this was not done until much later. As per the Hazards Chemicals Rules, if information regarding the risk that LG Polymers posed to population been given to them, had they been trained in emergency evacuation and siren been sounded in time deaths may have been avoided. The responsibility for making the plant comply with rules was that of AP Pollution Control Board.” He said the Greater Vizag Municipal Corporation was to be blamed for allowing houses to come up in close proximity of the plant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/siren-would-have-helped-people-escape-after-styrene-leak-experts/articleshow/75746626.cms||Uttara Varma
May 15, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: As migrants take train home, many swear never to return||NEW DELHI: “I may never return. The lockdown has taught me many things. I will earn less, but stay with my family,” said Baiyana Das with folded hands. The sexagenarian, who was a labourer in Jeevan Park, was overjoyed to board a train to Bhagalpur on Thursday. Like Das, there were many others who were in a fix whether to return to Delhi and said they would review their decision once the lockdown was over. By 1.30pm, buses started to arrive at Anand Vihar Railway Terminal from various districts. The hustle and bustle outside continued till 3.45pm despite the train to Bhagalpur slated to leave at 4pm. Police and railway officials would stop the bus, note down the details of its origin and the number of passengers before letting it enter the station premises. To curb the anxiety of the migrants, officials assured them that they would be allowed to board the train, which finally left at 5.35pm with 1,498 passengers. Another train to Muzaffarpur departed two hours later. Dilmohan, his wife and children were elated on being able to return to their hometown. “I came to Delhi in July. I will return if the situation changes or improves,” he said. However, Amar, who was a labourer in Samaypur Badli, said, “We had nothing to eat or a suitable place to stay. I was among 200 others who had come from Bihar to earn a living, but now we don’t wish to return. No one thought about us when the lockdown was announced.” Another labourer from outer Delhi, Chandan Das, said even he may not return as he had seen the worst in the past two months. “With no money and food and the landlord hounding us for rent, it’s better to stay away,” he added. Pawan Kumar Pandey, who worked at a light-making factory in Kapashera, said he had come to Delhi from Munger 15 years ago. “I have never seen such a situation where I’m dying for food and essentials,” he added. Close to 6,000 stranded migrants were sent off on five Shramik Special trains on Thursday. Northern Railway used Anand Vihar for the first time running two trains to Bihar. Three others heading to Karnataka, J&K and Bihar were run from Old Delhi. Delhi government has drafted a plan through which in intends to run 40 trains up to May 17 to send the migrants. A senior railway official said permission was being taken daily from the state to create the schedule for the next day. On Friday, 11 Shramik Special trains are scheduled to run. These include two trains to Uttar Pradesh, the first ones for the state, two for Madhya Pradesh, the first train to Kerala and six trains to Bihar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/as-migrants-take-train-home-many-swear-never-to-return/articleshow/75747304.cms||Sakshi Chand
May 15, 2020||Kanpur||Kanpur gets 2 new hotspots, 6 converted into green zones||KANPUR: The district administration on Thursday converted six hotspot areas into green zones and created two new hotspots following detection of positive cases in two areas of Nawabganj and Pheelkhana. The city, which earlier had 19 hotspots, at present has a total 15 hotspots. Police have sealed the new hotpot areas and told the residents about the precautions to be taken by them. A few weeks ago, there were 34 hotspots in the city but after the government’s new guidelines, seven of them have been changed into green zones. The district administration at a review meeting held on Wednesday under the chairmanship of district magistrate Brahmadeo Ram Tiwari gave its nod to convert the six hot spots into green zones. DIG/SSP Anant Deo said that after discussing status of all hotspots in the meeting, it was decided to convert them into green zones since no new case has been reported from there. The six hotspots which have been converted into green zones are Macharia Naubasta (Khair Masjid and Madarsa Hidyatullah were epicentres), Kidwai nagar Chandra Ganga Apartment), Kalyanpur (Roshan Nagar and Shiv Nagar), Gwaltoli (Machali wala Ahata), Asharfabad, Jajmau Asharfabad madrassa),Collectorganj . The fifteen hotspots of the city are Kotwali ( Epicentre- Police Lines), Beconganj (epi centre-Talaq Mahal), Shiv Kata (epi centre- housing society), Quli Bazar /Anwarganj- (epi centre –Haji Inayat Ali Masjid, Sheikh Lallan Masjid, Ahatey wali Masjid, Chatayi Ram ka Akhara) Bajaria (epicenter- Shaukat Ali Park and Manna Purwa), Colonelganj ( epi centre-- Humayun Masjid e and Tikonia Park), Begumpurwa/Babupurwa ( epi centreLalkuan and area near NLC police outpost), Meerpur ( epicentre- Rassi wali Masjid, , Jajmau police outspot (epicentre- area in front of Jajmau police outpost), Medical college-(epi centre—Boys’ hostel No-3 and GSVM medical college), Juhi--(epicentre- Parampurwa), Maharajpur (epicentre-- Karbi village), Nawabganj (epicentre – Surya Vihar Colony), Pheelkhana( epicentre- Pheelkhana), Chamanganj (epicentre-- Prem Nagar).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/city-gets-2-new-hotspots-6-converted-into-green-zones/articleshow/75747531.cms||Anant Shekher Misra
May 15, 2020||Nashik||36 policemen win battle against coronavirus||Nashik: As many as 36 policemen, who recovered from Covid-19 and discharged from hospital in the presence of health minister Rajesh Tope on Wednesday night, received grand welcome by the senior police and administration officials. “We have got our warriors back after a brief interval. When you are heading a force, there is nothing better to see the men in uniform winning the battle against the infection and raring to perform their duty again," Arti Singh, superintendent of police (Nashik rural), said. The policemen were welcomed by the police band playing ‘Hum Honge Qamayab’ featuring the spirit of the forces fighting against Covid-19. All 36 policemen were infected when they were on duty in Malegaon that has emerged as a hotspot for Covid-19 cases."There was some sort of panic in the force after initial reports of policemen contracting the disease started coming in. But we quickly took over and ensured that they remain mentally strong. The release of the warriors after recovery is acting as a morale booster for the force," Singh said.There are 123 policemen who have contracted the disease and of these 36 were discharged on Wednesday and 11 on Thursday. "Of the total patients 85% are asymptomatic in nature owing to which we will have most of the personnel out of the hospital soon. The rest have moderate symptoms which means they will have to stay at least 10 days under observation. None of the patients are serious," the officer said.Being a medico herself, the SP has distributed personal protection equipment (PPE) kits and shoe wraps for the personnel at the hospitals.The officer has also asked the personnel to stay away from their family members for some time and that when they go home they should follow cleanliness practise like hand sanitising, washing of shoes by sodium hypochloride and washing of clothes to ensure they cut down the chances of infecting others.The officer has issued a list of do’s and don’ts to the police staff so that they remain uninfected from the virus as far as possible.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/36-policemen-win-battle-against-coronavirus/articleshow/75745535.cms||Abhilash Botekar
May 15, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Miracle of a second birth for migrant walker||NEW DELHI: On Wednesday, this 20-year-old from Assam had no hopes left of ever reaching home. Will I ever meet my mother again, only a miracle will save me, he had mumbled. On Thursday, Santosh Bora’s miracle materialised. Help poured in from several quarters, all moved by TOI’s story about the migrant worker’s plight. For two months, he had lived a nightmare after losing his factory job in Amritsar. When he dared to walk over two thousand kilometres to Guwahati, he lost his companions to hunger on the way. Someone stole all his belongings, his small bundle of money, of course, but also his identity documents and his mobile phone. The pavement at New Delhi Railway Station where he fell asleep on Wednesday became the location of a wondrous change of fortunes for the slightly built youth. He was woken up at 3.30am by the weeping of another migrant lying alongside. As the sun rose, he was again filled with despondency, presuming he would have to spend another futile day pleading with people to buy him a ticket to Guwahati. Suddenly, he heard two men asking in a loud voice, “Axomor pora kunuba ase neki (Is there anyone here from Assam)?” He sat up straight. As did Raja Dolua, a state mate in similarly dire straits. The men were officials of Assam Bhawan, deputed to locate the youth by chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal, who had read TOI’s story. Since there were no means of contacting Bora after he lost his mobile phone, the officials had hunted for him among the crowd at New Delhi Railway Station shouting out their query in the Assamese language. An hour later, Bora and Dolua found themselves in an air-conditioned room with comfortable beds and, best of all, food that tasted like home. When TOI met Bora on Thursday afternoon, he could barely hold back his tears of joy, unwilling to believe what was happening. “My hope that someone would help me had all but disappeared,” the young man said. “I have been reborn. The happiest thought is that I will now be with my family in Guwahati, to be with whom I was ready to walk from Amritsar.” Sonowal himself called TOI to say, “Our team took swift action and the boys were rescued in time. They will now be fully cared for.” Hundreds had offered help to Bora, but neither he nor Dolua had a bank account. The railway ministry too was keen to take Bora home. At Assam Bhawan, the two beleaguered workers took a shower and were then taken to Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital to be tested for Covid-19. The report will come in the next three days. The boys then had their first proper meal in almost two months. When TOI first met the factory hand on Wednesday afternoon outside the station, Bora — and the similarly affected Dolua — had been surviving all these days on water and a chapati or two occasionally given to them by sympathetic people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/miracle-of-a-second-birth-for-migrant-walker/articleshow/75747903.cms||Pankhuri Yadav
May 15, 2020||Kanpur||IIT-K, ALIMCO’s disinfectant tunnel to help fight Covid-19||Kanpur: In a move towards effective sanitization amid the Covid-19 pandemic, IIT Kanpur’s Technopark and Artificial Limbs Manufacturing Corporation of India (ALIMCO) have jointly developed an advanced disinfectant tunnel to sanitize external surfaces and public places. Technopark professor in charge Avinash Kumar Agarwal said, “The tunnel, which is designed by IIT-K students and developed by ALIMCO, is a unique one as it boasts of three levels of treatment. The fully automated tunnel fitted with ultrasonic sensors has two chambers with three disinfection processes making it far more efficient than other solutions presently available in neutralising the virus.” “The sensors are able to sense whether the person is at the entry point of the tunnel or inside the chamber,” informed professor Agarwal. “In chamber one, the person is sprayed with a solution of a disinfectant. In chamber two, they are exposed to a temperature of 70°C and far UVC rays (207-222 nm),” he explained. ALIMCO general manager,Lt Col PK Dube, said, “We are happy we could develop this tunnel in a stipulated period of time. The high quality disinfectant tunnel can be used for can be used by industries, academic institutions and other public places.” “As soon as the efficacy test is done, we will be able to start the production from our factories spread across the country within 15 days,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/iit-k-alimcos-disinfectant-tunnel-to-help-fight-covid-19/articleshow/75747500.cms||Abhinav Malhotra
May 15, 2020||Kochi||Accidents in Kochi during lockdown raise safety concerns||KOCHI: With six people being killed in accidents reported from the district soon after lockdown restrictions were eased, experts say that this transition period is a dangerous time for commuters and they have to be extra cautious while driving. About a week ago, in an accident reported from near Muttom at Aluva, three people who were standing by the road, including a girl, were killed when a car went out of control and rammed into them. A day before this incident, three persons were killed as their car rammed a house by the road. The impact was so much so that a couple of guest workers who were having dinner inside the house sustained injuries. Several minor accidents, where vehicle carrying commodities overturned, were also reported from rural areas of the district during this period. According to road safety expert P D Sunil Babu, most accidents at this transition period, when there is no public transport and fewer vehicles altogether, can be associated only with human error. “This is not a time when damaged roads or adverse weather becomes an issue. At this time, we can easily avoid an accident by being careful as there is very little chaos on the roads as compared to the usual situation. Many are not showing that carefulness and this is causing accidents,” said Babu. He said that roads, especially highways, would have less traffic at this time and people tend to drive rashly. “Road safety is a very serious matter and you can’t drive without focus. Seeing the road empty, many would tend to speed. Those who speed might be careful, but there would be people driving carefree since the road is vacant and when the two meet, an accident is bound to happen,” said Babu. A senior police officer with Ernakulam rural police meanwhile said that there are still people who drink and drive. “It is a fact that there is a ban on liquor sale, but many are finding liquor to party since they are stuck at home. Going out after having such a party and then driving through the road with less traffic would mean that there is a high chance of people speeding and later causing an accident,” said the police officer. Babu added that not only the drivers but pedestrians and those who go out for jogging and morning walk should also stay careful. “Pedestrians shouldn’t drop their guard thinking that there is far less traffic. Let’s be careful not only to contain the virus but also to safeguard ourselves from road accidents,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/accidents-during-lockdown-raise-safety-concerns/articleshow/75744264.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Guwahati||Delhi: Miracle of a second birth for migrant walker||NEW DELHI: On Wednesday, this 20-year-old from Assam had no hopes left of ever reaching home. Will I ever meet my mother again, only a miracle will save me, he had mumbled. On Thursday, Santosh Bora’s miracle materialised. Help poured in from several quarters, all moved by TOI’s story about the migrant worker’s plight. For two months, he had lived a nightmare after losing his factory job in Amritsar. When he dared to walk over two thousand kilometres to Guwahati, he lost his companions to hunger on the way. Someone stole all his belongings, his small bundle of money, of course, but also his identity documents and his mobile phone. The pavement at New Delhi Railway Station where he fell asleep on Wednesday became the location of a wondrous change of fortunes for the slightly built youth. He was woken up at 3.30am by the weeping of another migrant lying alongside. As the sun rose, he was again filled with despondency, presuming he would have to spend another futile day pleading with people to buy him a ticket to Guwahati. Suddenly, he heard two men asking in a loud voice, “Axomor pora kunuba ase neki (Is there anyone here from Assam)?” He sat up straight. As did Raja Dolua, a state mate in similarly dire straits. The men were officials of Assam Bhawan, deputed to locate the youth by chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal, who had read TOI’s story. Since there were no means of contacting Bora after he lost his mobile phone, the officials had hunted for him among the crowd at New Delhi Railway Station shouting out their query in the Assamese language. An hour later, Bora and Dolua found themselves in an air-conditioned room with comfortable beds and, best of all, food that tasted like home. When TOI met Bora on Thursday afternoon, he could barely hold back his tears of joy, unwilling to believe what was happening. “My hope that someone would help me had all but disappeared,” the young man said. “I have been reborn. The happiest thought is that I will now be with my family in Guwahati, to be with whom I was ready to walk from Amritsar.” Sonowal himself called TOI to say, “Our team took swift action and the boys were rescued in time. They will now be fully cared for.” Hundreds had offered help to Bora, but neither he nor Dolua had a bank account. The railway ministry too was keen to take Bora home. At Assam Bhawan, the two beleaguered workers took a shower and were then taken to Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital to be tested for Covid-19. The report will come in the next three days. The boys then had their first proper meal in almost two months. When TOI first met the factory hand on Wednesday afternoon outside the station, Bora — and the similarly affected Dolua — had been surviving all these days on water and a chapati or two occasionally given to them by sympathetic people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/guwahati/miracle-of-a-second-birth-for-migrant-walker/articleshow/75755559.cms||Pankhuri Yadav
May 15, 2020||Kochi||Jeddah flight reaches Kochi with 152 passengers||Kochi: An evacuation flight from Saudi Arabia landed in Kochi at 10:00pm on Thursday with 152 passengers. The Air India flight (AI -964) from Jeddah was scheduled to land at Cochin International Airport Limited (Cial) around 9:00pm but was delayed. Of the 152 passengers, three are infants. It is the last flight to Kochi as part of the phase one of Vande Bharat Mission. Also, it is the second evacuation flight from Saudi Arabia after the one that reached from Dammam on Tuesday with 174 passengers. At the time of going to press, the passengers were alighting from the flight. They will undergo the mandatory health check at the terminal and symptomatic people will be shifted to the isolation ward of Ernakulam Medical College. The health officials have strengthened the checking considering the increasing number of Covid-19 cases among the passengers arriving from foreign countries. In the first phase of Vande Bharat Mission, there were nine evacuations flights that reached Kochi from various countries in the Gulf and South East Asia. Out of these nine flights seven were operated by Air India Express and two were operated by Air India. The countries from which the flight services operated include Malaysia, Singapore, Kuala Lumpur, Bahrain, Kuwait, Abu Dhabi, Dubai, Oman and Qatar. Nearly 1,500 people have reached Kerala in these flights, mostly from the Gulf. In phase two, which is set to begin from Saturday, more flights are expected to operate from Kochi to various other countries too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/jeddah-flight-reaches-kochi-with-152-passengers/articleshow/75745553.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Kochi||PFA activist gets notice for taking care of animals||Kochi: Thrikkakara municipality has issued notice to People for Animals (PFA) activist Sachitra Soman for giving shelter to sick and wounded dogs and cats in her rented home at Edapally. Soman said that the animals were wounded and needed care till they get better. The notice was issued after her neighbours complained that she has been keeping many dogs and pets at her home without proper licence. “I don’t run any shelter home for animals. When I rescue animals from different places, I bring them here and provide them proper treatment. Then I release them back to the streetsSome of them come back while others go away. There are about 11 dogs, most of them with broken legs, skin rashes, etc. They are being given medical attention,” said Soman, who along with other PFA activists, have been feeding the strays in the city during lockdown. The local body’s notice said that there are chances of disease spread from these animals and hence they will all have to be put in cages. Also she has been asked to take a licence from the municipality for ‘breeding’ dogs. Arrangements have to be made for disposal of the animal faeces. The local body said that she would have to pay compensation for the damage caused by her action of ‘breeding’ animals in a residential area. Soman said that she will meet the municipal secretary and will ask the local body to take care of the sick animals as she can’t meet the cost of making separate cages for the animals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/pfa-activist-gets-notice-for-taking-care-of-animals/articleshow/75738181.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Bhopal||Covid-19 testing in Madhya Pradesh leaps from 400 to 3,800/day||BHOPAL: From next week, All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) Bhopal will double its Covid-19 testing capacity to 1,000 tests per day. Additional automated extraction machines and other setup is being installed, said AIIMS Bhopal director, Dr Sarman Singh.  In less than a month, testing facility in MP has increased from 400 to 3800 Covid-19 tests per day. There are now 17 labs conducting Covid-19 tests, said commissioner, directorate of medical education (DME), Nishant Warwade. “Guidelines for using pooled samples for molecular testing of Covid-19 are awaited. It would be useful for surveillance in low endemic areas. Targeted testing and surveillance is the focus now,” said Dr Singh. A pooled testing algorithm involves the PCR screening of a specimen pool comprising multiple individual patient specimens, followed by individual testing (pool deconvolution) only if a pool screens positive. As all individual samples in a negative pool are regarded as negative, it results in substantial cost savings when a large proportion of pools tests negative. Preferable number of samples to be pooled is five, though more than two samples can be pooled, but considering higher possibility of missing positive samples with low viral load, it is strongly discouraged to pool more than five samples, except in research mode.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/covid-testing-in-mp-leaps-from-400-to-3800/day/articleshow/75747452.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Students in Kazakh seek flight to Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: With five flights to Jaipur, Rajasthan, one to Gaya, Bihar and one to Lucknow in UP being announced for second phase of evacuation of Indians from Kazakhstan, Indian nationals from other states stranded there are protesting the decision. “How will students from South India fly back home? There should be a flight to Hyderabad as there are 150 Indians stuck here,” said Akhil Billa, a student. The student said it was ‘totally unfair’ to operate flights only to Rajasthan. He urged the ambassador of India to Kazakhstan Prabhat Kumar and union civil aviation minister Hardeep Suri that they be put on the Rajasthan flights at least and from there, they would travel to Hyderabad. The students also put up a video on Youtube urging Telangana IT minister K T Rama Rao and AP CM Y S Jaganmohan Reddy to help the 150 medical students stuck in Almaty return home. In addition, two students from Jharkhand are also stuck in Kazakhstan for the last 60 days. “They require immediate assistance,” MLA of Chandankiyari and a former minister of Jharkhand Amar Kumar Bauri said in a tweet to union external affairs minister S Jaishankar. The flights announced are from Almaty to Jaipur, three flights from Karaganda to Jaipur, Nur-sultan to Jaipur, Nur-sultan to Gaya and Nur-sultan to Lucknow. The evacuation will take place from May 16 to May 22.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/students-in-kazakh-seek-flight-to-hyd/articleshow/75746689.cms||SUSHIL RAO
May 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Divide OPD, Covid-19 wing at PHCs: Telangana minister||HYDERABAD: Telangana health minister Eatala Rajender on Thursday said the outpatient department (OPD) at primary health centres (PHCs) should be separated from the wing which caters to those who exhibit Covid-19 symptoms. Addressing Asha workers and ANMs in a video conference, he said all those migrants who are coming to the villages should be identified and checked before keeping them in home quarantine. He said transportation would be provided to health workers at the ground level if they have problems in reaching the PHCs. Advising the staff to focus on seasonal diseases that can spread in the coming months, he said a house-to-house survey would be done to check for symptoms of fever among villagers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/min-divide-opd-covid-19-wing-at-phcs/articleshow/75746670.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Hyderabad||TRS rebuts charges on Pothireddypadu||HYDERABAD: Refuting charges made by the opposition on the Pothireddypadu water row, leaders from the erstwhile Mahbubnagar district on Thursday said it was TRS which fought against the Congress government in united AP when water was being diverted to Rayalaseema from Pothireddypadu. Addressing a press conference, minister V Srinivas Goud, MLAs C Laxma Reddy and Anjaiah Yadav dismissed the allegations that both Telangana CM K Chandrasekhar Rao and AP CM YS Jaganmohan Reddy have a secret agreement on the proposed irrigation project. The leaders said KCR had never compromised on the interests of the Telangana. “Leaders of Congress and BJP should meet the PM and get national project status for Palamuru-Rangareddy lift irrigation project,” Goud said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/trs-rebuts-charges-on-pothireddypadu/articleshow/75746704.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Kochi||Agropark opens free NRI incubator||Kochi: The Kerala Agropark at Piravom has set up a trial facility and incubation centre for NRIs returning to Kerala and looking to set up small agri-food businesses. This is intended to help NRIs returning without any hope of getting an immediate job back in the Gulf. “Our incubator supports small MSMEs and is ideal for people who are looking for immediate livelihood options,” said Kerala Agropark chairman Baiju Nedumkeriyil. The Agropark is a business incubation centre established to encourage small entrepreneurs venturing into the manufacturing of value-added products. It supports businesses from various domains like agriculture, food processing, dairy, poultry, fish processing, khadi, handloom, etc. Entrepreneurial development and enhancing employment opportunities in the rural sector is the main mandate of the Agropark. Baiju said that the NRI incubation cell has been made more efficient and will work as a single-window clearance for getting all the necessary documentation. The cell will help in all documentation processes and acquiring of licence, information on taxes and also help in identifying potential financial investment with less interests. “A good number of Gulf returnees appear to have lost their jobs or are in deep financial crisis. So they won’t have much to invest. We are hoping to reach out to such persons who would be looking at small ventures,” he said. The Agropark has got machinery worth Rs 85 lakh for the food processing MSME. A person interested in starting a small venture has to ensure availability of raw material and packaging. There are about 140 small businesses making products, including soaps; food condiments like powders, juices and jams; steel scrubs; products made of cotton waste, insulation tapes, copper wire separation units, battery water, hydroponic system, naphthalene balls, etc. Apart from the documentation, the entrepreneur can even get a few support staff for making the products at the facility. “In a couple of months, they will know if their venture is successful and then they can move to their own places. We will be able to support them for the first year, free of cost,” he said. He said details can be found on https://keralaagropark.com.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/agropark-opens-free-nri-incubator/articleshow/75744337.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Delhi||Treat poor for free or face action, Delhi private hospitals told||NEW DELHI: Following complaints that some private hospitals were denying free treatment to the economically weaker section (EWS) people and asking them to pay for Covid-19 tests and personal protection equipment kits, Delhi government on Thursday warned them of strict action. The directorate general of health services (DGHS) also said that treatment to the EWS category patients should not be refused even if the validity of their income certificate or undertaking forwarded by EWS Branch had expired. The DGHS in an order on Thursday said that it had received complaints against private hospitals, including the ones designated for providing healthcare to Covid-19 positive patients, that they were not following the guidelines laid down for providing free treatment to the poor. The DGHS said that if an eligible patient of EWS category was denied indoor treatment by the hospital authorities despite the treating/referring doctor advising for admission and the hospital having the vacant bed, action would be taken. “...some identified private hospitals are compelling EWS patients to pay for either Covid-19 test or PPE kit or both which is in contravention of the directions of the apex court. Further, it has also been observed that identified private hospitals which have been declared as designated Covid-19 hospital are not providing free treatment to Covid-19 positive/suspected patients of eligible category in the quantum prescribed by the high court,” read the order issued. Citing complaints from EWS patients, the DGHS directed the designated private hospitals to ensure that the patients didn’t have to pay the expenses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/treat-poor-for-free-or-face-action-private-hospitals-told/articleshow/75747341.cms||Atul Mathur
May 15, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad sees 62 new cases, total count at 749 now||AURANGABAD: A total of 62 swab samples tested positive in Aurangabad district, including 61 from the city, in the last 24 hours ending on Thursday morning, taking the count to 749 in the district so far. On the brighter side, 205 of the 749 patients have recovered and were discharged while the remaining patients are being treated at the GMCH, district civil hospital, private hospitals and AMC’s covid care centers. A patient from Garkheda succumbed to the contagion at the GMCH here on Thursday, taking the toll to 20 in the district, said officials. The latest victim, a 55-year-old woman from Hussain Colony, had been admitted to the GMCH’s intensive care unit after being referred from MGM on May 12. She died at 5.20am on Thursday. “Bilateral pneumonia with acute respiratory distress syndrome due to Covid-19, along with hypertension, was the cause of her death,” GMCH dean Kanan Yelikar told TOI. Meanwhile, seven Covid-19 patients were discharged from AMC’s covid care centres at Qile Ark and MGM Sports Complex on Thursday. They included three from Jai Bhim Nagar, two from Town Hall and one each from Bhimnagar and Sanjay Nagar. Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) administrator Astik Kumar Pandey assigned officials to ensure that those under home quarantine are following the rules. Incidentally, the high-risk and low-risk contacts of positive patients are required to be under mandatory 14-day quarantine. Earlier, the AMC was bringing all such contacts to its facilities for institutional quarantine. However, following complaints about the upkeep of facilities and in view of resistance by people, it was decided that such people would not be brought to the quarantine centres but home quarantined. The AMC on Thursday assigned two civic employees each for 50 localities in city to ensure that people follow the home quarantine rule, wear masks, maintain social distancing. The civic staffers visit such people twice a day. According to data available with the district administration, only one person from outside Aurangabad municipal limits, that is Bajajnagar in Waluj, tested positive on Thursday while the remaining are from the city. Fifteen cases were detected in Bhimnagar, Padegaon (one), Osmanpura (seven), Silk Mill Colony, Kanchanwadi and Naralibaug one each. Two patients who tested posive are from RTO, one each from Garam Pani, Bansilal Nagar and Dutt Nagar, eight from Satara and two from Hussain Colony. The remaining are from Nyay Nagar (two), Pundalik Nagar (two), Sanjay Nagar-Mukundwadi (four) while one each from Guru Nagar, Nandanwan Colony, Garkheda, Shahnoorwadi, GMCH, Beghumpura, Alok Nagar, Satara Parisar, Kiradpura, Bari Colony, Roshan Gate, Asefiya Colony, Kat Kat Gate and Indira Nagar-Baijipura. The patients have tested positive on Thursday included 34 men and 28 women, the district administration informed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/aurangabad-sees-62-new-cases-total-count-at-749-now/articleshow/75745575.cms||Arpita Sharad
May 15, 2020||Vadodara||Woman cop ends life in Savli||VADODARA: A woman constable of Savli police station ended her life in Savli town of Vadodara district in the wee hours of Thursday. Shilpa Darbar (22) hanged herself from a ceiling hook in her rented house. She was found dead by her neighbours. Police officials said Darbar’s landlord informed them about the incident. Darbar, who has been working at Savli police station for two years, was living alone in Savli. She is a native of Mehsana. Police sources said when Darbar returned home on Wednesday night, she was perfectly fine. “The reason behind suicide is not yet known. She had not revealed to any of her colleagues about any stress,” said assistant superintendent of Vadodara rural police Ravindra Patel. Darbar’s postmortem was conducted at community health centre and a case of accidental death registered at Savli police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/woman-cop-ends-life-in-savli/articleshow/75743900.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Aurangabad||Home treatment for Covid-19 patients in exceptional cases||AURANGABAD: According to the guidelines of Government of India’s ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW), very mild or pre-symptomatic Covid-19 patients can be placed in home isolation for 17 days and can discontinue home isolation without needing to undergo test again. However, only those with requisite facility at home can be considered for home isolation. Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) municipal officer of health Nita Padalkar said that as of now, Aurangabad has adequate facilities for Covid-19 patients, but in exceptional cases, home isolation can be allowed after assessment. Currently, the health authorities have started following a protocol issued by the state government under which Covid-19 cases are discharged after 10 days of institutional isolation without another test if they are asymptomatic. The number of Covid-19 cases in Aurangabad crossed 750 on Thursday. Of these, close to 500 are under treatment at the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), district civil hospital, private hospitals and at AMC’s Covid Care Centers. However, if cases continue to rise steadily, these facilities will become inadequate. In such cases, the authorities may consider home isolation. However, the district administration has said that the facilities are sufficiently equipped for Covid-19 cases as of now. According to guidelines for home isolation by MoHFW, a caregiver should be available to provide care on 24*7 basis and should be in constant touch with the hospital. The caregiver and all close contacts should be given hydroxychloroquine prophylaxis as per protocol and the patient should give an written undertaking agreeing to the conditions of home isolation. The guidelines also state that if the patient develops any Covid-19 symptoms, immediate medical attention should be sought.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/home-treatment-for-covid-19-patients-in-exceptional-cases/articleshow/75745590.cms||Arpita Sharad
May 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Andhra Pradesh: Nuzvid mango cultivators tasting the bitter fruits of lockdown||HYDERABAD: Mango farmers from the famous Nuzvid area of Andhra Pradesh are one of the worst-hit due to the Covid-19 lockdown. Although transport restrictions have eased, mango farmers failed to make profits as most of the fruit markets are closed. “I spent a lot of money to protect the crop from pests during the flowering season. Usually, we spray pesticides twice, but this year, we had to spray it four times,” said M Rajasekhar Reddy, a mango farmer who owns an eight-acre orchard in Jangamgudem of Nuzvid. The farmer said that he normally earns around Rs 25,000 per tonne of mangoes, but due to the lockdown, he made only Rs 10,000 per tonne so far this season. Further, this season has seen no supply activity due to the absence of workforce in the orchards. “Export market has also been affected,” Reddy said. Another cause for worry is that the farmers are afraid to travel to other states due to the spread of coronavirus. “Recently, a few farmers who had gone to Chennai to sell mangoes for a better price contracted coronavirus infection. So farmers here in Nuzvid are afraid to travel to markets in other metro cities,” he said. Further, the closure of Gaddi Annaram market in Hyderabad, one of the biggest fruit markets in the two Telugu states, has also impacted Nuzvid farmers. Mango is widely grown in Reddygudem, Visannapet, Musunur, Chatrai, Agiripalli and G Konduru mandals around Nuzvid in Krishna district. A Kotaiah, another farmer from Ramanakkapet near Nuzvid, said, “Supply of mangoes to markets in Mumbai, Gujarat, Delhi and other north Indian cities has come down. Local juice factories are buying Rs 7 per kg. This is a huge loss. Lockdown has impacted us badly.” Unseasonal rains have also impacted mango production. Farmers said that though the railway authorities are helping them supply mangoes to consumers and markets, they are unable to get a reasonable price for their produce and are instead ending up paying transport charges. Mango is widely grown in Reddygudem, Visannapet, Musunur, Chatrai, Agiripalli and G Konduru mandals around Nuzvid in Krishna district of Andhra Pradesh||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/nuzvid-mango-cultivators-tasting-the-bitter-fruits-of-lockdown/articleshow/75746729.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
May 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Water row: Congress to approach Centre||HYDERABAD: Telangana Congress Pradesh Committee (TPCC) on Thursday said the Krishna River Management Board (KRMB) should stop Andhra Pradesh from utilising an additional 8 tmc of water from Srisailam by upgrading canal systems from Pothyreddypadu head regulator. The party said it would take up the issue with Union jal shakti minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat. “If Andhra Pradesh government succeeds in drawing an additional 8 tmc daily in addition to the present drawing of Krishna water from the foreshore of Srisailam reservoir, lakhs of farmers in southern Telangana region will be adversely affected,” the party said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/water-row-cong-to-approach-centre/articleshow/75746714.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Aurangabad||Migrant workers walking past check posts skip police’s notice||AURANGABAD: Police personnel deployed at different check posts in Beed district are not taking any efforts to relieve the thousands of migrant workers who are walking on foot to reach their native villages. Beed superintendent of police (SP) Harrsh Poddar had directed the personnel to see to it that the migrant workers walking on foot be accommodated in some temporary shelter until transportation is arranged for their native places. Ramakant Patil and Sambhaji Shinde, along with 10 others, started walking from Shirur in Pune three days ago. The group, which was headed for Nanded, reached Beed on Thursday after covering a distance of 250km. On their way, they passed police check posts at Balepir, Old Nagar Naka, Shivaji Chowk and also the SP office gate but no one stopped them or asked them for food or water. When contacted, Poddar said this should not have happened. “Directives have been issued to accommodate the migrant workers walking back to their native villages in shelter camps run by the district administration. There, we create a database of the workers and the places where they want to go. Subsequently, they are taken to the Aurangabad railway station in buses, from where Shramik trains are leaving for Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal.” “The district administration here is ensuring that the workers heading from one district to another within the state are transported for free to their native villages,” said Poddar adding that around 48,000 surgar cane workers stranded outside the district had returned to Beed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/migrant-workers-walking-past-check-posts-skip-polices-notice/articleshow/75745603.cms||Arpita Sharad
May 15, 2020||Vijayawada||Nine farm workers electrocuted in Andhra Pradesh as tractor hits pole||VIJAYAWADA: Tragedy struck a group of labourers returning from a chilli farm on Thursday evening as the tractor they were travelling on hit a roadside electricity pole, electrocuting nine of them on the spot. The accident occurred at Naguluppalapadu village in Prakasam district when the farmhands were returning home after the day’s toil. Of the nine, six were from one family. Two of the survivors — chilli farm owner Nalluri Chenchaiah (38) and Kakumanu Bhagyavathi (36) — are in critical condition and have been rushed to RIMS hospital in Ongole. Police said the rest escaped with minor injuries. The tractor was overloaded with around 30 chilli farm workers and the driver lost control and rammed into the electric pole, police said. As per their daily routine, the workers were picked up in the morning and dropped at the chilli farm. After work they were being taken back to their villages when the accident happened. Overhead electricity wires fell on the tractor after it hit the pole, resulting in the mass electrocution. Police have shifted the bodies for post-mortem and registered a case under section 304A of IPC (causing death due to negligence) against the tractor driver. Investigation is on to check if the driver was in an inebriated state. Chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy expressed shock over the incident and directed officials to extend all medical help to the injured. The deceased have been identified as Peeka Kapeswara Amma (50), Nukathoti Lakshamma (65), Kakumanu Rama Devi (55), Kakumanu Kumari (45), Kakumanu Ramasri (40), Garla Ravi Shankar (20), Kakumanu Shiva (17), Kakumanu Mounica (18) and Kakumanu Amulya (18). Environment minister B Srinivas Reddy, meanwhile, announced an ex gratia of Rs 5 lakh each to the families of the deceased.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/nine-farm-workers-electrocuted-in-ap-as-tractor-hits-pole/articleshow/75747367.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
May 15, 2020||Aurangabad||Cops help migrants heading home||AURANGABAD: Aurangabad city police, along with private bus operators, transporters and social workers, are found walking an extra mile to arrange transport for innumerable migrant workers reaching Aurangabad from different parts of the state. Aurangabad commissioner of police Chiranjeev Prasad took cognizance of the voluntary work done by a group comprising a leading private bus operator — Gauri Farooqi Kamaal alias Baba Seth, transporter Abdul Wase Patni, social activists Rafat Yar Khan, Yusuf Khan and Wajid Pasha — and deployed a round-the-clock police team for assisting them in their work. As a result, help desks have been set up at Baba Petrol Pump cross-road, railway station and Mahanubhav Ashram Chowk from where food packets, drinking water and transportation arrangements are being made for these migrant workers heading to their home states. CP Prasad told TOI, “We need to understand the fact that not only the stranded workers at the camps, but also innumerable migrant workers employed at the industrial houses of Aurangabad and those walking from far off places, are reaching the city while heading back to their home states.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/cops-help-migrants-heading-home/articleshow/75745617.cms||Mohammed Akhef
May 15, 2020||Bareilly||Two test positive for Covid-19 in Bareilly||Bareilly: A 32-year-old man and a 23-year-old youth were tested positive for Covid-19 in Bareilly on Thursday. Both the persons returned to Bareilly from Mumbai by a truck on May 9. District surveillance officer Dr Ranjan Gautam said, “After they reached Bareilly on May 9, the duo went to primary health centre in Ramnagar. They were referred to 300-bed government hospital where they were quarantined. Though their first report was tested negative for Covid-19, officials at Indian Veterinary Research Institute asked us to send their samples again after four days. They were not discharged from hospital and have been quarantined since their arrival to Bareilly. Their second report - which arrived on Thursday - found them positive for Covid-19. They will now be shifted to Covid-19 level one hospital.” According to officials, the 32-year-old man is a native of Sirauli under Aonla sub-division of Bareilly while the 23-year-old youth is a resident of Meerganj town of the district. “We are tracing those who came in contact with them and their samples will be collected for testing,” Gautam said. With this, the total number of Covid-19 cases reached 12 in Bareilly. These include 10 discharged patients. Notably, Bareilly was left with no active case on Wednesday, but then these two new cases surfaced a day later.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/two-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-bareilly/articleshow/75746731.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Delhi||Confusion has two new hotspots in Delhi: Shivaji and Ambedkar Stadium bus terminals||NEW DELHI: Compared with the chaos of Wednesday after the first special passenger trains from different cities arrived in Delhi, the scene outside the Ajmeri Gate side exit of New Delhi Railway Station on Thursday morning was of general orderliness. The chaos, however, had only shifted to two new locations: the Shivaji Stadium and Ambedkar Stadium bus terminals. After watching desperate people trying to find transport to go home on Wednesday, Delhi Police prodded Delhi Transport Corporation to arrange buses to pick up arriving passengers and drop them at these two terminals. On the 20 shuttle buses at the railway station, passengers headed north and west were sent to Shivaji Stadium and those going south, central and east were sent to Ambedkar Stadium. Those who boarded the buses and paid the Rs 5 fare soon realised there was a hitch in the ride home. Sources said special permission had been received to ply buses from the railway station to the offices of the district magistrates of Delhi’s 11 districts. Many people lived at a distance from the DM offices. Also, passengers going to Haryana and UP were dropped nowhere close to the state borders. While Delhi Police personnel guided passengers emerging from the station to the row of waiting shuttle buses, the confusion was compounded by the absence of any DTC official there. “I have to go to Sarita Vihar. The shuttle bus conductors are asking me to reach Ambedkar Stadium, but there’s no surety I will get a bus to drop me at Sarita Vihar,” said Subhasish Das, who was stranded in Patna while attending a seminar. Das called his father to pick him up, but the elderly gentleman feared he would be stopped by police on the way and suggested a cab instead. Das waited a few hours for a friend to eventually ferry him home. A large number of people had already requested family members or friends to pick them up from the station or had pre-arranged taxis. “We were following the news and knew the chaos that awaited us here. I asked my brother to come and fetch me,” said Palam resident Subhash Sharma. Mohammed Qasim of Patel Nagar had a comfortable train journey, but had faced a huge problem in reaching Patna with his family from Darbhanga, a distance of 400km. “Now, I’m again facing the same problem,” he said. “Though I don’t live too far away from here, I can’t walk the distance and there are no buses.” Qasim finally had to request a neighbour to pick him up. “At least there are buses here,” said Panipat resident Sanjay Kumar. “In Mumbai, I had to walk from Bhayandar to Mumbai Central to catch the train. I hope a DTC bus drops me somewhere near the Singhu border. I will make some arrangements from there.” Kumar eventually got down at GT Karnal Road and went to a friend’s home in Alipur in north Delhi. “I’m too tired today to plan anything,” he said when TOI contacted him late in the evening. At the Ambedkar Stadium terminal, those trying to reach towns like Bareilly, Saharanpur, Pant Nagar and Muradnagar in UP had angry exchanges demanding they be dropped at Anand Vihar border while DTC staff said they could only leave them a considerable distance away at the Northeast DM’s office in Nand Nagari. From Friday, things might improve. Harendra Kumar Singh, DCP (Railways), said, “This is not serving people and I have requested DTC to drop passengers to the nearest point from their home. From Friday, DTC buses will reach far-flung areas like Mehrauli, Harsh Vihar, Narela, Kapashera, Rohini, etc.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/confusion-has-two-new-hotspots-passengers-ferried-from-ndls-to-ambedkar-stadium-shivaji-terminals-chaos-from-there-on/articleshow/75747943.cms||Sidharatha Roy
May 15, 2020||Amaravati||Nine farm workers electrocuted in Andhra Pradesh as tractor hits pole||VIJAYAWADA: Tragedy struck a group of labourers returning from a chilli farm on Thursday evening as the tractor they were travelling on hit a roadside electricity pole, electrocuting nine of them on the spot. The accident occurred at Naguluppalapadu village in Prakasam district when the farmhands were returning home after the day’s toil. Of the nine, six were from one family. Two of the survivors — chilli farm owner Nalluri Chenchaiah (38) and Kakumanu Bhagyavathi (36) — are in critical condition and have been rushed to RIMS hospital in Ongole. Police said the rest escaped with minor injuries. The tractor was overloaded with around 30 chilli farm workers and the driver lost control and rammed into the electric pole, police said. As per their daily routine, the workers were picked up in the morning and dropped at the chilli farm. After work they were being taken back to their villages when the accident happened. Overhead electricity wires fell on the tractor after it hit the pole, resulting in the mass electrocution. Police have shifted the bodies for post-mortem and registered a case under section 304A of IPC (causing death due to negligence) against the tractor driver. Investigation is on to check if the driver was in an inebriated state. Chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy expressed shock over the incident and directed officials to extend all medical help to the injured. The deceased have been identified as Peeka Kapeswara Amma (50), Nukathoti Lakshamma (65), Kakumanu Rama Devi (55), Kakumanu Kumari (45), Kakumanu Ramasri (40), Garla Ravi Shankar (20), Kakumanu Shiva (17), Kakumanu Mounica (18) and Kakumanu Amulya (18). Environment minister B Srinivas Reddy, meanwhile, announced an ex gratia of Rs 5 lakh each to the families of the deceased.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/nine-farm-workers-electrocuted-in-ap-as-tractor-hits-pole/articleshow/75755835.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
May 15, 2020||Delhi||20k passengers, 19 special trains on a single day at NDLS||New Delhi: New Delhi Railway Station had a busy day, handling 19 special trains ferrying at least 20,000 passengers on Friday. This was the highest passenger and train load since the special AC train services started amid the Covid-19 lockdown on Tuesday. While nine trains arrived in the morning, 10 left Delhi through out the day. The first train arrived from Jammu Tawi at 5am, followed by those from Bengaluru and Patna. By 10.55am, the trains from Ahmedabad, Mumbai Central, Howrah, Bhubaneshwar, Bilaspur and Ranchi also reached the station. The first train to depart was a Mangalore-bound special at 11.25am. This was followed by trains for Chennai Central, Dibrugarh, Howrah, Mumbai Central, Bhubaneshwar, Patna, Ahmedabad and Jammu Tawi. A train for Bengaluru was the last one to depart at 9.15pm. Neither movement nor passenger screening was hampered due to the increased load, said Northern Railway. While the arriving passengers are being escorted out in queues from the Ajmeri Gate side of the station, the Paharganj side is being used for departure. This is done as per the railway ministry guideline to reduce contact to the maximum extent possible. Platforms 8 to 16 are being used for arrival and platforms 1 to 7 for departure. To increase social distancing further, all Shramik Special trains for migrant workers, which were initially run from the Ajmeri Gate side, have been shifted to Old Delhi and Anand Vihar stations. “Each train had over 1,000 passengers. Hence, New Delhi station saw close to 20,000 passengers either disembark or board a train,” said a senior official. “All railway staff are now prepared to handle movement of passengers and police outside are doing an equally important job of ensuring social distancing,” he added. Since the service has started on Tuesday, over two lakh passengers have travelled across the country, Indian Railways has said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/20k-passengers-19-special-trains-on-a-single-day-at-ndls/articleshow/75767057.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Nagpur||Teachers’ pending salary to come within a week||Nagpur: Some teachers and principals of aided schools will have to wait for a few days more for their March (paid in April) salaries, as the disbursing bank faced some technical issues. Majority of them have already received their dues and, contrary to rumours, the education department had completed the salary paperwork on time. Shivling Patve, education officer (secondary) of Nagpur district, said, “I have spoken with the bank officials. There was some technical issue which has now been resolved. Salaries will be released within a day or two.” A state board principal said that during the current pandemic, liquidity becomes a major issue. “Many of our teachers have EMIs, payment for children’s education etc that are fixed. And, obviously, the household expenses are steady regardless. Delay in payments hurts everyone and the disbursing bank must take this up on priority,” said the principal. Yet another school’s trustee, whose family also control’s the trust which manages this institution, said that there was panic among teachers because of rumours. “Unfortunately, lot of things are said on social media and some said that there is not enough liquidity available to pay teachers’ salaries. Obviously, this is not true and we tell teachers too, but once the messages start doing the rounds of WhatsApp groups it is very hard to pacify everyone,” the principal said. In March, salaries were cut for all employees. A teacher said, “This was a statewide decision, so not limited to us. Most of us got a 25% pay cut and we don’t mind that because the state is going through a tough time. And that’s why the delay in salary spooked many. But it’s good to know that the issue was a technical one and soon salaries will be deposited in our accounts.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/teachers-pending-salary-to-come-within-a-week/articleshow/75762198.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
May 15, 2020||Kolkata||Pay thrice as much for buses, twice for autos, cabs in Kolkata: Operators||KOLKATA: Be prepared to shell out more to move around in the city — be it in buses, autos or cabs — once the lockdown is lifted. Private bus operators on Monday proposed a nearly three-time hike in bus fare to compensate for the reduced passenger capacity to stick to social distancing norms. If the government approves the minimum fare of Rs 20 for the first 4km instead of Rs 7 now, the operators said they would start services from Monday. There will, however, be no fare revision of buses operated by state transport undertakings (STUs). Metered taxis and autorickshaws have, on the other hand, demanded a 100% hike in fare. The public vehicles department (PVD) has suggested a 30% hike and demanded they hit the road in full strength from May 21. There are around 40,000 metered yellow taxis in the city. Under the lockdown regime, a bus will ferry a-third or a-fourth of total passengers it usually ferries. The government has limited the number of passengers in a bus to 20 at any given point of time. The buses will also have to undergo mandatory sanitization after each trip. Conductors and all passengers have to wear masks. “Private bus operators have requested that STU-run bus fares be also hiked so that there is a parity in fare. But we cannot do so,” said a transport department officer. Joint Council of Bus Syndicates secretary Tapan Bandyopadhyay said it was a difficult decision. “We cannot propose a fare so high that commuters cannot afford to pay. We have calculated the fare on the basis of operating costs of a bus on an average trip. I hope most of the buses in different routes can achieve breakeven at this fare structure.” However, many bus operators felt it would be difficult to recover even fuel cost as the passenger count is currently very low. Meanwhile, taxi and auto operators have demanded 100% rise in fare to maintain social distancing. But PVD officials said they were okay with a maximum hike of 30%. The revised taxi fare will be announced by transport minister on May 20. PVD officials have asked cab operators to hit the road from May 21. For autos though, the hike is likely to be substantial as the number of passengers allowed in autos halved from four to two. Transport minister Suvendu Adhikari had, on Wednesday, met private bus operators and asked them to fix fare so that they can ferry passengers complying with guidelines. “After Thursday’s meeting, we have reached the consensus on the proposed fare. I know, the fare hike will pinch people’s pocket. But we have no other option,” said Bandyopadhyay. With only 20 in a bus and the possibility of them getting filled up close to the point of origin, operators have proposed staggered points of origin for buses so that commuters who are not near bus terminuses don’t remain stranded. Meanwhile, over-crowding of state transport undertakings (STU) buses continued on Thursday at Jadavpur and Garia. Long queues of office-goers could be seen at the bus termini at different parts of the city. Though the number of buses in some routes was enhanced, they fell short of the demand. According to WBTC officials, a real-time assessment has been made on Thursday at different parts of the city. Accordingly, the number of buses will be increased in these routes from Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/pay-thrice-as-much-for-buses-twice-for-autos-cabs-operators/articleshow/75746750.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
May 15, 2020||Aurangabad||Opt for homoeopathy medicine: DG office||AURANGABAD: The director general of police’s office has issued an internal circular asking all the policemen to opt for the prescribed homoeopathy medicine for prevention as well as treatment of Covid-19. The circular has come at a time when high number of policemen are getting infected with Covid-19 in the state. At the same time, state health machinery has began treating Covid-19 patients with allopathy medication. While asking the policemen to go for homoeopathy medication, the state police headquarters has asked all the commissioners and superintendents of police to record the effectiveness of the medication on Covid-19 positive policemen, symptomatic or asymptomatic, and update the DGP office about the same. As per the instructions issued earlier this week by additional director general of police S Jagannathan, the state police are trying their best to bring a check on the spread of Covid-19. However, while performing their duties, policemen and officers are found getting infected with the virus. So as to prevent the policemen and officers from getting infected, homoeopathy medicine ‘Arsenicum Album 30’ is being supplied. Similarly, ‘Camphor 1m’ homoeopathy medicine will be provided by the state police headquarters. Citing that the instructions of the doctors for boosting the immunity, the circular states that four pills of Camphor 1m should be consumed twice for two days on empty stomach and avoid consuming anything except water for 30 minutes after consuming of pills.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/opt-for-homoeopathy-medicine-dg-office/articleshow/75745627.cms||Mohammed Akhef
May 15, 2020||Kolkata||Commuters want trams for social distancing||Kolkata: Tram enthusiasts in the city have urged the government to prioritize trams as a mode of transport during the pandemic. In an open letter to the government, the Calcutta Tram Users’ Association’s members have written how trams, one of the oldest transports in the city, will not only help in maintaining social distancing but also keeping the pollution level low. They have also requested the government not to discontinue tram services from Belgachia to various parts of central Kolkata. Buses on some routes have already started witnessing huge crowd of passengers. Moreover, private bus operators have demanded a steep hike in fares when they resume services. “The government should take advantage of trams. The interior is spacious while separate trams can be used to ferry passengers,” said Udit Ranjan Gupta, a tram enthusiast and member of the association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/commuters-want-trams-for-social-distancing/articleshow/75746766.cms||Zeeshan Javed
May 15, 2020||Aurangabad||Parents seek clarity on RTE admissions||AURANGABAD: While the admission process in schools under the Right to Education (RTE) Act has been stuck due to lockdown, parents have sought clarity from the state education department on the future course of action. The drawing of names through lottery, part of the admission process, was conducted on March 17, but further formalities have been withheld after the lockdown was imposed. Sanjay Gaikwad, a parent, said the state government should issue official communication intimating parents as well as schools about the future time-table of admissions under the RTE Act. "The admissions under RTE must also get attention during the current pandemic. While the government is addressing other important academic issues one by one, it must take a formal stand on the remaining procedure of RTE admissions," he said. As per official data, around 1,00,920 beneficiaries were qualified from across the state after the first round of lottery with more than 75,000 finding themselves in the waiting-list. The further procedure of admissions under RTE Act involves verification of documents of the beneficiaries. Educational activist Prashant Sathe said the scrutiny of documents must be arranged at respective schools instead of at few centralised places like in the past. "A few government offices every year get designated for carrying out the scrutiny of documents. However, such arrangement is not advisable this year due to the outbreak of Covid-19. Instead, the desired verification must be arranged at allotted schools," he said. When contacted, officials from the education department of Aurangabad Zilla Parishad said the government is likely to take policy decision related to RTE admissions shortly. "The admissions under RTE Act have uniform time-table at the state-level. Major part of the admission process is already over. The government will decide and make formal announcement about the remaining admission process soon," a senior official from the education department said. The Right of Children to Free and Compulsory Education (RTE) Act, 2009, mandates reservation of 25% seats for economically backward and weaker section students among other target beneficiaries in aided as well unaided schools of all mediums and boards.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/parents-seek-clarity-on-rte-admissions/articleshow/75745634.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Kochi||Parties go online as DJs turn table||KOCHI: The hottest DJ parties in town are now online. As social distancing has become the new normal to curb the spread of coronavirus, the party scene has moved to social media. And party lovers watch this live on their laptop or TV screen sitting at home, dancing to the tunes probably in lungi or nightie. On Saturday night, DJ Savyo hosted a two-hour live virtual DJ concert of his Facebook page that was ‘attended’ by thousands of club-goers from across the country. DJ Savio and his team created a discotheque ambience with lights, sounds and music, all virtually created with the artists and technicians working from separate locations—their homes. “People are stuck at home due to the lockdown. Nightlife has come to a standstill. Everyone wants a change and what better way to dance your blues away,” said DJ Savyo, who, after the success of this show, plans to host many more virtual DJ concerts. He said that the best aspect is that people also get too interact with artists and request the DJ to play their favourite songs. And for the out-of-work DJs this is not just a means to communicate with their fans but also helps generate income. Corporates are now approaching the DJs for private shows where all their employees come on Zoom and they dance and relax in each other’s company onscreen. Inquiries are even coming for hosting online DJ parties for birthdays and wedding anniversaries, where all guests would come live and wish and dance to the music. “We went live and have received over 35 inquiries from corporates or individuals from across the country for online shows. It is a different experience brining everyone together virtually during the lockdown period,” added Savio. “We experimented with online show as a promotion event and it won audience. And now we are looking at the possibility of earning from such shows during Covid-19 times,” said DJ Arun Jude. And the party lovers are not complaining. “The ambience and atmosphere maybe different but the music is still very groovy and lively. It is a definite mood-lifter in such difficult times,” said Rathish Kamath, an IT distributor from Kochi, who has been missing nightlife since lockdown. There are few limitations but love for music is what inspires many of these artists. “You can’t play all the tracks on demand. Also, often earnings are limited or almost nil. But I am going live because of my passion for music,” said DJ Gino.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/parties-go-online-as-djs-turn-table/articleshow/75745637.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Hubballi||Dharwad prepared to receive homecoming migrants||Dharwad: The district administration in Dharwad is well-prepared to receive homecoming residents, with all the arrangements being made to screen each person and accommodate them in quarantine. Dharwad deputy commissioner Deepa Cholan on Thursday said that the Shramik Special train that left Mumbai, carrying 1,492 passengers, all of whom are residents of North Karnataka, would reach Dharwad on Friday evening. “Of the total number of passengers on board the train in question, 114 will alight in Dharwad, while a majority of them are bound for Vijayapura and Yadgir districts,” Deepa told TOI. Since the government guidelines mandate a 14-day quarantine for those passengers travelling between states, the Dharwad district administration has ensured that the entire process is carried out without hassles. “We have made arrangements in hostels and government hospitals to accommodate 1,200 people in quarantine. On the other hand, those who can afford to foot the bill for their stay by themselves have the option of quarantining themselves in designated hotels,” the DC added. Deepa said that, in the event of a large influx of returning migrants to the district, there were enough hostels in both urban and rural areas to accommodate them. “This is in addition to the many private hospitals that we can press into service. We are also exploring the option of using convention centres and choultries to house people during the quarantine period,” she said. Hubballi-Dharwad police commissioner R Dileep, meanwhile, said that cops had been deployed at all establishments designated as quarantine centres to ensure that none strayed outside. “We have also enhanced security arrangements at the railway stations considering the large number of people arriving to the district,” Dileep said. Deepa said that the authorities were closely monitoring the movement of secondary contacts of infected patients. The secondary contacts had been strictly told to isolate themselves at home. “We will leverage geo-fencing technology to see if anyone is violating home quarantine. Police and health department officials will be alerted to such violations, and authorities will arrive at the spot within 10 minutes,” the DC said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/dharwad-prepared-to-receive-homecoming-migrants/articleshow/75744423.cms||GURURAJ JAMKHANDI
May 15, 2020||Kolhapur||Mother & 2 kids test positive in Kolhapur||KOLHAPUR: In Kolhapur, three more Covid-19 cases were reported on late Wednesday night with a 30-year-old woman and her two children, aged 11 and 6 years, testing positive for the contagion. The family, according to the district health officials, was traveling to Chandgad from Mumbai. However, they were intercepted at the Kini toll booth, some 20 km from the city. The family was then shifted to the Chhatrapati Pramila Raje Rugnalaya (CPR) on Tuesday and their throat swab samples were collected. The results came on Wednesday night. All three patients are asymptomatic, said the medical officials from the hospital. According to the CPR doctors, all three are stable and responding well to the treatment. Pregnant woman infected A 33-year-old pregnant woman has tested positive for the contagion on Thursday. According to the health department officials, the woman, along with her husband and a driver, has a travel history from Mumbai. While her husband is in the Shivaji University’s institutional quarantine facility, the woman has been admitted in the CPR. In another case, a 20-year-old youth has been identified as Covid-19 positive from Ichalkaranji.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/mother-2-kids-test-positive-in-kolhapur/articleshow/75745642.cms||Piyush Bhusari
May 15, 2020||Delhi||No means for 70-year-old in Delhi to go home for husband’s funeral||NEW DELHI: Two days ago, 70-year-old Sushila Devi was shattered after getting the news of her husband’s death in Chhapra, her native town in Bihar. She walked all the way from Manesar to Delhi after getting to know that train services had resumed. However, she was left stranded as she didn’t know how to book a berth or seat. “I need to go as my daughter is alone at home. I have lost my mobile phone and can’t contact her,” she rued. Sushila had come to work as a household staff, but the lockdown was enforced the day she arrived and she wasn’t hired. She and a few others from her village have been staying outside the Paharganj side of New Delhi Railway Station since last Tuesday. “She became desperate to return home when she came to know of her ailing husband. He died two days ago. She has been inconsolable since then,” said Mofizzul, who was waiting for a train to Samastipur. “The little money that I had was taken away by the contractor in Gurgaon who had promised to employ me. I have been begging to buy a ticket back home,” Sushila said. The volunteers and policemen at the station asked her to go to the nearest SDM office or take someone’s help to register for the Shramik Special train, but Sushila wasn’t in a state of mind to do that. “This is my first time to Delhi. I don’t know whom to trust,” she said with tears rolling down her eyes. She and other migrant labourers waiting outside the station are being provided food and water by police and volunteers for the past three days. However, no one has been able to help them board a train back to their hometowns. “We will have to walk or convince truck drivers to give us a lift,” said Santosh, who has been taking care of Sushila.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/no-means-for-70-yr-old-to-go-home-for-husbands-funeral/articleshow/75747973.cms||Somreet Bhattacharya
May 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Land sharks on the prowl as officials on Covid-19 duty||HYDERABAD: Land grabbers are having a field day during the lockdown, especially in Hyderabad, Rangareddy and Medchal-Malkajgiri districts as many officials are engaged in Covid-19 duty. Not less than a dozen instances of encroachment of government land have been reported in the last few days, forcing revenue authorities to swing into action and remove illegal occupation of the land. Not just open land, the land sharks are not even sparing lakes, nalas and agriculture land. A majority of the land grabbing cases have been reported in prime areas of the city such as Gopanpally, Miyapur, Shamshabad, Shaikpet, Jawaharnagar and Mangalpally (Ibrahimpatnam) where land rate continues to soar despite the spread of Covid-19 cases. At some of these places, the land grabbers have even removed ‘government land’ boards and tried to construct walls around it. Revenue officials on Thursday demolished an unauthorised construction close to a temple (survey No. 34) in Gopanpally after unidentified people took over a stretch of government land by constructing a compound wall. Similarly, land sharks tried to encroach a 650 square yard land at Sravanthinagar in Venkatagiri area by removing the ‘government land’ board. Officials said the land is worth Rs 7 crore. Interestingly, officials were not even aware about the encroachment till it was brought to their notice by the local media. “Whenever we are getting information, we are removing the encroachments. The mandal-level officers and land protection wing are busy in demolishing the illegal occupation of land. In some instances, we have booked criminal cases also,” Rangareddy additional collector S Harish told TOI. In Chowdariguda in RR district, officials foiled a land owner’s attempt to lay a road by occupying nalas and made him re-construct the nala wall. In another encroachment in RR district, officials came across a land owner trying to construct an access road in Mangalpally of Ibrahimpatnam mandal by bulldozing the Nallacheruvu bund and foiled his attempts. Sources said a farmland spread over 2.4 acres in Madanpally in Shamshabad mandal was usurped and the area also levelled. A former sarpanch’s name also cropped up in this land grabbing case, forcing the authorities to file a complaint with police. Curiously, the government had decided to allot this particular land to the Police Transport Organsation, it is learnt. “We have received around eight complaints of government land encroachment of small land parcels in areas such as Khanamet, Shamshabad, Mylardevpally, Gopanpally and Miyapur. We immediately took action by removing the encroachers and resuming the land,” K Chandrakala, revenue divisional officer of Rajendranagar, said. Sources said attempts to grab government land were made in Jawaharnagar also. Meanwhile, some revenue officials have complained that they are not able to discharge their duties since they are being forced to work somewhere else. “The government has put us on Covid-19 duties at railway stations, airports and in identifying foreign returnees and migrant workers,” a tehsildar in Hyderabad district explained. Another official said, “I have been given duty at the Lingampalli railway station to ensure that all migrant workers are leaving for their native places without any glitches. We are not getting time to look after revenue matters.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/land-sharks-on-the-prowl-as-officials-on-covid-19-duty/articleshow/75747398.cms||Koride Mahesh
May 15, 2020||Aurangabad||Soldier Hrishikesh Bochare laid to rest||AURANGABAD: Slogans of “Bharat Mata Ki Jay” and “Amar Rahe-Amar Rahe” reverberated in the air as residents of Devgaon-Rangari village, in Kannad taluka of Aurangabad district, paid their respects to martyr Hrishikesh Bochare, who was cremated with full state honours on Thursday. The 27-year-old soldier, associated with Unit 119 of the Assault Engineer Regiment of Indian Army, died in a mishap in Leh-Ladakh on May 12, an official release said. As per the Bochare family’s wishes, the last rites on the soldier were performed at his ancestral field after the body was brought to the village from the Chikalthana airport in Aurangabad. The state police sounded the bugle and fired three rounds in the air before playing the national anthem as the family members and other village residents bid a tearful adieu to the soldier. Gokul Popalghat, a resident of Devgaon-Rangari and family friend of the deceased, said Bochare had got married only around six months ago. “We had applied for selection in the Indian Army together, but Hrishikesh succeeded and joined the service in 2013. Hrishikesh was very cordial and helpful in nature. He made the ultimate sacrifice for the nation and everyone is proud of him,” he said. Popalghat said the defence authorities cited a snow-fall induced landslide as the reason for Bochare’s death. “He was trapped under the debris and died of suffocation,” he said, referring to the telephonic conversation between the soldier’s family and the defence authorities. “Even if we are all in grief, the village decided to bid a final adieu to our friend on a patriotic note. Hrishikesh will continue to inspire future generations in our village,” Sahedo Shelke, another villager said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/soldier-hrishikesh-bochare-laid-to-rest/articleshow/75745646.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Kochi||Sentinel survey detects Covid case in Idukki||Kottayam: A sentinel surveillance conducted by the health department in Idukki district on Thursday has detected a Covid-19 case. The virus was detected in a 39-year-old bakery owner residing in Karunapuram panchayath in Nedunkandam block in the district. Sentinel surveillance is conducted to detect community transmission of Covid-19. The state had decided to strengthen the sentinel surveillance system, which will help in providing early warning signals and epidemiological information about the next phase of the pandemic in the state. There has been a state-wide direction regarding this in the wake of the inflow of expatriates. In sentinel surveillance, the state population is divided into seven groups based on potential risk exposure. The person who had contracted the virus belongs to Group III, which include persons with high social exposure. This group includes food delivery persons, community volunteers for Covid-19 control, policemen, health and media personnel and shop vendors. To detect community spread in such a group, 400 samples are tested in one week. In Kottayam, KSRTC will run special services for the staff of the district collectorate, which will start functioning from Friday. The service will begin from Changanassery, Parippu, Mundakkayam, Pala, Chembu and Vaikom. A meeting called by food minister Thilothaman decided to strengthen Covid-19 prevention measures from the grassroot level in the district in the wake of expats arriving in good numbers to the state. Meanwhile, the district prison here earned Rs 1 lakh from the sale of face masks and sanitizers made by the inmates.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/sentinel-survey-detects-covid-case-in-idukki/articleshow/75745674.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Kolkata||‘Allow online submission of movies’||Kolkata: The president of the Film Federation of India (FFI), Firdausul Hasan, on Thursday sent a letter to Prasoon Joshi, chairman of the Central Board of Film Certification (CBFC), requesting him to accept online submission of movies. The decision to make this request was taken at an online video conference chaired by Kolkata-based FFI president. Thirty executive committee members from all over the country attended the conference. Hasan said, “Certification has got stuck due to the lockdown. No workforce is available to submit films physically to the CBFC office. That is why, we decided to mail this letter to the CBFC chairman on Thursday morning.” As of now, the applications are accepted online. On being asked about the piracy threats, Hasan said, “I wrote to him, saying that producers are happy to send vimeo links with protected passwords. This will enable members to view the films submitted for certification. The fear of piracy can be ruled out since films will have watermarks. If online submission of films is allowed, the review can begin,” he added. At the meeting, the discussion included waiver or substantial reduction of all taxes/duties applicable on the equipment. “We also want the GST on cinema tickets to be waived for some time. Lower rate of cinema tickets will help in drawing patrons. The repayment of loan and interest has also become a heavy burden on exhibitors. This is in addition to the property tax. We urge the government to consider granting relief to exhibitors,” said Hasan. Another crucial part of the discussion was a debate over release of movies on OTT platform. The FFI members said it is important to see things from the perspective of independent producers whose films are stuck with no news about their theatrical release.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/allow-online-submission-of-movies/articleshow/75746793.cms||Priyanka Dasgupta
May 15, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Changes in lifestyle transform home kitchens, give birth to corona cuisine||Bhubaneswar: The coronavirus outbreak and the consequent lockdown have not only brought about immediate changes to our lives — making us work from home, wash our hands more often and wear masks outside — they are likely to have long-term impact on our lives, especially on how and what we eat. A glimpse of the changes can be seen on the social media. Home-cooking has come back into fashion, partly because most hired cooks and household helps are yet to resume work and eating at restaurants is out of the question, but also because people are appreciating the virtues of old recipes, easy-to-cook and simple meals and improvisation with limited items in the larder. Twitter, Instagram and Facebook are flooded with pictures of home-made cakes and traditional curries. Many have turned vegetarian or vegan to boost immunity, and the intake of herbs, fruits and nutritious food has increased. “As a food community we keenly observe the changing trends in the kitchen. People are innovating, replicating their favourite street food, rationing resources and using ingredients wisely. We also find a lot of men cooking. It is also a good time for home chefs to take online classes and teach easy recipes to people,” said Rohit Srivastava, founder of FoodFindo, the state’s largest food community. Not everyone is out making Instagram-worthy food, however. With family members at home all the time, homemakers are struggling to keep meals interesting. “Children are not going to school and their demand for tasty food has increased. Managing the kitchen and the home without the maid or the cook, plus juggling work, is a nightmare. I ask my mother to send me old recipes like pithas, nimiki, jhuri, muduki and chuda bhaja. I am also trying my hand at making gupchup, chat, jhal-mudhi at home,” said Tanuja Patnaik, an IT professional. With the scope to eat street food nearly zero, the focus has now also moved to nutritious food and the use of local and hyper-local produce. Leftovers are being recycled to make new dishes and wastage of food has come down to a minimum. “Earlier, we would cook more and waste more. Now, we try to reuse or recycle food. We are avoiding packaged and frozen foods, and have increased our consumption of fresh vegetables and fruits. We are avoiding non-veg, and instead of drinking tea and coffee, we are drinking ‘kadha’ using herbs and things like ginger, mint, coriander and bay leaves,” said Smita Sahu, a housewife. Food bloggers believe that several old recipes, which were almost in the danger of being lost forever, have made a comeback. People have more time now to cook up elaborate dishes, and get pleasure out of posting pictures of them on social media. “This is a welcome change. People have reduced their dependence on food from outside. I find them trying difficult and traditional dishes. The lockdown has truly changed the way we looked at food,” said Ritu Mohanty, a popular food blogger.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/changes-in-lifestyle-transform-home-kitchens-give-birth-to-corona-cuisine/articleshow/75725250.cms||Minati Singha
May 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Man kills father for harassing family||HYDERABAD: A man allegedly hacked his father to death during an altercation over a family issue at their house in Kamareddy district on Thursday. The deceased was identified as T Malaiah, 58, an auto driver, while his assailant son, Prashant, 25, is a private employee from Kamareddy. According to police, Malaiah used to harass family members over petty issues and abuse them using filthy language. Police have registered a murder case under Section 302 of the IPC and shifted the body for a post-mortem examination.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-kills-father-for-harassing-family/articleshow/75746791.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Patna||With 46 fresh Covid-19 positive cases, Bihar tally surges to 999||PATNA: Bihar is on the verge of crossing the 1000 mark with 46 new Covid-19 cases on Thursday, taking the total to 999 in the state. So far, 411 coronavirus patients have recovered while seven have died and there are currently 581 active cases. State health department principal secretary Sanjay Kumar said over 90% of the cases reported on Thursday were of migrants, who recently returned from other states. “There can be one or two exceptions, otherwise all are migrants,” he added. For the past 10 days, the trend in Bihar has changed with a majority of cases being migrants and the number of local cases dwindling to one or two per day. As per information shared by Sanjay, maximum cases were reported from Purnia on Thursday with nine people testing positive for the virus, followed by Lakhisarai where six people have tested positive, Jehanabad with five positive cases and Khagaria with four positive cases. Three cases each were reported from Muzaffarpur, Banka and Nalanda, while one case was reported from Nawada. As of now, Munger has reported the highest number of cases with 122 people testing positive for Covid-19 while 65 of them have recovered. Second highest positive cases have been reported from Patna where 99 people have tested positive and 35 have recovered. The health secretary said even though the number of positive cases had increased in the state capital, which was because a large number had recently tested positive in the BMP campus, the condition was much better. “Patna is the capital and many trains are also coming here and there is lot of movement. Still the situation is quite under control,” he added. As per information shared by the state health society, 40,782 samples have been tested so far in Bihar and 43 positive people are admitted in three dedicated Covid-19 hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/with-46-fresh-covid-positive-cases-bihar-tally-surges-to-999/articleshow/75745294.cms||Sheezan Nezami
May 15, 2020||Kochi||Get farm-fresh edible leaves on your plate||Kochi: Whether it is meat or vegetables, the philosophy of our ancestors was to consume nose-to-tail and root-to-stem. It was common practice to consume edible leaves of vegetables grown in backyard garden like pumpkin and long beans. Now a group of poets and writers have come together to create additional value for farmers by marketing these leaves along with fresh produce vegetables. According to promoters of Sadya Veg, the marketing of various edible leaves would be a factor that differentiates them. The safe-to-eat produce is collected from Kuzhur village, which is known for cultivation of a wide variety of country vegetables. “There are lot of farmers in Kuzhur, which is an agricultural village, and we want to adopt it. The important thing is that farmers get a regular income at this time when many are finding it hard to market their produce,” said Jayashankar Arackal, a poet. “Recipes have now globalized and people know what dishes to make using these leaves,” said Kuzhur Wilson, poet and former journalist. Apart from leaves of pumpkin and long beans, Sadya Veg is also offering drumstick leaves and drumstick flowers, taro leaves (chembila), hibiscus leaves (thaliyila), sacred basil (thulasi), neem leaves (Aryavep leaves), betel and banana leaves.  Consumers can place orders through a Google form send across WhatsApp. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/get-farm-fresh-edible-leaves-on-your-plate/articleshow/75744417.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Bareilly||10 labourers working in Mumbai testCovid +ve in Kheri and Shahjahanpur||Bareilly: Nine migrant labourers of Lakhimpur Kheri district and one from Shahjahanpur have been tested positive for Covid-19 late on Wednesday. All of them had returned from Mumbai and were quarantined at home. The total number of Covid-19 cases in Kheri has now risen to 14 with 10 active, while Shahjahanpur’s tally has reached two with one active.Around 3,000 migrant workers have returned from Covid-affected Maharashtra in the recent past and they have been quarantined at home after thermal screening. Health department is randomly sending the samples of the migrants and on Wednesday, test results of 36 arrived, and nine of them were found positive. All the nine migrants were residing in Mumbai’s Dharavi and used to work as labourers or domestic help.Kheri CMO Dr Manoj Agarwal told TOI, “A cluster of nearly 50 labourers had returned from Mumbai’s Dharavi and nine of them are reported positive for Covid-19. We have sent the samples of remaining members of the group and report is expected in the next 24 hours. To be on the safer side, we are trying to identify if any migrant had arrived in the village on his or her own. We have also sanitised the village, and its five hamlets in Nighasan block. All the new cases are symptomatic and have been admitted at L1 hospital for treatment.”In Shahjahanpur, a resident of Rukanpur village in Kalaan area had returned with his brother in-law from Mumbai on a truck. After getting dropped off in Kanpur, he came to Shahjahanpur travelling on foot while his brother in-law reached his village in Farrukhabad district. The locals alerted the health department and his sample was sent for Covid-19 testing on Tuesday.Shahjahanpur’s deputy CMO Dr Laxman Singh told TOI, “A youth was tested positive for Covid-19, so we have sealed the village and residents have been advised to stay at home. The entire village has been barricaded and samples of seven family members will be sent for testing. The youth is asymptomatic and has been sent to Bareilly for treatment.”He further said, “Nearly 30 migrants belonging to Shahjahanpur city who returned from Mumbai have been quarantined at shelter homes on the city’s outskirts. They would only be sent home once they are tested negative.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/10-labourers-working-in-mumbai-testcovid-ve-in-kheri-and-shahjahanpur/articleshow/75746789.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Kolhapur||BJP & NCP use lockdown to settle political scores||KOLHAPUR: The in-power NCP and the opposition BJP in Solapur district are engaged in settling a political score by exploiting the nationwide lockdown. Ram Satpute, the BJP MLA from Malshiras, is currently quarantined at home following a complaint by the NCP. The BJP has now demanded that NCP’s Mohol MLA Mohol Vishwanath Mane too be put into home quarantine for violating the lockdown. Satpute, was ordered to be in home quarantine last week following a complaint by NCP district general secretary Kiran Sathe. Malshiras block development officer Shama Pawar had ordered Malshiras municipal council to ensure home quarantine of the sitting MLA. BJP sources confirmed that Satpute has been home quarantine for the past few days. NCP had complained to the district administration that Satpute had returned to Malshiras from Beed and Pune, which is a red zone. The party also pointed out that Satpute conducted a meeting of the government officials after his return to Malshiras. Pawar had then issued an order to put Satpute in home quarantine. On Wednesday, BJP workers in neighbouring Mohol taluka submitted a memorandum to block development officer, demanding home quarantine for NCP MLA Vishwanath Mane. Mohol BJP president Satish Kale said in a letter that Mane has entered Solapur district from Pune, which is a red zone. Kale has said that Mane had violated lockdown rules and needs to go for home quarantine as per the rules. Kale also has alleged that Mane had visited two villages after his arrival from Pune. The Mohol BDO has sent the letter to district collector, seeking an order on the BJP letter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/bjp-ncp-use-lockdown-to-settle-political-scores/articleshow/75745673.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Two Maoists of New Democracy surrender||WARANGAL: Two underground members of CPI (ML) New Democracy surrendered before Warangal CP V Ravinder here on Thursday.  The surrendered Naxalites were identified as party state committee member and Mahabubabad divisional secretary Soma Bhaskar alias Suryam and Mahabubabad district committee member Burka Prathap alias Shyam. While Bhaskar belongs to Timmapet village in Warangal Rural, Prathap hails from Gunjedu village in Mahabubabad district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/two-maoists-of-new-democracy-surrender/articleshow/75746783.cms||Shiva Kumar Pinna
May 15, 2020||Patna||Bihar to woo industries for returnee migrants: Sushil Modi||PATNA: Deputy chief minister Sushil Kumar Modi on Thursday said the state government will hold talks with manufacturing industries in other states, including Gujarat, to set up units in Bihar, so that returnee migrant workers could get job opportunity here. “The labour resources and disaster management departments are conducting skill mapping of all migrant workers staying at the quarantine centres. They are being asked about their employer details, including the factory, company and state. Based on the information received from the migrant workers, the industries department will hold talks with those industries units in other states and persuade them to set up their units in Bihar,” SuMo told TOI on Thursday. The deputy CM added that incentives, including land, will be offered to industries willing to set up units in Bihar as per the Bihar Industrial Investment Promotion Act. As per rough estimates, around 25 lakh workers— skilled, semi-skilled and even unskilled are returning to Bihar from across the country owing to the nationwide lockdown imposed on March 24 due to Covid-19 pandemic. Shramik special trains are being run to send back migrant workers to their respective states. However, few states like Karnataka and Punjab cited manpower crunch owing to mass exodus of migrant workers. SuMo claimed that the industries facing manpower crunch owing to reverse migration of migrant laborers and semi-skilled workers, will be benefitted, if they set up their units in Bihar. “We have identified around 2,000 tailors so far, staying in our quarantine centres. Many of them were working in the textile industries at Surat in Gujarat. If those textile manufacturing units will come and establish similar units here, then they will get labour even at cheaper rates and our workers will also get jobs,” he said. R S Shrivastava, managing director (MD) of Bihar Industrial Area Development Authority (BIADA) told this newspaper that the authority is slated to get 2200- acre land this month from Bihar State Sugar Mills Corporation. Sources claimed that the land belongs to closed sugar mills. “We also have 346-acre industrial land in their 52 gated industrial areas across the state. Thus, there is no land crunch and no investor has withdrawn the projects amid the lockdown,” Shrivastava said. The BIADA MD added that around 36 projects are in the pipeline in the state worth Rs 58,078 crore. “Investment of Rs 834 have already been made by the investors for projects in the pipeline. These projects are mainly largescale industries, some of them medium scale, which would give direct employment to 35,555 people in Bihar,” he said. Industries minister Shyam Rajak also said his department will take all possible steps for inviting industrial units to Bihar but he claimed that Centre’s support was required for the same. “We expect some major support from the Centre, like according special category status to Bihar. This will enable us to provide tax sops and other big incentives to lure investors,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/state-to-woo-industries-for-returnee-migrants-sumo/articleshow/75745209.cms||Faryal Rumi
May 15, 2020||Vadodara||Vadodara: 13 more positive, cases surfacing in west zone||VADODARA: Yet another Covid-19 case was reported in the western parts of the city taking the total number of cases in the zone to 18. The total number of Covid-19 cases reached 638 with 13 new cases being reported in the city. The west zone had witnessed very few cases so far, but it has started showing isolated cases of Covid-19 off late. The latest case was that of the wife of a man who was tested positive earlier. It has come to light that the four persons form the Gorwa who declared their Covid positive status on Tuesday and Wednesday were employees of an agency that used to provide housekeeping and catering services at hospitals and other facilities in the city. One of the workers had also worked at an app-based major providing doorstep delivery of grocery, vegetable and essentials. In wake of the development, the app has been forced to suspend its services in the city. Sources in the Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) said that the issue may not be very critical as the man who had tested positive swept only the open space around the shade or warehouse. While it was earlier believed that all the four persons who tested positive used to work at the Bhailal Amin General Hospital (BAGH), the agency on Thursday clarified that the employee working at the warehouse was not working at BAGH. Some workers of the agency Daystar Hospitality have also been quarantined.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/13-more-positive-cases-surfacing-in-west-zone/articleshow/75743914.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Pune||Pune: Sharp rain in evening give relief from heat||PUNE: Sharp showers in the city on Thursday evening gave some relief to residents from the scorching heat. Better still, some rain is expected on Friday, too. The on-and-off showers continued in different pockets of the city, including Panchavati, Navi Sanghvi, Kothrud, Sinhgad Road, Keshavnagar, Prabhat Road, Law College Road and Gokhale Nagar, till about 9pm on Friday. There was intense thunder and lightning activity, too. Shivajinagar recorded 2.5mm rainfall till 5.30pm on Thursday. Lohegaon recorded traces of rainfall. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has issued a similar forecast for the city on Friday. Very light rain, thundery activity and lightning are expected later in the day. Anupam Kashyapi, head of weather, IMD, Pune, said, “The wind speed picked up on Thursday to around 40km per hour. Even though similar weather conditions may be experienced on Friday, the wind speed is likely to be lower around 30km per hour.” He said, “The rainfall and thunder activity on Thursday was a result of the wind discontinuity line from Marathwada to south interior Karnataka. This system has been dragging moisture into the state. The moisture coupled with high temperature of around 39°C to 40°C have been creating micro-level low pressure areas over parts of Maharashtra, including Pune city and the district.” Kashyapi said micro-level low pressure areas were formed when an area got heated. “The hot air rises, while there is a simultaneous filling up of space with relatively colder air from surroundings. This creates local-level low pressure areas, which is common during the summer time,” said Kashyapi. All these factors result in the formation of convective clouds. Initially cumulous clouds are formed. As the afternoon progresses, cumulonimbus clouds are formed. These clouds result in rain, thunder activity as well as lightning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/sharp-rain-in-evening-give-relief-from-heat/articleshow/75747418.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Hubballi||Beleaguered in cities, migrant workers find succour in NREGA back home||Hubballi: Many labourers, who were forced returned to their villages in Dharwad district, are now earning a decent living, thanks to the projects under Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA). Earlier, the zilla panchayat and gram panchayats officials used to force the labourers to work under the job scheme. After the pandemic, the labourers are visiting the Panchayat Development Officer (PDO) seeking work. Requesting anonymity, a PDO said: “Earlier, we used to insist the labourers to work and forcefully register their names. Even after assigning them work, only 30-40% of the works would get completed. But now, they voluntarily are seeking work. Most importantly, they are doing a quality work.” In district administration has aimed to create 28 lakh man-days for 2020-21 under MGNREGA. It was just 16 lakh man-days three years ago, and 18 lakh man-days two years ago, according to Dharwad zilla panchayat officials. So far, over 16,000 families have enrolled in Dharwad district. If the trend continues, the targeted man-days of work is likely to be executed before December, said ZP CEO B C Satish. “Each family will get 100 days of work, for which the government pays Rs 285 per person per day. As most of the villagers, who hitherto worked in big cities, have returned to their villages, we are expecting a sharp increase in the demand for jobs,” he said. Under MGNREGA, the administration is giving importance to projects related to water and soil conservation as monsoon is approaching. By then, the government wants to construct maximum number of farm ponds and desilts lakes, said Satish. Meanwhile, factories have resumed operations despite the shortage of labourers which is attributed to the sudden interest among villagers to work under MGNREGA.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/beleaguered-in-cities-migrant-workers-find-succour-in-nrega-back-home/articleshow/75743896.cms||Kishan Singh Bhorde
May 15, 2020||Bareilly||Village response teams to keep records of migrants returning homes in Pilibhit||Pilibhit: The administration in Pilibhit has decided to constitute Village Response Teams (VRT) to keep records of locals returning from outside. All seven block development officers were told on Thursday to constitute the teams in each of the 1,293 revenue villages with immediate effect.These VRTs will keep record of all migrants arriving in the villages. Their members will also monitor the people kept in home quarantine. “The health department has kept 9,025 people in home quarantines in both rural and urban areas in district,” additional chief medical officer, Dr CM Chaturvedi said.“The VTRs will be supported by the volunteers of Yuva Mangal Dal (YMD) promoted by the department of sports and youth welfare. Each VTR will comprise 15 members,” DM Vaibhav Shrivastav said.On being asked about the status of YMDs in district, district youth welfare officer, Narendra Singh, told that YMDs had so far been constituted in 331 of the total 721 village panchayats. “But, now, we will form them in remaining 390 village panchayats on war footing,” Singh said.Two persons of Pilibhit have been tested positive for novel coronavirus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/village-response-teams-to-keep-records-of-migrants-returning-homes-in-pilibhit/articleshow/75746801.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Kolkata||Another CISF man at museum +ve||Kolkata: A CISF man deployed at Indian Museum tested positive for Covid on Thursday. This is the second case of viral attack among CISF personnel there. Earlier, a CISF assistant sub-inspector had died of the virus. The personnel who was found Covid positive on Thursday has been kept in a temporary quarantine centre arranged on the museum’s ABC Hall. However, the second positive case has spread panic among other CISF officers at the museum, which has been closed after the death of the sub-inspector. The health department officials carried out a random coronavirus test on them. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/another-cisf-man-at-museum-ve/articleshow/75746808.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Kochi||Startup launches device to help reduce ‘risky’ touch||Kochi: SectorQube, a startup based in MakerVillage, has come up with a handy device that would help people avoid unwanted contact with surfaces like door handles, elevator and ATM keys and faucet knobs. Shaped like a keychain, CoGun, a hand-held device, enables people to perform a variety of mundane yet critical functions safely by reducing exposure to fomites, considered a prominent mode of Covid-19 infection. “Within five hours of launch and minimal marketing, we received close to 200 pre-orders from across the country,” said SectorQube CEO Nibu Alias. “Additionally, we received inquiries from countries such as Ireland, UK and UAE, apart from bulk orders totalling 40,000 pieces of CoGun. The device has been priced at Rs 150 and SectorQube is gearing up to receive shipping orders,” Alias said. “We had discussions with doctors and professionals of various specializations from across the country. To them, CoGun has a huge potential. They think it can be considered mostly in the category of a PPE,” he said. The device can be ordered online.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/startup-launches-device-to-help-reduce-risky-touch/articleshow/75744489.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Pune||Leopard put in cage four hours after killing a mare||PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: A forest department team caught a 3-year-old leopard on the night intervening Monday and Tuesday, within four hours after it killed a mare at Kawathe Yemai village, about 65km from the city. Shirur range forest officer Manohar Mhaisekar told TOI, “The leopard could not eat it initially and got trapped in the cage when it returned for its prey.” Former gram panchayat member Dattatreya Sandbhor said, “The leopard killed the mare owned by my nephew, Mahendra Sandbhor. The mare been tied to a bullock behind the house when the leopard attacked and killed it around 7.30pm. The leopard thus fled into the fields.” Sandbhor informed the forest department about the attack and a cage was brought from Savindane village and placed near the dead mare. The leopard got trapped around 1.30am. Round forest officer SL Gaikwad said, “The 3-year-old leopard was later shifted to the leopard rescue centre at Manikdoh.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/leopard-caged-4-hours-after-kill/articleshow/75747429.cms||Siddharth Gaikwad
May 15, 2020||Bareilly||24-year-old woman ‘hanged’ for dowry||Pilibhit: Three of a family were on Wednesday booked for allegedly killing a 24-year-old woman, mother of four-month-old daughter, by hanging for dowry in Sahukara locality of Puranpur city. Puranpur kotwali SHO SK Singh said an FIR was registered against her husband Ravi Shankar Ojha, his first wife Arti and his brother Gaurav Ojha under sections 498A (subjecting a woman to cruelty by husband or his relatives) and 304 B (dowry death) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and relevant sections of the Prohibition of Dowry Act. The SHO said the body was sent for autopsy, while the accused were on the run and would be arrested soon. The victim’s father Saket Kumar Pandey of Mdhupuri village under Barkhera police station stated in his complaint that his daughter Akanksha got married to Ravi of Sahukara locality in Puranpur city 13 months ago. “Ravi was a married man and he concealed this information from my daughter. He had left his first wife, Arti, with her parents to marry my daughter. Soon after the marriage, he started torturing my daughter for dowry. He used to beat Akanksha with iron bars,” alleged Pandey. “Ojha had brought Arti back home a few months ago. She also joined her husband in torturing Akanksha. Finally, Ojha with the help of Arti and his brother Gaurav killed my daughter on May 13 by hanging,” alleged Pandey. Pandey alleged that his daughter had approached the Puranpur kotwali to lodge a complaint against her husband several times, but police declined. “She had even told police that she might be killed on the day she was hanged, but they did nothing,” alleged Pandey.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/24-year-old-woman-hanged-for-dowry/articleshow/75746815.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Kolhapur||Workers demand to be sent back to UP||KOLHAPUR: Around 700 migrant workers employed in Shiroli, Gokul-Shirgaon and Kagal MIDC in Kolhapur district congregated at a ground in Shiroli MIDC and took out a protest march to Kolhapur on Thursday to press their demand to be sent back to their home state, Uttar Pradesh. Heavy police force was deployed at the entrance of Kolhapur city near Tawde hotel to stop the workers from entering the city. Apart from a handful of workers who were spotted sporting face masks, all the social distancing norms went for a toss in the protest. Lalpal Raghav, a resident of Lucknow district, said, “We are without work since the last fifty days and now, we do not even have enough savings to buy food. Since the last two days, migrant workers are being sent back to their hometown in special Shramik trains but our tickets are not getting confirmed despite applying online. We want the government to arrange for a transport and send us home immediately.” Fulkumari Singh, a native of Amethi in Uttar Pradesh, was travelling with her husband and two children. “The owner of the house where we were staying told us to pay the rent or leave the house. Somehow, we cleared the rent and left the place to go back to our hometown. The government should have taken care of our needs but unfortunately, nothing was done on their part.” After a lot of commotion, the district administration and the city police arranged for MSRTC buses which transported the workers to a nearby hall. The workers will put up at the hall for a day and will return to Uttar Pradesh by a train scheduled to leave from Kolhapur on Friday after completing the necessary paper work and undergoing medical screening.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/workers-demand-to-be-sent-back-to-up/articleshow/75745710.cms||Rahul Gayakwad
May 15, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Cops give youngest Covid warrior grand homecoming||NEW DELHI: When constable Devender Singh, who was on duty in the hotspot zone of Jahangirpuri, tested Covid-positive on April 22, his biggest worry was his nine-month pregnant wife who also got infected with the virus. On May 8, the couple was blessed with a baby girl. Not just Singh and his wife, but even officers in the district were worried about the child. As luck would have it, the baby tested negative. As soon as the good news reached them, a special homecoming was arranged for the seven-day-old Covid warrior. Senior officers call her their youngest warrior now. Singh told TOI, “When I tested positive, I was only worried about my wife, Neelam Rana, who was in the last days of her pregnancy. My fear came true when she tested positive and was admitted to Lok Nayak Hospital. Though I wanted to be around her, I couldn’t. All I could think of was my baby.” The couple would constantly chat on the phone or video call, but their anxiety increased with each passing day. Rana, on the other hand, didn’t have any symptoms despite testing positive. “When I entered the Covid ward, I was scared to stay with the other patients. I was later shifted to a room owing to my pregnancy. Each passing day was tough as I was worried for my child. She was born on May 8 in the morning. I couldn’t even see her. She was discharged on May 11 and I a day later,” said the mother. On Thursday, DCP (Northwest) Vijayanta Arya arranged the special homecoming of the mother and the daughter. With pink balloons and cakes, a team of officers from Jahangirpuri reached the couple’s residence. When Singh’s five-year-old son heard the police siren, he quickly dressed up to welcome the officers. “He wore a police uniform on his school annual day last year. Since then, whenever someone from the department comes, he likes to wear it,” Singh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cops-give-youngest-covid-warrior-grand-homecoming/articleshow/75748003.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Tour de India? 7 migrants cycling from TN to their home 2,400km away in UP||HYDERABAD: Some of the world’s best athletes take 21 days to cover 3,500 km as part of cycling's most prestigious event — the Tour de France. But seven Uttar Pradesh migrants are hoping to cover 70% of that distance on their rickety cycles just to get home. In peak summer heat, they are travelling roughly 2,400 km — from Chennai to Gorakhpur — so that they can be reunited with their families amid the uncertainties triggered by the pandemic. After toiling hard for six days, riding along the sun-baked roads, the exhausted youngsters were spotted sleeping on the roadside on Hyderabad outskirts on Thursday afternoon. Sumit, Kamlesh, Upender, Krishna and three others, all aged between 20 and 25 years, were sleeping by the Medchal highway after parking their bicycles. Their luggage, which was tied to bicycles, includes some food, phone chargers and tool kits. “We decided to leave Chennai after a person near our house tested positive for coronavirus. With the fear that it would spread in our area and with no work to do we have decided to return to our native place. When we contacted a few truck operators, they demanded Rs 500 for every 200 kilometers. As it was a huge amount for us, we decided to cycle all the way to UP,’’ said Sumit. The migrants,, who were labourers in a cast iron unit, relied on Google maps to reach the city, which is 700 kilometres from their starting point. They still have an onerous task of cycling another 1,700 km before they could reach their destination. “For most part of the night we have been cycling. Each of us has a cycle. Unless we are too tired we cycle even during the day. We eat either at roadside eateries or when some good people provide it for free,’’ Sumit said. The policemen made their task tough at a few places by stopping them and asking them to return to Chennai. But so far they managed to give a slip to the police by traversing through the bylanes and avoiding checkposts. Many a times their cycles also troubled them. But these youngsters are good at repairing and fixing punctures. The hope of reuniting with their families back home is keeping them motivated all through this laborious journey.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/tour-de-india-7-migrants-cycling-from-tn-to-their-home-2400km-away-in-up/articleshow/75747432.cms||Srinath Vudali
May 15, 2020||Pune||Record 194 test +ve in Pune, 175 from PMC limits alone||PUNE: A record 194 people, including 175 from the PMC limits alone, tested positive for Covid-19 in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) on Thursday, taking the total case count in the region to 3,426 so far. Of the total cases, the rural areas in the district accounted for 16 fresh cases, while Pimpri Chinchwad municipal limits reported three. Besides, six more patients succumbed to the contagion in the region on Thursday, taking the death tally to 181 so far. The Pune Municipal Corporation’s (PMC) health department said rise in swab collection of suspected patients as well as testing since last couple of weeks has reflected in the rise in positive cases. About 1,414 swabs were collected on Thursday, which was about 200 more than Wednesday’s 1205 samples. Besides, the civic administration has also initiated rigorous contact racing, civic health officials said. According to the PMC health department, about 116 patients were in critical stage and undergoing treatment at different hospitals. Of these, 34 patients were on ventilator support. The deceased included a 85-year-old woman from the Pune Cantonment area, a 72-year-old man from Lohegaon, a 66-year-old man from the Pune Cantonment area, a 70-year-old woman from Nana Peth, a 39-year-old man of Ghorpade Peth and a 48-year-old man from the Hadapsar area. When it comes to those cured, as many as 169 patients were discharged on Thursday, taking the total count of the cured to 1,702 in PMR. A total of 22,286 people are in quarantine in the PMR, including 18,545 from PMC limits alone. The Pimpri Chinchwad municipal authorities on Thursday directed to seal two more areas — a housing society each in Old Sangvi and Akurdi. With this, the total number of containment zones in the PCMC limits has increased to 33. As many as 116 positive patients residing in Pimpri Chinchwad city have been discharged till now. Fifty seven positive patients are undergoing treatment at various hospitals in the PCMC limits .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/record-194-test-ve-in-pune-175-from-pmc-limits-alone/articleshow/75747437.cms||Sarang Dastane
May 15, 2020||Chandigarh||UT not limping, but jumping back to normalcy, says HC||Chandigarh: The Punjab and Haryana high court has observed that the UT administration is “not just limping back”, but “jumping back” to normalcy. The court was on Thursday hearing a PIL challenging lifting of curfew in Chandigarh amidst outbreak of coronavirus. Hearing through video-conferencing for around two hours, the HC observed that prima facie there were contradictions and dichotomy between MHA orders and that of the UT administration. The petitioner pointed out issues like interstate movement from Mohali and Panchkula to Chandigarh, containment zones, opening of markets and shops, vehicular movement in Chandigarh and unrestricted movement of people from 7am to 7pm. The HC has asked UT counsel to file reply by Friday.Though the UT had earlier filed its reply, stating that it was following guidelines of the MHA, during the resumed hearing of case on Thursday, petitioner Pankaj Chandgothia pointed out that the administration flouted the guidelines as it has allowed entry of persons from Panchkula and Mohali without a pass. Also, the UT allowed unrestricted movement to all between 7am and 7pm without a pass, he added. On this, UT senior standing counsel Pankaj Jain replied that UT was limping back to normalcy while following the MHA guidelines. The HC observed that it was not just “limping back” but “jumping back” to normalcy.Chandgothia said the UT had made “parts of sectors 30, 52, 38, etc” as containment zones. It was pointed out that “parts of” can’t be containment zones, but it has to be the full area. The mentioning of containment zones was erratic and ill-defined and not as per parameters laid down in MHA guidelines, he said, adding that move to open markets and shops in residential areas, parks and lake was wrong as these were not standalone shops, but the whole market complexes, which have been opened to people. It was stated that the opening of sector market complexes would flush out the benefits made during the rigorous lockdown of the past 40 days. On this, the HC observed that the UT administration had opened Chandigarh for people to roam around and shop freely amidst coronavirus pandemic.Senior advocate Satya Pal Jain, appearing for the Union of India, pointed out clause 10 and 14 of guidelines issued by MHA, which states that these should not be violated and diluted by any state or UT. He added that if it has been done, it’s up to the Chandigarh administration to defend and the HC to decide. UT to give reply on these issuesInterstate movement from Mohali and Panchkula to ChandigarhContainment zonesOpening of markets and shopsVehicular movement in ChandigarhUnrestricted movement of people from 7am to 7pm The observationsThe UT is “not just limping back” but “jumping back” to normalcyThe UT administration has open Chandigarh for people to roam and shop freely amidst coronavirus pandemic||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/ut-not-limping-but-jumping-back-to-normalcy-says-hc/articleshow/75746816.cms||Neha Sharma
May 15, 2020||Chandigarh||Some relief: No case reported in city, 5 discharged from PGI||Chandigarh: Here is some good news for the city. For the first time in weeks, no new Covid-19 case was reported on Thursday. And five patients were discharged from PGI after they defeated novel coronavirus. It is the highest number of recoveries in a day to date.With this, the count of cured patients in UT stands at 37.Unlike the previous week when the case increase was mostly in double digits, this week saw a drop in numbers. While 7 cases were reported on Monday, the figure was 8 on Tuesday and 2 on Wednesday. The highest number of cases were reported on May 9 when 21 persons had tested positive.The five who were discharged include three women, aged 55, 35 and 23, a 62-year-old man of Sector 30 and a 32-year-old man of Sector 26. Besides, a PGI healthcare worker, of Mullanpur, Punjab, too was discharged on Thursday. All six will be home quarantined for 14 days, as per the standard protocol.PGI director Jagat Ram said, “It is a positive indicator that our recovery rate is consistently increasing and is comparable to the best in the country.”On a note of caution, he added, “We have to learn to live with the virus. The peak is yet to come in June and July. After that as well, it may take long to go. So social distancing, hand washing, wearing a mask and avoiding crowds should become a way of life.” As many as 2,506 people have been sampled in the city to date, of which 2,299 tested negative and 191 positive. Results of 15 cases is awaited.CASE FILEMay 8 | 8 | May 9 | 21May 10 | 4 | May 11 | 7 May 12 | 8May 13 | 2May 14 | 0||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/some-relief-no-case-reported-in-city-5-discharged-from-pgi/articleshow/75746821.cms||Kamini Mehta
May 15, 2020||Meerut||80-yr-old Meerut woman beatsCovid, returns home triumphant||Meerut: With the number of Covid-19 cases in Uttar Pradesh closing in on the 4,000 mark, there was some reason to cheer in one of the state's corona affected districts. An 80-year-old woman, who was hardly able to move due to old age and a fracture, successfully battled against the deadly virus in 14 days and returned home amid much applause on Wednesday.A video of the octogenarian corona survivor returning home triumphantly in Meerut's Rajban with joy and relief among the colony's residents is being widely circulated on social media. The video showed the woman sitting on a chair and her family lifting her to take her home.Notably, the woman’s sample was collected after she fractured her hip. And she then tested positive for Covid-19. Unable to move, and requiring constant assistance, she was admitted to Lala Lajpat Rai Memorial (LLRM) Medical College for treatment on April 29. To much jubilation of healthcare workers, family and residents, she returned home in 14 days.An elated Dr TVS Arya, nodal officer of Covid-19 ward at Lala Lajpat Rai Memorial Medical College, said, “The 80-year-old woman from Rajban was diagnosed with the deadly disease after she broke her hip bone a few days ago. She is still unable to walk much and is dependent on others for her movement. Despite the serious problems she faced, the woman fought against the disease and returned home after treatment in 14 days.”In yet another success story, a 62-year-old cloth trader, who had recently survived the disease in Meerut, has now started assisting community kitchen service for the needy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/80-yr-old-meerut-woman-beatscovid-returns-home-triumphant/articleshow/75745752.cms||Ishita Bhatia
May 15, 2020||Pune||Quarantined in hospital, man jumps to death in Pune||PUNE: A 25-year-old man from Khadki, quarantined along with his brother and sister after all of them had come in contact with a Covid-19-positive person, jumped to his death from the third floor of a hospital at Bopodi on Thursday night. Police inspector Shabbir Pathan of Khadki police station said the man was under tremendous stress after he and his siblings were quarantined at the hospital on Thursday morning. “He was panicky and the medical staff had counselled him,” he said. Pathan said the three were quarantined after the man’s siblings showed symptoms of Covid-19. “The hospital authorities took the swabs of the trio in the afternoon. The reports are awaited.” Pathan said the man left his hospital bed around 9pm, saying he wanted to go to the washroom. “However, he went to the third floor of the building and jumped down from an open corridor,” he said. The police said the man jumped to his death when the power supply in the area was disrupted following the heavy rains that lashed the city in the evening. They said a hospital staffer saw the man lying on the ground and raised an alarm. Pathan said the man would do odd jobs for a living. “We are registering a case of accidental death for now. We are investigating further,” he added. TOI tried to reach out to the hospital authorities but got no response.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/quarantined-in-hospital-man-jumps-to-death/articleshow/75747442.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Pune||Pune: Fresh civic guidelines for better services in quarantine centres||PUNE: The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has issued fresh guidelines for improved management of the Covid-19 quarantine centres and care units after recent inspections revealed certain lapses in such facilities. The latest circular issued by additional municipal commissioner Shantanu Goel has highlighted 21-points, including provision of basic services such as masks, food, power supply and water at the centres for quarantined patients. The assistant municipal commissioners and zonal heads of five civic wards managing the centres in their jurisdictions have been told to ensure that all 21-points were strictly implemented in the facilities. Complaints have been galore by those quarantined at the centres and by their relatives about substandard services, especially mismanagement and delay in delivery of food. Goel said, “We have reviewed the centres and issued detailed guidelines about how to manage these facilities and minimize the hardships of people quarantined there. We have told the officials to pay attention to the quality of food served to the patients admitted at the facilities, maintain cleanliness and keep the records updated”. According to the circular, the authorities are expected to identify separate areas for people awaiting swab test reports and those testing negative, ensure waste segregation and maintain daily log of admissions and discharge of patients. Provision of ambulance at every facility has been mandatory, in addition to personal protection equipment (PPE) kits for those involved in distribution of food and cleaning activities. “The food supply contractors have been appointed at the zonal levels. We want the zonal authorities to keep a tab on the system. The administration has initiated action against one contractor for supplying substandard food. Similar action will be taken in case norms are flouted,” Goel said. The PMC has identified two additional facilities from each civic ward so that people could be quarantined there and did not have to be transported far. The civic chief had issued basic guidelines for the quarantine centres in the first week of May. The latest circular is an addition to the earlier guidelines. Residents of around eight housing societies near Balewadi stadium have raised apprehensions over the proposed Covid-19 treatment centre in the sports facility. They have written a letter to the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation civic chief, pointing out that their residential complexes were very close to the stadium. They said the proposed centre should be shifted to some other location.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/fresh-civic-guidelines-for-better-services-in-quarantine-centres/articleshow/75747441.cms||Sarang Dastane
May 15, 2020||Meerut||2 more Covid deaths inMeerut, toll reaches 17||Meerut: There were two more Covid-19 deaths reported in Meerut on Thursday, taking the total death toll to 17. Also, at least 10 new cases surfaced in Meerut, taking the tally to 285 - which includes one admitted in Kanpur. Significantly, a Delhi police constable from Ladpura (Garh) tested positive in Hapur. He had returned home in Hapur for a day and then left for duty later. His contacts have been quarantined and the area sanitised. Also, one person tested positive in Bijnor, taking the tally to 46, including three admitted in Kanpur. With the cases on the rise, in a late night decision, Dr RC Gupta, principal of Lala Lajpat Rai Memorial Medical College, was removed. Dr SK Garg, head of the department, community medicine at LLRM, was given the responsibility of officiating principal at LLRM. This comes a day after Dr Garg was made the vice-principal of the medical college. The decision was taken by Alok Pandey, UP special secretary, medical education. Meerut's chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Raj Kumar said, “Two persons died in Meerut on Thursday, taking the toll to 17. They included a 65-year-old man from Ishwarpuri (Brahmpuri). He was admitted to LLRM Medical College on May 11 with bilateral pneumonia, respiratory distress syndrome and septic shock. He passed away early on Thursday. Also, 21-year-old man from Ahmed Nagar area died at 9:30am on May 10 in Delhi’s Lok Nayak Hospital. However, the hospital did not inform us about the death, until we emailed them asking about the case on Thursday.” He is the youngest person to have died in Meerut and had comorbidity of intracranial abscess. While the family of the 21-year-old man, who had disability in both his legs, claimed that the body was kept at a morgue in Delhi as the hospital did not "bother to tell them about the death", the family of the 65-year-old man alleged that despite being admitted on May 11, the samples of his family members are yet to be taken. Detailing about the positive cases, Meerut district surveillance officer Dr Vishwas Chaudhary said, “At least 10 more cases tested positive in Meerut on Thursday. Their locations are being traced.” District magistrate of Hapur Aditi Singh said, “Ladpura, Garh, is the latest Covid hotspot on the list after a Delhi police constable was found positive in national capital late on Wednesday. He had visited his family here on May 7.” Bijnor's chief medical officer Dr Vijay Kumar said, “A fish-seller from Najibabad’s Rampura colony tested positive on Wednesday night. He has been admitted in Moradabad for further testing. His contacts are being quarantined and the area where he lived is being sanitised.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/2-more-covid-deaths-inmeerut-toll-reaches-17/articleshow/75745744.cms||Ishita Bhatia
May 15, 2020||Nagpur||CMO touched Parvati Nagar deceased with bare hands: GMC to HC||Nagpur: In a candid admission, Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) informed the high court that its chief medical officer (CMO) had touched the 22-year-old Covid-19 patient from Parvati Nagar, who died later, with bare hands to check his pulse. On Tuesday, the Nagpur bench of Bombay high court was apprised of the threat to doctors and health care workers not looking after corona patients at GMCH, as they work without personal protection equipment (PPEs). While quoting a TOI report of May 7, amicus curiae Anup Gilda had informed that due to government’s failure to provide PPEs and other protective gear for these medicos and health care workers, they’re under threat of getting infected from patients. Expressing concern, justice Madhav Jamdar then asked GMCH to reply by Friday. TOI had reported that after samples of deceased patient from Parvati Nagar tested positive, some doctors and attendants were sent to quarantine and tested, as they had first examined him without protective gear. This was the second time GMCH staff had to be quarantined for same reason. In an affidavit filed in Nagpur bench of Bombay high court on Thursday, GMCH nodal officer Rudresh Chakraborty admitted that the female doctor, who was on duty at OPD, checked the 22-year-old patient’s pulse with bare hands, as his condition was critical. “He was brought to the hospital at 10.45am on May 5, and his mother and sister were crying continuously. Though the CMO covered her mouth with a FFP mask, she wasn’t wearing hand gloves and rushed the patient inside after checking his pulse. The attendants who took the patients on a stretcher were wearing triple-layer masks. The other doctors in the OPD found his peripheral pulsation was absent and informed the relatives accordingly,” he said, adding that till that time nobody was aware that the youth was positive. The nodal officer clarified that doctors and other staff at OPD were not supposed to be in PPE kits, but were wearing N-95 masks when the patient was brought inside. He said as a precautionary measure, five doctors and six nurses were quarantined by GMCH administration. He added that abundant precautions were taken since the patient was admitted till his body was handed over to Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC). Gilda had also pointed out to the court the insufficient number of PPE kits, N-95 and triple-layer masks at GMCHs in Nagpur, Yavatmal, Akola, Gondia and Chandrapur. Chakraborty, however, contended that sufficient quantity of all this material is available with all GMCHs along with AIIMS, and they would request the government in case they want more quantity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cmo-touched-parvati-nagar-deceased-with-bare-hands-gmc-to-hc/articleshow/75746820.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
May 15, 2020||Meerut||‘Watertight’ lockdown in Meerut to break chain of Covid-19 infection||MEERUT: A sudden spike of more than 140 Covid-19 cases in last 12 days has prompted Meerut administration to enforce “watertight” lockdown from Thursday. Although relaxation was announced for medical stores and milk shops, but in reality police did not hesitate to challan even those put to procure daily needs. The heavy enforcement came after several videos and pictures of blatant flouting of lockdown rules became a cause of embarrassment for the local authorities, accompanied by spike in cases. At present, Meerut has 285 Covid-19 positive cases (including one case in Kanpur) with 17 deaths so far. According to district magistrate Anil Dhingra, the strictness was ensured to “break the chain” of infection. Throughout the day main crossings remained deserted as police fined every commuter who could not explain the reason of his moving out. Senior policemen patrolled all sensitive areas as well. “Sudden spike of cases in Meerut is a matter of concern and the only way out is the strict enforcement of lockdown. It became necessary when people misused the leniency provided to them. The total lockdown is for their safety,” said ADG Meerut zone Prashant Kumar. According to SP traffic Sanjeev Bajpai, “Around 1,000 challans were issued and 45 vehicles impounded. Only essential services, like medical stores and milk shops, were allowed to open. Not even kirana stores were open. It was a total lockdown.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/watertight-lockdown-in-meerut-to-break-chain-of-covid-19-infection/articleshow/75745771.cms||Sandeep Rai
May 15, 2020||Meerut||Disabled youth, 21, dies in Delhi hospital due to Covid-19, family gets to know it 4 days later||MEERUT: For the last four days, a quarantined family in Meerut was making desperate calls to find out about the well-being of their disabled son, 21. He was referred to a Delhi hospital after being found Covid-19 positive. None of them knew that all this while he was lying dead in the hospital’s mortuary, unclaimed and unattended. Hopes shattered and the calls ceased on Thursday when the news was broken to them. His elder brother, who came out of quarantine on Thursday and rushed to Delhi, found that the youth took his last breath on Sunday, with no one around. Meanwhile, Meerut district magistrate Anil Dhingra has ordered a probe into it. “An inquiry has been ordered under additional chief medical officer Dr Pooja Sharma and the sub-divisional magistrate (Sadar) to see if there was any negligence on our part,” the DM said. A senior Delhi government functionary said that the issue had just come into their knowledge. “The medical superintendent of the hospital is setting up a fact-finding committee to probe it,” she said. The youth who was suffering from a brain ailment was referred to the Delhi hospital on May 1, a day after his Covid-19 report came positive. He could not walk due to disability in both his legs. The family members, who were put under quarantine, were in contact with him through the phones of other patients in his ward. But they lost contact on Sunday. The next four days were traumatic for them. They also approached their local MLA, Rafiq Ansari, who also tried to contact authorities, but could not get any news. Ansari said, “On April 30, he was admitted to LLRM Medical College and tested positive for coronavirus. He was referred to a Delhi hospital on May 1 at 2pm. However, he was unable to get admission until 12 midnight. I contacted the chief medical officer, district magistrate and LLRM principal. They assured help, and he was later admitted to Lok Nayak Hospital around 2am on May 2.” His elder brother, on his way from Delhi with the body, told TOI, “The entire family was in quarantine. So we were in touch over phone, that too of the patients who were admitted in the same ward. On May 10, a patient started giving us negative vibes. That is when we contacted the DM and CMO. But they said if he were dead, Delhi authorities would have informed them.” He added, “We even tried to get in touch with Delhi officials, but all in vain. I was in quarantine, and got discharged on Wednesday. On Thursday morning, I left for Delhi and found at a police post inside the hospital that my brother died on May 10. My brother is no more and nobody bothered to inform us about it for four days. Is this how people are supposed to be treated?” Meerut CMO Dr Raj Kumar confirmed that the Delhi hospital did not inform them about the death. “According to norms, the Delhi hospital should have informed us about his death. However, nobody got in touch with us. We got to know about it on Thursday, that too after we sent them an email.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/disabled-youth-21-dies-in-delhi-hospital-due-to-covid-19-family-gets-to-know-it-4-days-later/articleshow/75745756.cms||Ishita Bhatia
May 15, 2020||Bareilly||Post-lockdown rules: Auto union seeks fare hike||Bareilly: The auto drivers’ union in the city has declared a fare hike, to minimum Rs 20 per passenger, after the transport department and district administration announced that in case the state decides to allow public transport to operate after lockdown is relaxed, auto-rickshaws and tempos can carry only two passengers besides the driver, in order to maintain social distancing. Under the banner of Auto-rickshaw Drivers’ Welfare Society, the auto-rickshaw union has requested district administration and regional transport department to permit operations of public transport vehicles in the city, also saying they will be charging passengers extra to maintain physical distancing. Ordinarily, auto-rickshaws carry several times more than the three passengers they are provisioned for. President of the drivers’ union, Pankaj Kumar, said, “Ever since lockdown was enforced, operation of public transport vehicles like auto-rickshaws and tempos has been restricted. Drivers, owners and other people involved in the running of these vehicles have been dealing with financial crisis for two months since then. We’ve requested authorities to grant us permission to operate autos and tempos, so that we can earn our livelihood. And since social distancing norms have to be mandatorily followed in public transport, we’re planning to raise the fare.” Kumar added, “During normal days, 4-6 people commute in auto-rickshaws, while tempos accommodate up to 8-10 passengers. However, directions have been issued to ferry only 2-3 people now as precaution against infection spread. This will take a toll on our earnings. Thus, we’re planning to increase the fare. We’re awaiting approval for the same and will also meet Bareilly DM Nitish Kumar regarding this.” Speaking to TOI, senior ARTO (Bareilly) R P Singh said, “As of now, public transport is restricted in the city, and shall not be permitted till we get directions from the administration. Things will get clearer post-Lockdown III. Fare hike too hasn’t been finalised yet.” On Wednesday, union members made changes in one auto-rickshaw by placing a wooden plank as partition, to ensure social distancing. It was displayed for approval to divisional commissioner Ranvir Prasad at the commissioner’s office in Civil Lines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/post-lockdown-rules-auto-union-seeks-fare-hike/articleshow/75746835.cms||Maria Khan
May 15, 2020||Nagpur||Traders a confused lot about NMC’s shop opening rules||Nagpur: As the lockdown relaxations come into force, most traders and businessmen want to follow the law and various orders passed by Nagpur Municipal Corporation under Epidemic Diseases Act, Disaster Management Act and their rules. “However, it becomes very difficult for a common man to understand legal terminology. Therefore, if any trader is found opening his shop in these days, he shouldn’t be charged with high fines or penalties,” said Vidarbha Taxpayers Association’s (VTA) secretary Tejinder Singh Renu. He said the civic administration needs to understand that traders and industrialists are still afraid of opening their establishments and units for spread of virus among staff and themselves. However, out of financial pressure of commitments and banks, they are compelled to do so. So, the administration should take a sympathetic view while enforcing the lockdown, he said. “A clause of the latest order dated May 13 by NMC directs that all malls, market complexes and markets shall remain closed. So, if we go by the definition of market “a meeting together of people for the purpose of trade by private purchase and sale, and usually not by auction”, then every commercial place in Nagpur is a market. So Sadar, Sitabuldi, Central Avenue, Dharampeth, Mahal and likewise cannot open, other than to sell essential commodities,” he pointed out. “Likewise, when we say any particular lane having not more than five shops that are selling non-essential goods can remain open. The point raised is what should be the length of a lane be considered, whether it should be between two intersections or as per the lane or road as named by NMC. As many shops are on Ring Roads and highways, the question of length does comes into question,” Renu said. TOI also brought this to the notice of NMC. Additional municipal commissioner Ram Joshi admitted about minor ambiguities in the NMC order. “We have instructed nuisance detection squad of NMC in all 10 zones not to levy any penalties on traders and shopkeepers as of now,” he said. Joshi said shop owners may open their shops, and if anyone is found not legally allowed to open under this order, NDS will ask the shop owner to close down his trade with a warning, without charging any penalty. NDS commandant Veersen Tambe said on Thursday the entire hosiery market in Gandhibagh area was open. On being informed, the civic body closed the shops opened illegally. On Wednesday too, assistant commissioner Ashok Patil also closed down some automobile workshops and spare parts shops in Gandhibagh area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/traders-a-confused-lot-about-nmcs-shop-opening-rules/articleshow/75746850.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
May 15, 2020||Pune||184 Puneites return, hotels in a fix to meet demands||PUNE: As many as 184 Indians reached the city on Wednesday from destinations such as Kuala Lumpur, London, Chicago and Kuwait, taking the total number of Puneites returning since Sunday to over 350 people as part of the Vande Bharat mission. Six hotels in the city have been roped in for putting them in quarantine, the latest addition being a budget hotel in Baner. Hoteliers involved in giving their properties as a quarantine hubs said they were working with 20% staff, while the travellers have high expectations. A district administration official said, “Many of the repatriated Puneites want home quarantine, whch we can’t allow. None of them has any signs of flu” A hotelier told TOI, “The guests in quarantine should understand that the hotels are short staffed and be less demanding.” A Shivajinagar-based hotelier said, “We are getting calls from some influential people to let them meet those quarantined. This flouts the norms.” A representative of a five-star luxury hotel said, “Many guests want the air-conditioner at lower temperature. But we have been told to keep it at 24-25ºC.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/184-puneites-return-hotels-in-a-fix-to-meet-demands/articleshow/75747443.cms||Neha Madaan
May 15, 2020||Chandigarh||FIR against Ramdarbar residents||Chandigarh: The police have registered a case against unknown residents of Ramdarbar for violating UT directions. The FIR was filed on the basis of a video footage being circulated on social media. Police department has also recommended strict action against two cops seen in the video who did not inform their seniors about it. As a cured patient returned home, resident gathered there to welcome him, giving social distancing a miss. Two cops were also seen in the video standing there. The cops didn’t make any efforts to disperse the crowd.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/fir-against-ramdarbar-residents/articleshow/75746834.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Surat link adds to Odisha’s Covid-19 count as 84 more test positive||BHUBANESWAR: Ganjam’s Covid-19 figures went beyond 250 after 42 more from the district tested positive for the virus on Thursday, taking the state total to 624. The 42 were all returnees from Surat and were part of the 86 who tested positive on the day. Ganjam, with 252 cases, accounts for 40% of the state’s total positive count. Most of the infected in Ganjam are those who returned from Surat on or after May 3. The Surat link was responsible for Kendrapada’s 13 cases on Thursday, while five of the nine who tested positive in Bhadrak had come back from the Gujarat city. Among the rest, three had returned from West Bengal and one from Karnataka. Similarly, Khurda district reported three positive cases, all returnees from Surat. This is the first time Khurda district has reported cases outside Bhubaneswar. Jajpur reported 17 new cases, all with recent travel history to West Bengal. Incidentally, Jajpur also saw 15 patients recovering from Covid-19, raising the number of cured in the state to 158. Sundargarh also added two more cases, both close contacts of people who had earlier tested positive in the containment zone of Nala Road in Rourkela. Even as the number of cases go up, more than one lakh people have returned from other states, a government statement said. More than 11,000 people returned on Thursday alone. Keeping in mind the return of workers, the government has been adding quarantine facilities at the panchayat level. “The 14,888 temporary medical centres in 6798 panchayats can now accommodate more than six lakh people,” government spokesperson Subroto Bagchi said. Health minister Naba Kishore Das said in view of the migrants’ return and the need for test in quarantine centres, the government is trying to increase the testing capacity. “The empowered group of ministers, led by finance minister Niranjan Pujari, on Thursday decided to start testing in medical colleges at Balangir, Koraput and Baripada,” Das said. “The plan is to increase the tests per day to 15,000 from the current 4500 per day in the eight testing centres,” he added. So far, the state has tested 77,150 samples. Meanwhile, a three-member central team toured some the worst affected districts on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/surat-link-adds-to-states-covid-count-as-84-more-test-ve/articleshow/75745787.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Kolhapur||Home delivery of liquor to start in Kolhapur soon||KOLHAPUR: Wine shops in the city may soon start home delivery of liquor as they have started looking for delivery boys. Some are trying out the option of e-commerce applications and websites for the same. While people will soon be able to order their choice of liquor merely by sitting at home, excise officials have warned of strict action against those shops that are found violating social distancing norms. Also, shops violating the advisory issued for home delivery of liquor will be penalised. According to excise officials, there are 42 liquor shops and 147 beer shops in the district. A total of 17 liquor shops and eight beer shops are operating in Kolhapur city alone. All these shops have been granted permission to sell liquor in their respective areas. “We are relieved that the government has granted us permission for starting home delivery of liquor. This will help us in managing crowd at our shops. We are looking at various options for home delivery of liquor, hiring delivery boys is one of them. Some people have also approached us for the job. Once we select people for the job, we will start home delivery. At present, we are selling liquor at our shops,” said a liquor shop owner from the Shahupuri area. Superintendent of police, excise department, Ganesh Patil said, “We have floated mobile numbers of liquor and beer shop owners. Customers can call them and place orders if they are ready to home deliver their products.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/home-delivery-of-liquor-to-start-in-kolhapur-soon/articleshow/75745754.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Chandigarh||12 women cops test negative||CONTACTS OF +VE CONSTABLEChandigarh: The UT police department took a sigh of relief after 12 women constables tested negative for Covid-19 on Thursday. They had given their samples after their colleague, also a woman constable, tested positive on May 12. It was the first confirmed case in UT Police. Of the 12, seven lived with the woman constable in the same barrack at a training centre in Sector 26 Police Lines and five came in her contact.Police said five of them had Covid-19-like symptoms, but all have tested negative. “They are under quarantine and will join duty after completing their isolation period,” said a cop. The constable, who had tested positive, was deployed at grain market with a team of municipal corporation and might have contracted the infection from there, as Bapu Dham Colony of Sector 26 has reported more than 100 positive cases so far. The training centre’s barracks are functional with 50% capacity. As many as 250 constables are staying there. All the barracks are being sanitised and occupants screened, Police Lines officials said. All cops are being provided gloves, masks, soaps and sanitisers and those deployed at the hotspots are being given personal protection equipment (PPE) kits, officials added. Cops have been told that if anybody developed fever, cold and cough, (s)he must report to their unit head and get themselves screened. Earlier, samples of five cops were taken and all tested negative.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/12-women-cops-test-negative/articleshow/75746831.cms||Pawan Tiwari
May 15, 2020||Bareilly||Brick kiln worker run over by train, dies||Bareilly: A brick kiln worker was reportedly run over by a Shramik Special train near Bilpur railway crossing under Fatehganj East area on Thursday. The gateman informed the railway officials about the incident following which police reached the spot and sent his body for post-mortem. Station house officer of government railway police (GRP) inspector Kishan Avtar Singh said that they received information about the deceased man found at railway track in the morning. They then sent the body of the man – in his early 30s – to a mortuary. “Earlier, we were informed that a migrant worker may have fallen off a running train. The railway administration as well as our staff had informed our Lucknow counterpart to check if any passenger was missing from the train. Then, in the afternoon, a local family approached us looking for a missing man. We took them to a mortuary where they identified him as Bhure Kashyap,” the SHO said. Police said that Kashyap was a labourer working at a brick kiln in Lahikhera village. His brother in-law Mahesh said that he may have consumed liquor at night and then went missing. The family tried to search for him, but in vain. They later went to a police station to learn that a man’s body was found on a railway track.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/brick-kiln-worker-run-over-by-train-dies/articleshow/75746851.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Chandigarh||2 arrested for roaming around without a mask||tnnChandigarh: Police arrested two persons for roaming on roads without a mask in Bapu Dham Colony on Thursday.“A patrol found the two — Arvind Kumar and Deepak of the colony —walking on the road near Sheetla Mata temple. They were neither wearing a mask nor had a valid reason to step out,” said a cop.The two were arrested under sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of the IPC. They were later released on bail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/2-arrested-for-roaming-around-without-a-mask/articleshow/75746837.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: 8-day wait for vegetables, groceries finally ends today||Ahmedabad: After a long wait of eight days, stores selling groceries, vegetables and fruits will finally resume operations across Ahmedabad, bringing relief to citizens. As the decision to shut shops selling all items except milk and medicines from May 7, was announced in the evening on May 6, people had little time to procure essentials, and many returned empty-handed despite waiting in serpentine queues outside stores.  “I was left without vegetables and even groceries since it was barely the start of the month. I only had onions and potatoes at home. Looking at the never-ending queues outside stores and the chaotic rush, I avoided buying anything and returned home. But I really hope there is some respite as stores resume operations from Friday,” said Arjun Dave, a resident of Ambawadi. However, some are extremely wary of the anticipated rush at stores and therefore, have chosen not to venture out over the next two-three days. The civic authorities have issued at least 30,000 licenses to vegetable and fruit vendors and grocers. Strict conditions of maintaining social distancing, use of mask, gloves and sanitisers by staff and encouraging digital payments and using separate trays for cash payments have been imposed by civic authorities. Meanwhile, the APMC has made arrangements to ensure that adequate supply of fruits and vegetables is ensured in the city. Sources said that the wholesale markets have been set up at Riverfront Gurjari Market, AMC ground at Bhakti Circle in Nikol and AES ground near Doordarshan Tower, so that traders don’t have to rush all the way up to Jetalpur APMC to procure vegetables.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/8-day-wait-for-vegetables-groceries-finally-ends-today/articleshow/75747073.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Kochi||Kochi students make disinfection robot||KOCHI: A group of students of Rajagiri School of Engineering and Technology, Kakkanad, have come up with a multi-utility unmanned disinfection robot to fight the Covid-19 pandemic. Named RAKSHAK’20, the robot is equipped with a 16-litre storage tank, surveillance camera, all-terrain wheel system, small storage space for carrying necessary medicines and medical equipment, and a sprayer system. It is controlled wirelessly with a range of 1km and can be operated with a remote control so the operator does not have the risk of infection. The robot was developed by the present third year mechanical engineering students — Gokuldas VR, Jerin P Raju, Aswin S Nair and Ashik Faizal — under the guidance of assistant professor Vishnu Sankar and John M George, dean and vice-principal of the department of mechanical engineering. It was developed at the department laboratory during the lockdown at a cost of Rs 15,000. It is currently being used for the disinfection and sanitation activity in the college hostel which is converted to a quarantine home for the people coming from abroad. The camera on the robot enables the operator to navigate it from far distance. Also, the remote can control the amount of disinfectant to be sprayed and also the direction of the sprayer. The students are working on an upgraded model of the robot by inculcating artificial intelligence. “With that there will be no need of the remote and the robot will follow the pre-programmed route map and do the disinfection,” said said Vishnu Sankar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/students-make-disinfection-bot/articleshow/75744597.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Mumbai||Government knew about my deposition, why raise it now: Thipsay on NiMo case||MUMBAI: A day after he deposed as an expert legal witness on behalf of fugitive economic offender Nirav Modi in his extradition proceedings before a London court, retired Bombay high court judge, Justice Abhay Thipsay said he wondered what the political outcry over the deposition was all about. Union law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad, on Thursday, posted on social media, “When the Narendra Modi government has taken action against Nirav Modi and is trying to bring him back, a member of the Congress and a former judge has appeared as witness in defence…Congress has always tried to save Modi.” But Thipsay said, “I am just a primary member. My joining the party has nothing to do with my professional legal opinion or my profession.” He added that since his retirement in March 2017, he has been doing legal consultation work. “I was asked by Modi’s UK-based law firm for my professional opinion on merits of extradition according to the law in India and whether the case against Modi amounts to criminal offence under Indian law.” The former judge had deposed on Wednesday that there was no deception or cheating of Punjab National Bank (PNB) in the case against Modi. Speaking to TOI on Thursday, Thipsay added, “My job was to assist the court in forming an opinion on the Indian law on cheating, conspiracy and criminal breach of trust as offence, which I did.” He gave his deposition, which lasted for over an hour, from his home in Mumbai via a videolink sent by the UK court. He said his written opinion was sought and he sent a 28-page document last December. It was submitted in court and the Indian government had already sent its reply earlier this year. “The Central government was aware of it, so I wonder why it is being raised now.” The retired judge was cross examined by the prosecution. He was asked whether there was any “entrustment” of property with the officials. He said that giving the officials authority to issue the Letter of Undertaking (LoU) didn’t mean the bank had entrusted its property. Thipsay had, in his opinion, relied on case laws, and deposed that unless someone is deceived, there can be no cheating under Indian law. “Deception is an essential ingredient of an offence of cheating. If no one was deceived in issuing LoUs there is no question of a corporate body being deceived,” he had deposed. Modi is accused of obtaining unsanctioned loans worth over Rs 7000 crore at highly advantageous rates by means of LoUs from Punjab National Bank (PNB) in conspiracy with bank officials from 2011 until 2017. He left India in January 2018 and is currently in a UK jail. The extradition hearing began on May 11.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/govt-knew-about-my-deposition-why-raise-it-now-thipsay-on-nimo-case/articleshow/75747475.cms||Swati Deshpande
May 15, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: ‘Dil ki police’ turns saviour for the clueless||NEW DELHI: After nearly an hour at the Ambedkar Stadium bus terminal, from where she was promised a bus to Mayur Vihar, Yachna Nair, 47, finally lost her cool when informed that she would be dropped at the northeast district magistrate’s office at Nand Nagri, 12 km from her home. “I have been stranded for more than 40 days in Mumbai, I’m not feeling well and now you want me to walk with my daughter to Mayur Vihar in this heat? My husband is a heart patient and can’t come to pick us up,” an irate Nair shouted at a Delhi Transport Corporation official. This was when a high-ranking Delhi Police officer stepped in. “DTC only has permission to ply to DM offices,” the police officer explained to Nair and suggested that the women could be dropped — as an exception — by a police van. Nair’s daughter Ashima, an aspiring singer, is engaged to TV and film actor Ankit Shah and mother-daughter duo was in Mumbai to finalise arrangements for the June wedding. While waiting for the PCR van, Nair’s husband called to say he had managed to arrange a cab to pick the two women from the terminal. The police officer said, “Officially, I shouldn’t even be here because this area is not under my jurisdiction. I was trying to ensure smooth transfer of passengers from trains to shuttle buses and wanted to check if the passengers had boarded buses for their homes.” The officer was one of the higher ranks among the 100 Delhi Police personnel deployed to help rail passengers arriving and departing from Delhi. Akash Verma, who had arrived from Mumbai, was grateful for the police assistance. “If not for Delhi Police, I would have no clue where to board a bus for my home in Punjabi Bagh,” he said. Policemen could be seen helping senior citizens and women with children into buses, sometimes assisting them with their luggage or offering them drinking water. On Thursday, Delhi Police lived up to its newly coined slogan of 'Dil Ki Police, Delhi Police'. “We have been at the station since 5am, arranging parking for DTC buses and private vehicles and coordinating with Railways and DTC,” said Harendra Kumar Singh, DCP (Railways). “We assisted people disembarking from trains to board the shuttle buses,” he said. Singh added that inconvenience due to lack of public transport had prompted him to take up the matter with the authorities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/dil-ki-police-turns-saviour-for-the-clueless/articleshow/75748047.cms||Sidharatha Roy
May 15, 2020||Pune||Realtors say ecosystem crucial to boost sector||PUNE: The real estate sector cannot take meaningful strides without its entire ecosystem opening up, said top realtors in the city. Not just workers staying onsite, the remaining staff was also important to get things going. This involved people in finance to make timely payments. Around 90,000 units — in different stages of construction — are lying unsold in the city, Credai Pune-Metro told the government on Tuesday. “We have requested the collector to allow our contractors and supervisors to come to the site. We have also requested them to allow building material to begin and sustain work,” Suhas Merchant, the president of Credai Pune-Metro, said. The industry has also asked that registration of homes be allowed, as that can start things rolling, as many people have paid the token amount and are awaiting registrations. “We have started work but offices also need to start partly. Only then can we make payments order material, work on drawings and coordinate with the architects,”Atul Chordia, the director of Panchshil, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/realtors-say-ecosystem-crucial-to-boost-sector/articleshow/75747466.cms||Satyanarayan Iyer
May 15, 2020||Pune||‘Instead of total, lockdown models should be based on local conditions’||By: Prasad Praladh Akkonouru The Covid-19 crisis is unique in many ways. Many countries lacked previous experience to tackle such a pandemic and India is no exception. Post-independence, the outbreak of Covid-19 and the lockdown are a one-of-its-kind experience for India. Every country, state, region and city is different. Specific lockdown rules for one place may not be applicable for another place. India’s requirements will be different from a country like China or any other developed nation in terms of population density, economic classes, ethnic diversity, climate, lifestyle and immunity levels. One also has to keep in mind the heavy urbanization and mass migration. The containment measures for different places depend on all these factors. Pune city has a huge population of students from across the country and abroad and also migrant workers from Maharashtra and outside the state. Following the abrupt closure of all activities in the city, they were affected most. Several migrant workers were intercepted at various nakabandi points while they were trying to leave. Many old people suffered in the absence of their caretakers. Several households were also affected in the with the plumbers, electrician and barbers staying away from work. In the initial stage of Covid-19 crisis, when people with travel history were mostly affected, we could have allowed students, migrant labourers and stranded people to leave the city through some special travel arrangements after basic health screening. In the city, they are now more susceptible to contract the disease. Instead of a total lockdown , different lockdown models based on local conditions would have a better impact. The impact of the lockdown on economy and livelihood is worrisome. (The views shared are of the author and not the government)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/instead-of-total-lockdown-models-should-be-based-on-local-conditions/articleshow/75747468.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Pune||Raw material supply a worry for projects||PUNE: The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has issued an advisory listing the dos and don’ts for the construction industry to start work in non-containment zones. “Constructions outside the containment zones will benefit from this order. Only those projects which have got permissions before the lockdown can resume. They must follow the norms set for the mitigation of Covid-19,” additional commissioner Rubal Agrawal said. In-situ residential and quarantine facilities, compulsorily diabetes and blood tests, social distancing norms and no handshakes were some of stipulations. Developers said it was a good move but construction material must roll in first. Pune district collector Naval Kishore Ram on Wednesday had said crushing units outside the containment zones will be given permission to start.  “There are a good number of migrants who have waited for construction work to begin. Stone-crushing units will start to provide construction material,” he had said. According to Credai Pune Metro, around 400 on-going constructions can begin to function. The PMC advisory made health checks and hygiene on the construction sites mandatory as were masks, gloves and other personal protection equipment. “We have told workers to start full swing so that important tasks can be completed before the monsoon. If these works are not done before the rain, it may lead to other complications,” Suhas Merchant, president of Credai Pune Metro, said. Almost all construction projects in the city have in-situ facilities and workers are available, but construction material is scarce. “The transportation of material should be hastened. Commute of the supervisory staff has to be streamlined,” he said. Other directives include doctors’ visit to the site and restrictions on unwarranted entry of others. Thermal scanning of workers and other staff and use of barricades have been advised. Daily sanitisation of the common areas and facilities like bathrooms, toilets, canteen and hostel or common accommodation were also on the list.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/raw-material-supply-a-worry-for-projects/articleshow/75747461.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Vadodara||Vadodara: Bootleggers posing as health team caught||Vadodara: Bootleggers in the city are getting crafty amid the lockdown trying newer ways to ferry the contraband surreptitiously around the city. The detection of crime branch (DCB) on Thursday arrested two men for ferrying liquor in a car that had a special compartment under the seat. Not only that they also put up a signage, ‘On Duty SSG Hospital’, on the car to evade police interest. “While cops check every vehicle passing from the city roads, emergency vehicles including ambulances and government vehicles, are not intercepted. These bootleggers tried to take advantage of it by posing as hospital staff,” said a crime branch official. Based on a tip-off, cops reached the spot near Parshuram Bhatta in Sayajigunj on Thursday and accosted the vehicle and arrested bootlegger duo, Ravi Rajput and Natu Marwadi, from the spot. Crime branch sleuths found the secret compartment below the seat, where they had stocked Indian Made Foreign Liquor (IMFL) worth about Rs 8,000. Another accused Mahendra Marwadi is yet to be arrested. The cops have stepped up vehicle search in the city over last few days after some people were found flashing fake identity cards to move around.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/bootleggers-posing-as-health-team-caught/articleshow/75743924.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Chandigarh||3 trains from UT, Mohali take 4,353 migrants home||Chandigarh/Mohali: Three Shramik Express special trains departed with 4,353 migrants from Chandigarh and Mohali on Thursday. While one of the trains started from Mohali with 1501 passengers for Katihar in Bihar, the other two began their respective journeys from Chandigarh. The Mohali administration has managed to sent back nearly 15,000 migrants in a week. Deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan said, “We have complied the data, worked out statistics and prepared the district-wise departure schedule for the entire population of outbound migrants. With the restoration of activity in labour intensive industrial and construction sectors coupled with job opportunity in the ensuing paddy transplantation period, the drop-off rate of migrants registered for travelling back is increasing; daily over 30% declining to go back.” Meanwhile, one of the trains from Chandigarh to Partapgarh in Uttar Pradesh departed at 2pm with 1,340 on board whereas second train to Sitamarhi in Bihar had 1,512 passengers.Dual screening of all migrants, once at the collection centre and the other at railway station, is being done. They are ferried in buses, free of cost from collection centres to railway station and are provided with food, water and biscuits, by the district administration. Manipur, Andhra natives begin their homeward journey The DC said 225 migrants had been sent via buses to Sirhind to head towards Manipur and Andhra Pradesh while about 900 others would go to Madhya Pradesh on Friday. Besides, people seeking to go home on private vehicles were also being issued permission after due screening, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/3-trains-from-ut-mohali-take-4353-migrants-home/articleshow/75746843.cms||Barinderjit Saluja
May 15, 2020||Pune||Parking lot project restarts at airport||PUNE: The construction of the multi-level parking lot resumed at the airport after almost two months, officials stated. The project, which was to be completed within two years, has been delayed by almost 6 months due to the lockdown. Ravi Suresh Jain, director, Pebbles Infratech, Pune, which is engaged in the construction, told TOI that even though construction has resumed, there are still some teething problems. "The excavation work has resumed. Only 14 labourers are working. All precautions including sanitisation and social distancing are being taken. We had targetted to complete the work by January 2022. We have requested the Airports Authority of India to not consider the deadline now. If the lockdowns ends by mid-May, efforts will be made to expedite the work," Jain said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/parking-lot-project-restarts-at-airport/articleshow/75747480.cms||Joy Sengupta
May 15, 2020||Pune||Traders opt for profitable ventures as regular sales remain at a standstill||PUNE: Travel operator Pratik Shah seems to have taken the words, ‘when in doubt, choose change’ quite seriously. Twenty days ago, he launched a new company Global Expo that deals in protective gear and sanitization products. Shah set up the new project as he was left with no other source of income due to the pandemic. “We are selling, personal protective equipment, masks, gloves, sanitizers, sanitizer dispensers and several other products. We are also conducting mass sanitization for residential complexes, offices, factories and other establishments. Earlier, we were into the tourism business that has been hit due to the pandemic. We had to do something to keep the household afloat,” Shah stated. Several people have launched small businesses dealing in protective equipment or essential products to tide over the financial crunch caused by the lockdown Bhavana, Heena and Binkle Parekh have launched Sunrise Meal Mail that deals in eatables. “My mother-in-law, sister-in-law and I started this venture about 10 to 15 days ago. We noticed that many people have been unable to find certain items in the market while shops are overcharging for some essentials. We saw the opportunity and grabbed it. We are now delivering these products in nearby areas and providing the option of pickup for customers from other parts of the city,” Heena said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/traders-opt-for-profitable-ventures-as-regular-sales-remain-at-a-standstill/articleshow/75747492.cms||Rujuta Parekh
May 15, 2020||Pune||Pune: Work on Chandni Chowk flyover begins after 50 days||PUNE: The construction of the big ticket Chandni Chowk flyover, which was suspended when the lockdown was imposed nearly two months ago, has resumed. The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI), which is executing the project for the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), said it resumed construction earlier this week at 40% strength — normally, over 100 workers are on duty per day at the site. “After the lockdown was extended for the third time, we had to seek permission from the police and other authorities concerned. Work had begun to gather pace earlier this week — it will take some more time to proceed in full swing as not all workers have resumed duties. We will decide the future course of action as per the instructions of state and Union governments,” senior NHAI official Suhas Chitnis said. He said workers who had opted to stay back in the city have been asked to come back to work. “No work was done in the first and second phases of the lockdown. Work has started on sites on Mulshi Road, Vedvihar Road, Shringeri Road, near Ramnandi Road and on the road to Mumbai. Social distancing is being followed,” Chitnis said. The PMC said the flyover was important as Chandni Chowk is a major entry/exit point to Pune from the national highway — traffic from NDA, Pashan, Kothrud, Mulshi accumulates here, sparking regular traffic jams.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/work-on-chandni-chowk-flyover-begins-after-50-days/articleshow/75747478.cms||Mandar Deshpande
May 15, 2020||Bareilly||Two more Covid-19 deaths in Moradabad, tally 148||BAREILLY: Two more persons died of Covid-19 in Moradabad on Tuesday night, taking the toll to seven. The reports came on Wednesday evening in which both were found positive for the virus. Chief medical officer (CMO) Dr MC Garg said 13 more people tested positive on Thursday. The Covid-19 tally in Moradabad has reached 148, with 52 active cases. The health department said that among the 13 new cases, two are siblings, while 10 cases were reported on Wednesday. The CMO further said that as many as 89 people have been discharged so far after their tests were found negative. The CMO added that the two individuals who died of the virus were aged 73 and 52. The former was a brother of a judicial officer while the latter was a corona warrior - sanitation worker - deputed at isolation ward of L-1 hospital. “Reports of both the individuals arrived after their deaths late on Wednesday. Among the new cases, one is a vegetable seller while the other is a 24-year-old deputed at L-1 hospital ward,” the CMO said. Meanwhile, district magistrate RK Singh said that last rites of both the deceased were carried out following government's strict guidelines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/two-more-covid-19-deaths-in-moradabad-tally-148/articleshow/75746864.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Ahmedabad||Maintain social distancing when shops open: Ahmedabad DGP||AHMEDABAD: A day before the abrupt 7-day ban on sales of vegetables and groceries ends in city, DGP Shivanand Jha warned people to remain cautious about forming crowds and ignoring social distancing. Reminding that the lockdown is still in full force, Jha said that people earlier caught breaching lockdown norms will have their vehicles seized and will face strict legal action if found committing the same offences. Jha reiterated that a two-wheeler should carry only one person and a car just two persons. Though people have been warned to avoid gatherings at religious places, some are flouting the rule Jha said. “Yesterday, eight people along with a priest were booked for holding an ‘aarti’ at a temple in Sabarmati area,” he added. Jha also pointed at misuse of lockdown exemption passes given to vehicles and individuals. The state monitoring cell on Wednesday caught a tanker which had a sticker for carrying essential supplies, but was carrying liquor worth Rs 51 lakh. “In Rajkot, two touts were caught taking money from people to get them lockdown exemption passes,” Jha said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/maintain-social-distancing-when-shops-open-dgp/articleshow/75747068.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Traffic duty for students after assessment||BHUBANESWAR: Even though traffic police personnel are back on the roads following 7am to 7pm movement of vehicles since May 4, the commissionerate police have decided not to resume deployment of student traffic volunteers (STVs) immediately in view of Covid-19 pandemic. At least 300 STVs had been assisting the police personnel in regulating traffic in the capital city. “We will wait till the Covid situation improves. For the time being, we will not bring the STVs back on duty. Since they are students, we do not want to take risk. They will be called back to duty after assessment of the situation in next few weeks,” deputy commissioners of police (traffic) Sagarika Nath told TOI. The student traffic volunteer scholarship scheme was introduced by the police in Bhubaneswar in January 2017. Each student is entitled to get Rs 100 every day for at least three hours of traffic duty. A few days ago, some STVs met the senior traffic officials and requested them to resume their duties. “We are out of duty since March 22 lockdown. As vehicle movements have already gathered pace, we are ready to resume our duties by wearing masks and maintaining social distance. We are losing out Rs 100 every day,” a student volunteer said requesting anonymity. Sagarika said almost all major traffic posts are functional now from 7 am to 7 pm. “We are now manually operating most traffic junctions. Automated signal system has been deactivated temporarily as the barricades, which were installed earlier for checking of vehicles during the restrictions, are still there. The presence of barricades and temporary police checkpoints at the traffic posts may lead to chaos if we resume automated traffic signal system. We are gradually removing the barricades,” Sagarika said. She said enforcement against road rule violators too has started with the traffic back on the roads. The traffic cops have been asked to enforce helmet and seatbelt rules. “We are not going after the wrong-side drivers for the time being due to the presence of barricades at traffic posts and closure of one-way roads at some places,” Sagarika said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/traffic-duty-for-students-after-assessment/articleshow/75745826.cms||Debabrata Mohapatra
May 15, 2020||Jaipur||Provide transport, food, shelter to migrants walking home: Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot||JAIPUR: In a relief to migrants walking back home, chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Thursday directed collectors to arrange buses and trains for them and, in the meantime, put up tents for shelter, provide food and toilet facilities. While local sub-divisional magistrates (SDMs) are accountable for providing these facilities, deputy superintendents of police would assist them with relief operations. The chief minister said it was painful to watch migrants walking. “The videos of migrant workers travelling on foot are disturbing. I request all those who are making such videos, if possible inform the local administration and along with video, provide their location and contact details if any,” Gehlot said in a tweet. He directed the state roadways to provide buses on demand by district collectors. He also directed collectors to ensure that SDMs of areas, which have important roads, have been allocated sufficient number of buses. The SDM has to ensure that no migrant worker is forced to walk home while the local deputy superintendent of police would assist the official in the relief operation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/provide-transport-food-shelter-to-migrants-walking-home-cm/articleshow/75747486.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Nashik||Special Shramik train brings 1,500 migrants from Junagad||NASHIK: As many as 1,500 migrant workers returned from Junagad in Gujarat to Nandurbar by a special Shramik train on Thursday. Of these, 10 workers were from Shirpur and Dhule and the remaining migrants residents of Nandurbar district. Officials from the district administration said that due to lack of irrigation facilities in the hilly areas, many people travelled from Nandurbar to Junagad in search of job opportunities after Diwali and returned home before monsoon to prepare their farms for the kharif season. This time, however, they got stuck in Gujarat due to the lockdown. “District guardian minister K C Padvi was flooded with requests to arrange for the transportation of the workers. He got in touch with the administration and arranged for a Shramik train ,,” said the officials. The workers were asked to observe social distancing norms once they deboarded the train. 51 buses were pressed into service to take the workers home after they were screened and given ‘home-quarantine’ stamps. “All the workers will be in home-quarantine for 14 days. The local teams at the village-level will keep a watch on them. Their medical check-up will be carried out from time to time,” said an official. The tribal development department bore the total expenditure of Rs 6.37 lakh for arranging the trasnportation of the workers. Pregnant woman returning from Pune delivers baby girl A pregnant woman, a resident of Nandurbar who was returning from Pune by a bus arranged by the tribal development department, went in labour during the journey. She was rushed to a hospital in Manmad town of Nandgaon district where she delivered a baby girl. On the directions of district guardian minister K C Padvi, the mother and child were taken home by the tribal development department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/special-shramik-train-brings-1500-migrants-from-junagad/articleshow/75745877.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Chandigarh||Foreign returnees to be tested at Zirakpur resort||Mohali: All arrangements have been made and health department teams constituted to check NRIs arriving by road from Delhi and Punjabis coming from other states. They would be screened at a private resort in Zirakpur, said deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan. He said after medical examination, they would be asked to quarantine themselves either at homes or at paid hotel facility arranged by the Mohali administration. “Travellers stuck abroad due to lockdown are expected to return soon and will be extended paid institutional quarantine facility in accordance with MHA guidelines,” he said. Each passenger, before boarding, gave an undertaking to abide by the rules. The district administration has identified different categories of hotels and option would be open to inbound traveller. “Two flights are expected in a couple of days,” said Dayalan. The sarpanches and the numberdars of the villages in the district have been asked to inform the SDMs concerned or sector officer or chief nodal officer about foreign returnees. In case of municipal committees and municipal corporations, councillors or commissioners and the executive officer would inform the SDM or sector or nodal officer. When informed, the SDM or officers will activate the rapid response team (RRT) and screen the incomers. The civil surgeons would make sure that the RRTs intimate the SMO concerned and district control room about any person found symptomatic. He or she would be tested immediately and the protocol of the health department would be followed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/foreign-returnees-to-be-tested-at-zirakpur-resort/articleshow/75746854.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Nagpur||GMCH adopts new guidelines, discharges 21 without testing||Nagpur: The Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) has started discharging pre-symptomatic positive patients of Covid-19 without testing on 10th day of admission from Isolation Ward as per new guidelines of the central and state governments. It is likely to be followed by Indira Gandhi Government Medical College and Hospital (IGGMCH) from Friday. 21 pre-symptomatic patients were discharged from GMCH on Thursday and over 30 are likely to return home from IGGMCH on Friday.GMCH and IGGMCH were so far discharging patients only after if swab samples of 14th and 15th day came negative. Several patients had to spend over 40 days in Isolation wards. It was also mandatory for them to home quarantine themselves for 14 days. Action was taken against a discharged person for violating home quarantine.TOI had on May 12 reported about the new guidelines of discharging Covid-19 patients. Under these, patients having no symptom on 7th, 8th and 9th days can go home on 10th day and be in home isolation for next seven days. They are liable for action in case of violation.Before discharge, GMCH took an undertaking from 21 patients for abiding home isolation for next seven days. Seventeen of them are from Satranjipura, three from Mominpura, and one from Yashodhara Nagar.Divisional commissioner Sanjeev Kumar told TOI, “DMER and public health department had adopted new guidelines giving reference of Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). All other cities in the state have begun following them. Hence, GMCH and IGGMCH too adopted them.”Sources said municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe and his team were reluctant to implement the new guidelines considering behaviour of some discharged patients.GMCH dean Dr Sajal Mitra said, “We are bound to follow the guidelines of the government. Still, we discussed the issue with all stakeholders including the patients for last two days. We also consulted Kumar, NMC, police department and district administration before implementing them. As no separate order was required, we discharged the 21 patients. They were all fit and no one was having any symptom for last three-four days. All of them completed 10-days in Isolation Ward. Some of them had stayed longer,” he said.GMCH also discharged seven more positive persons as per old policy on Thursday.Total number of recoveries from the district increased to 140 and are likely to swell in coming days with new guidelines.On Thursday, three more persons tested positive increasing the district’s tally to 318. Two patients are new cases.A 20-year-old man from Jharkhand was staying at NMC’s shelter home at Timki. He along with a few others was shifted to NMC’s shelter home at Ravi Nagar square on May 12 for sending to their home state. He was having fever and dullness. Therefore, he was admitted at GMCH. His reports came positive on Thursday.Another new case is 65-year-old person from Baba Farid Nagar, Kharbi, on Umrer road in South Nagpur. “He appears to have come from outside so people lodged a complaint with police. A team of police and Pachgaon Primary Health Centre visited his house and admitted him at GMCH three days ago. His reports came positive,” an NMC health official said.This area will be a new containment zone increasing the number to 16. This is ninth case from new area in last 10 days.Third patient is a 28-year-old from Chhoti Masjid, Satranjipura, and was at VNIT Institutional Quarantine Centre. His swab samples were collected on Wednesday that came positive on Thursday. Number of cases from Satranjipura, city’s first hotspot, increased to 120.A whopping number of 547 samples tested negative on Thursday which is second highest in a single day after 562 on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/gmch-adopts-new-guidelines-discharges-21-without-testing/articleshow/75746869.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
May 15, 2020||Delhi||Mob goes berserk at ration centre in Delhi||NEW DELHI: In another incident of beneficiaries going on a rampage at a food and dry ration distribution centre, a mob gathered outside a North Delhi Municipal Corporation school in Prem Nagar, Kirari, and indulged in heavy stone-pelting. Ration was not getting distributed on Thursday which infuriated the people. The staff, however, managed to shut the entrance. Police were called after the mob refused to disperse and continued banging on the gate and pelting stones. The school management told TOI that they were supposed to prepare the records on Thursday instead of distributing ration, but people refused to listen. Prior to this, teachers from south and east corporation primary schools had complained about similar incidents during ration distribution with their senior officials. Bharat Lal Meena, principal of the primary school where the incident took place, said that after a circular was received from the government regarding submission of details of ration distributed so far, a notice was pasted outside the school on May 13 clarifying that no distribution would happen on Thursday. “Beneficiaries, however, started gathering outside the school from early morning itself. Our staff, civil defence volunteers and paramilitary staff tried to explain them the reason behind no ration distribution, but in vain. They fought with the staff, abused them and accused them of stealing the ration meant for them. They even gheroed the teachers. When things went out of control and the mob started pelting stones, we had to dial police for help,” Meena narrated. Meena added that the incident created panic among the school staff. Later, a senior north corporation official wrote to the secretary of the department of food supplies and consumer affairs, Delhi government, demanding coupons be issued as per the availablity of ration and the time allocated for distribution. Varsha Joshi, the north corporation commissioner, told TOI, “We have been writing to Delhi government about the issues being faced by the teachers on ration distribution duty. These issues are mostly arising due to non-availability of list of beneficiaries or ration. Our officials have also been requesting the district magistrates for more civil defence volunteers and police personnel at these centres.” “People had gathered around the school in large numbers. We will register a case once we receive an official complaint,” said a police officer. Teachers unions have, meanwhile, reiterated their concern regarding the safety of teachers. “We want immediate action for safety of school teachers who are risking their lives by doing duties in odd circumstances. We are not against doing work during the corona pandemic, but we are teachers and not trained to deal with a mob,” said Ram Niwas Solanki of MCD Nagar Nigam Shikshak Sangh. The district magistrate was unavailable for a comment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/mob-goes-berserk-at-ration-centre/articleshow/75747540.cms||Vibha Sharma
May 15, 2020||Pune||Job-switch rush||PUNE: Adhrgu Mashram drove an autorickshaw two months ago and is a vegetable vendor now. “I had to think of an option for survival,” said Mashram, who sells vegetables along Kondhwa Rad. In Lullanagar, two men sell garbage disposal bags.“We used to in a confectionary shop,” one of them said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/job-switch-rush/articleshow/75747497.cms||Joy Sengupta
May 15, 2020||Jaipur||FM’s affordable rental housing scheme echoes needs of industry||Jaipur: Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharama’s announcement on Thursday to launch a scheme for affordable rental housing for migrant workers and urban poor has echoed the need articulated by the industry in Rajasthan. Announcing the second tranche of relief measures, she said Affordable Rental Housing Complexes (AHRC) will be launched under PPP mode through concessionaire. This was exactly what the industry had demanded for industrial workers. Industry body PHDCCI had recently proposed that the state government should sell land to builders on reserved prices for affordable housing where builders will construct flats and housing societies allowing industrialists buy the units in bulk at the same rates which could be rented out to workers. “We want the workers to buy the flats but at the same time the factory owners should be allowed to purchase in bulk. In the present situation, workers face difficulties in buying houses due to lower CIBIL score, lack of proper documentation and migratory nature of their job. This is where the industrialists can fill the gap,” said Digvijay Dhabriya, chairman of PHDCCI-Rajasthan. He said the decision of the finance minister will provide good accommodation to labourers who can work smoothly in difficult situations like the current pandemic and other natural calamities while taking full precaution of social distancing, health and hygiene. The fate of many industries depends on the real estate sector and its revival holds the key to restarting economic activities. Suresh Agarwal, president of Federation of Rajasthan Industry, said hundreds of industries, not only steel and cement as mentioned by the finance minister, will be impacted positively if the real estate sector starts moving. “The housing sector creates demand in several industries. If the economy is to revive, it has to get a strong impetus from it. Even though the affordable segment is small in terms of value, it can restart the wheels which is need of the hour,”said Agarwal. Sunil Jain, president Credai-Rajasthan, said the finance minister’s proposal to extend the credit linked subsidy scheme for affordable housing for people having annual income Rs 6-18 lakh will give some impetus to the sector. The scheme which was a part of the PM Awas Yojna, which started in 2017, had expired on March 2020 but the finance minister announced to extend it by another year. On AHRC, Jain said although they are waiting for the details and the announcement comes as good news for the sector which has suffered a lot due to the lockdown. CM Ashok Gehlot reacted on FM Nirmala Sitharama’s announcement about MNREGA in her briefing on Thursday through a couple of tweets. The CM tweeted, “During present time of crisis due to #Covid_19 & complete slowdown in economy, #MNREGA proves to be a ray of hope for country’s poor in rural areas. This social security measure that aims to guarantee the right to work is a boon to rural poor people by the UPA. (sic)” In another tweet he said, “Now as FM Sitharaman ji has announced relief measures, MNREGA will ensure poor migrants get work when they reach home. It will provide livelihood security for atleast some days but govt must also consider giving wages to all registered MNREGA workers for the period of lockdown. (sic)”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/fms-affordable-rental-housing-scheme-echoes-needs-of-industry/articleshow/75747507.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Ahmedabad||More coaches for train to Delhi from Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: The Indian Railways, following demand in the Delhi special train from Ahmedabad has decided to attach additional 3AC and a 2AC coaches in the special train to Delhi from Ahmedabad. Railways officials said that following the rush from Ahmedabad station it was decided that they would have one 3AC and one 2AC coach added in the train which leaves from Ahmedabad and also in the train which comes from Delhi. The officials pointed out that the train from Ahmedabad gets booked completely within two hours of reservation being started. However, there was not much rush on the train coming from Delhi. The Delhi special train was the first normal passengers train after 50 days and made its first journey from Ahmedabad on May 12. On Thursday, as the train left for Delhi, 19 passengers were not allowed to board the train as they had fever or showed signs of Covid-19. Railway officials said that on Thursday the first train arrived at Sabarmati station. Railways said 1,178 passengers had boarded the train from Delhi. While only 515 came to Sabarmati station, the remaining passengers got down at various other destinations either in the state or in Rajasthan. Officials said that movement of passengers in the station area was regulated by strict protocol. The passengers were allowed to get down from the train and leave in sequence by following social distancing. Two coaches were dealt at a time and passengers were screened for temperature and allowed to alight from one exit only. Passengers with no symptoms of Covid-19 were stamped for home quarantine while those showing symptoms were directed to institutional quarantine. However, no passengers who arrived from Delhi on Thursday showed any symptoms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/more-coaches-for-train-to-delhi/articleshow/75747066.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Pune||Pune: Council moots donation camps as blood banks face acute shortage||PUNE: Blood banks in the state are running out of stock, triggering an appeal from the State Blood Transfusion Council for “voluntary blood donation camps” from Saturday. At present, the council has 25,000 units of blood which could last for a little less than a week as per the current requirement, an official said. Many scheduled drives in March and April were cancelled because of the pandemic which may spiral into a shortage towards the end of May. Assistant director of the council Arun Thorat on Wednesday directed all 341 blood banks in the state to start collection via small donation camps. In most blood banks, the “stock position of blood has depleted considerably”, the letter added. Blood bank officials said local authorities should give permission for the camps and organisers must ensure social distancing norms. Lockdown norms may be more relaxed after May 17 which could trigger a demand for more blood units. An SBTC official said small blood donation drives in residential areas can be held with five persons. Atul Kulkarni, director of Jankalyan Blood Bank from Pune, said, “We have around one week’s inventory. From Saturday, we will plan to conduct blood donation drives as per the guidelines,” he added. Mumbai officials have to stock up before the monsoon as dengue and leptospirosis outbreaks push up the demand for platelets. May and June record the lowest blood donation due to summer holidays when people are travelling. This year, the lockdown has aggravated the shortage, an official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/council-moots-donation-camps-as-blood-banks-face-acute-shortage/articleshow/75747518.cms||Nisha Nambiar
May 15, 2020||Pune||Pune: Four in net for hookah pot, tobacco home delivery||PUNE: Three youngsters launched home delivery business of hookah pots and tobacco products during the Covid-19 lockdown to make a moolah. They ran out of luck on Thursday. The city crime branch officers detained the trio and their accomplice at Talab Chowk in Kondhwa for selling hookah pots and tobacco products during the lockdown through an application they had launched. Deputy commissioner of police (crime) Bachchan Singh received information that two first-year BBA students and their accomplice, holding a degree in commerce, were illegally selling the banned products. The trio, aged 19, 24 and 28, were detained when they went for a delivery to a decoy customer on Thursday. Their aide, a shop owner (28), was also detained for supplying hookah pots and tobacco products to the trio. Police seized 11 hookah pots, six packets of tobacco products, four cellphones and two mopeds, collectively worth Rs 1,47,100. An FIR under the relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code, Disaster Management Act, Maharashtra Covid-19 Rules and Epidemic Diseases Act was registered with the Kondhwa police. Senior inspector Rajendra Mohite, the Anti Extortion Cell in-charge, said, “After receiving information that a cellphone number written on the app was used for selling hookah pots and tobacco products, we established the identity of the person using it through technical probe. The suspect agreed to deliver hokkah pots to the decoy customer at Talab Chowk only after he spoke in English over the phone.” A police team led by sub-inspector Nilesh Mahadik detained the trio after they arrived at the spot. The shop owner was detained later.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/4-in-net-for-hookah-pot-tobacco-home-delivery/articleshow/75747505.cms||Asseem Shaikh
May 15, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: ‘Seva’ on mind, cops to ensure safe buying||AHMEDABAD: The sale of vegetables and grocery items, which was banned from May 6, will be lifted on Friday. However, the role of the cops will be different on Friday. There will be no “lathis” for people assembling to buy essentials. Special commissioner of police, crime branch, Ajay Tomar, said the guidelines have been made by the AMC and their job will be to implement the guidelines. “Though we have put extra bandobust at places were vegetables and grocery items will be available, our job will be to regulate people and make them stand maintaining proper distance. This will be done through regulation, through public announcement system, and not through strict measures. We hope that people who come out understand that,” said Tomar. Senior police officials said that the force to be deployed at such places have been briefed not to use power unless it becomes extremely necessary to control the crowd. “Through public announcement system, we will continuously inform people to stay at a safe distance from one another and not to touch the vegetables or grocery they purchase,” added Tomar. Police sources said patrolling will also be beefed up in the city as they expect more people would come out on the road to purchase essentials. “Through public announcement system fitted on PCR vans, they will inform the public how to stay safe while purchasing essential items and vegetables,” said a police source. However, the cops will be strict on the shopkeepers and only allow those who have health cards to open their shops. “We will also check whether they have followed the guidelines put out by the administration. We will see that they have hand sanitizers, masks and gloves with them or not and if any of them are found without them, they will be booked,” Tomar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/seva-on-mind-cops-to-ensure-safe-buying/articleshow/75747060.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Nod for buildings to get easier from June||Hyderabad: The government will implement the Telangana State Building Permission Approval and Self-Certification System (TS-BPASS) from the first week of June. MAUD minister KT Rama Rao held a review meeting with authorities on Thursday and asked them to make arrangements for its implementation. TS-BPASS was being implemented on experimental basis in 87 municipalities since March. Though the government wanted to implement it from April 2 across the state, it was postponed due to Covid. Under the system, permission will be given to non-high-rise structures within 600 sq yards where online submission is sufficient.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/nod-for-bldgs-to-get-easier-from-june/articleshow/75746879.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Nagpur||Some Vanamati quarantines reject food over poor quality||Nagpur: For the last three days, over 150 people quarantined at Vanamati have refused to accept meals being provided by the private contractor appointed by Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC).The inmates resorted to the protest after officials allegedly refused to offer better quality food following repeated requests. They are now banking on an NGO providing them meals though it is not at all times. “We eat some and keep the rest for next meal. We have no option as we can’t eat the food provided to us by official contractor. All our appeals have been turned down. Home food is not allowed but a couple of NGOs are allowed to provide meals,” inmates told TOI. Like MLA Hostel, Vanamati too so far had smooth operations until the NMC took over food arrangements. The original contractor had been providing food at a higher rate but was forced to stop work after NMC fixed a lower cost. These inmates too found worms in the food, and alleged rice, chapatis and dal were of poor quality. Additional municipal commissioner Ram Joshi said not all inmates were protesting, only around 35 are not accepting the food. “An NGO offered to provide food to these people who didn’t like the taste of meals provided by NMC contractor. We allowed the NGO to serve them meals as it was already providing the inmates sehri and iftaar eatables,” Joshi said. He said only those who have eaten the food provided by the earlier contractor are the ones not liking the service of the new caterer. “Others who didn’t taste the earlier meals have no issues,” he said. Some inmates said the contractor was not even packaging the food properly. “Chapatis were rolled in newspaper sheets, while rice, dal and cooked vegetable were coming in plastic pouches. After first day protest, the contractor changed the packing while the quality remained unchanged. The food is being cooked from grains supplied at ration shops. Hence, we are unable to eat it though we tried a lot. Since officials refused to budge, we simply decided to reject the packets,” they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/some-vanamati-quarantines-reject-food-over-poor-quality/articleshow/75746877.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
May 15, 2020||Nagpur||April air in city was cleanest in several years||Nagpur: Never has April’s air been so clean in the city than it was this year – all thanks to the nationwide lockdown due to Covid-19 pandemic. This was brought to the fore through an analysis of air quality monitoring data done by Dilip Lataye, professor at the department of civil engineering in Visvesvaraya National Institute of Technology (VNIT). Since last several years, the institute has been monitoring ambient air quality of the city. According to the analysis, the ambient air quality for three prominent air pollutants -- sulphur dioxide (SO2), nitrogen dioxide (NO2) and Respiratory Suspended Particulate Matter (RSMP/PM10) was monitored on 24-hour basis at four stations in and around Nagpur. Compared to previous months, the concentrations of the above pollutants were found to have reduced this April, when the entire city was under a complete lockdown. “The average concentration of SO2, NO2 and RSPM at Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) office in Civil lines, and Institution of Engineers on North Ambazari Road, was found to be 5, 12 and 47 micrograms per cubic metre (mpcm) 5, 14 and 80 mpcm , respectively,” the analysis stated. Apart from this, the concentrations of SO2, NO2 and RSPM at MIDC office, Hingna Road, and Government Polytechnic, Sadar were found to be 6, 15 and 85 mpcm and 5, 13 and 71 mpcm respectively. “The concentration of SO2, NO2 and RSPM varied between 5 and 85 mpcm during the lockdown period. The concentration of pollutants was found to be the lowest when compared to that in last several years,” the analysis stated. It further highlight that the concentration of all pollutants were below the National Ambient Air Quality Standards (NAAQS) prescribed by the union environment ministry. According to experts, complete shutdown of activities is to be attributed for the improvement in city’s air quality. “During the lockdown period, of the concentration of all pollutants reduced mainly due to considerable reduction of anthropogenic activities in the city,” said Lataye.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/april-air-in-city-was-cleanest-in-several-years/articleshow/75746888.cms||Manka Behl
May 15, 2020||Indore||Five new corona cases surface in Jhabua district||Indore: Burhanpur district on Thursday reported three deaths due to Covid-19 taking the toll to nine. “All three patients, whose report came positive today, had died on May 6, 7 and 9,” Burhanpur CMHO Dr MP Garg said adding that majority of people in containment zones including Rastipura, Mominpura and Lalbagh Tinchala are not following ‘home-quarantine’ rules and now, administration’s emphasis is on educating them to help keeping disease at bay. He added that majority of 110 cases, including 14 reported today, are primary contact of some Covid-19 patients found earlier. “Door-to-door screening and contact tracing of people has been launched to put suspected persons in quarantine,” he said. Five new cases were found in Jhabua increasing total number of positive patients reported in this tribal-dominated district to seven. During the day, a Covid-19 patient, who was first found positive here, was discharged from the hospital after she recovered and her two back-to-back laboratory reports came negative. A bulletin released by Indore division office of joint director (health) revealed reporting seven new cases in Dhar, two in Khargone and one case in Khandwa district. After reporting total three and 26 cases respectively in Alirajpur and Barwani, local health department in both districts has managed to treat and discharge them. In last few days, no new case has reported there while local administration is taking different steps including that intensifying screening and testing of suspected persons to help control spread of the disease. Under Ujjain division, Neemuch on Thursday reported seven new cases and total number of cases have increased here to 45. As per division-level report of the day, Ujjain district reported five new cases while one case each was reported in Dewas and Mandsaur district. No death reported in all seven districts of Ujjain division.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/five-new-corona-cases-surface-in-jhabua-district/articleshow/75746899.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Woman seeks pension money from son, evicted||AHMEDABAD: A 42-year-old woman, Mumtazbanu Pathan, has accused her 23-year-old son Faisalkhan Pathan of driving her out of their house in Isanpur, just because she demanded money from her pension, paid to her because her policeman husband died of cancer about 12 years ago. Mumtazbanu alleged that her son also beat her. According police sources, Mumtazbanu’s husband who was a policeman had died of cancer about 12 years ago and for the past three years his son, Faisalkhan used to take his mother’s pension money. On May 2, Mumtazbanu demanded some of the money from the pension. “Faisalkhan got agitated and asked her who she was going out with that she needed the money. Mumtazbanu said she was going out with no one and how could he deny her the pension money. Faisalkhan then drove her out of their house. Mumtazbanu alleged he also hit her,” said a police official. Mumtazbanu stated in her complaint that she went to her daughter who advised her to lodge a complaint, and she did so on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/woman-seeks-pension-money-from-son-evicted/articleshow/75747057.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Oral diktat bars private labs from tests, doctors cry foul||AHMEDABAD: On Thursday, the designated private labs approved for Covid-19 tests fielded hundreds of frantic calls. Doctors wanted Covid tests done before taking patients in for emergency and critical procedures, a man wanted to know if he was fit to go to work after a hospital discharged him without a test returning negative following the new guidelines or a husband whose ailing wife’s surgery was put on hold for want of a Covid test result. All labs gave the same answer: The state government had changed test guidelines and they would not be able to run the test. Top sources said that the state government issued oral orders to labs to not run Covid-19 tests till further orders. They were also told that they would be allowed to resume work after an inspection. This diktat was in addition to the notification issued on May 3 by Dr Prakash Vaghela, additional director (health), directing private labs not to conduct the tests without explicit permission from the CDHO or health department. The pulled plug on tests triggered a wave of adverse reactions from doctors, for whom it derailed hundreds of planned medical procedures. Doctors who performed emergency procedures without the test warned that this could jeopardize the safety of not just doctors and hospital staff but also patients at such hospitals. “A patient with history of a fever from week ago, who still had a cough and throat issues, suffered a massive heart attack. The authorities rejected application for a Covid test but we had to save the patient and performed the procedure. One hopes the authorities know that such blind procedures can jeopardize the entire hospital safety. Plus, if the patient has Covid, he is a a major risk to other critically-ill patients in the ICCU,” said a senior doctor. City-based experts opposed the move, saying that the step is just adding red tape to the fairly smooth procedure so far. It’s notable that after the revised ICMR guidelines for discharge of patients, RT-PCR tests are not conducted in the state, ostensibly to reduce the burden on government labs. Dr Bharat Gadhvi, president of Ahmedabad Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association (AHNA), told TOI that they have to send cancer and general surgery patients back due to lack of testing facilities. “Today, the family of a man with breathlessness approached us, asking to admit him as Covid-19 patient. On being told that a test was needed to confirm Covid, he said no labs are conducting tests anymore,” he said. It’s not just about the protocol, said Dr H P Bhalodia, a city-based orthopaedic surgeon. “If the patient is positive, we cannot administer certain medicines as it could aggravate his or her condition. A test is a must before a surgery for the safety of the patient,” he said. “I don’t understand why we need to discontinue the services of private labs. Even Civil Hospital is conducting Covid-19 tests before surgical procedures, then why not private hospitals?” Dr Jitendra Patel, former president of Indian Medical Association (IMA), said that they have strongly protested the move of stopping tests at private labs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/oral-diktat-bars-private-labs-from-tests-doctors-cry-foul/articleshow/75746914.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Bareilly||Inebriated man kills wife by piercing spear through her chest||BAREILLY: An enraged husband killed his 28-year-old wife, who was living at her maternal home, by piercing a spear through her chest on Thursday morning in Shahjahanpur district, after a tiff between the couple when the husband locked himself with her inside a room. Both their children were playing outside. After sometime, the children saw their father running out with clothes stained in blood. When they checked inside, they found their mother dead. Pinki was married to Ajay Pal, a resident of Bareilly, nearly eight years ago, and gave birth to two children. Recently, she came to live at her maternal house, in Marena village of Gadiya Rangeen area in Shahjahanpur, along with her husband and children. The couple had a tiff over an unknown reason and Ajay, who was high on liquor, stuffed a piece of cloth in Pinki’s mouth and impaled her with a spear. He also smashed Pinki’s face with a brick and later escaped on his bike. Afterwards, Pinki’s father rushed into the room and found her dead. Police was immediately informed, and a manhunt launched to nab Ajay. An FIR has been registered under IPC Section 302 (murder) against him at Gadiya Rangeen police station. SHO Rakam Singh told TOI, “The accused was inebriated and possibly killed his wife after losing his senses. Pinki’s father Drigpal said there was no lingering issue between the couple from the past and expressed shock at the incident. The dead body has been sent for autopsy. The accused is possibly hiding in Bareilly and we have sought help of local police to nab him.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/inebriated-man-kills-wife-by-piercing-spear-through-her-chest/articleshow/75746894.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
May 15, 2020||Indore||Ujjain has the highest mortality rate in Malwa-Nimar||UJJAIN/INDORE: Although Indore district has reported over 50 per cent positive cases of Madhya Pradesh and 40.5 per cent of total Covid-19 deaths, it is Ujjain district that has the highest death rate with the virus claiming one life in every 16th patients tested positive. As per data released in state health bulletin on Thursday, total 4,426 cases including 237 deaths have reported in 42 districts of Madhya Pradesh. Of this, over 50 per cent of positive cases (2,238) and 40.5 per cent of deaths (96) have reported in Indore. Death rate in Indore is 4.28 while neighbouring Ujjain district unfortunately has death rate of 16.42. This is the scenario when no new death has reported in the temple city in last six days while 39 new cases have reported here in this duration. “Around a fortnight ago, Ujjain had a death of rate of around 22 but with several important steps are now helping in controlling the situation and bringing down the mortality rate,” Ujjain collector Asheesh Singh told TOI. Singh added that after taking the charge around 10 days ago, he emphasized on increasing screening, sample collection and testing of people to help identifying suspected and asymptomatic cases. “We have started using a mobile-based application for screening of people while ‘Mohalla clinics’ have started in different areas to reach out to suspected patients,” he said. The collector said that number of patients is likely to go up in Ujjain due to intensive screening and sampling but early detection and providing treatment to patients will help them to reduce mortality. In the state, Chhindwara, Sehore and Ashok Nagar are ahead of Ujjain district, in terms of reporting higher rate of death. These districts have reported only five, four and two cases respectively and reporting one death each in these areas, rate of death is as 20, 25 and 50 respectively. Rate of death in other 13 districts of Malwa-Nimar region are reported as 12.5 in Dewas and Shajapur, 9.87 in Khandwa, 8.24 in Khargone, 8.18 in Burhanpur, 7.69 in Agar-Malwa, 7.10 in Mandsaur, 2.5 in Neemuch, 2.08 in Dhar. No death has reported in Ratlam, Jhabua, Alirajpur and Barwani district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/ujjain-has-the-highest-mortality-rate-in-malwa-nimar/articleshow/75746883.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Kolkata||Internal assessment at JU, Presidency University; CU yet to decide||KOLKATA: While Presidency University and Jadavpur University are moving to evaluate students based on internal assessments, cumulative grade point average (CGPA) and viva-voce for the terminal semester, Calcutta University is waiting for a meeting with all stakeholders to decide on the examination format, which is likely to be tweaked. The humanities and science faculties in JU are exploring options to hold a final semester examination in “no-contact mode without the physical presence of students”. “In the engineering faculty, the proposal is to implement an examination model which is being proposed at National Institute of Technology, Durgapur. But in the other two faculties, if the hostel accommodation is not available and trains are not back on the tracks, then we shall also have to make alternative arrangements for evaluation through internal assessments, viva-voce over the telephone and CGPA. Even hosting online tests is unlikely since many students do not have access to stable high-speed internet,” said a source in JU. A Presidency University official added, “Homogeneity will be maintained in humanities and science streams. The departmental examination committees of the university will determine the pattern and method of evaluation. The heads of departments will place the proposals before the examination committees after discussions with the faculty members.” The source pointed out that the terminal examinations will be held between June 25 and July 7. “We plan to hold the second, fourth and eighth semester examinations from July 15. Students will be tested on the syllabus taught till March 15,” he said. “Calcutta University is likely to go ahead with written tests as education minister Partha Chatterjee has assented to the proposal of holding the final semester exams after one month of reopening. The final decision on the exam pattern is likely to be out by June,” said a source. Maulana Abul Kalam Azad University of Technology (Makaut) will hold online examinations in the final semester. Rabindra Bharati University, in all likelihood, will conduct written exams but is yet to decide on the date. “All the decisions are likely to be implemented only if the institutes reopen after June 10,” said a higher education department official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/internal-assessment-at-ju-presi-cu-yet-to-decide/articleshow/75746890.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Booking ticket battle in itself, but NDLS a little less chaotic||NEW DELHI: Tarini Shukla was in tears when she saw the word “confirmed” flashing on the computer screen. After 36 desperate attempts, she had managed to book a train ticket to Kolkata on the IRCTC portal. “The demand for these tickets is so high that they sell out within 10 minutes of availability,” said Shuka, who came to Delhi for a job interview with a Gurugram company and got stranded in the Covid-19 lockdown. On Thursday afternoon, Shukla reached New Delhi Railway Station in a cab that had agreed to ferry her and two others from Gurgaon for Rs 4,000, almost five times the regular rate. Fortunately for Shukla, the station wasn’t as chaotic on Thursday as on the first two days of the resumption of train services. Pradeep Thakur was at the station to catch the train to Patna. He had to leave his wife and son in Delhi after managing only one confirmed ticket. “All seats for the seven days for which advance booking can be done are gone,” he shrugged. “We returned from a holiday in Nainital and got stuck in Delhi for 52 days. Fortunately, we were able to stay in my relative’s house.” Thakur share a minivan with other passengers from Kapashera to reach the station. While most aspirants found bookings impossible, Ginni Devi was elated to get five confirmed tickets to return to her village with her family. “We have been praying to God to help us. When the bookings opened, my son-in-law was able to buy us five tickets,” she said at the station. “We hired a cab for the ride to the station, but our biggest worry is how to reach our village from Ahmedabad.” Cabs were allowed up to the barricades outside New Delhi Railway Station to drop the travellers. “We are noting the details of all drivers. They aren’t allowed to pick up passengers on the way back,” disclosed a police officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/booking-ticket-battle-in-itself-but-ndls-a-little-less-chaotic/articleshow/75748064.cms||Somreet Bhattacharya
May 15, 2020||Jodhpur||Why migrants entering Rajasthan are being harassed, HC asks state government||JODHPUR: Questioning the necessity of e-passes and NOCs for migrant workers, Rajasthan High Court has asked the state government why people were being harassed in the name of formalities for entering the state. The division bench of justices Sangeet Lodha and Rameshwer Vyas, while listing the matter for next hearing on Monday, has sought a detailed mechanism from the state for both inbound and outbound migrants. The state government, in its affidavit submitted on Thursday, stated that about 21 lakh migrants had registered themselves. Of these, 11,53,862 are inbound migrants and 92,550 outbound. The state government has issued 3,11,012 epasses to both categories of migrants so far. AAG Pankaj Sharma apprised the court that amending the conditions, the state government provided relaxation in relation to e-passes on May 11 and only unauthorised migrants were being prohibited considering the spread of virus. Sharing the state data, Sharma said 7,482 migrants were brought in 6 trains till Wednesday and 16,500 more will be brought in 11 trains by May 18. It said 31,197 migrants and students have been sent to their homes states in 27 trains till May13 and another 33,000 will be homebound by May18 in 22 trains. Petitioner’s counsel Moti Singh, however, argued that the state government’s efforts were not adequate considering the large number of migrants registered and stated that despite its decision to bring all the migrants by interstate buses, not a single bus was run. Singh also drew attention of thecourttothose migrants,who have consistently been walking on highways to their homes from far southern states and prayed for abrogation of the necessity of the e- passes and NoC for them to enter the state. “If such migrants have reached the state border, they should be ferried to their respective destinations by the state government,” prayed Singh. He also prayed for the directions that since most of the migrants are stuck in Gujarat, Maharashtra,Telangana,Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh, the government should send buses, both roadways and private, at minimum fares for these migrants to come back.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/why-migrants-entering-state-are-being-harassed-hc-asks-govt/articleshow/75747532.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Pune||Barricades in parts of Wadgaonsheri||PUNE: The sudden shutdown in the eastern parts of Wadgaonsheri, including areas like Anand Park and Ganeshnagar, and barricading of roads leading towards Chandannagar and Kaharadi on Thursday noon to prevent the spread of coronavirus surprised many residents . Pharmacies remained open for most of the day in the area, but other establishments, including grocery shops and vegetable vendors, were forced to close business on the advice of local police and civic authorities by noon. A few residents of the area and policemen forced people to go back home. “There have been a few cases in the neighbouring Chandannagar area and we do not want Covid-19 to spread to this area again. We recently relaxed the restrictions and roadblocks in this area,” said a policeman manning one of the barricades made of corrugated iron sheets and bamboo. Most barricades, however, were unmanned. The sudden barricading caused inconvenience to some, including suppliers and shop owners.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/barricades-in-parts-of-wadgaonsheri/articleshow/75747534.cms||---
May 15, 2020||India||17 migrant labourers killed, 93 injured in accidents in 24 hours||NEW DELHI: Seventeen migrant labourers died even as 93 others were injured in separate road accidents in just 24 hours while they were on their way home — in buses, trucks and on foot — to towns in Madhya Pradesh, UP and Bihar. In the first incident late on Wednesday, six migrant labourers walking from Haryana to Bihar in a group of 16 were mowed down by a speeding bus on the Muzaffarnagar-Saharanpur state highway in UP. The survivors said they were travelling to Bihar in a truck after they lost their jobs at a factory in Haryana’s Yamunanagar when UP police stopped the vehicle and asked them to “go back where they came from”. After taking shelter at an ashram in Saharanpur for a day, they decided to walk all the way to their native place Gopalganj when the speeding bus ran over six of them and injured five. DIG (Saharanpur range) Upender Agarwal told TOI, “We have come across several cases where factory owners from bordering states are dropping retrenched labourers near the UP borders, telling them that the state government would make arrangements for their travel back home.” A government official in Lucknow said chief minister Yogi Adityanath had announced an ex gratia of Rs 2 lakh each to the families of the deceased and Rs 50,000 to the injured. In another accident on Wednesday night, a 36-year-old migrant worker who set out on foot from Gurgaon to Bihar’s Samastipur — about 1,200 km away — with his family was run over by a truck near Jharsa on the Delhi-Gurgaon expressway. The man, who lost his job at a manufacturing unit after the lockdown, had made several attempts to secure tickets for his family on a Shramik Special train, but was unable to do so, after which they decided to walk home. Meanwhile, early on Thursday, eight migrant workers were killed and 50 others injured when a truck in which they were travelling from Maharashtra to UP collided with a bus near MP’s Guna. The dead were residents of UP’s Unnao and Raebareli districts who had paid up to Rs 4,000 per head for the truck ride. In Bihar as well, a bus carrying migrants collided with a truck on Thursday morning, killing two and injuring over 24, five of them critically. The accident took place near Shankar Chowk in Samastipur district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/17-migrant-labourers-killed-93-injured-in-accidents-in-24-hours/articleshow/75748597.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Bhopal||42 more cases take Bhopal tally to 900||Bhopal: Forty-two more people tested positive for COVID-19, taking the total number of cases in Bhopal to 900, here on Thursday. As per health department bulletin, there are 356 active cases in the state capital. Every fifth COVID-19 diagnosed in Madhya Pradesh is from the state capital since the start of the pandemic. Located near Jehangirabad, Subhash Nagar are reported four COVID-19 positive cases on Thursday. Previously, declared containment free, Ahata Rustam Khan and Shyamla Hills once again reported cases. Two cases were near Polytechnic Square were reported. Hotspot of Mangalwara and Jehangirabad, reported seven cases. So far, Jehangirabad has reported 227 cases. 21 people were discharged, after they tested negative for COVID-19. They were under treatment in various hospital. According to AIIMS Bhopal, the hospital now has 44 COVID-19 patients are presently admitted. Seven new admissions of COVID-19 patient took place in AIIMS Bhopal on Thursday. They are clinically stable. There are three critically ill COVID-19 positive patients admitted in ICU of the premier hospital and on oxygen support. All admitted patients are receiving treatment as per treatment protocol, according to AIIMS Bhopal official. Meanwhile, one COVID-19 patient from AIIMS Bhopal, a resident of the state capital was discharged after successful treatment on Thursday. The laboratory reported 15 new cases in Bhopal district and three cases were from other parts of the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/42-more-cases-take-bhopal-tally-to-900/articleshow/75747537.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Nagpur||Pandhrabodi barricades hide difficult lives of daily wagers||Nagpur: The residents of Pandhrabodi slums, who could be earlier seen strolling besides the roads stretching from the rear side of university campus to Ambazari lake, now peep helplessly from behind a tin barricade erected right at their door steps. A 500m tin barricade keeps the dwellers away from the rest of the city. It is the latest pocket to have become a containment zone. A man residing in Pandhrabodi died a week ago after testing Covid-19 positive. Entire Pandhrabodi has a population of not less than 50,000, say the locals. Mostly daily wagers, already facing the heat of lockdown, many now fear worse times are ahead due to the containment. The area stretches all along the road leading to Ambazari lake from the Nagpur University campus on Amravati Road, right up to the rear of Ram Nagar Hill Top. “The authorities said they will be providing rations at our doorsteps. I have run out of cooking gas, where are they now,” says an angry Surendra Sone, a car driver. “Last two months have been very bad. I could manage as my employer gave small amounts in between to meet the expenses. But I had to go down to his place to get the money,” he said. “It is a 30-minute walk to reach the other side, which is open,” says Mohan Warkar, a daily wager in his late fifties, now living hand to mouth. “We cannot step out of our homes even to buy essentials. In the evening, policemen guard the area and we dare not jump over the barricade,” said a resident. “I had been to the ration shop inside the slum but it’s closed. There is no other outlet from where we can buy things,” shouts Anjum Shaikh, who also says that there is hardly any money left with her either. Her husband — a painter — is unemployed since the lockdown. As many as half of the residents of the slums are tenants, said locals. A single rooms cost Rs2,000 a month, with the rent going up to Rs5,000 for a slightly bigger accommodation, they said. “The landlords have been kind enough as they are not insisting on payment. Though even their situation is no better than ours,” said Vaishali Sonere. “They have a dole of Rs2,000 for the farmers and it’s Rs500 for us. How many days can that amount last?” said a woman asking about the Rs500 dole credited in women’s Jan Dhan accounts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/pandhrabodi-barricades-hide-difficult-lives-of-daily-wagers/articleshow/75746917.cms||Shishir Arya
May 15, 2020||Indore||Inflated electricity bills add to the woes of residents||Indore: As if scheduled and unscheduled power cuts in hot summer days weren’t enough that consumers across Indore have now been handed inflated electricity bills issued by discom during ongoing lockdown. Consumers of areas like Scheme 54, Scheme 71, Sukhlia, Shyam Nagar, Radio Colony, Telephone Nagar, Bada Bangarda among others have complained of escalated bills in last two months. A few of them have received electricity bills more than double their previous billing amount. “I have a house in Scheme 54 for which monthly billing used to be between Rs1200 & Rs2000 till March. But for the month of April, I’ve got a bill of Rs4000,” said Prateek Dubey. Another resident from Scheme-71, Rachna Kamble, said, “I’ve got an inflated bill of Rs3000 for this month.” “My consumption pattern is the same and I have not installed any extra electrical appliance,” she said. Complaints of inflated bills have started pouring in after Madhya Pradesh Paschim Kshetra Vidyut Vitaran Company Limited (MPPKVVCL) stopped collection of meter reading and announced of issuing online bills on basis of past consumption records of consumers. But a large number of consumers have complained of receiving bills with escalated amounts. Most of them have complained about receiving escalated bills for the month of April and May. Discom officials however said that this increase in billing amount could be due to increase in consumption. “If this is not the case, then consumers can raise a complaint with their respective zonal office or with our 1912 helpline service to get the matter checked by our staff,” discom superintendent engineer Ashok Sharma said. “Fresh bills would be issued within the next 2-3 days of complaint if there is any mistake in calculation of billing amount,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/inflated-electricity-bills-add-to-the-woes-of-residents/articleshow/75746905.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana government to do pool sampling of migrants, returnees from abroad||HYDERABAD: Twenty-five people arriving in international flights will be randomly selected and Covid-19 tests will be done on them. As part of a new pool sampling method to find out community spread of the novel coronavirus, the Telangana government has issued guidelines to collect samples of migrant workers and others landing in Hyderabad from abroad and from other places in India. The guidelines are in tune with the ones issued by ICMR. Sources said 25 passengers would be selected, their samples would be collected and later send them to the designated quarantine centres or kept in isolation in hotels. The pooled sampling will also be done randomly in green zones, which have not reported even a single Covid-19 case in the last 21 days. Officials said one among the selected would be tested in a designated surveillance lab using the RT-PCR method. A report would be filed to the quarantine facility within 24 hours. “If any of the pooled samples tests positive, individual samples will be collected and tested,” sources said. This is being done to find out if there is any community spread, an offficial said. The Union ministry of health and family welfare in a circular said that a decision had been taken to use one-time RT-PCR-based pooled sampling for surveillance purposes of migrant workers in institutional quarantine facilities. “International passengers put up in institutional quarantine facilities and hotels and those in green zones will also be subjected to this method,” the circular said. Telangana health minister Eatala Rajender, while interacting with Asha workers and health department employees in a video conference told them that migrant workers should not be asked to go to Gandhi or King Koti hospitals immediately if they are unwell. “If you find any of the migrant workers to be unwell, refer them to the local primary health centre doctors. Let them decide if the workers need further tests. We must strictly follow the guidelines of ICMR,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-govt-to-do-pool-sampling-of-migrants-returnees-from-abroad/articleshow/75746994.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra FDA asks price regulator to cap cost of N95 masks & PPEs||MUMBAI: Maharashtra Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has urged drug National Pharmaceutical Pricing Authority (NPPA), the drug price regulator, to ensure availability of N95 masks and PPE kits at a reasonable rate and plug overcharging of these items. With an alarming rise in Covid cases, which crossed 27,000 in the state on Thursday, the demand for N95 masks and PPE kits have increased. Prices of N95 masks have increased by nearly three to four times, while PPEs, some sub-standard, are being sold at different prices. Industry experts say false and fake certification is rampant, and fly-by-night manufacturers have surfaced in the absence of clear product specifications and monitoring by the government. Pre-covid N95 masks were priced at Rs 45 per piece, while now it costs between Rs 200 and Rs 1,000 per piece. In a communication to the NPPA, Maharashtra FDA commissioner Arun Unhale said that the authority had asked for prices of hand sanitizers, surgical masks (2 and 3 ply) and N95 masks to be fixed on March 20. Thereafter, the ministry of consumer affairs had regulated the prices on March 21, but prices of N95 masks were not capped. In the absence of a price cap, doctors, patients, paramedical staff and health workers in private hospitals are forced to pay higher prices, the letter, a copy of which is available with TOI, says. Further, professionals involved in diagnostic laboratories are also at a risk of contracting the virus, with Jaipur-based Practicing Pathologists Society raising the issue with NPPA. It has come across numerous instances where vendors of N95 masks are charging exorbitant amounts, the letter adds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maha-fda-asks-price-regulator-to-cap-cost-of-n95-masks-ppes/articleshow/75747547.cms||Rupali Mukherjee
May 15, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat high court seeks ATR on baby taken by dog||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat high court on Thursday directed Panchmahal’s superintendent of police to produce an ‘action taken report’ on the incident of a dog dragging a newborn baby from a nursing home in Godhra last month. Justice V P Patel has sought the report form the SP after the police filed a closure report on investigation into the FIR lodged after the the baby was allegedly killed by a dog. The HC has asked for the report by May 27. The HC was moved on this issue by a practising advocate Kirtikumar Bhatt, who challenged the closure of the case by police. He complained that police did not follow the investigation procedure laid down for death caused by an animal. Last week, he took an exception to the closure report filed by the Panchmahal police in an FIR that was lodged on April 5 with regard to the death of the infant. On April 1, Taraben Baria had given birth to twins, a boy and a girl. After midnight, a dog dragged away the male child and disappeared. The newborn’s body was never recovered. CCTV footage showed the child was taken away by the dog. Four days later, an FIR was registered and the police reportedly filed a closure report. Petitioner Bhatt has argued that in a case of killing of a human by an animal, the police is bound to submit an investigation report to the district or sub-divisional magistrate, who is supposed to take action on the report. He has urged the HC to direct cops to follow the procedure as laid down in Section 174(2) of the CrPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/hc-seeks-atr-on-baby-taken-by-dog/articleshow/75747056.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Ahmedabad||Government likely to name next Gujarat University VC in 2 days||AHMEDABAD: With the term of incumbent vice-chancellor Himanshu Pandya ending on May 16, the name of the next VC for Gujarat University is expected to be declared shortly by the state government. The government will choose the new candidate from among the three shortlisted names that are to be proposed by the search committee chaired by Gujarat governor Acharya Devvrat, said sources in GU. Among other candidates, GU vice-chancellor Pandya, who is looking forward for a second term, is a top contender for the post, sources added. “In case the government doesn’t announce the name of the next VC, the present Pro VC will get temporary charge,” sources added. The three-member search committee also includes Kamlesh Joshipura, former vice-chancellor of Saurashtra University whose name was selected by GU. Parimal Vyas has been chosen by the Joint Board of Vice-Chancellors (JBVC) as the third member.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/govt-likely-to-name-next-gu-vc-in-2-days/articleshow/75747055.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Indore||It may be 3 days a week classes for CBSE students||Indore: City-based CBSE schools are likely to conduct three days a week classes in the new academic session. To maintain social distancing norms, the schools are planning to divide the number of students and call them to school on different days. A roadmap for the new academic session for CBSE was submitted to district administration, which has multiple suggestions to begin the new academic session. Analyzing the situation, schools are planning to either take classes in shifts considering they don’t have infrastructure to let social distancing norms be maintained in 100 per cent attendance. Each student will attend three days a week and the schools might arrange for online modules for remaining three days to make certain that there is no loss of studies in any case. Moreover, it is also suggested that there will be no physical activities such as indoor/ outdoor games or any kind of sports. Furthermore, schools will not provide meals for students. Proper sanitization of institutions will be done at regular intervals, thermostats will be used to check temperature of students regularly and all other measures for the safety of students and employees. Indore Sahodaya School Complex has also been waiting for board’s instructions before finalizing details as an association. The meeting of the association is likely to be conducted soon, said chairman of Indore Sahodaya School Complex, UK Jha. “As CBSE will be conducting board exams in July and NEET too is in July which is expected to be offline, we are certain to get more guidelines,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/it-may-be-3-days-a-week-classes-for-cbse-students/articleshow/75746907.cms||Laveena Francis
May 15, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: GIS enthusiasts helping people in distress||AHMEDABAD: What can an interactive map do? For members of United for Humanity, a crowdsourcing app, it’s bridging the persons affected by Covid-19 epidemic in Ahmedabad and NGOs. “In earlier phase of the lockdowns, often there were many organizations, but they had no idea where the help was required the most and where to reach out to these communities,” said Piyush Shah, a GIS expert and alumnus of Cept University. “Thus, we devised a community-centric mechanism that can guide the organizations for specific needs such as food, ration kits, place to stay or even medical help.” He added that they are connected with several prominent NGOs to provide help. Shah along with Mayank Sakla, Manish Vadanere, Rahul Patel, Smith Patel, Palak Jain, Siddharth Shah, Aakash Malik, Nisha Pramanik and Rajdeep Routh is running four online platforms which are city-specific and aimed at different purposes. What connects the group and the initiatives together is their love for data, geoinformatics and power of community to reach out to others in time of crisis. Apart from the United for Humanity, the group runs two sites for the patients details of Ahmedabad and Gandhinagar districts. They also have a dashboard to visualize the data related to Covid-19. The group uses public data updated by AMC for purpose of the mapping and analysis. The members mention that it’s not always easy to map the details due to lack of details, but they try their best. “Primary purpose of the initiative is to make sense of what’s going on – it can be for researchers or common person – like how the infection has spread over time, intensity of the cases, most affected areas, age group and gender of patients or colour zone for their area,” said Shah. The group members said that technology can be utilized for dissemination of information and also to look at data from different perspectives rather than just addition of cases or deaths daily to take administrative decisions such as where to intensify testing or targeting specific age group to create awareness.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gis-enthusiasts-helping-people-in-distress/articleshow/75746911.cms||Parth Shastri
May 15, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad municipal corporation gets 20 mobile medical units||GANDHINAGAR: The state labour and employment department has handed over 20 `Dhanvantari Arogya Raths’ (mobile medical units) to the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) for deployment in areas affected by Covid-19. “Five Dhanvantari Arogya Raths were already operational in Ahmedabad city and four were handed over to AMC for conducting health check-ups in areas affected by Covid-19 in April. According to the CM’s instructions, we have allotted 11 more to AMC today. These 20 raths will remain at the disposal of AMC for the time being, and help in the fight against Covid-19,” said Vipul Mittra, additional chief secretary, labour and employment department. Since the nationwide lockdown began, the raths are being used to extend medical services to construction workers as well as others at labour shelters, ren-baseras, lorry workers, migrant workers, and slums, anybody in the vicinity who needs it and even cops on duty at road checkpoints. The building and other construction workers welfare board, which functions under the department operates Dhanvantari Arogya Raths to provide doorstep healthcare services to construction workers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/amc-gets-20-mobile-medical-units/articleshow/75746932.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Vadodara||Vadodara: Labourer arrested for rape, murder of 57-year-old woman||VADODARA: A migrant labourer was arrested by detection of crime branch (DCB) for raping and murdering a 57-year-old woman on Thursday. Chutku Yadav, who originally hails from Bihar, accosted the woman when she was out to graze her cattle near Angadh village in city limits. Police said the incident occurred between 10am and 11am. "Like everyday, she was out with her cattle in an open plot that is usually isolated. When she didn't return home till noon, her daughter and other family members began a search for her. She was spotted by her daughter in an injured condition," said Jaydeepsinh Jadeja, DCP (crime). Before help could arrive, the woman died on the spot. The crime branch began investigation immediately and while searching at the scene of crime, they came across a mobile phone and a kitchen knife. "We tracked down Yadav with the help of mobile phone that he had dropped at the spot before fleeing. He first tried to frame four other labourers in the case, but later admitted to have committed the crime alone," Jadeja added. According to the police, 50-year-old Yadav has been working as a casual labourer on Vadodara-Mumbai expressway project for the last few months. On Thursday, Yadav spotted the woman alone and accosted her. When she resisted his advances, Yadav stabbed her with the kitchen knife he was carrying. She received injuries on her face and neck. The accused then raped her before fleeing from the spot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/labourer-arrested-for-rape-murder-of-57-yr-old-woman/articleshow/75743982.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Pune||10,000 people transported||PUNE: The city police made travel arrangements for 7,037 people to other districts within the state and another 3,540 people to Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Rajasthan and Jharkhand, among other states, in the past three days. The MSRTC and private operators responded to police request to transport the stranded to their hometowns.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/10000-people-transported/articleshow/75747539.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Kochi||CMFRI starts cultivation of tubers, pulses||Kochi: The Central Marine Fisheries Research Institute (CMFRI) here has initiated a new farming challenge among government organisations towards food security in the state. The model initiative includes farming of tubers and pulses along with vegetables in an area of around three acres of barren land on the premises of residential complex here. Agriculture minister V S Sunil Kumar launched the farming by planting ginger saplings on Thursday. CMFRI director A Gopalakrishnan said that priority was given to crops such as tubers and pulses as they could act as an alternative to survive during the times of famine. Pulses are also being cultivated as the state is totally depended on other states for its vegetable protein requirement. KVK also started a helpline to guide farmers in aquaculture and animal rearing. The minister also asked KVK to design and demonstrate a working model of the mini rice mill required at each paddy field. The major crisis faced by the medium paddy famers in the state is lack of such mini rice mills.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/cmfri-starts-cultivation-of-tubers-pulses/articleshow/75744661.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Chandigarh||CTU buses to stop supply of veggies, fruits from Saturday||CHANDIGARH: With CTU buses bringing fruits and vegetables to the residential area will stop the supply from Saturday onwards, the Chandigarh municipal corporation has issued around 400 new passes to various vegetable and fruits vendors across the city. The decision has been taken to ensure steady supply of vegetables and fruits in all areas of the city in smooth and proper manner. Various MC teams will keep checking the vendors on regular intervals. Earlier only 180 vegetable and fruit vendors, who are registered with the Chandigarh administration, were allowed to move in the city and with the addition of these approximately 400 more vendors, around 580 vegetables and fruits vendors will get permission to sell their goodies throughout the city. The area of work of these vendors is already identified as per their registered area. “This entire exercise to rope in more vegetables and fruits vendors is being done to maintain proper supply and flow of vegetables and fruit in every part of the city. All these vendors have their designated areas and they will be moving in their respective areas only. Since, we have started issuing passes to these vendors from the past couple of days, over 350 have gone through compulsory health screening”, an official of the MC revealed. Currently a total of 76 CTU buses have been running throughout the city with vegetables and fruits past over a month. Besides vegetables and fruits vendors, each bus has a police personnel, an MC employee, drivers and conductors. From Saturday onwards, all these people will report to their respective offices for their routine works.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/ctu-to-stop-supply-of-veggies-fruits-from-tomorrow/articleshow/75746923.cms||Deepak Yadav
May 15, 2020||Indore||Lack of transport to reach Ratlam station keeps migrants off track||Indore: While railways has started a special train service between New Delhi and Mumbai via Ratlam, lack of connectivity options from Indore, Ujjain and Dewas to Ratlam railway station is making it difficult for a large number of people. Passengers of neighbouring districts of Ratlam are finding it difficult to reach station. The train’s arrival and departure time for Ratlam station which is during late night hours is also adding to the woes of passengers. “I want to go to Mumbai, and but there is no permission for people like me to go to Ratlam. What else are we going to do?” said Ramesh Kumar, a native of Mumbai. Like Ramesh, there are many professionals, students, and even families stuck in Indore, Ujjain and Dewas for the last two months due to extended lockdown. Railways zonal rail user consultative committee (ZRUCC) member Jagmohan Verma said that a large number of people are not able to opt for this special train service due to lack of connectivity with neighbouring districts. “Either the administration or the railways should make some arrangements to provide connectivity options for migrant population, so that they can avail this special train service,” he said. The fact is also visible with limited number of people boarding the train on both directions apparently due to odd timings. The train Mumbai Central-New Delhi Special Train (02951) reaches Ratlam at 01:07am, and departs at 01:10am. Similarly, New Delhi-Mumbai Central Special train (02952) reaches Ratlam at 00.40am, and departs at 00.43hrs. A total of 140 passengers boarded and got down from these trains on Wednesday, pointed officials. Ratlam division railway manager Vineet Gupta said that local transportation has to be managed by passengers only. “Movement of passengers as well as driver of vehicle transporting the passengers to and from the station on basis of confirmed e-tickets. But availability of vehicles has nothing to do with railways,” he said. Reaching the station at least one and a half hours before scheduled departure time, wearing masks during travel, and bringing own food, blanket and bed sheets from home is prescribed by railways for passengers to avoid risk of infection, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/lack-of-transport-to-reach-ratlam-station-keeps-migrants-off-track/articleshow/75746930.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Bareilly||Mosquito fish introduced in Budaun ponds to curb malaria||BAREILLY: ln a bid to curb vector-borne diseases like malaria, Budaun district administration has started introducing mosquito fish (Gumbusia) in the ponds situated in malaria-hit villages. The mosquito fish eats mosquito larvae and helps in containing breeding of mosquitoes, said chief medical officer, Budaun, Dr Yashpal Singh. The fish was received from hatcheries from Lakhimpir Kheri. A similar exercise will soon be undertaken in Bareilly. Both Bareilly and Budaun have experienced high incidence of malaria in 2018 and 2019.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/mosquito-fish-introduced-in-budaun-ponds-to-curb-malaria/articleshow/75746920.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Kolkata||Makaut seats on offer for students of foreign varsities||Kolkata: Students enrolled in foreign universities — who are now in India and reluctant to return, owing to the Covid-19 outbreak — may now have a reason to stay back. Maulana Abul Kalam Azad University of Technology (Makaut), at its academic council meeting on Wednesday, proposed to allow such students to take admissions through lateral entry in the technology and management courses affiliated to the university.The students, however, can only find a seat provided the colleges have vacancies and the students have enrolled in analogous programmes in the foreign universities that allow credit transfer.“We are now formulating a draft to implement the proposal to allow students to continue studies amid the Covid-19 pandemic,” said vice-chancellor Saikat Maitra.“The decision will positively impact our education system. It will also reinstate faith in our state’s education framework. Those who have experienced the facilities and teaching-learning process abroad will understand the development in Bengal over the past few years,” said president of Association of Professional Academic Institutions (APAI) Taranjit Singh.Pradeep Chopra, chairman of I-Lead and member of advisory board of Makaut, said, “If universities start offering online courses even for the fall semester, many may not join due to the huge course fees. Moreover, students who have been forced to return, will be reluctant to return as they will be unable to access laboratories, projects, etc, which can’t be completed indoors. They are likely to take up this offer.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/makaut-seats-on-offer-for-students-of-foreign-varsities/articleshow/75746925.cms||Somdatta Basu
May 15, 2020||Chandigarh||Three more Mohali patients recover||tnnMohali: Three more patients have recovered from coronavirus and were discharged on Thursday, bringing down the number of active cases to 42 in the district. Civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said out of the three, two were discharged from Gian Sagar Hospital and one from PGI, Chandigarh. There are 105 positive and 60 recovered cases in the district to date. Two recovered patients belong to Jawaharpur village and one hails from Mullanpur village. The recovered patients thanked the doctors and other healthcare staff members for good treatment. They appealed to the people not to be scared of the disease, which could be easily defeated with good diet and other precautions.The Jawaharpur residents will not be sent home yet and will stay at the quarantine facility at Nirankari Bhawan in Derabassi for another 14 days as a precautionary measure, while the Mullanpur resident has been sent home and directed to quarantine himself for 14 days. Teams from the health department will continuously check his health. Dr Manjit Singh said all other patients were undergoing treatment in Covid-19 care centre at Gian Sagar Hospital and no one was in a serious condition. He appealed to the people to step out only for urgent needs. He asked them to contact the health department’s helpline 104 for expert advice and wash hands frequently and keep social distance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/three-more-mohali-patients-recover/articleshow/75746908.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Chandigarh||In Pkl, 13 samples sent for re-test||tnnPanchkula: Out of the 154 reports of Covid-19 which were awaited, 13 were sent for re-testing on Thursday.As per the health department officials, till now 2,939 persons have been tested in Panchkula, of which 2,747 were negative. Results of 154 were awaited and these included samples of the contacts of the recent five Covid-19 positive cases. Thirteen results, which had some discrepancies, were sent for re-testing, they said. In the recent case from Rajiv Colony, 214 persons have been home quarantined. Four special mobile medical teams had checked 975 persons by visiting door to door. In Majri village, 159 persons were screened and in Sector 19, 328 by three mobile health teams. In Bagwali village of Raipur Rani, 617 persons were screened. Apart from this, 12 medical mobile units have checked 42,963 persons by visiting door to door and teams of Asha workers have scanned over 8,30,662 persons in the district. Out of total 23 positive cases in Panchkula, five are active at present.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/in-pkl-13-samples-sent-for-re-test/articleshow/75746927.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Delhi||After rebuke by Delhi high court, Haryana agrees to open its borders||NEW DELHI: The Haryana government on Thursday assured Delhi high court it would allow free movement of all trucks and permit transit of people engaged in essential services. The state gave an undertaking in the court that it will issue e-passes within 30 minutes of receiving an application from persons engaged in the fight against Covid-19. These include not just government staff but also private doctors, nurses, paramedics, sanitation workers, staff of Delhi Police, Delhi Transport Corporation, Delhi Jal Board, municipal corporations, high courts, trial courts etc who will be allowed multiple visits between Delhi and Haryana on production of e-passes. The state added that these people won’t be quarantined on returning from Delhi unless and until they test positive or are found to be in contact with a Covid-19 patient. A bench of Justices Manmohan and Sanjeev Narula bound the state to these undertakings and disposed of a petition challenging the border restrictions imposed by Haryana. During Thursday’s hearing, additional advocate general for Haryana Anil Grover told the bench that the state has modified some of its earlier orders after exchange of letters with the Union home ministry. He said free movement of trucks carrying both essential and as non-essential goods between Delhi and Haryana (except to and fro between containment zones) as well as transiting through Haryana shall be allowed and assured the Delhi-Haryana border is open and will remain so, while being manned by security personnel. Outlining the changes, the government produced samples of application for “e-pass” and an “e-pass” and told the bench it has now started issuing them even to private health workers within 30 minutes of application. An e-pass holder can during its validity make multiple trips to and fro Delhi and Haryana. Each e-pass will be valid for the entire duration of the lockdown and could be used for multiple visits, it added.  The outcome brings under scrutiny the stringent curbs in place at the Noida border, which was sealed on April 22 midnight. For days after that, as the city stopped allowing movement on the basis of Delhi government passes, doctors, nurses, healthcare staff and professionals involved in various other essential services were stopped at the border. Noida even issued its own passes. The city administration subsequently allowed medical professionals, including those working for private healthcare facilities, to cross borders without a pass, but the stringent restrictions on travel to and from Delhi remained. Offices and factories that have got permission to open, for instance, can’t get their employees living in Delhi to work.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/after-rebuke-by-hc-haryana-agrees-to-open-its-borders/articleshow/75747554.cms||Abhinav Garg
May 15, 2020||Jaipur||Rushed from Agra for heart treatment, two-month-old dies of Covid 19 in Jaipur||JAIPUR: Braving strict lockdown, a family of Agra of UP managed to reach Jaipur’s Sawai Man Singh (SMS) hospital with two-month-old ailing infant but all their efforts went in vain. The two-month-old boy died after being diagnosed with Covid-19 on Thursday. Infant’s family was advised at their hometown for immediate treatment of the congenital health diseasetosavehis life.They rushed to Jaipur for the treatment and reached on May 13 where JK Lon hospital doctors admitted for his treatment. Clinically examining the infant, the doctors diagnosed that the infant was suffering from total anomalous pulmonary venous connection (TAPVC), a congenital heart defect in which the pulmonary veins are not connected to the left atrium, a chamber of the heart through which blood enters the ventricles of the heart. The doctors took it as an emergency because it is a condition in whichthe veinsbringing blood back from the lungs do not connect to the left atrium like in normal persons. Due to the defect of the veins leading from the lungs to the heart, oxygenatedbloodentersor leaksinto the wrong chamber. “It is the defect, which needs to be surgically repaired early. The boy was brought to the hospital with difficulty in breathing on May13. Before we could start his treatment, he was tested positive for Covid-19,” said Dr Ashok Gupta, medical superintendent, JK Lon Hospital. The doctors, preparing for the surgery to repair the defect, followed the Covid-19 protocol and took his samples for Covid-19 test. The boy was tested positive and he was immediately admitted to the Covid-19 ward for his treatment. He was undergoing treatment at the ICU, but he died on Thursday morning. It was not the youngest Covid-19 death in the state. Seven days ago, a 20-day-old infant boy had died of Covid-19, who was brought to government-run JK Lon hospital in Jaipur in serious condition. The hospital claimed that it is the youngest death happened not only in the state. He died within five hours of his admission to the hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rushed-from-agra-for-heart-treatment-infant-dies-of-covid-19-in-jaipur/articleshow/75747550.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Ahmedabad||Another batch of 551 Gujaratis arrive in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: As many as 551 Gujaratis, stranded in the UK and Kuwait, returned back to Ahmedabad in two flights on Thursday morning. While 374 passengers arrived on a flight from London, another 177 were brought from Kuwait. After a medical check-up of all the passengers, they were sent to various districts of their choice for institutional quarantine. Officials of the district panchayat and secretary Mamta Verma were present at the airport to oversee smooth arrival and transportation of passengers to quarantine facilities. They will be allowed to go home after completing the mandatory 14-day quarantine period. Qutubuddin Virpurwala, a Vadodara resident, who arrived on one of the flights, thanked the Indian embassy and the government for granting him priority to return back. “I have a heart ailment and the embassy was very considerate in ensuring that I could return back on priority. It feels good to be back home,” Virpurwala said. Monakumari Kala, a passenger who arrived on Thursday morning, said she is pregnant and it was important for her to return back as soon as possible. “Even though I have to spend 14 days in quarantine, it is good to be back,” she said. A girl student, who arrived from London, said that there were 60 students who were stranded in the UK and the Indian embassy there was very helpful in ensuring their return. “The number of cases in the UK is rising very rapidly. We were really worried about our safety. The high commission helped us with food and accommodation until we boarded the flight back home,” the girl said. A youth, who identified himself as Falak, said he had almost completed his master’s degree in the UK. “Colleges are closed and we were confined to our rooms. We are happy to return,” he said. Over 1,000 persons stranded in different countries are expected to return at the Ahmedabad airport.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/another-batch-of-551-gujaratis-arrive/articleshow/75746931.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat’s microfinance scheme announced for small traders||GANDHINAGAR: Following the announcement of a financial stimulus package by the central government, the Gujarat government on Thursday unveiled a self-reliance scheme for small traders, businessmen, hawkers, rickshaw operators and others. Loans of up to Rs 1 lakh will be given at 2% annual interest for a period of three years without any security and with no EMI to be paid for six months after availing the loan. The state government will pay the remaining 6% interest on the loans that have been availed by people. Manish Bhardwaj, secretary, cooperation, animal husbandry, who drafted the scheme said, “Atmanirbhar Gujarat Sahay Yojana scheme is for small traders, small shopkeepers and middle class workers. Around 10 lakh beneficiaries will get loans worth Rs 5,000 crores for a period of three years at a very nominal rate of 2%. Each beneficiary will get loan of up to Rs 1 lakh.” Applications forms will be made available free of cost from branches of urban banks, district banks and credit societies. Applications will be accepted from May 21 onwards and can be made until August 31.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/states-microfinance-scheme-announced-for-small-traders/articleshow/75747053.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Mangaluru||Harrowing experience of Wenlock nurse goes viral||Mangaluru: A defence personnel’s social media post on how his wife, a staff nurse working at Wenlock Hospital, a designated Covid hospital, was treated inhumanely, has gone viral on social media. The post explains how his wife was made to stand in the scorching sun for several hours in her PPE kit on Wednesday, which resulted in her collapsing thrice, but she still did not get any help from others at the hospital. Ronald Baretto, the husband of Vinolia Pinto, posted about the ordeal that his wife underwent on Facebook. He said that the hospital authorities sent his wife alone to a patient’s home in an ambulance, asking her to check upon the health of the patient, and bring him to the hospital. By the time she returned to the hospital, it was almost two hours of her being in a PPE kit. After reaching the hospital, no one attended to the patient for at least an hour, and she was made to wait outside the hospital in the hot sun, while the patient was inside the ambulance. “She got exhausted and experienced suffocation as she was wearing a PPE kit. She needed a glass of water and a place to sit, which she couldn’t get. She couldn’t leave the patient alone in the ambulance. Before she could manage getting mandatory tests done for the patient and get him admitted, she collapsed twice. On collapsing for the third time, she somehow crawled to reach a place where she could sit, while the hospital staff watched from afar,” he narrated, adding that at one point of time, she even thought of getting exposed to the virus, than suffer from suffocation, due to wearing the PPE kit. The post also had a picture of her in a PPE kit. “One can see in the picture, that she is sitting beside a bin meant to dispose of hazardous substances, next to which she collapsed for the third time, after which she managed to get a cup of tea and some biscuits to recover,” he mentioned in the post. The issue was raised, and the doctor she was working with, spoke to the district health authorities to look into the matter. Vinolia’s family members say that she works five days a week, often without returning home. “She had left home on Monday for work, and returned on Thursday,” said a family member. Vinolia was not available for comment. When TOI contacted deputy commissioner Sindhu B Rupesh, she said that appropriate action will be taken in this matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/harrowing-experience-of-wenlock-nurse-goes-viral/articleshow/75744656.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Indore||Cleaning agency fined for dirty coach in Indore to Rewa train||Indore: Railways on Thursday imposed penalty on housekeeping agency of Indore station for failing to ensure cleanliness in one of the coaches of Indore-Rewa special train operated for 1480 migrants from Rewa on Wednesday. “Given the ongoing coronavirus pandemic, it’s too risky of somebody catching the infection if there was any infected passenger or individual in this coach,” they added. The passengers also claimed presence of a nest on one of the fans in the coach and alleged railway staff of not removing it. “They must have seen the nest and eggs, but they did not care to remove it if at all the coach was cleaned or sanitized,” they alleged. A video of the same was also circulated by passengers on social media platforms and this apparently forced divisional authorities of railways to take action. Ratlam division railway manager Vineet Gupta said that the entire rake was thoroughly cleaned and sanitized before the train’s departure. “An inquiry into the matter has already been ordered to ascertain exact reason and a penalty of Rs10,000 has been imposed on concerned housekeeping agency,” he said while talking to TOI. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/cleaning-agency-fined-for-dirty-coach-in-indore-to-rewa-train/articleshow/75746943.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Congress launches E-Janmitra Covid-19 app||GANDHINAGAR: The state Congress on Thursday launched ‘E-Janmitra Covid-19’, a web application through which affected persons can seek help during the ongoing crisis. The BJP attacked the Congress, saying it was shedding crocodile tears. Launching the web application, GPCC chief Amit Chavda said, “Our workers received a lot of feedback from the masses that the Covid-19 crisis has been mismanaged by the state government. Migrant workers and others don’t know where to look for help. This is why the party has developed the ‘E-Janmitra Covid-19’ web application.” He added that the Congress will assist migrant workers, and other affected people using the app. Responding to the Congress’ announcement, minister of state for home Pradipsinh Jadeja sid the Congress is just shedding crocodile tears.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/cong-launches-e-janmitra-covid-19-app/articleshow/75747052.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Delhi||Two test positive, Delhi's Ghazipur mandi shut for 2 days||NEW DELHI: Following two positive cases of Covid-19, Delhi government on Thursday closed down the Ghazipur fruits and vegetable auction yard for two days to get the mandi premises sanitised. According to officials, two senior officers of Ghazipur Agricultural Produce Marketing Committee (APMC) were infected by the novel coronavirus. While several Covid-positive cases had been reported from Azadpur auction yard, Asia’s biggest fruits and vegetable wholesale market, this was the first time that a case has emerged at Ghazipur. “The APMC office had been sealed and those who worked in close contact with the two officers were quarantined,” Ghazipur APMC chairman SP Gupta said. He added that the traders and retailers had been informed well in advance to ensure people did not queue up at the mandi on Thursday and Friday. Gupta said the district surveillance team had already started contact tracing of the two persons infected by the virus, while samples of all 11 staff members who worked at Ghazipur APMC would be collected on Friday. The Ghazipur vegetable and fruit mandi caters to the needs of east Delhi, Ghaziabad and Noida residents. There are about 450 shops in Ghazipur mandi and more than 2,500 people work there.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/2-test-ve-ghazipur-mandi-shut-for-2-days/articleshow/75748067.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Jaipur||4 die, 206 test positive in state, count crosses 4,500||Times News Network JAIPUR: Tumbling Wednesday’s record of registering highest number of Covid-19 cases, the state reported 206 infections on Thursday, taking the tally of positive cases to 4,534. On Wednesday, the state had registered 202 cases. However, in Jaipur only 20 persons were found infected. For the last three days, the health department has been camping in the district jail to screen inmates and found three more persons infected on Thursday. Across the state, the virus claimed four lives taking the death toll to 125. While one death case was reported from Jaipur and Karauli districts, two more who lost their lives due to the infection hailed from other states. The districts which reported the cases were Udaipur (59), Jaipur (20), Nagaur (17), Jodhpur (36), Barmer (8), Sirohi (8), Sikar (7), Ajmer (7), Jhunjhunu (5), Pali (5), Churu (4), Rajsamand (4), Jalore (22), Alwar (1), Dungarpur (1), Karauli (1) and Kota (1). Areas in Jaipur which reported the cases were Ghat Gate (3), district jail (3), Chandpole (2), Gangapole (2), Shastri Nagar (2) and one case each from Kishanpole, Gandhi Nagar, Kukas, Nahari Ka Naka, Hingonia, Sanganer, Dehra and Murlipura Scheme. Health minister Raghu Sharma said in the battle against Covid-19, they will ensure availability of manpower. He said the state government would soon give its approval for filling 1,058 posts of radiographers. He also said they have recently given postings to 9,500 nurses and 735 doctors. As many as 2346 Covid-19 patients have been discharged till date after being cured.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/4-die-206-test-positive-in-state-count-crosses-4500/articleshow/75747553.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Planning board to carry out study to revive Odisha’s economy||BHUBANESWAR: The state planning board, which has been lying defunct for more than a decade, has woken up to help the state government revive the economy hit by the Covid-19 pandemic. Officials said the apex plan body of the state government will soon carry out a detailed study on repurposing Odisha’s economy during the current pandemic and thereafter with focus on different sectors. An internal meeting of the board was held on Thursday and chaired by its deputy chairman Sanjay Das Burma. It was also attended by senior government officers, including development commissioner Suresh Mohapatra. “The study will focus on four key areas that have the potential to boost the economy. These are agriculture and rural economy, micro, small and medium enterprises (MSME), public health and industry, tourism and other aspects. We will hold consultations with professional experts, economists and senior officers who have handled the state’s affairs and economy for a long period and prepare the report,” Das Burma said. As far as the agriculture sector is concerned, the focus will be on sustainable agriculture and increasing farmers’ income through different strategies like crop diversification, use of technology and providing better marketing linkage. The agriculture sector contributes about 20% to Odisha’s gross state domestic product. Nearly 70% of the state’s population depends on this sector. The planning board has stressed on appropriate policies by the state government to help the MSMEs, which plays a key role in generating employment. The officials said the study will include rural enterprises and street vendors. As the pandemic has forced governments to focus on public health, the planning board study will recommend measures to strengthen the public health system at all levels — primary, secondary and tertiary. Discussions were also held to find out a revival strategy for the industry and tourism sectors, the growth of which is crucial for the state’s economy and employment generation. It was decided in the meeting that the Nabakrushna Choudhury Centre for Development Studies will be entrusted as the nodal agency to carry out the study. While chief minister Naveen Patnaik is the chairperson of the state planning board, a senior leader who enjoys the status and rank of a cabinet minister, has been appointed as its deputy chairperson, The board had last met in October 2007.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/planning-board-to-carry-out-study-to-revive-states-economy/articleshow/75745951.cms||Sujit Kumar Bisoyi
May 15, 2020||Mumbai||1,000 relieved, emotional passengers reach Mumbai by 1st special train from Delhi||MUMBAI: More than 1,000 “glad and relieved” passengers arrived in the city by the first special New Delhi-Mumbai Central train on Thursday morning. Most of the 1,072 passengers got emotional on reaching their city after being stuck in the capital and other northern states while on family visits, business trips or vacations since the lockdown was announced in the last week of March. Read the entire story on TOI+One state and its 1,000 stories of sorrow and relief||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/1000-relieved-emotional-passengers-reach-city-by-1st-spl-train-from-delhi/articleshow/75746953.cms||Manthan K Mehta
May 15, 2020||Chandigarh||Shops in Mohali can now open from 7am to 6pm||MOHALI: Mohali deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan extended the shop opening timings by three hours on Thursday. They can now be open from 7am to 6pm against the earlier timings of 7am to 3pm. The DC said, “In the entire district, the shops will follow the previous order of odd-even concept. Eateries, restaurants, pubs, salons and hotels have not been given permission to operate. Plans are being made to allow such establishments to operate. Residents can visit markets in vehicles. Not more than three people, including the driver, are allowed in a four-wheeler.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/shops-in-mohali-will-now-be-open-from-7am-to-6pm/articleshow/75746939.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Chandigarh||2,475 high-risk persons in Bapu Dham: Report||CHANDIGARH: Epidemiological report on the largest Covid-19 cluster in Bapu Dham colony prepared by the UT health department has identified 2,475 high-risk persons. These consist of pregnant women and children between 0-5 age group. The report has been submitted to the government. A copy of which is with the TOI. As per the report, for active surveillance, risk assessment was done by the UT health department. For this, they identified super spreaders in the colony that were vegetable vendors, grocery, milk shop owners and garbage collectors. Clustering of cases in areaThe report stated that the colony is congested with thick density of population due to EWS flats as well as residences housing a minimum of 6-8 members per household. Majority of residents are either daily wagers or involved in menial jobs in organizations/health facilities. There is crowding at community water taps leading to close contacts. Also, there has been rampant violation of social distancing norms despite the lockdown. Most of the residents share hookas, cigrattes and beedis. Strategies adopted by health dept The area was divided into four zones with each zone further divided into five pockets. Out of the total 20 pockets, two were in containment zone while rest fell in buffer zone with strict perimeter control in these pockets. Eleven teams of experts were deputed at sabzi mandis and various other sites where these super spreaders are being screened as a containment measure. They are not being allowed entry inside the affected pockets. To provide essential items, door-to-door delivery is being done by the Chandigarh administration. After the area was declared as affected pocket, interventions like restriction of movement of residents, patrolling, announcements for awareness were initiated for effective containment. Teams of health workers and police personnel went door-to-door to screen as many as 27,388 area residents till date. Ambulances were deputed for immediate shifting of suspect cases to GMSH-16 for sampling. As many as 53 suspect cases have been taken to hospitals in three ambulances for sampling. The persons whose sample was taken were placed in isolation ward. While those who tested negative were discharged, the positive cases were shifted to the PGI or Dhanwantry Ayurvedic Hospital, Sector 46.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/2475-high-risk-persons-in-bapu-dham-health-dept-report/articleshow/75746936.cms||Shimona Kanwar
May 15, 2020||Chandigarh||Some relief: No case reported in Chandigarh, 5 discharged from PGI||CHANDIGARH: Here is some good news for the city. For the first time in weeks, no new Covid-19 case was reported on Thursday. And five patients were discharged from PGI after they defeated novel coronavirus. It is the highest number of recoveries in a day to date. With this, the count of cured patients in UT stands at 37. Unlike the previous week when the case increase was mostly in double digits, this week saw a drop in numbers. While 7 cases were reported on Monday, the figure was 8 on Tuesday and 2 on Wednesday. The highest number of cases were reported on May 9 when 21 persons had tested positive. The five who were discharged include three women, aged 55, 35 and 23, a 62-year-old man of Sector 30 and a 32-year-old man of Sector 26.  Besides, a PGI healthcare worker, of Mullanpur, Punjab, too was discharged on Thursday. All six will be home quarantined for 14 days, as per the standard protocol. PGI director Jagat Ram said, “It is a positive indicator that our recovery rate is consistently increasing and is comparable to the best in the country.” On a note of caution, he added, “We have to learn to live with the virus. The peak is yet to come in June and July. After that as well, it may take long to go. So social distancing, hand washing, wearing a mask and avoiding crowds should become a way of life.” As many as 2,506 people have been sampled in the city to date, of which 2,299 tested negative and 191 positive. Results of 15 cases is awaited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/some-relief-no-case-reported-in-city-5-discharged-from-pgi/articleshow/75746951.cms||Kamini Mehta
May 15, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh not limping, but jumping back to normalcy, says HC||CHANDIGARH: The Punjab and Haryana high court has observed that the UT administration is “not just limping back”, but “jumping back” to normalcy. The court was on Thursday hearing a PIL challenging lifting of curfew in Chandigarh amidst outbreak of coronavirus. Hearing through video-conferencing for around two hours, the HC observed that prima facie there were contradictions and dichotomy between MHA orders and that of the UT . The petitioner pointed out issues like interstate movement from Mohali and Panchkula to Chandigarh, containment zones, opening of markets , vehicular movement in Chandigarh and unrestricted movement of people from 7am to 7pm. The HC has asked UT to file reply by Friday. Though the UT had earlier filed its reply, stating that it was following guidelines of the MHA, during the resumed hearing of case on Thursday, petitioner Pankaj Chandgothia pointed out that the administration flouted the guidelines as it has allowed entry of persons from Panchkula and Mohali without a pass. Also, the UT allowed unrestricted movement to all between 7am and 7pm without a pass, he added. On this, UT senior standing counsel Pankaj Jain replied that UT was limping back to normalcy while following the MHA guidelines. The HC observed that it was not just “limping back” but “jumping back” to normalcy. Chandgothia said the UT had made “parts of sectors 30, 52, 38, etc” as containment zones. It was pointed out that “parts of ” can’t be containment zones, but it has to be the full area. The mentioning of containment zones was ill-defined and not as per MHA guidelines, he said, adding that move to open markets and shops in residential areas, parks and lake was wrong as these were not standalone shops, but the whole market complexes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/ut-not-limping-but-jumping-back-to-normalcy-says-hc/articleshow/75746947.cms||Neha Sharma
May 15, 2020||Nashik||Taps to run dry in many Nashik areas||NASHIK: Areas in Nashik Road, Nashik East, Cidco and Satpur divisions will not receive drinking water on Saturday as the civic body will be carrying out repairs to pipelines. Water supply will be restored on Sunday, but at a low pressure while it will be normal from Monday, said civic officials on Thursday. The Panchavati and Nashik West divisions will, however, get water as usual. Water supply department will be undertaking repair works at the pipeline connected to the treatment plant in the Gandhi Nagar area. Repairs will also be carried out at the pipeline connected to the Shivaji Nagar plant in Satpur. Water will not be supplied in wards 17, 18, 19, 20, 21 and 22 in the Nashik Road, wards 16, 23 and 30 in Nashik East and ward 25, 27 and 28 in the Cidco division. Ward 26 will be affected In Satpur division.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/taps-to-run-dry-in-many-city-areas/articleshow/75745969.cms||Tushar Pawar
May 15, 2020||Nagpur||Shops begin preparing for liquor home delivery from today||Nagpur: Following orders from collector Ravindra Thakare and municipal commissioner Tukaram Munde, the state excise department is now set to permit wine shop owners to home deliver liquor. Sources said that around 20 wine shop owners have applied for permission on Thursday and several others are likely to follow in the coming days. There are around 150 wine shops, beer shoppees and country liquor shops in city and 221 in rural areas. Sources said at least 10 shops will begin delivery from Friday itself with more joining later. Excise officials had sealed all establishments in March after the order of their closure. Now they are preparing to permit shop owners who comply with the conditions put by the government. State excise SP Pramod Sonone told TOI that a wine shop owner can only deliver liquor after getting permission from the department. “There are several rules which needs to be followed such as they will have to sanitize their premises. Home delivery will be done by their employees who will have to take permission from us. We will provide I-cards to delivery persons,” he said. The citizens needs to have a permit that they can get from official website of excise department or from excise officials or from the licence holders. “Without permit, liquor will not be delivered. The wine shop owners will display their contact details for the customers. No liquor can be sold at the premises. In rural areas, liquor can be sold from the shops,” said Sonone. A shop will only be able to serve nearby areas. “Several wine shop owners are coming to us to get permission. Our officials will first visit the establishments and see if all norms are followed. Only then permission will be given,” said the excise SP. There are concerns that citizens might fall prey to tricksters. “Earlier also, several people were duped in online frauds on the pretext of getting home delivery of liquor. Citizens must be careful about believing any fake advertisements on social media and must always pay after receiving the delivery,” said a source.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/shops-begin-preparing-for-liquor-home-delivery-from-today/articleshow/75746973.cms||Viraj Deshpande
May 15, 2020||Delhi||Decide on online sale of liquor by Friday: Delhi high court||NEW DELHI: Delhi high court on Thursday asked the AAP government to take a call by Friday on the sale of liquor online with home delivery. A bench of Justices Rajiv Sahai Endlaw and Sangita Dhingra Sehgal bound Delhi government to its assurance that it will take a decision regarding online sale and home delivery of alcohol by Friday while hearing a petition seeking quashing of the government’s May 3 notification to the extent it permitted sale of liquor in the capital. The court dismissed the plea, pointing out that earlier this week it had dealt with most of the arguments in detail that were disposed of on Monday with a direction to Centre and Delhi government to take a decision at the earliest on sale of alcohol online, to prevent crowding outside liquor vends during the Covid-19 pandemic. During Thursday’s hearing, the court wanted to know if the state government had taken any decision as per its earlier suggestion to act swiftly. While Centre informed the court that several states have begun online sale of alcohol, the AAP government committed to taking a decision in this regard by Friday. The bench had earlier nudged the state government to act fast in deciding if liquor can be made available online for home delivery or number of vends can be increased, pointing out that delay will increase probability of spreading Covid-19 as each day more and more people will come in close contact with each other. “We are afraid that any delay on the part of the Central Government and Delhi government can exacerbate the problem of crowding outside liquor shops and would defeat the purpose, inasmuch as more the delay, more will be the number of persons outside liquor shops in contact with each other, increasing the probability of spread of infection,” it had noted. The court had also explained why there is urgency since threat caused by over-crowding due to Covid-19 isn’t “of a permanent nature, solution whereof can be devised at leisure; the problem is perhaps of a few days more inasmuch as once the patrons of alcohol are satisfied that there would be no further closure, the crowding outside liquor shops is likely to disappear.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/hc-decide-on-online-sale-of-liquor-today/articleshow/75747559.cms||Abhinav Garg
May 15, 2020||Mysuru||NIA offers Rs 3 lakh reward for help to capture suspected ISIS terrorist||SHIVAMOGGA: Stepping up its efforts to nab 26-year-old Abdul Matheen Taahaa, a native of Theerthahalli in Shivamogga district, who is suspected of having links with the terrorist organisation ISIS, the National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Wednesday announced a cash reward of Rs 3 lakh to those who help in apprehending him. In its statement released to the press on Wednesday, NIA said that Taahaa’s family resides at Fish Market in Soppugudde in Theerthahalli town. The agency suspects him of being involved with Al-Hind, an ISIS-backed terrorist group formed by Mehboob Pasha, who was arrested along with Khaja Moideen recently. Tahaa and the duo are suspects in the murder of a Hindu leader in Tamil Nadu. Pasha had conducted several meetings with members of Al-Hind at his Bengaluru residence in 2019, which was attended by Taahaa. He reportedly had plans to dispatch radicalised youngsters to join the ranks of ISIS in Afghanistan and Syria. Thus far, NIA has nabbed 12 individuals with alleged links to the organisation. “Tahaa is a friend of Saleem and Zaid, who were arrested previously. NIA launched an operation in Theerthahalli to nab Taahaa. We quizzed Tahaa’s parents. However, their neighbours said that they had not seen him around the town and said that the face in his photograph appeared unfamiliar,” said an NIA official. Shivamogga deputy commissioner KB Sivakumar said that it was an NIA operation through-and-through, adding that the district administration had no role to play.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/nia-offers-rs-3-lakh-reward-for-help-to-capture-suspected-isis-terrorist/articleshow/75744682.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Vizag gas leak: Locals had never heard of styrene before||VISAKHAPATNAM: With questions of safety measures being raised in the wake of the styrene vapour leak accident at the LG Polymers plant, it seems people living around it had neither any clue about styrene nor any idea about the steps to be take in case of an industrial accident. “I have been living in Venkatapuram, which is located close to LG Polymers, for the past 15 years. But, I never heard about styrene and the management of the plant has never conducted any mock drill to create awareness among the residents on what to do in case of a leak,” said N Latha (Lakshmi), mother of N Grishma (9), who was among the 12 people who died in the incident. Concurring with Latha, K Ayyappa, another resident of Venkatapuram who works at the LG Polymers, said, “We were not aware of the health effects of styrene. Moreover, the management of the plant never informed us about the safety measures to be taken in case of a leak. Although the management is claiming that they followed safety measures, they have neither conducted any mock drills nor informed the locals about how to protect themselves in case of a mishap.” Experts said that this would explain why so many people ran towards the Meghadri Gedda reservoir, thinking that it would be safer there. They did not realise that the vapour was spreading in that very direction because of the wind direction. The bowl- shape of the city with a wind pattern which travels south-west to north east for nine months helped the toxic gas spread from the industrial belt to residential areas. With Visakhapatnam set to become the executive capital and the industrial hub of AP, experts said that it is imperative that industries carry out mock drills and organise awareness programmes for the safety of the people. Moreover, an NDRF base in Visakhapatnam is the need of the hour. Ch Narasinga Rao of CPI(M) said, “LG Polymers failed to detect the possibility of styrene leak and alert people residing around the plant. It is clear that management of the LG Polymers as well as the officials of the factories department are responsible for the tragedy. We demand action against them.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/14-nalla-ram-styrene-vapour-leakage-people-clueless-on-how-to-escape-when-there-is-any-accident/articleshow/75745955.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: 12 women cops test negative||CHANDIGARH: The UT police department took a sigh of relief after 12 women constables tested negative for Covid-19 on Thursday. They had given their samples after their colleague, also a woman constable, tested positive on May 12. It was the first confirmed case in UT Police. Of the 12, seven lived with the woman constable in the same barrack at a training centre in Sector 26 Police Lines and five came in her contact. Police said five of them had Covid-19-like symptoms, but all have tested negative. “They are under quarantine and will join duty after completing their isolation period,” said a cop. The constable, who had tested positive, was deployed at grain market with a team of municipal corporation and might have contracted the infection from there, as Bapu Dham Colony of Sector 26 has reported more than 100 positive cases so far. The training centre’s barracks are functional with 50% capacity. As many as 250 constables are staying there. All the barracks are being sanitised and occupants screened, Police Lines officials said. All cops are being provided gloves, masks, soaps and sanitisers and those deployed at the hotspots are being given personal protection equipment (PPE) kits, officials added.  Cops have been told that if anybody developed fever, cold and cough, (s)he must report to their unit head and get themselves screened. Earlier, samples of five cops were taken and all tested negative.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/12-women-cops-test-negative/articleshow/75746958.cms||Pawan Tiwari
May 15, 2020||Dehradun||Migrant workers missing from trains, probe on||Haridwar: The district administration has launched an inquiry into the mystery of migrant workers who registered their names to return to Uttarakhand from Surat by train, but went missing. As per data, a list of 1,400 passengers was sent by Surat administration, but only 1,178 passengers reached Haridwar railway station on Monday. Haridwar administration is not aware about the remaining passengers who have gone missing — whether they didn’t board the train or jumped off it. Railway police official Manoj Katyal, posted at Haridwar, told TOI, "There is a difference between the numbers of passengers who enlisted and that which reached Haridwar, but we still can’t say they are missing from the train, as no incident of chain pulling or jumping off the trains has happened." The district administration, meanwhile, has initiated an inquiry in the matter, and sent letters to Surat and Bengaluru administrations to verify the passenger list of both trains. DM Haridwar C Ravishankar told TOI, "We’re trying to verify the list of passengers who boarded both trains. There are two possibilities — either some enlisted migrants could not catch the respective trains, or they jumped off the train. Most likely, the missing passengers failed to catch the train, but in case they escaped, we will take action against them and register cases under Section 307 (attempt to murder)."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/migrant-workers-missing-from-trains-probe-on/articleshow/75745958.cms||MS Nawaz
May 15, 2020||Chandigarh||Three trains from Chandigarh, Mohali take 4,353 migrants home||CHANDIGARH/MOHALI: Three Shramik Express special trains departed with 4,353 migrants from Chandigarh and Mohali on Thursday. While one of the trains started from Mohali with 1501 passengers for Katihar in Bihar, the other two began their respective journeys from Chandigarh. The Mohali administration has managed to sent back nearly 15,000 migrants in a week. Deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan said, “We have complied the data, worked out statistics and prepared the district-wise departure schedule for the entire population of outbound migrants. With the restoration of activity in labour intensive industrial and construction sectors coupled with job opportunity in the ensuing paddy transplantation period, the dropoff rate of migrants registered for travelling back is increasing; daily over 30% declining to go back.” Meanwhile, one of the trains from Chandigarh to Partapgarh in Uttar Pradesh departed at 2pm with 1,340 on board whereas second train to Sitamarhi in Bihar had 1,512 passengers. The DC said 225 migrants had been sent via buses to Sirhind to head towards Manipur and Andhra Pradesh while about 900 others would go to Madhya Pradesh on Friday. Besides, people seeking to go home on private vehicles were also being issued permission after due screening, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/3-trains-from-ut-mohali-take-4353-migrants-home/articleshow/75746964.cms||Barinderjit Saluja
May 15, 2020||Mumbai||Mhada & SRA staff may join Covid war||The government plans to rope in Mhada and SRA employees to assist the BMC in its fight against coronavirus. It would also to help the civic body in contact-tracing. With the number of positive cases on the rise, several BMC ward level officials have been on the ground all seven days of a week. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mhada-sra-staff-may-join-covid-war/articleshow/75746979.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Bareilly||Govt vet, official booked for deaths of 20 cows||PILIBHIT: Government veterinary officer, Dr Veer Pal Singh, posted in the veterinary hospital in Pilibhit's Barhera block headquarters, and executive officer of Barkhera town area committee Rakesh Kumar Chaube were booked following a complaint by officiating chief veterinary officer, Dr Akhilesh Kumar Garg, on Thursday for "causing extreme cruelty to cows and other cattle", resulting in the death of 20 bovines. A three-member probe committee has found that 40 cattle were shifted illegally from Barkhera cow shelter to one at Bhara Pachpeda in Amaria tehsil on May 7, resulting in the death of 20 cows. Departmental action has been ordered against them. “As per rules, a truck can carry a maximum of six cattle while the two accused officials sent 25 cattle in one truck and 15 in another. The trucks were not equipped with safety pads. Overloading of cattle in the trucks became the root cause of the deaths," said Dr Garg. Umesh Solanki, SHO of Barkhera police station, said the two named accused were booked under sections of the Prevention of Cruelty to animals Act, 1960.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/govt-vet-official-booked-for-deaths-of-20-cows/articleshow/75746963.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Amaravati||Keep ready lockdown exit plan, Andhra Pradesh CM to officials||VIJAYAWADA: Chief minister Y S Jaganmohan Reddy has asked the state administration to get ready with the lockdown exit plan. During the daily review meeting at his Tadepalli camp office on Thursday, the officials told the chief minister that there are 290 containment clusters in the state, where the lockdown norms are being strictly implemented. They said that no new cases were reported in 75 clusters during the last 28 days. These clusters will be denotified and relaxations would be extended to them if no new cases are reported till May 31, the officials said. The officials also told the chief minister that there are 22 containment clusters in the state where the number of cases is more. In such clusters, the lockdown restrictions will continue for 500 meters outside those areas. There are 103 clusters which have reported less than 10 positive cases, the officials said and added that the lockdown restrictions would be implemented in 200-meter radius of such clusters. The officials said that 90 dormant clusters were also identified and if there are no new cases for the next 14 days, the lockdown relaxations would be given to them. The chief minister told the officials to prepare action plan for post-lockdown in the state keeping in view the number of cases reported in the clusters. He told them to have a plan to maintain theatres, educational institutions, restaurants and markets. The lockdown exit plan should be ready at the earliest, he said. When the officials referred to him about the migrant workers on the road, the chief minister told the officials to provide food and drinking water to them. CM writes to Centre to extend CS term by 6 months Meanwhile, the chief minister has written to the Centre seeking extension of chief secretary Nilam Sawhney's term by another six months. Sawhney is due to retire on June 30. Citing the crisis arising out of Covid pandemic, Jagan sought an extension to her term to ensure continuity of the measures she has initiated. Sawhney, a 1988 batch IAS officer, succeeded LV Subrahmanyam on November 13 last year to become AP’s first woman chief secretary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/keep-ready-lockdown-exit-plan-cm-to-officials/articleshow/75755845.cms||Gopi Dara
May 15, 2020||Vijayawada||Keep ready lockdown exit plan, Andhra Pradesh CM to officials||VIJAYAWADA: Chief minister Y S Jaganmohan Reddy has asked the state administration to get ready with the lockdown exit plan. During the daily review meeting at his Tadepalli camp office on Thursday, the officials told the chief minister that there are 290 containment clusters in the state, where the lockdown norms are being strictly implemented. They said that no new cases were reported in 75 clusters during the last 28 days. These clusters will be denotified and relaxations would be extended to them if no new cases are reported till May 31, the officials said. The officials also told the chief minister that there are 22 containment clusters in the state where the number of cases is more. In such clusters, the lockdown restrictions will continue for 500 meters outside those areas. There are 103 clusters which have reported less than 10 positive cases, the officials said and added that the lockdown restrictions would be implemented in 200-meter radius of such clusters. The officials said that 90 dormant clusters were also identified and if there are no new cases for the next 14 days, the lockdown relaxations would be given to them. The chief minister told the officials to prepare action plan for post-lockdown in the state keeping in view the number of cases reported in the clusters. He told them to have a plan to maintain theatres, educational institutions, restaurants and markets. The lockdown exit plan should be ready at the earliest, he said. When the officials referred to him about the migrant workers on the road, the chief minister told the officials to provide food and drinking water to them. CM writes to Centre to extend CS term by 6 months Meanwhile, the chief minister has written to the Centre seeking extension of chief secretary Nilam Sawhney's term by another six months. Sawhney is due to retire on June 30. Citing the crisis arising out of Covid pandemic, Jagan sought an extension to her term to ensure continuity of the measures she has initiated. Sawhney, a 1988 batch IAS officer, succeeded LV Subrahmanyam on November 13 last year to become AP’s first woman chief secretary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/keep-ready-lockdown-exit-plan-cm-to-officials/articleshow/75745973.cms||Gopi Dara
May 15, 2020||Chennai||T R Baalu seeks to move privilege against Tamil Nadu chief secretary||CHENNAI: A day after meeting chief secretary K Shanmugam and presenting to him one lakh representations collected from people, DMK parliamentary chief T R Baalu has written to Lok Sabha speaker Om Birla seeking to move privilege proceedings against the former for alleged “rash behaviour” with the delegation of party MPs. For his part, chief secretary Shanmugam denied having insulted the DMK MPs, while adding that he was only a humble government servant and not a politician. Late on Thursday, Dayanidhi Maran too wrote to the speaker and sought privilege proceedings against the senior most bureaucrat in the state. Amidst the melee, DMK president M K Stalin, who often takes to social media for making his stand public when not issuing a statement, maintained a stoic silence on the issue. In his letter, Baalu said he, along with three MPs from Chennai, Maran, Kalanidhi Veerasamy and Thamizhachi Thangapandian, met Shanmugam on Wednesday evening after making an appointment. The chief secretary did not even bother about the arrival of the delegation of the MPs though two of them were former Union ministers in the UPA and NDA governments, the letter said. “Unmindful of the uncivilised behaviour, we explained to him with patience. We requested him to take urgent action on the petitions. But the official was showing least concern,” said Baalu in the letter. While the DMK was concerned about the need to address the people’s grievances soon, Shanmugam hinted it could take months since his office was functioning with skeletal staff, Baalu said. Responding to the charges, Shanmugam said he had huge respect for the opposition leader (M K Stalin) and did not have the remotest intention of insulting him or other leaders. As soon as the delegation left, he ordered immediate dispatch of petitions to the CM’s grievance cell and segregate the petitions official-wise and department-wise. “I am an ordinary government staff, not a politician. My duty is to serve the people, and therefore, I never thought of ignoring or insulting anyone,” Shanmugam said. Late on Thursday evening, Baalu alleged that the belated statement from Shanmugam seemed to reflect the “political voice” of chief minister. “Having had a long stint in state government service, we also respect Shanmugam. Our only concern is he should remain impartial when meeting people’s representatives,” Baalu said in a statement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/t-r-baalu-seeks-to-move-privilege-against-chief-secy/articleshow/75746980.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Dehradun||U’khand HC asks state, Centre to explain rationale behind classification of Haridwar as red zone & Dehradun orange||Nainital: Uttarakhand high court (HC) on Thursday asked the counsels appearing for the state as well as central governments to explain the rationale behind putting Haridwar in red zone and Dehradun in orange zone when the number of cases in Dehradun district were more than those in Haridwar district. The classification was done based on data sent by the state government to the Centre. A Public Interest Litigation (PIL) was filed in the HC by a resident of Haridwar district, Akshay Sharma, challenging the rationale behind the classification of Haridwar and Dehradun districts as red and orange zones respectively. The petitioner had argued that both Haridwar and Dehradun shared borders with Uttar Pradesh and Himachal Pradesh respectively and therefore, the risk of the spread of the virus was same in both districts. The bench of Chief Justice Ramesh Ranganathan and Justice Ramesh Chandra Khulbe which heard the petition, said that though the classification of districts into various zones is a policy issue, the court can exercise the power of judicial review to find the rational basis for the decision. The bench also held that the decision must “satisfy the test of a valid classification under Article 14.” “While the decision to classify districts in Red, Orange and Green Zone categories is undoubtedly a policy decision, it must however satisfy the test of a valid classification under Article 14. This court can, undoubtedly, exercise its power of judicial review to ascertain whether or not there was any rational basis for such a classification,” the court said in its order. Till Thursday evening, Dehradun had reported 39 coronavirus positive cases, of which 28 have recovered,10 are still active, and one death of a positive patient has been reported which the health department has attributed not to Covid-19, but to other causes. Haridwar on the other hand has reported seven cases of which six have recovered and one is still active. The HC has now given the assistant solicitor general and the chief standing counsel time till Monday to present their arguments when the case will be heard next.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-hc-asks-state-centre-to-explain-rationale-behind-classification-of-haridwar-as-red-zone-dehradun-orange/articleshow/75745978.cms||Prashant Jha
May 15, 2020||Chandigarh||Foreign returnees to be tested at Zirakpur resort||Mohali: All arrangements have been made and health department teams constituted to check NRIs arriving by road from Delhi and Punjabis coming from other states. They would be screened at a private resort in Zirakpur, said deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan. He said after medical examination, they would be asked to quarantine themselves either at homes or at paid hotel facility arranged by the Mohali administration. “Travellers stuck abroad due to lockdown are expected to return soon and will be extended paid institutional quarantine facility in accordance with MHA guidelines,” he said. Each passenger, before boarding, gave an undertaking to abide by the rules. The district administration has identified different categories of hotels and option would be open to inbound traveller. “Two flights are expected in a couple of days,” said Dayalan. The sarpanches and the numberdars of the villages in the district have been asked to inform the SDMs concerned or sector officer or chief nodal officer about foreign returnees. In case of municipal committees and municipal corporations, councillors or commissioners and the executive officer would inform the SDM or sector or nodal officer. When informed, the SDM or officers will activate the rapid response team (RRT) and screen the incomers. The civil surgeons would make sure that the RRTs intimate the SMO concerned and district control room about any person found symptomatic. He or she would be tested immediately and the protocol of the health department would be followed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/foreign-returnees-to-be-tested-at-zirakpur-resort/articleshow/75746969.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Chandigarh||2 arrested for roaming around without a mask||tnnChandigarh: Police arrested two persons for roaming on roads without a mask in Bapu Dham Colony on Thursday.“A patrol found the two — Arvind Kumar and Deepak of the colony —walking on the road near Sheetla Mata temple. They were neither wearing a mask nor had a valid reason to step out,” said a cop.The two were arrested under sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of the IPC. They were later released on bail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/2-arrested-for-roaming-around-without-a-mask/articleshow/75746961.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Ahmedabad||Power units continue to be shut as demand remains low in Gujarat||AHMEDABAD: Low demand from industrial consumers has prompted state and private sector companies to temporarily shut their power generating units. Apart from reduction in demand, availability of cheaper power in the open market is another reason behind units being kept under shutdown. “Around 6,300MW power generation capacity across the state is currently under reserve shutdown (RSD). Power units are kept under RSD if there is no demand for electricity,” said people privy to the information. Data available with the state load dispatch centre (SLDC) show that state-owned power plants’ 17 units with cumulative capacity of approximately 3,900MW continue to be non-operational. “As many as 15 units of private sector operated power plants are currently closed, which has cumulative capacity of 2,400MW,” sources added. Total 26 units — state and private sector — with 5,500MW in Gujarat were closed on April 23. The total installed power generation capacity-state and private sector-is estimated to be 30,472MW, which includes both conventional and non-conventional power. Industry players attribute low demand from industries and availability of cheaper power to temporary closure of these units. “The demand for electricity from industrial units is still low at 60%. Daily power consumption by industries remains around 130 million units (MUs). However, 70 MUs are being consumed at present,” sources said. According to industry players, although electricity demand in Gujarat has improved to cross 14,000MW, it is still lower than some 18,000MW demand witnessed at this time in normal circumstances. “At present, electricity demand is partly met through cheaper power from the open market. It makes sense to meet the requirement through cheaper power from open market. It helps reduce power procurement cost,” explained sources. Power prices in open market have also declined in the wake of low demand across the nation amid lockdown. The average price of power on Indian Energy Exchange (IEX) for Gujarat and Maharashtra regions was Rs 2.65 per unit during the period from May 7 to 14.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/power-units-continue-to-be-shut-as-demand-remains-low/articleshow/75746977.cms||Kalpesh Damor
May 15, 2020||Mumbai||36,000 Maharashtra units restart, 10 lakh workers rejoin||MUMBAI: Ten lakh workers have now started reporting to work at factories across Maharashtra. With the state easing restrictions and allowing industries to resume operation, 36,383 factories have resumed work, according to the latest data released by the Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation (MIDC). A total 64,487 units have self-certified that they want to restart. P Anbalgan, CEO, MIDC, said efforts were on to get another 2.5 lakh workers to join work. The chief secretary has issued an order allowing factories in Pimpri-Chinchwad, a red zone, to resume work. But, at the local level, there is confusion on which industries will be allowed. “There are 11,000 micro, small, medium enterprises (MSMEs) in Pimpri-Chinchwad. The corporation has said it will create an app to grant permission, but the state government has allowed industries to start and there is already an online MIDC portal to register. Hopefully, this confusion will be cleared and we will not need permission from multiple agencies,” said Sandeep Belsare, president, Pimpri-Chinchwad Small Scale Industries Association. Belsare said they faced another daunting task of finding workers as almost 70,000 migrant workers had left. Sources said there was a clear tussle between the industry department and the local administration. While the department was keen on getting as many factories as possible started, the local administration was worried the presence of a large number of workers might jeopardise their lockdown efforts. Several factories that were allowed to start from May 4 continue to face problems. Industry sources said in Hinjewadi and Chakan in the rural parts of Pune district, many are facing difficulty in obtaining passes for buses to transport workers and for personal vehicles of senior officials. “It takes workers four hours to reach their work site in Hinjewadi as police insist on the collector’s permission though the Central government has said no such permission is required,” said a source. Factories that want to run multiple shifts are not being allowed to do so either. Industry is being treated as non-essential and so local district and police officials insist on the 7 am to 7pm timings, said sources. In Nagpur, the municipal corporation has been reluctant to grant permission and it was with great difficulty that industries in Hingna got the nod to resume. On the other hand, sources said, it has been smooth sailing in Aurangabad with both the civic chief and police commissioner playing a pro-active role in restarting industries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/36k-maha-units-restart-10-lakh-workers-rejoin/articleshow/75747555.cms||Clara Lewis
May 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Police academy teaching cops to cook and clean||HYDERABAD: Apart from the conventional training given to trainee policemen, RBVRR Telangana State Police Academy (TSPA) said that in one of their training programmes which was completed recently, policemen were taught cooking, cleaning utensils, sanitising washrooms. RBVRR TSPA in a statement said that 1,300 sub-inspectors and 650 constables were being taught such skills as part of the hostel management and picnic on the job training module. “TSPA has been experimenting for the last six months with different approaches in training to bring transformation in police training,’’ said an official and added that the trainees have taken enthusiastically to this training programme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/police-academy-teaching-cops-to-cook-and-clean/articleshow/75746875.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Civet holds the fort at Golconda||Residents of Old City had an unusual visitor late on Wednesday, an Asian palm civet. The solitary nocturnal mammal, which usually does not associate as a large group, was found lurking on the parapets of Noorani Masjid near Fateh Darwaza of Golconda Fort. There was panic in the areas as morphed images of the civet as a black panther were circulated on social media. This kept the residents awake the whole night. “We don’t have black panthers in the state. Our officials, who were part of the rescue operation, confirmed that the animal was a civet,” said Ranga Reddy district forest officer Bheema Naik. The civet was safely captured on Thursday morning around 9 am by forest and zoo rescue teams and was shifted to the Nehru Zoological Park.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/civet-holds-the-fort-at-golconda/articleshow/75746640.cms||Moulika.KV
May 15, 2020||Mysuru||Tiger spotted by labourers at a South Kodagu estate||Madikeri: A tiger was spotted on Thursday by labourers on their way to work at an estate premises in Nalluru village of South Kodagu. Estate labourers working at a private estate owned by Machimada Lala Poonacha in Nalluru village were on their way to the estate early in the morning when they were confronted by a tiger. The tiger, which was spotted sitting by the bushes inside the estate, is said to have roared spotting the them and the panic-stricken workers fled to protect themselves. The incident was reported to Thithimathi forest department ACF Sripathi and the spot was visited by the official along with other forest staff. A half-eaten carcass of a wild boar was found inside the estate indicating that the tiger may have killed it, officials said. The department staff also traced the footprints of the tiger. Forest staff is keeping a vigil across the estate premises and has placed a cage to capture of the prowling tiger.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/tiger-spotted-by-labourers-at-a-south-kodagu-estate/articleshow/75744718.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Hubballi||Pregnant woman who entered Belagavi without permit tests Covid positive||BELAGAVI: Police in Belagavi booked three people for allegedly concealing the arrival of a seven-month pregnant woman who tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday. The 27-year-old woman was clandestinely brought from Dharavi in Mumbai to Belagavi, her parents’ house, on May 6. Currently isolated at the dedicated Covid hospital, she had travelled along with her husband and a driver without permission. Her husband hails from Dharavi where coronavirus cases are increasing by the day. Police booked her husband, brother and the car driver under the Disaster Management Act for concealing the information about their arrival and travelling without pass. Sources said they could have taken an alternative route to duck police surveillance and quarantine. The car left Mumbai in the morning and reached Sadashiva Nagar in Belagavi in the evening. Her husband returned to Mumbai the same day. Even during the return journey, the car skipped police watch at border checkposts. Belagavi city police commissioner B S Lokesh Kumar has informed his counterpart in Mumbai about the lapses. The administration, however, learnt about her arrival on May 12 during her visit to Belagavi Institute of Medical Sciences for routine antenatal check-up. Deputy Commissioner S B Bommanahalli said doctors alerted the district administration after they went through the medical records that indicated her stay at Dharavi. The health department is franticly working to trace the contact history and identified 10 people. All of them have been sent to institutional quarantine. The administration has notified Sadashiva Nagara as a containment zone and sealed off the area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/pregnant-woman-who-entered-belagavi-without-permit-tests-positive/articleshow/75743778.cms||Shreyas HS
May 15, 2020||Bengaluru||Day on, gated community’s access to Karnataka restored||BENGALURU: Over 40 families living in Clover Field, a gated community located off Sarjapur Road and about 1km inside Tamil Nadu, heaved a sigh of relief after a road that links them to Bengaluru, that had been cut off, was accessible a day later on Thursday. On Wednesday evening, metal barricades were set up and truckloads of mud was dumped on the Karnataka side of the road, making things difficult for residents of the complex — located in Sevaganapalli village — who are completely dependent on Bengaluru for everything from milk and groceries to jobs. The barricades were placed without any prior notice to the residents. While the milk supply was cut off on Thursday morning, vendors somehow managed to deliver newspapers by climbing the massive mud piles. “I’m a physician and have to go to the hospital. We may live in Tamil Nadu, but have the required permit to travel to Karnataka every day. With the barricades, not even a two-wheeler can pass through. Our milk vendors and grocery suppliers are mainly from Bengaluru and even they can’t come now,” said Dr Chhavi Mehra, a resident who works with a private hospital in Whitefield as a quality head and senior physician. However, people from the area took up the matter with Sarjapur police, who got the mud piles removed late on Thursday. Though the barricades remain, there is enough space for vehicles to move. The gated community is spread over 240 acres and bears the postal address of Sevaganapalli. It’s a few minutes walk from Indus International School on Sarjapur Road. “We know these people are dependent on Bengaluru for everything. We understand their difficulties but are helpless at this point of time. The Karnataka government has strictly directed us not to allow anyone from Tamil Nadu,” a Bengaluru police officer told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/day-on-gated-communitys-access-to-ktaka-restored/articleshow/75746406.cms||Sunitha Rao R
May 15, 2020||Ahmedabad||Lawyer stuck in Uttar Pradesh, wife moves Gujarat HC to bring him back||AHMEDABAD: With her lawyer husband stuck in Uttar Pradesh since the beginning of the nationwide lockdown, a woman has approached the Gujarat high court seeking instruction to Gujarat administration to send a police officer in a private vehicle and bring back her husband to Ahmedabad. The woman has said that the family is ready to bear all expenses incurred in bringing back the man from Nijibabad of Bijnor district in UP. Petitioner Mumtaz Saiyed (35) is seeking to bring back her husband Mahtabnasir Saiyed, who belongs to a family of advocates living in Khanpur area. He practices law in the high court. The woman has submitted that her two children are crying for their father and she is not in a position to look after them alone because of her ailments. Petitioner’s advocate R J Goswami submitted before the court that advocate Saiyed had to go to UP’s Najibabad to attend his cousin’s marriage. After he went to UP, the lockdown was declared due to Covid-19 pandemic. Saiyed could not return home because of the lockdown, and it has been difficult for the petitioner to maintain family in absence of her husband. The petitioner urged the HC that a private vehicle can be hired by the administration and one police constable can accompany the vehicle to bring the lawyer back. Advocate Saiyed has been living at his relatives’ place as a guest. Now more than a month later, it is difficult for him to stay as a guest and “even the host is also having several difficulties in keeping him”. After hearing the petition, Justice A Y Kogje asked the petitioner to make necessary application to Gujarat and UP governments by e-mail. The HC directed the state government to take necessary action on her application to bring her husband back form UP “as per the protocol which is followed by both the states”. The high court has asked the petitioner’s advocate to serve the HC order on the state government by e-mail, and posted further hearing on May 18.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/lawyer-stuck-in-up-wife-moves-gujarat-hc-to-bring-him-back/articleshow/75747049.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Team of 30 doctors to attend to cops||AHMEDABAD: The Ahmedabad Medical Association (AMA) has organized a team of 30 doctors exclusively for policemen on duty enforcing the Covid-19 lockdown. “This will be in the first phase. AMA is further going to organize 170 more doctors for tele-counselling and personal treatment of police personnel who have medical problems other than Covid-19,” said special commissioner of police, crime branch, Ajay Tomar. Tomar said that two hospitals, SVP in Maninagar in eastern city and KD hospital in western part of the city, have been dedicated to policemen who suffering from other illnesses as they are on their toes for a long time due to the lockdown. “In all city police’s six zones, an ACP-rank officer has been appointed nodal officer who will coordinate with doctors about the problems cops on duty are facing,” added Tomar. Tomar said policemen have to put up with the heat and they too face medical problems. “They are also humans and some of them have not gone home for days together. Their problems will either be solved by tele-counselling in person by the panel of doctors organized by AMA,” added Tomar. After a meeting with Dr Jeetu Patel of AMA, cops have been provided with a list of 30 doctors with various specializations. “AMA has told us that they will soon list 200 doctors so that policemen get quick and proper treatment,” said Tomar. Senior police officers themselves take care of their subordinates. City crime branch makes lemonade on a daily basis and distributes it to various pickets. “Ayurvedic tablets to boost their immunity have also been provided. City police has also started a cafeteria-on-wheels to provide refreshments to cops on duty,” said Tomar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/team-of-30-doctors-to-attend-to-cops/articleshow/75746985.cms||Sarfaraz Shaikh
May 15, 2020||Vadodara||‘Kadha’, social distancing and matching masks at this wedding||VADODARA: Masks, social distancing and an Ayurvedic ‘kadha’ (decoction) to build immunity of people – this is what a wedding may look like for quite some time to come. One such wedding took place in Kalol in Panchmahal district on Thursday. The wedding was initially planned on auspicious Akshaya Tritiya on April 26. But due to lockdown and strict restrictions at that stage, the wedding had to be postponed. Later, the government came up with guidelines for gatherings for weddings. In the wake of the possibility of the wedding being allowed, the Kachhiya family applied for permission for the wedding of Nikhil Patel with Dhwani Kachhiya. The Kalol executive magistrate gave the permission while asking the organizers of the wedding to stick to the government guidelines. “We had planned an elaborate wedding on Akshaya Tritiya, but decided to go ahead with the norm of 50 people and sought necessary permissions. We got the permission and ensured that all rules were followed,” said Dhwani’s father Chetan Kachhiya. Dhwani’s husband Nikhil Patel said the wedding had been planned about a year back. “But because of the lockdown, we had to take the decision of holding it this way,” said Nikhil. Dhwani said she was thankful to the administration that facilitated the wedding. Apart from the Ayurvedic decoction, another highlight of the wedding was the colour of masks of the couple. They wore red masks instead of regular green, blue, white or yellow ones. These matched very well with their wedding outfits.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/kadha-social-distancing-and-matching-masks-at-this-wedding/articleshow/75743952.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka's first recipient of plasma therapy dies in Bengaluru||BENGALURU: A 60-year-old Covid-19 patient from Andhra Pradesh died at Victoria Hospital’s trauma care centre on Thursday. The man was the state’s first patient to be administered plasma therapy and recently battled severe pneumonia, respiratory distress, diabetes and hypertension. He was given plasma therapy on May 12. “As per studies, 86% of Covid-19 patients on ventilator succumb to the infection. What we are doing is an unbiased trial,” said Dr US Vishal Rao of Health Care Global (HCG) Cancer Centre, who is spearheading the convalescent plasma therapy research. Convalescent plasma therapy is seen as a hope for critically ill coronavirus patients. Blood plasma of a fully recovered Covid-19 person is administered to critical patients. The research team has six more units of plasma donated by young, healthy persons, who have recovered from the infection. Another 80-year-woman from Dakshina Kannada too died on Thursday, taking the total number of Covid-19 deaths in Karnataka to 35. The woman suffered a stroke and septic shock. Karnataka reported 28 new cases on Thursday and the total number of infected in the state now is 987. Five cases were reported from Padarayanapura containment zone in Benglauru. Six of the new patients had returned from Mumbai and four from Gujarat. Seven of the new cases were from Bidar, five from Mandya, four from Gadag, three from Davanagere, two from Kalaburagi and one each from Belagavi and Bagalkot. ‘Research will continue’ “The patient had multiple complications and didn’t survive. This trial shouldn’t make us worry about plasma therapy. This was used as a a last weapon. The research on plasma therapy will continue,” said S Suresh Kumar, Karnataka’s Covid-19 spokesperson.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/states-first-recipient-of-plasma-therapy-dies-in-bluru/articleshow/75746874.cms||Sunitha Rao R
May 15, 2020||Dehradun||ASHA workers wear black stoles to protest against poor wages, no safety kits||Dehradun: With hundreds of people returning to their villages in the hills, the onus of ensuring regular health checkup of those in home or institutional quarantine is now on the over 12,000 Accredited Social Health Activists (ASHAs) and their subordinates, the ground staff of the health department, who worked wearing black stoles at many areas across the state on Thursday. The ASHAs who are carrying out door-to-door surveillance and involved in primary healthcare are demanding Rs 10,000 as monthly salaries and proper protection kits instead of the Rs 1,000 that was declared by the government in March this year. In a letter to PM Narendra Modi and CM Trivendra Singh Rawat, the ASHAs -- contractual community health workers, hired by the state governments, under the umbrella of the National Health Mission (NHM) launched in 2005 by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare -- maintained that even after leading the Covid 19 war from front, they are being deprived of proper protections and decent wages. Shiva Dubey, regional head of Uttarakhand ASHA Karyakatri Union said, "In our job, the incentives are based on the number of institutional deliveries we take care of along with immunisation campaigns. Our profile also includes creating health awareness, mobilising the community for family planning and increase utilisation and accountability of existing health services. But what we get in return is pathetic. We demand that ASHAs are regularised with the department and we should be given at least Rs 10,000 as monthly salaries." At several platforms, the government at both states and centre has maintained that it is because of ASHAs that India managed to reduce its maternal and infant mortality rates in the past 15 years. Sakshi Bhardwaj, an ASHA worker from PHC Balawala, said that Rs 1,000 for a month after working on foot 24 hours is not justified. She added that ASHAs are going door-to-door and no protection gears have been given to them and they don’t even have the facility of health insurance. "ASHAs from Pauri, Tehri, Almora, Dehradun, Mussorrie have worked with black stoles. We want decent wages for work," said Hansi Negi who added that from getting deliveries done, to helping people with immunisation and even helping health and police department in surveillance of home quarantine people, ASHAs are working on toes. While director general (health) Dr Amita Upreti and district magistrate Ashish Srivastava didnt responded to call and messages, cabinet Minister and state government spokesperson Madan Kaushik said that the government is continuously working to help everyone in these tough times and health insurance packages have already been announced for healthcare staff. He added that the demands of ASHAs will surely be put up in the cabinet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/asha-workers-wear-black-stoles-to-protest-against-poor-wages-no-safety-kits/articleshow/75745991.cms||Ishita Mishra
May 15, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka to treat all Covid cases in hospitals||BENGALURU: The Karnataka government has decided to treat all patients in hospitals till they test negative, though the Centre on May 10 issued a circular stating home treatment/isolation can be provided for those who are asymptomatic or have mild to moderate symptoms. “We have decided not to follow two GoI circulars. One is on permitting home treatment of positive cases. And the other is to discharge patients without testing if they are admitted for 10 days, show no fever for the previous three days or have no requirement for oxygen support for four days. We are not implementing these two criteria in Karnataka as we have enough number of beds to treat all patients,” said Jawaid Akhtar, additional chief secretary, health and family welfare department. As per a mathematical projection cited by the government, there could be 80,000 cases in Karnataka by July-end. “If this number comes true, the state has 80,000 beds to treat the cases. However, we will have to think about home treatment in future for which there needs to be tremendous support from the patient and the family members. There are multiple issues involved. The government cannot easily check if the patient has isolated himself/herself at home while being on treatment,” said a member of the Covid-19 taskforce committee. However, Dr CN Manjunath, also a Covid-19 taskforce member, said the projection made earlier with Italy and Spain as reference hasn’t come true for Karnataka. “We may have 2,000-2,500 cases at the most by May-end and we can treat them in hospitals. The patient’s family will not accept home-treatment in Karnataka,” Dr Manjunath said. Another expert committee member said clinically it doesn’t make sense to treat asymptomatic patients in hospitals. “But logistically, monitoring a Covid-19 patient at home isn’t possible, given the lack of awareness among many about personal hygiene. Home quarantine can be a risk at this point of time, given the highly contagious virus we are dealing with,” said the expert-doctor. The decision hasn’t gone down well with many experts, who say the government should ideally normalise the infection and encourage reverse quarantine. In reverse quarantining, most vulnerable individuals such as the aged and suffering from comorbidities are isolated and closely monitored to protect them from infection.  “Covid-19 infection is just a flu. A patient’s condition at the time of testing and initial 1-3 days of hospitalisation can tell us about the disease progression. Treat all those who are at high risk with comorbid conditions and those aged 60 and above. But why waste resources to treat patients who need nothing but immunity boosters at the most?” said another expert. Dr SC Nagendra Swamy, principal coordinator, Federation of Healthcare Associations of Karnataka, said: “There is a need to think about herd immunity. We will all have to develop Covid-19 antibodies in our body to live with this virus for long,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/ktaka-to-treat-all-covid-cases-in-hosps/articleshow/75746937.cms||Sunitha Rao R
May 15, 2020||Nagpur||Pregnant woman moved out of Covid ward, kin thank GMCH||Nagpur: The 30-year-old woman with ‘precious’ pregnancy was moved out of the Covid ward on Thursday morning while report of her fresh sample, taken a day before, is yet to come. Her relatives thanked Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) doctors for honouring their request, though they have doubts about the results of the fresh test too. NMC officials had shifted her to the Covid ward based on an assumption, though the records had wrong entries about patient details. She was assumed to be the same woman whose sample tested positive though the record showed the report belonged to a 36-year-old pregnant woman from the same area. On May 14, TOI had reported about the woman’s plight and allegations made by her family members. The NMC health team officials had admitted that the recorded entries had mistakes not just for this woman but also in case of a couple of other pregnant women. The 30-year-old was taken to GMCH Covid ward after five samples taken during a special ante-natal check-up (ANC) camp at Mominpura tested positive. Her relatives said she had gone for the ANC as a precautionary measure despite she had been left out in the drive in which her husband and her mother-in-law were quarantined. The mother-son duo were picked up following the death of the city’s second Covid casualty at IGGMCH. “We are praying that her latest report come negative, but it is unlikely as she was forced to spend the entire day with around 25 positive patients in the ward. We are thankful to GMCH doctors for having shifted her to another ward,” the relatives said. NMC officials refused to admit that the woman was a case of mistaken identity despite the mistakes in entries. “Those entries were made by ayurveda doctors, for whom the process is new,” they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/pregnant-woman-moved-out-of-covid-ward-kin-thank-gmch/articleshow/75746987.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
May 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Kidnapped baby rescued, handed to child welfare department in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: A one-and-half year-old toddler’s kidnapping mystery was solved with Task Force police rescuing the child from Kalapathar on Thursday. He was handed over to child welfare department officials. On May 13 evening, Rohini, 22-year-old pavement dweller, lodged a complaint with Chaderghat police alleging that unknown people had abducted her one-and-half-year-old son while she was sleeping on the footpath with the boy. “Rohini, a widowused to stay near Malakpet railway station bridge. Recently, she moved near Niagara hotel in Chaderghat. On May 13 morning, Rohini ate some food sitting near Niagara hotel on the footpath and, in a drunken condition, dozed off after a while. She woke up and noticed that her son was missing and searched for him in nearby areas and, after failing to locate him, lodged a complaint with police,” Chaderghat sub-inspector (SI) S Chandrasekhar Reddy said . Task Force police were assigned the job of tracing the boy and they analysed CCTV camera footage of the area near Niagara hotel in Chaderghat. After analysing the footage of 40 CCTV cameras, police zeroed-in on the suspect, 27-year-old Mohammed Ibrahim, an auto driver-cum-fruit vendor of Aman Nagar in Talabkatta. “He was found abducting the boy on his bike after offering him fruits,” Task Force inspector Srinivas said. Ibrahim told police that he has a daughter and wanted a son. “Ibrahim claimed that he and his wife lost more than one boy during their infancy due to illnesses. Desperate for a son, Ibrahim decided to kidnap Rohini’s son and he observed her routine for three days before executing his plan,” the SI said. The accused was handed over to Chaderghat police and he was sent in judicial remand under Section 363 (kidnapping) of the Indian Penal Code. Police handed over the boy to child welfare department officials as Rohini is addicted to liquor. “About a year ago, Rohini’s brother-in-law forcibly took away the boy as she was not taking care of him due to liquor addiction. At that time, we booked a case against him and handed over the boy to Rohini. After the recent incident, we handed over the body to child welfare officials,” the SI said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/kidnapped-baby-rescued-handed-to-child-welfare-dept/articleshow/75746674.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Bengaluru||KSRTC bus turns mobile clinic for sample collection||BENGALURU: The sight of a KSRTC bus, which arrived outside Goripalya post office on C Chowdappa Main Road in Padarayanapura on Thursday afternoon, got residents of the locality anxious. The bus was a mobile Covid-19 sample collection clinic driven by BM Ganesh. The anxious crowd stood a few metres away from the vehicle and gaped as a dozen medical staff in PPEs got ready with a posse of police on standby. Padarayanapura is a cluster containment zone with high incidence of Covid-19. The ward has reported 54 positive cases, including three children below 10 years of age. With experts pointing to the likelihood of community transmission in the area, the authorities are aggressively taking up random sample testing in the locality. Anxious residents stood in a queue, waiting to enter the KSRTC’s mobile clinic even as they adhered to social-distancing norms. “I’m very nervous but I gathered courage to come forward for the test,” said Amjad (name changed) before entering the vehicle. The sample collection began around 2pm. The medical staff primarily focused on pregnant women, who remained in quarantine. “We collected samples from 11 people, including some pregnant women who are all in home quarantine,” said Sruthi, a microbiologist, who was part of the BBMP team screening people outside Goripalya post office. A few senior citizens and those with symptoms were also tested. “We collected throat swabs from residents who came forward and cooperated with our medical team,” Dr Praveena, a BBMP doctor on the spot, said. According to sources, only 11 samples were collected because of lack of testing kits. BBMP commissioner BH Anil Kumar visited the spot where the tests were carried out and interacted with local MLA Zameer Ahmed Khan (Chamarajpet constituency) and residents. Earlier, Kumar had in a video message said all residents of the ward would be tested for Covid-19. However, an attempt to collect throat swab samples of Padarayanapura residents at a facility in the neighbouring Rayapuram ward had to be abandoned on Wednesday in the face of protest by the local corpoator and others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/ksrtc-bus-turns-mobile-clinic-for-sample-collection/articleshow/75746764.cms||Petlee Peter
May 15, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Vizag gas leak: LGPI announces care package for victims||VISAKHAPATNAM: The eight-member technical committee led by the petrochemicals company’s president would complete its inquiry into the gas leak incident at LG Polymers India Private Limited (LGPI) in two to three days. The team would also visit the affected villages and conduct health and environmental impact surveys. The management of LGPI confirmed on Thursday that normalcy has returned in the plant. It has begun transporting the styrene monomer inventory within the plant as well as in styrene tanks to South Korea by ship to eliminate all risk factors. It has also announced a comprehensive care package for the victims. LG Polymers has roped in Suraksha Hospital for health check-ups and future treatment of all residents in the surrounding villages. Meanwhile, LGPI continues to work with government agencies to support the bereaved families and victims. Various support activities such as supplying medical and household goods and sanitation of homes would be continued, as per the company announcement. Company teams would carry out mid-term to long-term CSR projects for the benefit of the local community based on the suggestions of the residents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/lgpi-announces-care-package-for-victims/articleshow/75745986.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Covid +ve Ayush student does project work, attends online classes from hospital bed||BENGALURU: Testing positive for Covid-19 may entail at least two weeks of isolation in hospital but that doesn’t mean disruption from one’s routine, believes a 20-year-old Ayush student from Padarayanapura. The girl has been completing assignments and regularly attending online classes from her bed in the isolation ward of Victoria Hospital’s Trauma Care Centre. A second-year student of Bachelor of unani medicine and surgery at a college in a neighbouring district, the girl doesn’t want to miss even a single online session and is more concerned about studies than her Covid-positive status. She attends the classes for four hours every day. Before dinner, she’s busy with assignments and project work for 2-3 hours. The student has not disclosed her Covid-positive status to her college or teachers. “I make sure the video mode is off when the classes are going on. A couple of my friends do know I am in hospital. But I’m absolutely fine. I don’t have any symptoms. Not even fever for a day. Why should I miss classes unnecessarily?” says the girl, who will be the first doctor in her family. When she recently needed a black pen to write assignments, the hospital in-charge had to go out and search for it. “No stationery shops were open in the vicinity as KR Market (where the hospital is located) is a containment zone. We somehow got her a couple of pens. I appreciate the girl’s studiousness,” said a doctor. The girl was earlier told she can’t take her assignment papers back home as they could be contaminated. However, seeing her passion, the authorities told her that hospital staff would help her disinfect all the sheets when she gets discharged. Her entire family — parents, brother and younger sister — is in the Covid-19 ward. “I have no clue how we all got infected. First, my brother tested positive. We were all sent to quarantine. When we underwent tests on the 12th day of quarantine, four of us were found positive,” she added. Her sister who is pursuing BSc from a city college also attends online classes occasionally. Some asymptomatic patients in the Covid-19 ward think several such patients can be treated at home. However, given the containment zone they come from, there’s no chance of taking such risks, say health department authorities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/covid-ve-ayush-student-does-project-work-attends-online-classes-from-hosp-bed/articleshow/75746904.cms||Sunitha Rao R
May 15, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka already pays way more than new minimum wage||BENGALURU: Employers in Karnataka said that the minimum wage rate increase announced on Thursday, to Rs 202 from Rs 182, is a clear indication of the wage inequality in India. "This might be the Centre's attempt to ensure Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh don't turn into large sweatshops to squeeze workers dry. Since these states have relaxed labour norms, this might be an attempt to protect workers there. This is primarily for MNREGA workers, small workers, street vendors and migrant workers in the construction industry. But even for that section, Karnataka is paying more at Rs 275," said R Raju, president, Karnataka Small Scale Industries Association (KASSIA). In March, Karnataka had increased minimum wages under MNREGA from Rs 200 Rs 275 per day. Karnataka now stands fourth in the country in MNREGA wages, after Haryana, Kerala and Goa. Government officials said that while general wages are as high as Rs 600 to Rs 700 per day in the labour intensive plantation and construction sectors, the agriculture labourers in parts of the north Karnataka region get Rs 300 to Rs 350 per day. L K Atheeq, principal secretary in the rural development department, said the number of man days under MNREGA has also increased to 4-5 lakh as on May 14, from 1 to 1.5 lakh during the lockdown period between April 1 and 15 – a 330% rise. This has been one of the highest MNREGA work generating periods since the launch of the scheme 10 years ago. Workers' unions said Karnataka was paying Rs 202 a day some 10 years ago. “It's laughable what they think workers can survive on. I'd ask the finance minister if she has ever attempted trying to live on just Rs 202 a day," said Clifton Rosario, state president, All India Central Council of Trade Unions (AICCTU), Karnataka.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-already-pays-way-more-than-new-minimum-wage/articleshow/75746836.cms||Sandeep Moudgal
May 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Lockdown visitor: Leopard comes to Hyderabad, thrills locals and vanishes||HYDERABAD: It is not unusual to see rare birds in the city during lockdown, but spotting a leopard resting against a road median on the outskirts of Hyderabad on Thursday morning came as a huge surprise to motorists and locals alike. Despite cars whizzing past on either side of the road, the unperturbed big cat barely moving, when local residents sent an SOS to the forest department. In came the police with a large team of forest officials in tow, even as the animal seemed to enjoy the early morning sun, while turning its head occasionally to check the swelling crowd. “It is quite unusual for a leopard to sit in the middle of a road where there are so much vehicular movement and chaos. We initially suspected that it could be injured in a road accident,” a senior forest department official told TOI. “But we soon found out that it wasn’t the case at all,” he added. As word spread and people from nearby villages trooped to the area, with some even making noises to scare the leopard away, the animal suddenly made its move. “It crossed the road and dashed for some vegetation. The animal may have reached the road before dawn when there were fewer cars. But now it was on the run and we knew it was going to be tough from here,” the official said. As it tried to escape from the crowd, the big cat accidentally injured a man who was standing on the roadside. But luckily, the man escaped with a few scratches. About an hour later, news of a leopard getting into a nearby private farm after scaling a compound wall, reached the forest department and they knew the big cat had headed for the farm spread over 80 acres. Forest officials have secured the area from the outside and began efforts to safely capture the animal. Till last reports came in, authorities had set up two trap cages, loads of nets, 25 CCTV cameras, and deployed three special teams, apart from police and zoo authorities to catch the big cat on the loose. Watch Hyderabad: Leopard found resting on underpass road at Mailardevpally||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/lockdown-visitor-leopard-comes-to-city-thrills-locals-and-vanishes/articleshow/75746623.cms||Moulika.KV
May 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Farmer held for rape of 12-year-old in Telangana||HYDERABAD: A 27-year-old farmer was arrested on Thursday for allegedly raping a 12-year-old girl in Yalal mandal in Vikarabad district. The accused is alleged to have committed the offence on Wednesday afternoon when the girl was alone at her home while her parents had gone out for work. “The accused owns a farmland and also works in the fields of others. When the girl was alone, the accused entered the house and raped her. After committing the offence, he threatened the girl to not reveal about the assault to anyone and left the place,” Yalal SI Vitthal Reddy said. The girl told her parents about the sexual assault when they returned home in the evening. “Parents of the minor lodged a complaint with us on Wednesday night and a case was registered against the accused under section 376 (rape) of the IPC and the Pocso Act,” the SI said. The accused has been remanded in judicial custody. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/farmer-held-for-rape-of-12-year-old/articleshow/75746832.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Second fire in a week at University of Hyderabad, wildlife charred||HYDERABAD: Several wild animals were killed in a fire which broke out at the University of Hyderabad (UoH) campus on Wednesday night. This was the second fire incident reported within the campus in the last one week. In February too, a similar incident was reported wherein close to 100 acres of forest land, mostly consisting of dry grass, was gutted. According to students, the fire broke around 10 pm at three locations – behind School of Life Sciences, near Nallagandla lake and behind non-teaching staff quarters. “Some residents of nearby apartments living around the university noticed the fire and alerted university security officials. It was a huge fire compared to the last few incidents that occurred on campus,” said Ravi Jillapalli, research scholar and wildlife activist at UoH. It took almost one-and-a-half hour for the university authorities along with student volunteers to douse the fire. “We are uncertain of the reason behind the mishap. It was mostly dry grass that started burning near Nallagandla lake and spread to other areas,” said Jalandhar Reddy, security officer at UoH. The incident resulted in several snakes, fawns, monitor lizards, rabbits among other wild animals within the campus being charred to death. Students suspect that cowherds, who enter the campus from outside, may have caused the fire. “The cowherds who enter the campus to graze animals start a bonfire which then spreads throughout. This was the case in the last few incidents,” said Jillapalli.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/second-fire-in-a-week-at-uoh-wildlife-charred/articleshow/75746800.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Dentist kills self over harassment in Telangana||HYDERABAD: A 32-year-old dentist committed suicide by hanging at her house in Miryalaguda, Nalgonda district. Police have booked the dentist’s husband and mother-in-law for dowry harassment. D Shwetha, a resident of Reddy Colony, got married in 2009 and the couple has an eight-year-old daughter. She was staying with her husband, daughter and mother-in-law. On Wednesday at around 3 pm, the family found the victim hanging when her husband, who is a paediatrician, came back from duty. Her body was found inside the bedroom. According to the victim’s family, she was repeatedly harassed by her husband and mother-in-law for additional dowry due to which she committed suicide. “We found a suicide note, where she mentioned that she wanted to stay happy with her family but due to disputes she could not. Hence, she was ending her life. We are still investigating the case,” said Miryalguda CI Nagaraju. A case was registered under dowry harassment, abetment to suicide and relevant sections of Dowry Prohibition Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/dentist-kills-self-over-harassment/articleshow/75746857.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Auto driver killed in road accident||HYDERABAD: An auto driver died while his four relatives suffered injuries when their vehicle was hit by a car in Medak district on Thursday. The victim, Santosh Kumar, a resident of Pothamshettypally village was travelling towards Medak when a car hit them from behind. Kumar died on the spot. According to police, the auto fell into an empty canal. “The driver was taking his family members to a government hospital in Medak after one of them had broken their leg. The car driver was speeding and driving rashly,” said a police officer from Kulcharam station in Medak. The incident occurred on Thursday afternoon, when the accused lost control over his car. The driver and three members of the victim’s family sustained severe injuries but are said to be out of danger.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/auto-driver-killed-in-road-accident/articleshow/75746871.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Hubballi||Demand for low rental flats surge amid layoffs and pay cuts||Hubballi: Several families living in rented three/two-bedroom flats and independent houses in North Karnataka’s urban areas are now shifting to smaller apartments so as to manage monthly expenses after the Covid-19 pandemic stalled economic activity at an unprecedented scale in the country. Some are also re-negotiating the rent with their landlords to cut the rents. Covid-19 has taken a toll on the employees of private firms with massive layoffs and salary cuts. Mayur Patil, a private employee, said he was paying rent of Rs 9,000 per month for a 2BHK flat in an apartment at Akshay Park, Vidyanagar. “As my salary is reduced by 10%, we are shifting to a 1-BHK house in same locality where we will pay Rs 5,000. When we requested the landlord, who is also a private employee, to reduce the rent, he helplessly said his salary has also been cut by 15%. So, sharing a cordial relation with the landlord, we have no option other than shifting to a smaller house,” he added. Dr SV Sullad, a house owner in Akshay Park, said that most landlords have loans to be repaid. “Only three-month moratorium has been announced for our EMIs. We will have to continue paying banks as usual later. If government announces reduction in interest, we can reduce the rent accordingly,” he added. Economics professor Krishnaveni D said demand and supply are hand-in-hand in rented accommodation market. “As the purchasing power of people decreases, lower middle and economically backward people will struggle to meet their daily needs. House rent being a major debit middle class salaries, they will definitely intend to reduce it. Falling GDP and deflation of market are even affecting elites. Worry of unemployment is another reason. All these factors are forcing tenants to shift to lower rental houses,” she said. “Government’s announcement to defer EMIs for three months and insisting landlords not to collect rent forcibly won’t be helpful in this context. Most salaried employees are worried about the future as the financial crisis is expected to continue for another two years,” she observed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/demand-for-low-rental-flats-surge-amid-layoffs-and-pay-cuts/articleshow/75744836.cms||Sangamesh Menasinakai
May 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Ready to hold SSC exams: Telangana to HC||HYDERABAD: Stating that it will take all precautions to conduct the SSC examinations in a safe manner, the state government on Thursday urged the Telangana high court to accord it the required permission to conduct the examinations. As the HC had stayed all remaining examinations after the conduct of exams in two subjects in March, the state has now made an appeal to the court to vacate that stay order in order to allow it to complete the remaining ones. Chitra Ramachandran, state education department’s special chief secretary filed an affidavit in the court wherein she said that the number of coronavirus cases has come down due to the lockdown measures taken by the state. Citing the Union government guidelines that allowed all activities in green and orange zones, she said that the centre has imposed certain restrictions only in red zones but the state can take up activities with certain precautions. “Keeping the interests of students in view, the state now wants to complete the class X exams,” the special chief secretary said. “Earlier we used to allow up to 240 students to write exams in each exam centre and this number is now reduced to 100 to 120 per centre. For this, we have increased the number of exam centres to 4,535 from the earlier 2,530 centres and this time we will ensure that at least 6 feet distance is maintained between the students appearing for exams,” she said. The special chief secretary said that while earlier each room would accommodate 20 to 24 students, this time only ten students will be allotted one room. She said that another 26,400 staffers would be deployed at the centres along with an adequate number of medical staff. A student’s hall ticket will qualify as a travel pass. All students, teachers and staff will have to masks. According to Ramachandran, exam centres and halls have been disinfected and equipped with sanitisers, and soaps. Separate rooms will be allotted for those who are suffering from cold and fever. Students can come with their parents or can use state transport facilities which are being arranged for the purpose. Arrangements have been made for parents or guardians to wait at the exam centres. “As the state has taken all the precautions, we may be permitted to conduct exams in view of the welfare of the students,” Chitra Ramachandran said. The advocate general is likely to make a mention before the high court on Friday on the issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ready-to-hold-ssc-exams-state-to-hc/articleshow/75746609.cms||Sagar Kumar Mutha
May 15, 2020||Nagpur||HSC paper collection system changed due to coronavirus||Nagpur: The state’s education board has modified its HSC (Std XII) answersheet collection/submission process to conform with guidelines regarding travel restrictions and Covid distancing. From Friday, evaluated HSC answersheets will be collected at district level and then transported to the board’s divisional office in Nagpur. Earlier, the answersheets would be brought by moderators directly to board’s Civil Lines office. Ravikant Deshpande, Nagpur divisional board secretary, issued a circular to all stakeholders about the timeline for paper collection for areas outside Nagpur. Deshpande said, “We start on Friday in Bhandara and Gondia. Then on May 18, answersheets will be collected in Chandrapur. On May 19, we will take up Wardha and Gadchiroli.” Every moderator has been informed as to which centre they have to submit the answersheets along with the timings for the same. Teachers union welcomed the move saying they have been demanding such a step right from the start. Vidarbha Junior College Teachers Association (VJUCTA) had been vocal about how the Nagpur divisional board office should handle the huge crowd of teachers that assemble there for paper submission. Ashok Gavhankar, general secretary of VJUCTA, said, “Till last year, hundreds of evaluators would land up to submit their answersheets leading to crowding at the office. Yes it was ‘organized chaos’ but our issue is how to maintain distance between ourselves when coronavirus is spreading. We told board officials they have to change the collection system entirely, otherwise it will be very risky for our members.” He added that after paper is collected at district level, it will be dispatched in trucks. An answersheet’s evaluation journey begins with 800-1800 of them being assigned to a moderator (a senior academician). Each moderator will be given a paper valuation instruction sheet, commonly called docket, and briefed about their workload and deadline. These moderators then distribute the papers to the evaluators, whose numbers can range anywhere between 10 to 15. For the major and mandatory papers, just over 100 moderators take charge while for the optional papers sometimes less than five are in charge. After evaluation, paper is sent back to moderators who in turn submit to the Nagpur board office. Once answersheets are recieved in board office, marks will be tabulated and sent to Pune headquarters for results declaration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/hsc-paper-collection-system-changed-due-to-coronavirus/articleshow/75747002.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
May 15, 2020||Ahmedabad||Muslim outfit seeks government’s nod for Eid namaz in mosques||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat Chand Committee on Thursday appealed to the state government to allow Muslims to offer namaz in mosques on the last Friday of Ramzan and on the day of Eid-ul-Fitr. The president of the committee, the Pesh Imam of Ahmedabad, Mufti Shabbir Ahmed, wrote to the chief minister requesting for the permission. The offering of prayers in mass is prohibited in all religious places since March upon an order passed by the Gujarat high court. This happened immediately after the nationwide lockdown was announced. The Mufti has stated that the mosques have been diligently following the lockdown norms and they have repeatedly appealed to Muslims to pray in their homes. Namaz takes place with only three-four persons in mosques as permitted by the government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/muslim-outfit-seeks-govts-nod-for-eid-namaz-in-mosques/articleshow/75747047.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Visakhapatnam: Many faking illness for compensation, says doctors||VISAKHAPATNAM: Between catering to Covid cases and LG Polymers gas leak victims, doctors at King George Hospital (KGH) are battling a new issue — false claims for compensation. Between May 9-12 more than 100 people have insisted on being admitted. After being tested 100 were sent home. Sources in the hospital said that several residents from the styrene-affected villages are turning up in the hospital daily, feigning illness and insisting on being admitted so that they can claim the Rs 1 lakh compensation announced by the government for hospitalised victims. KGH doctor and principal of Andhra Medical College Dr P V Sudhakar, said, “For a vast number of styrene-affected persons, first aid was enough to revive them. For others, 24 hours of hospital stay was adequate. Out of the 324 patients who were admitted on the first three days of the mishap — May 7 to 9 —only 13 actually required in-patient stay for a few days. Backed by certain local leaders and a section of local media, over 100 villagers from RR Venkatapuram and surrounding areas continued to turn up since May 9 demanding that doctors admit them for a few days. Some even feigned breathing problem or pretended to fall unconscious to get admission. Also, few patients who had been in the hospital for almost a week are asking us why they are not being given Rs 1 lakh in compensation while a few who stayed in the hospital for four days got the amount.” Dr Sudhakar said the hospital authorities or doctors are in no way concerned with the compensation amount, criteria or disbursement but many villagers have been harassing them and are refusing to leave the hospital. The hospital authorities have written to the collector about the issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/many-faking-illness-for-compensation-docs/articleshow/75746004.cms||Sulogna Mehta
May 15, 2020||Chennai||Agri, MSMEs may lead TN’s revival||Chennai: The recipe for revival of the state economy may be through strengthening the agricultural and MSME sectors, officials told TOI after attending the first meeting of the high-level state-appointed committee headed by former RBI governor C Rangarajan here on Thursday. The committee is learned to have laid down broad outlines for assessing various sectors. It is tasked with examining fiscal challenges facing the state owing to Covid-19 pandemic and suggesting the way forward. “Today was more of an introductory meeting held through video conferencing. We discussed the way to go about with the task. Rangarajan divided the task of gathering the inputs in various sectors such as industry, labour, agriculture, MSMEs and education so as to identify medium term response as per the terms of the committee. He also suggested the methods to be used to aggregate the inputs. A few sub-committees have been formed and each of them has been given specific task. While no decision has been taken on when the next meeting of the committee will be held, members will communicate through mails to collate the inputs,” an official, who is part of the committee, said. Agriculture and MSMEs got the focus as it provides huge employment to people. All 25 members including industrialists N Srinivasan, Venu Srinivasan, economists and former and present IAS officials participated in the meeting. “The revenue loss to Tamil Nadu government will be spread over the entire lockdown period. Hence, to assess the revenue loss, we need to know how long the lockdown will continue and when economic activity will get back to normalcy,” Rangarajan told mediapersons after the meeting. “The sub-committees will study the problems each sector faces and suggest ways to push growth,” said Rangarajan. “Government finance sub-committee will go into the ways and means of increasing the government revenue after the lockdown is lifted. The government has already increased fuel and liquor price and hopes to earn more revenue from the two sectors,” said another member. The state government officials presented Vision 2023 document, latest budget and a few other official documents to the committee. Noting that the committee would complete and submit the report within three months, Rangarajan said if the government wants, the committee was ready to submit an interim report.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/agri-msmes-may-lead-tns-revival/articleshow/75746993.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Hubballi||Two test positive in Kalaburagi; two discharged||Kalaburagi: Two Covid-19 positive cases were recorded in Kalaburagi on Thursday. The new cases are of an 80-year-old woman (P-983, who had come in contact with P-587), and a 28-year-old man (P-984, who had come in contact with P-610). They have now been shifted to the isolation ward of ESIC Hospital here. Two women were declared recovered after testing negative for coronavirus. The women — one 48-year-old (P-525) and the other 35-year-old (P-558) – are from Mominpur in Kalaburagi city. Of the 83 patients, 46 have recovered and seven died so far, leaving 30 active cases in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/two-test-positive-in-kalaburagi-two-discharged/articleshow/75744943.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Dehradun||First Covid-19 case triggers panic in Mussoorie; shops closed, SDM office sealed||Mussoorie: After the first Covid-19 case was reported in the town, the administration on Thursday asked all shops to be shut for the day and sanitised the Landour area, where the patient, a 36-year-old woman who returned from Delhi recently, resides. Station house officer (SHO) Vidhya Bhushan Negi said all shops would be open from Friday.Meanwhile, fear gripped the hill town as the residents became worried about the possibility of the spread of the disease .“We are a small town and a close-knit community, and one case can lead to many,” said an anxious resident. Many residents demanded that those who come from outside are kept in institutional quarantine.“We are a small town and a close-knit community, and one case can lead to many,” said an anxious resident.The SDM office was also sealed on Thursday owing to security concerns.“All officials have been asked to work from home for the next few days,” said Varun Chaudhary, SDM. Allaying the fears of the residents, SHO Negi said, “We are taking all precautions, there is no need to panic. Residents of Bucharkhana area have been advised to stay at home while contact tracing is being carried out. Persons suspected to have been in contact with the affected person have been sent to institutional quarantine.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/first-covid-19-case-triggers-panic-in-mussoorie-shops-closed-sdm-office-sealed/articleshow/75746024.cms||Anmol Jain
May 15, 2020||Navi-mumbai||Maharashtra's Covid-19 toll crosses 1,000: 55% of deaths are in May alone, Mumbai's share 621||MUMBAI: With the addition of 44 deaths on Thursday, the Covid-19 toll in Maharashtra breached the 1,000 mark to reach 1,019. The state has crossed 1,000 deaths in just over two months since the first case was reported here. About 55% of the total deaths have come in the past 14 days of May alone. Gujarat, which has reported 566 deaths so far, is a distant second among the states in terms of fatalities. Maharashtra also added over 1,000 cases for the ninth day in a row. Thursday saw 1,602 new cases, the second highest single-day jump, taking the total tally to 27,524 cases. Of the 14 days of the month so far, on only three days was the case addition under 1,000. This month a total of 16,883 cases have been added, which is 61.3% of the total cases in the state. Read our coronavirus live blog for all the latest news and updatesMumbai on Thursday registered 991 cases, the highest jump to be recorded in a single day, taking the overall count of cases here to 16,738. With 25 deaths, the city’s toll crossed 600 and is now 621. Coronavirus outbreak: Complete coverageExperts have said that the state should come up with newer measures, given that the existing ones seem to have been ineffective in arresting the spread of the virus. Heath minister Rajesh Tope, however, told TOI that the increase in cases was due to rigorous contact tracing and focused testing. The state has so far tested over 2.40 lakh people, he said. He also added that none of the mathematical projections predicting an explosion of cases have come true. “We are not adding cases at that rate. In my opinion, not one of those projections will come true,” Tope said. Tope said that the lockdown in MMR and other hotspots like Pune region and Malegaon will continue till the end of the month but noted that some relaxations could be given with the view to restarting economic activities in these areas. More on Covid-19 Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage Lockdown 3.0: What's allowed and what's not in the three zones It's time to mask up and stay safe: Join TOI's #MaskIndia campaign MHA's guidelines for home isolation Trust the newspaper for your daily verified news Of the 44 deaths in the state, Mumbai reported 25, while 10 deaths were recorded from Navi Mumbai. Five deaths were from Pune, two in Aurangabad city, and one each in Panvel and Kalyan-Dombivli. The 10 deaths recorded in Navi Mumbai were reported between April 14 and May 14. State officials said that of the 44 persons who died, 34 (77%) had co-morbidities such as diabetes, hypertension, heart disease, etc. Dr TP Lahane of the Directorate of Medical Education and Research (DMER) said death audits across the state have shown uncontrolled sugar and BP levels. “Sometimes, blood sugar is in the range of 400-500,” he said. Meanwhile, the health department at the Thane Municipal Corporation was sealed for sanitation after a woman clerk tested positive. Thane’s cases also crossed the 900 mark as 70 patients were detected positive, the highest so far in 24 hours; plus, five deaths were recorded. The clerk is a resident of Kalyan and it is learnt that she used to travel to the TMC headquarters in a bus. Also, the BEST Workers’ Union, the biggest union in the transport undertaking, on Thursday gave a call to 40,000 staffers to “stay home” from Monday and not report for duties if the list of demands by the union are not accepted by the administration. This came close on the heels of 3 more staffers testing positive and the total rising to 98. Tope said the discharge policy laid down by the Central government will help take the load off the testing infrastructure and also free up beds. On Thursday, 512 people were discharged across the state, taking the total number of discharged patients to 6,059.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/maharashtras-covid-19-toll-crosses-1000-55-of-deaths-are-in-may-alone-mumbais-share-621/articleshow/75749638.cms||Bhavika Jain
May 15, 2020||Nashik||CBD opens OPD in high school||NASHIK: The Cantonment Board Deolali (CBD) has turned its high school into an out patient department as the Cantonment hospital is busy treating Covid-19 patients since May 2. The district administration had asked the CBD to treat its first Covid-19 patient at the cantonment hospital so that the patient doesn’t have to travel 20 kilometre for getting admitted to another hospital and increase the risk of spreading the disease. CBD chief executive officer Ajay Kumar said, “Since the Cantonment hospital was treating the Covid-19 patients, other patients who were visiting the hospital were facing issues. Hence, we have used five rooms on the ground floor of the Cantonment High School.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/cbd-opens-opd-in-high-school/articleshow/75746038.cms||pragya jain
May 15, 2020||Aurangabad||Maharashtra's Covid-19 toll crosses 1,000: 55% of deaths are in May alone, Mumbai's share 621||MUMBAI: With the addition of 44 deaths on Thursday, the Covid-19 toll in Maharashtra breached the 1,000 mark to reach 1,019. The state has crossed 1,000 deaths in just over two months since the first case was reported here. About 55% of the total deaths have come in the past 14 days of May alone. Gujarat, which has reported 566 deaths so far, is a distant second among the states in terms of fatalities. Maharashtra also added over 1,000 cases for the ninth day in a row. Thursday saw 1,602 new cases, the second highest single-day jump, taking the total tally to 27,524 cases. Of the 14 days of the month so far, on only three days was the case addition under 1,000. This month a total of 16,883 cases have been added, which is 61.3% of the total cases in the state. Read our coronavirus live blog for all the latest news and updatesMumbai on Thursday registered 991 cases, the highest jump to be recorded in a single day, taking the overall count of cases here to 16,738. With 25 deaths, the city’s toll crossed 600 and is now 621. Coronavirus outbreak: Complete coverageExperts have said that the state should come up with newer measures, given that the existing ones seem to have been ineffective in arresting the spread of the virus. Heath minister Rajesh Tope, however, told TOI that the increase in cases was due to rigorous contact tracing and focused testing. The state has so far tested over 2.40 lakh people, he said. He also added that none of the mathematical projections predicting an explosion of cases have come true. “We are not adding cases at that rate. In my opinion, not one of those projections will come true,” Tope said. Tope said that the lockdown in MMR and other hotspots like Pune region and Malegaon will continue till the end of the month but noted that some relaxations could be given with the view to restarting economic activities in these areas. More on Covid-19 Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage Lockdown 3.0: What's allowed and what's not in the three zones It's time to mask up and stay safe: Join TOI's #MaskIndia campaign MHA's guidelines for home isolation Trust the newspaper for your daily verified news Of the 44 deaths in the state, Mumbai reported 25, while 10 deaths were recorded from Navi Mumbai. Five deaths were from Pune, two in Aurangabad city, and one each in Panvel and Kalyan-Dombivli. The 10 deaths recorded in Navi Mumbai were reported between April 14 and May 14. State officials said that of the 44 persons who died, 34 (77%) had co-morbidities such as diabetes, hypertension, heart disease, etc. Dr TP Lahane of the Directorate of Medical Education and Research (DMER) said death audits across the state have shown uncontrolled sugar and BP levels. “Sometimes, blood sugar is in the range of 400-500,” he said. Meanwhile, the health department at the Thane Municipal Corporation was sealed for sanitation after a woman clerk tested positive. Thane’s cases also crossed the 900 mark as 70 patients were detected positive, the highest so far in 24 hours; plus, five deaths were recorded. The clerk is a resident of Kalyan and it is learnt that she used to travel to the TMC headquarters in a bus. Also, the BEST Workers’ Union, the biggest union in the transport undertaking, on Thursday gave a call to 40,000 staffers to “stay home” from Monday and not report for duties if the list of demands by the union are not accepted by the administration. This came close on the heels of 3 more staffers testing positive and the total rising to 98. Tope said the discharge policy laid down by the Central government will help take the load off the testing infrastructure and also free up beds. On Thursday, 512 people were discharged across the state, taking the total number of discharged patients to 6,059.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/maharashtras-covid-19-toll-crosses-1000-55-of-deaths-are-in-may-alone-mumbais-share-621/articleshow/75749636.cms||Bhavika Jain
May 15, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra's Covid-19 toll crosses 1,000: 55% of deaths are in May alone, Mumbai's share 621||MUMBAI: With the addition of 44 deaths on Thursday, the Covid-19 toll in Maharashtra breached the 1,000 mark to reach 1,019. The state has crossed 1,000 deaths in just over two months since the first case was reported here. About 55% of the total deaths have come in the past 14 days of May alone. Gujarat, which has reported 566 deaths so far, is a distant second among the states in terms of fatalities. Maharashtra also added over 1,000 cases for the ninth day in a row. Thursday saw 1,602 new cases, the second highest single-day jump, taking the total tally to 27,524 cases. Of the 14 days of the month so far, on only three days was the case addition under 1,000. This month a total of 16,883 cases have been added, which is 61.3% of the total cases in the state. Read our coronavirus live blog for all the latest news and updatesMumbai on Thursday registered 991 cases, the highest jump to be recorded in a single day, taking the overall count of cases here to 16,738. With 25 deaths, the city’s toll crossed 600 and is now 621. Coronavirus outbreak: Complete coverageExperts have said that the state should come up with newer measures, given that the existing ones seem to have been ineffective in arresting the spread of the virus. Heath minister Rajesh Tope, however, told TOI that the increase in cases was due to rigorous contact tracing and focused testing. The state has so far tested over 2.40 lakh people, he said. He also added that none of the mathematical projections predicting an explosion of cases have come true. “We are not adding cases at that rate. In my opinion, not one of those projections will come true,” Tope said. Tope said that the lockdown in MMR and other hotspots like Pune region and Malegaon will continue till the end of the month but noted that some relaxations could be given with the view to restarting economic activities in these areas. More on Covid-19 Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage Lockdown 3.0: What's allowed and what's not in the three zones It's time to mask up and stay safe: Join TOI's #MaskIndia campaign MHA's guidelines for home isolation Trust the newspaper for your daily verified news Of the 44 deaths in the state, Mumbai reported 25, while 10 deaths were recorded from Navi Mumbai. Five deaths were from Pune, two in Aurangabad city, and one each in Panvel and Kalyan-Dombivli. The 10 deaths recorded in Navi Mumbai were reported between April 14 and May 14. State officials said that of the 44 persons who died, 34 (77%) had co-morbidities such as diabetes, hypertension, heart disease, etc. Dr TP Lahane of the Directorate of Medical Education and Research (DMER) said death audits across the state have shown uncontrolled sugar and BP levels. “Sometimes, blood sugar is in the range of 400-500,” he said. Meanwhile, the health department at the Thane Municipal Corporation was sealed for sanitation after a woman clerk tested positive. Thane’s cases also crossed the 900 mark as 70 patients were detected positive, the highest so far in 24 hours; plus, five deaths were recorded. The clerk is a resident of Kalyan and it is learnt that she used to travel to the TMC headquarters in a bus. Also, the BEST Workers’ Union, the biggest union in the transport undertaking, on Thursday gave a call to 40,000 staffers to “stay home” from Monday and not report for duties if the list of demands by the union are not accepted by the administration. This came close on the heels of 3 more staffers testing positive and the total rising to 98. Tope said the discharge policy laid down by the Central government will help take the load off the testing infrastructure and also free up beds. On Thursday, 512 people were discharged across the state, taking the total number of discharged patients to 6,059.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maharashtras-covid-19-toll-crosses-1000-55-of-deaths-are-in-may-alone-mumbais-share-621/articleshow/75747564.cms||Bhavika Jain
May 15, 2020||Thane||Maharashtra's Covid-19 toll crosses 1,000: 55% of deaths are in May alone, Mumbai's share 621||MUMBAI: With the addition of 44 deaths on Thursday, the Covid-19 toll in Maharashtra breached the 1,000 mark to reach 1,019. The state has crossed 1,000 deaths in just over two months since the first case was reported here. About 55% of the total deaths have come in the past 14 days of May alone. Gujarat, which has reported 566 deaths so far, is a distant second among the states in terms of fatalities. Maharashtra also added over 1,000 cases for the ninth day in a row. Thursday saw 1,602 new cases, the second highest single-day jump, taking the total tally to 27,524 cases. Of the 14 days of the month so far, on only three days was the case addition under 1,000. This month a total of 16,883 cases have been added, which is 61.3% of the total cases in the state. Read our coronavirus live blog for all the latest news and updatesMumbai on Thursday registered 991 cases, the highest jump to be recorded in a single day, taking the overall count of cases here to 16,738. With 25 deaths, the city’s toll crossed 600 and is now 621. Coronavirus outbreak: Complete coverageExperts have said that the state should come up with newer measures, given that the existing ones seem to have been ineffective in arresting the spread of the virus. Heath minister Rajesh Tope, however, told TOI that the increase in cases was due to rigorous contact tracing and focused testing. The state has so far tested over 2.40 lakh people, he said. He also added that none of the mathematical projections predicting an explosion of cases have come true. “We are not adding cases at that rate. In my opinion, not one of those projections will come true,” Tope said. Tope said that the lockdown in MMR and other hotspots like Pune region and Malegaon will continue till the end of the month but noted that some relaxations could be given with the view to restarting economic activities in these areas. More on Covid-19 Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage Lockdown 3.0: What's allowed and what's not in the three zones It's time to mask up and stay safe: Join TOI's #MaskIndia campaign MHA's guidelines for home isolation Trust the newspaper for your daily verified news Of the 44 deaths in the state, Mumbai reported 25, while 10 deaths were recorded from Navi Mumbai. Five deaths were from Pune, two in Aurangabad city, and one each in Panvel and Kalyan-Dombivli. The 10 deaths recorded in Navi Mumbai were reported between April 14 and May 14. State officials said that of the 44 persons who died, 34 (77%) had co-morbidities such as diabetes, hypertension, heart disease, etc. Dr TP Lahane of the Directorate of Medical Education and Research (DMER) said death audits across the state have shown uncontrolled sugar and BP levels. “Sometimes, blood sugar is in the range of 400-500,” he said. Meanwhile, the health department at the Thane Municipal Corporation was sealed for sanitation after a woman clerk tested positive. Thane’s cases also crossed the 900 mark as 70 patients were detected positive, the highest so far in 24 hours; plus, five deaths were recorded. The clerk is a resident of Kalyan and it is learnt that she used to travel to the TMC headquarters in a bus. Also, the BEST Workers’ Union, the biggest union in the transport undertaking, on Thursday gave a call to 40,000 staffers to “stay home” from Monday and not report for duties if the list of demands by the union are not accepted by the administration. This came close on the heels of 3 more staffers testing positive and the total rising to 98. Tope said the discharge policy laid down by the Central government will help take the load off the testing infrastructure and also free up beds. On Thursday, 512 people were discharged across the state, taking the total number of discharged patients to 6,059.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/maharashtras-covid-19-toll-crosses-1000-55-of-deaths-are-in-may-alone-mumbais-share-621/articleshow/75749637.cms||Bhavika Jain
May 15, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra's Covid-19 toll crosses 1,000: 55% of deaths are in May alone, Mumbai's share 621||MUMBAI: With the addition of 44 deaths on Thursday, the Covid-19 toll in Maharashtra breached the 1,000 mark to reach 1,019. The state has crossed 1,000 deaths in just over two months since the first case was reported here. About 55% of the total deaths have come in the past 14 days of May alone. Gujarat, which has reported 566 deaths so far, is a distant second among the states in terms of fatalities. Maharashtra also added over 1,000 cases for the ninth day in a row. Thursday saw 1,602 new cases, the second highest single-day jump, taking the total tally to 27,524 cases. Of the 14 days of the month so far, on only three days was the case addition under 1,000. This month a total of 16,883 cases have been added, which is 61.3% of the total cases in the state. Read our coronavirus live blog for all the latest news and updatesMumbai on Thursday registered 991 cases, the highest jump to be recorded in a single day, taking the overall count of cases here to 16,738. With 25 deaths, the city’s toll crossed 600 and is now 621. Coronavirus outbreak: Complete coverageExperts have said that the state should come up with newer measures, given that the existing ones seem to have been ineffective in arresting the spread of the virus. Heath minister Rajesh Tope, however, told TOI that the increase in cases was due to rigorous contact tracing and focused testing. The state has so far tested over 2.40 lakh people, he said. He also added that none of the mathematical projections predicting an explosion of cases have come true. “We are not adding cases at that rate. In my opinion, not one of those projections will come true,” Tope said. Tope said that the lockdown in MMR and other hotspots like Pune region and Malegaon will continue till the end of the month but noted that some relaxations could be given with the view to restarting economic activities in these areas. More on Covid-19 Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage Lockdown 3.0: What's allowed and what's not in the three zones It's time to mask up and stay safe: Join TOI's #MaskIndia campaign MHA's guidelines for home isolation Trust the newspaper for your daily verified news Of the 44 deaths in the state, Mumbai reported 25, while 10 deaths were recorded from Navi Mumbai. Five deaths were from Pune, two in Aurangabad city, and one each in Panvel and Kalyan-Dombivli. The 10 deaths recorded in Navi Mumbai were reported between April 14 and May 14. State officials said that of the 44 persons who died, 34 (77%) had co-morbidities such as diabetes, hypertension, heart disease, etc. Dr TP Lahane of the Directorate of Medical Education and Research (DMER) said death audits across the state have shown uncontrolled sugar and BP levels. “Sometimes, blood sugar is in the range of 400-500,” he said. Meanwhile, the health department at the Thane Municipal Corporation was sealed for sanitation after a woman clerk tested positive. Thane’s cases also crossed the 900 mark as 70 patients were detected positive, the highest so far in 24 hours; plus, five deaths were recorded. The clerk is a resident of Kalyan and it is learnt that she used to travel to the TMC headquarters in a bus. Also, the BEST Workers’ Union, the biggest union in the transport undertaking, on Thursday gave a call to 40,000 staffers to “stay home” from Monday and not report for duties if the list of demands by the union are not accepted by the administration. This came close on the heels of 3 more staffers testing positive and the total rising to 98. Tope said the discharge policy laid down by the Central government will help take the load off the testing infrastructure and also free up beds. On Thursday, 512 people were discharged across the state, taking the total number of discharged patients to 6,059.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/maharashtras-covid-19-toll-crosses-1000-55-of-deaths-are-in-may-alone-mumbais-share-621/articleshow/75749634.cms||Bhavika Jain
May 15, 2020||Nashik||FOB at Nashik rly station dismantled||NASHIK: The 156-year-old foot over bridge (FOB) at Nashik Road railway station was dismantled on Thursday using heavy machinery to lift the girders.This marks the beginning of work for the makeover of the railway station undertaken by the railways The bridge, which was dismantled giving way to the construction of escalator, was constructed in 1864 after Bhusawal – Igatpuri rail link was established in 1861 on the Mumbai-end of the railway station near current booking. “The bridge connected only platform (PF) 1 and PF 2/3 of the station. During 2014-15 Kumbh Mela, PF 4 was constructed and a parallel bridge was constructed from PF 1 to PF 4 with connectivity to all platforms. The old bridge now is redundant and hence being removed with the help of the railway’s crane,” said senior officials from railways. The railways plans to carry out the maximum or the entire work of the makeover of the station before the normalcy returns post lockdown period promising better services for the passengers when the services resume. After removal of the old FOB and its staircase linked PF 2/3, the stairs will be replaced by the escalator that will help the easy movement of people to the FOB built during Kumbh Mela that currently has a staircase on one side to allow ascending and descending on the platform. The works are being carried out at a very fast pace and we hope that by the time the lockdown is lifted, the major construction part of the infrastructure will also be over, the authorities said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/fob-at-nashik-rly-station-dismantled/articleshow/75746066.cms||Abhilash Botekar
May 15, 2020||Dehradun||Govt yields to public demand, decides to build NH-58 on pillars||Haridwar. Yielding to the residents’ demand, the government has proposed a major change to the construction of national highway-58 in Bhopatwala, north Haridwar. It has been decided that the 800-metre stretch of the highway, i.e. from RTO trisection to Shantikunj, will be constructed on pillars to save the area from waterlogging. The decision was taken at a high-level meeting between the officials of national highway authority of India (NHAI) and state urban development minister Madan Kaushik. “As per the original plan, the road was to be constructed on a retaining wall, which the residents vehemently opposed alleging that it will result in the area facing waterlogging,” said BJP nagar nigam councilor Aniruddh Bhati, who led the agitation with seers. Bhati added, “On Thursday, NHAI chairman S S Sandhu met Kaushik and communicated to him of the NHAI decision that the 800-metre road will have pillars instead of retaining wall.” The residents also expressed gratitude. “We have been saved from a great problem. A retaining wall would have caused great difficulty to the area residents," Anand Swami, a seer from the area who spearheaded the agitation, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/govt-yields-to-public-demand-decides-to-build-nh-58-on-pillars/articleshow/75746063.cms||Sheo S Jaiswal
May 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: NGO sprays chemicals on people before giving essentials||HYDERABAD: Before distributing essential supplies, a group of youngsters sprayed chemicals on people in Chanchalguda, which falls under Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation’s (GHMC) Charminar zone. According to guidelines issued by Union Ministry of Health, spraying chemicals on people is prohibited. While the distribution was done by Majlis Bachao Tehreek (MBT), spraying was done by group of people who run a pharmacy. The chemicals were sprayed on one individual at a time before the essentials were collected by them. The NGO members claim that they sprayed only Dettol, sanitiser and water for the safety of people. They emphasised that sodium hypochlorite was not sprayed on people. “The products used by people to keep themselves safe in daily life were sprayed for safety of the donors and beneficiaries. People were asked to wear a mask while spraying and the spraying was done only on clothes,” said MD Kumail from Medtime Pharmacy, who sprayed the chemical. MBT leader Amjadullah Khan said that people with political affiliations intentionally created a controversy. “The youngsters did a lot of social service by sanitising police stations and public places. People affiliated to political parties are trying to pull them down as the group approached me instead of them,” said Khan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ngo-sprays-chemicals-on-people-before-giving-essentials/articleshow/75747012.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Mysuru||Farmers oppose proposed amendment to APMC Act||Mysuru: Members of the Karnataka State Sugarcane Growers’ Association, along with other farmers, gathered in front of the Mysuru deputy commissioner’s office on Thursday to protest the state government’s move to amend the APMC Act. The protesters dubbed the proposal a move that would undermine the interests of the farmers. Raising slogans criticising the anti-farmer amendment, the peasants said that it would allow multi-national corporations to acquire farming land for a steal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/farmers-oppose-proposed-amendment-to-apmc-act/articleshow/75744758.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Dehradun||40 residents return from foreign countries, says chief secy||Dehradun: During the lockdown, 40 people of Uttarakhand who were stuck in different countries have returned. While majority of them are still in Delhi, two who have returned from UAE are currently undergoing quarantine at Lucknow. Chief secretary Utpal Kumar Singh said, “Of the 40, two have returned from Bangladesh, six from Singapore, nine from Saudi Arabia, five from Philippines, and nine each from UAE and Maldives.” After completing their quarantine period and undergoing health check up in Delhi and Lucknow, they would return to Uttarakhand. He added that to boost the economy, SIDCUL has approved a proposal to come up with a high-end wellness centre in the state. Madan Negi area of Tehri district has been identified and 26 acres have been approved for the project. “Soon we will be inviting the tender bids, and if the land is found to be big in size, it was be spilt in two parts,” Singh said. Besides, SIDCUL has also proposed a Plastic Park in Sitarganj area and 40 acres have been identified for the project. In addition, SIDCUL has decided to waive off the lease rent for industrial units for a month. He added that till Thursday afternoon, a total of 75 Covid-19 positive cases have been reported in the state. Out of these, 50 have been cured and 24 are undergoing treatment. “While recovery rate of the country is 33%, in Uttarakhand, it is 66%. The state has conducted over 1,000 sample tests and presently, the sample testing capacity of the state is 500 per day,” he said. On the increase in number of positive cases in last two days, the senior IAS official said that the situation was under control and the state was prepared to handle the situation. “Presently, we have 9,810 isolation beds and 1,041 beds for Covid patients. Besides, we have 236 ICU beds,” he added. Till Thursday morning, 2.07 lakh have registered themselves to return to Uttarakhand, whereas 32,591 have applied to leave the state. Around 70,000 people have returned to Uttarakhand and 62,000 have moved from one district of Uttarakhand to another.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/40-residents-return-from-foreign-countries-says-chief-secy/articleshow/75746070.cms||Kautilya Singh
May 15, 2020||Dehradun||A month since pay cut order, many MLAs fail to give assent, speaker sends reminder||Dehradun: Even after the cabinet ordered a 30% salary cut of all the MLAs, many legislators did not give their assent for the deduction, forcing the assembly speaker, Premchand Aggarwal, to send a “polite reminder”, urging them to speed up the matter.Last month in a cabinet meeting, chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat had approved a 30 % cut for all the legislators, but no deductions were made in the salary disbursed on May 1. The 30% wage will be effective for the whole financial year. Each MLA gets Rs 1.62 lakh, including allowances, every month. However, it was found that as per the legislative rules, no assent of the legislators was obtained for deducting the salary. “The rules make it mandatory to get a written approval from every MLA before making any deduction in the salary. I have sent the reminders to all MLAs to furnish written assent to initiate the deductions as decided in the cabinet meeting,” Aggarwal said. Meanwhile, BJP MLA Khajan Das, who gave his assent letter on Thursday, said, “All of us were under the impression that salary would be deducted automatically,.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/a-month-since-pay-cut-order-many-mlas-fail-to-give-assent-speaker-sends-reminder/articleshow/75746040.cms||Yogesh Kumar
May 15, 2020||Nagpur||C Rly & India Post join hands for parcel service||Nagpur: The Central Railway and India Post have joined hands to synergise within Maharashtra and are offering railway parcel service by post. The services will be effective from May 15. In current situation of Covid-19 lockdown, individuals and commercial establishments are finding it difficult to move their large size consignments containing the essential and other items. Speed Post service is being widely used by a large number of public for sending their parcels. However, for consignments in highway weight slabs, the customers find it difficult to transport these items to the post offices for booking. “The venture is keeping in mind the special parcel trains being operated by Central Railway,” said Shivaji Sutar, chief public relations officer (CPRO), Central Railway. To begin with, the service will be available from and between Mumbai, Pune and Nagpur. It will be extended to other stations later. India Post will hall pick up consignments from customers and deliver it to the consignee at destination. “As a trial run, the consignment picked up from Hingna on May 9, was sent and it reached Mumbai the next day,” Sutar said. This service enables customers to avail transportation of the consignments at economical rate and with door service facility. “This also underscores the coming together of Indian Railways, started in 1853, and India Post, started in 1854, to offer convenience and value to customers,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/c-rly-india-post-join-hands-for-parcel-service/articleshow/75747018.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
May 15, 2020||Delhi||Delhi high court refuses to stay 70% cess on liquor, for now||NEW DELHI: Delhi high court on Friday refused to stay the AAP government’s levy of 70% ‘special corona fee’ on MRP of all liquor brands in the national capital, but asked for an explanation. It was hearing a batch of petitions challenging the notification. A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice C Hari Shankar issued notice to the Delhi government and sought its response by May 29, even as it declined to grant any interim stay on the notification till it hears the state government’s stand. Appearing for the AAP government, standing counsel Ramesh Singh assured the court that a detailed reply will be filed explaining why the levy is valid. The Delhi government imposed the special fee' on alcohol, a day after allowing re-opening of 150 state-run liquor vends in the city from May 3, which was challenged through the petitions, including by a lawyer who contended in his petition that the corona fee is in excess of what has been authorised by law and accordingly it is being collected arbitrarily. “There is no justification or explanation of the sudden levying of the fee. The special corona fee was not done when liquor vends were allowed to operate initially and the move was taken after there were the reports of huge queues and violation of social distancing norms outside the vends,” a plea by advocate Lalit Valecha said. His plea said that the levy also results in “double jeopardy for the consumers of liquor in Delhi as the special corona fee is payable over and above the MRP, which is already inclusive of various taxes, duties and levies by the government. The plea said increasing the MRP by a whopping 70% special fee is too much for the common man to bear especially when every person has been financially hit in the prevailing circumstances arising out of Covid-19. Another petition also sought quashing of the May 4 notification claiming that it is highly arbitrary, irrational and, therefore, violates Article 14 of the Constitution. It also sought directions to the government to refund the money collected under the notification dated May 4.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/hc-refuses-to-stay-70-cess-on-liquor-for-now/articleshow/75767354.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Dehradun||Six new Covid-19 cases in U’khand, all returnees||Dehradun: Six new people tested positive for coronavirus in Uttarakhand on Thursday, taking the state’s tally to 78. With three patients getting discharged on Thursday, the tally of active cases in the Himalayan state is now 27. The new patients include a 36-year-old woman who had returned from Delhi to Mussoorie as well as two others who are from Raipur and Old Dalanwala area of Dehradun. Three other migrants have tested positive from US Nagar, including a 10-year-old girl. Covid-19 nodal officer of Government Doon Medical College (GDMC) Dr NS Khatri told TOI that the woman from Mussoorie, along with three of her family members, were admitted to Doon Hospital. “The man from Raipur is now admitted to an isolation ward while two of his family members are in hospital quarantine. The patient from Old Dalanwala has also been admitted to Doon Hospital with three of his family members,” he said, adding that samples of all the patients were collected at Asharodi check post at Dehradun-Saharanpur border. The patients from Mussoorie and Dalanwala had returned from New Delhi, while the one from Raipur was staying in Maharashtra since two months. CMO of US Nagar Dr Shailja Bhatt informed that the 10-year-old girl from US Nagar was coming back with her parents and five others from Delhi and was quarantined at the border. Meanwhile, three patients – one each from Dehradun, Haridwar and Nainital – reportedly recovered and were discharged on May 14, taking the total number of active cases in Uttarakhand to 27. With the increasing number of returnees in all 13 districts across the state, the health department has increased surveillance to ensure that people serve the quarantine period of 14 days after arriving to their destinations. The state has now seen 15 fresh cases in the last five days, all of whom were either migrants or returnees. As many as 8,000 people in the state have been placed in home quarantine in the last 48 hours. Around 39,700 people are in home isolation. The number of people placed in quarantine facility is 3,600. The recovery rate is 66.67% while 11,297 samples have been tested so far, as per the health department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/six-new-covid-19-cases-in-ukhand-all-returnees/articleshow/75746092.cms||Ishita Mishra
May 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: GHMC changes tack, locks up only positive patients’ houses||HYDERABAD: After a hue and cry was raised over containment clusters and localities being barricaded, Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) officials have changed their tack, locking just the house or building where people testing positive reside. If a positive case is detected in a flat, the entire apartment complex is being locked. “We are speaking to residents and locking the main gate only after convincing them,” a GHMC official from GHMC Secunderabad zone said. In Jubilee Hills circle too, individual houses, buildings and apartments were being contained where positive cases were detected. “We sealed the main entrance by barricading it so that people can’t step out of their building. As the movement is restricted, the need to physically lock the building did not arise,” said a GHMC official from Jubilee Hills circle. For essentials, GHMC officials have pressed into service staff working near the building. They work in shifts. “For the houses contained, the staff will provide round-the-clock assistance, including delivering essentials and medicines at their doorstep. Till quarantine period is completed, people living in the house contained can’t come out,” a GHMC official said. WhatsApp groups have been created for apartments and localities, which have been contained. Residents, people appointed to deliver essentials and GHMC officials are part of the group. “We are monitoring the groups in our jurisdiction and interacting with residents too,” another GHMC official said. Posters were being put up outside houses contained, while hands of those in home quarantine were also being stamped. Only in some areas, including Ziaguda and Vanasthalipuram, barricading was put in place in vicinity of the contained houses, the officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ghmc-changes-tack-locks-up-only-positive-patients-houses/articleshow/75747034.cms||Nabinder Bommala
May 15, 2020||Mangaluru||SSLC examination dates could be finalised tomorrow: Minister||Mangaluru: The Karnataka Secondary Education Examination Board (KSEEB) is expected to announce dates for the SSLC examination on Saturday. This comes close on the heels of the move by Karnataka Examination Authority, that on Wednesday announced dates for the Karnataka Common Entrance Test. SSLC examinations were initially scheduled to commence on March 27 and end on April 9, but were put on hold since then, due to the nationwide lockdown. Hinting that the dates for the exam could be finalised on Saturday, minister for primary and secondary education S Suresh Kumar said that a meeting of officials of the department of public instruction is scheduled for that day. Modalities of conducting the examination in the present scenario of the pandemic, while taking care on interests of students is of paramount importance, the minister said, adding these issues will be kept in mind while finalising the schedule. With inter-state and inter-district mobility a major issue, and public transport not being available, as well as the 14-day institutional quarantine norm being in force, Suresh Kumar said an idea has been mooted to allow students to appear for the examination in the district where they are at presently, than at their designated examination centre. The meeting will also decide on some workable arrangement for students who need to cross the state border, to appear for the exam here, he said. Admitting that it might be difficult for KSEEB to conduct the examination outside the state for logistical reasons, Suresh Kumar said any decision arrived at will be done in a way so that neither students, nor their parents, are burdened in any manner. “It is our intent to create a conducive atmosphere for students to appear for the most important examination of their career in a relaxed frame of mind, and not with confusion or anxiety,” the minister said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/sslc-examination-dates-could-be-finalised-tomorrow-min/articleshow/75744802.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
May 15, 2020||Agra||Two Covid deaths in Aligarh, 8-month-old baby infected||Agra: Two persons – aged 68 and 56 - succumbed to Novel coronavirus (Covid-19) infection in Aligarh on Thursday, taking the death toll to seven in the district. Also, an eight-month-old baby boy was diagnosed with the virus. Chief development officer, Anunay Jha, said that the 68-year-old deceased man was admitted to hospital a day earlier and he belonged to Mamu Bhanja. While the 56-year-old man, according to health officials, was brought dead at JNMC hospital on Wednesday evening. His sample was taken for testing and report confirmed he was infected with the disease. Jha told TOI that the eight-month-old boy’s family has 16 members at home, but none were found infected earlier. “The baby was taken to Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College a few days ago for check up and probably caught the infection there,” he said. Samples of the baby's family members will be taken on Friday for testing. Till now, 66 people have been infected with Covid-19 in the district. “Six patients were, meanwhile, discharged from Harduaganj centre on Thursday,” Jha added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/two-covid-deaths-in-aligarh-8-month-old-baby-infected/articleshow/75746120.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Udaipur||Residents rejoice over spectacle of roosting parakeets in Udaipur||UDAIPUR: Roosting colonies of feral rose-ringed parakeets have thrived in a patch in the centre of Udaipur city around the collectorate area in a circumference of 2-3km for many decades now. With the lockdown in place, the birds provide a sight to behold to the residents in the area. A recent survey suggests that their population has reduced and they are now around 2.5 lakh in number. Interestingly, the birds shift to Gulabbagh, Sajjangarh and other areas to breed during the monsoon season and stay there in winter, where they nest inside trees but during summer, they return to their favourite roosting sites. “Unlike many other species of parrots, rose-ringed parakeets are notoriously resilient to urbanization and flourish in built-up areas and perhaps this being the reason, they’ve managed to survive though their number has radically decreased. Last we counted them was in 2014-15, when they were around 8 lakh in number,” said Satya Prakash Mehra, an environmental professional and advisor of the Rajputana Society of Natural History. For many, these parakeets are simply a pleasing addition to the city’s wildlife, while for ornithologists, their behaviour is a subject of research. The parakeets are found around the collectorate and adjoining campus, Court Circle, RNT medical college campus, encircling the commercial and human habitation in front of the general hospital to the Residency girls school and RSMM campus. “The Court Circle is one of the busiest areas of the urban space here due to the presence of courts, hospitals and other public offices and crossways for transportation. The site was adorned with dense green cover before 2000 and the trees were used as resting sites by the winged creatures, and parakeets dominated them all followed by the Mynas,” Mehra said. The presence of Alexandrine parakeet (Heeraman tota) is not found here any longer though they still exist in peri-urban areas. The researchers have recorded 423 woody plants of fifty species on which these parakeets roost, which include Mango, Jamun, Ashok, Neem, Peepal, Kachnar, Eucalyptus, Gular, Banyan trees etc. It may be interesting to know that the parakeets prefer indigenous tree species to rest and do not perch on exotic ones like the Julie Flora ( Vilayati Babool). The number of Mynas has notably decreased from the area which account for below one thousand in the present count. The birds’ movement is equally interesting as the pandemonium of parakeets moves early morning from the roosting colonies towards the direction of sun and perch down in orchards and parks where they easily find food. As dusk nears, the flocks fly back to their homes. They fly back in groups as their group leaders lead them in flocks, giving out calls as they perch on trees to trees until they settle down safely before dark.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/residents-rejoice-over-spectacle-of-roosting-parakeets-in-udaipur/articleshow/75747568.cms||Geetha Sunil Pillai
May 15, 2020||Dehradun||Train carrying migrants to Kumaon will stop at Lalkuan||Nainital: As another train carrying around 1,700 migrants is set to reach Kumaon, district administration said that the train will drop the migrants at Lalkuan from where they will be taken to Rudrapur and the district administration of Udham Singh Nagar will then drop them to their villages. The decision to stop the train at Lalkuan was taken days after a train carrying around 1,200 people had come to Kathgodam railway station. However according to officials, the Kathgodam railway station is not spacious enough to handle so many passengers while also maintaining the social distancing norms therefore Lalkuan was chosen as the preferred station. "While taking the migrants back to their homes we need to make sure that the social distancing norms are maintained. The Kathgodam railway station however has just one platform and is therefore not an ideal destination to handle the migrants. Therefore the train will be stopped at the Lalkuan station where we have two exit gates and an emergency gate. We have arranged 60 buses for carrying the migrants too," said an official. Meanwhile, the district administration has also said that they have arranged for the arranged food as well as night stay for the workers. "Several people are coming to the region by train at night. It is therefore necessary that all the necessary arrangement like food and shelter have to be arranged," said Nainital District Magistrate (DM) Savin Bansal. Bansal added that the Self Help Groups (SHGs) as well as Indira Amma Canteen owners will be stationed at the stadiums where the migrants are hosted so that the food can be provided to them the whole day. "We are making sure that no migrant workers should remain hungry therefore the food will be distributed at both the stadiums the whole day," he said while adding that the administration is also preparing a database of the migrants coming to the region.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/train-carrying-migrants-to-kumaon-will-stop-at-lalkuan/articleshow/75746130.cms||Prashant Jha
May 15, 2020||Dehradun||After assurance, liquor shop owners call off stir||Dehradun: After assurance from the state excise commissioner, liquor shop owners have decided to keep over 500 vends open across the country. The liquor shop owners had on Wednesday threatened to shutdown vends from Friday onwards in protest against the discriminatory excise policy. They had claimed that due to lockdown, the liquor vend owners could not sell the stock after March 22. Prateek Juyal, a liquor shop owner, said, "On Thursday, our core group met the excise commissioner and discussed the issues we are facing. We were then assured that our problems will be sorted amicably before May 24. So we have decided to call off the stir." He added that the liquor industry is devastated by the 25% special healthcare tax imposed by the state government on sale of liquor bottles. Meanwhile, on Thursday, city liquor vends witnessed a maddening rush as customers throng the shops to stock up at the last moment. Shivraj Singh Rana, who waited in line for a long time to stock up, said, "Even though the prices are spiked a bit but many like me purchased several bottles as no one knows how long the shut down would last."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/after-assurance-liquor-shop-owners-call-off-stir/articleshow/75746128.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Delhi||Pets can get Covid-19 from humans: Study||NEW DELHI: Animals can get Covid-19 from humans, researchers from Hong Kong have concluded after closely studying the pets of 15 corona-positive people. Two out of the 15 dogs from these households — a 17-year-old neutered male Pomeranian and a 2.5-year-old male German Shepherd — were found to be infected by the virus. Both dogs, however, remained asymptomatic during quarantine. In a study accepted for publication in the journal Nature, the researchers have concluded that the evidence suggests these are instances of human-to-animal transmission of SARS-CoV-2 or Covid-19. “It is unclear whether infected dogs can transmit the virus to other animals or back to humans,” they add. India doesn’t have a policy for quarantining the pets in case their owners test positive. In Hong Kong, its agriculture, fisheries and conservative department (AFCD) offers to isolate them at its facility and release them after they test negative for the virus. In the US, the Centre for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) recommends that people with Covid-19 and those in home isolation should be advised to restrict interaction with household animals. “Specifically, while a person with Covid-19 is symptomatic, they should maintain separation from household animals as they would do with other family members, and avoid direct contact with pets, including petting, snuggling, being kissed or licked, sleeping in the same location, and sharing food or bedding,” states its guideline. It adds that such people should wash their hands before and after caring for their pets. The first animal that the US Department of Agriculture (USDA) confirmed as positive for novel coronavirus was a tiger in a New York zoo on April 4. On April 22, two pet cats were found to be positive. “The cats lived in two separate areas of New York state. Both had mild respiratory illness and are expected to make a full recovery,” the US Food and Drug Administration (USFDA) said. People with pets are advised to keep them indoors when possible to prevent them from interacting with other animals or people. “Walk dogs on a leash maintaining at least six feet from other people and animals. Avoid dog parks or public places where a large number of people and dogs gather. If your pet gets sick or you have any concerns about its health, talk to your veterinarian,” USFDA advises.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/pets-can-get-covid-19-from-humans-study/articleshow/75767405.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
May 15, 2020||Surat||Poverty, starvation force the lockdown march home||SURAT: It has now become a regular sight – either groups of migrant workers resting under trees or under flyover bridges on the National Highways in south Gujarat, or some walking on relentlessly despite the sun scorching over their heads. One such group of 12 was spotted resting under the flyover at Kadodara crossroad on Thursday afternoon. While the children were sleeping on the luggage, the elders were repairing their broken slippers. Their exasperation was writ large on their tired faces and nobody was in any mood to talk to anyone, not even among themselves. After much coaxing, one member relented and said: “Why are we walking? Instead of asking us this silly question, why don’t you go and ask the government or the business owners in Surat why they have rendered us homeless and starving for the past 15 days?” Ajit Nishad, 30, who was employed in an embroidery unit, is tired of not only walking home along with his wife Kiran and their two minor daughters Anshu, 4 and Anshika, 1 and carrying whatever meagre belongings they had, but also of the city’s heartless rejection of its migrant population. The family was part of a group that started walking from Godadara in city in search of some transport. “We did not get train tickets despite paying money. Those who paid more than the regular charges got tickets despite submitting their forms late. We cannot and so walk we must,” said Kallu Nishad, another 30-year-old migrant who said they were trying for some mini truck to hitch a ride or are prepared to walk all the way to Prayagraj in Uttar Pradesh. Another similar group on the national highway 48 comprised about 11 young employees of embroidery unit from Pandesara who too were on the lookout for some transportation back to their home in Ambedkar Nagar district in UP. “Each of us have paid Rs 1,000 to an agent for train ticket but did not get any. We lost our money as well as the agent now refuses to take our calls,” said Brijesh Gupta, a member of the group who said that they had no option but to walk home in desperation amid joblessness, poverty and near starvation for the past 10 days. “We are planning to reach Bihar taking the railway track route. We are not sure when we will reach but the hazardous journey is much better than our present condition in the city,” said Bhola Mandal, another migrant who started walking from Varachha with 10 friends.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/poverty-starvation-force-the-lockdown-march-home/articleshow/75744854.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
May 15, 2020||Jaipur||Youth’s body recovered from Jai Sagar lake in Rajasthan's Bundi||KOTA: Bundi city police recovered the body of a 28-year-old youth from Jai Sagar lake on Thursday morning after people saw it floating and informed police. The youth had been missing from his rented room for three days and police suspect it to be a suicide over a failed love affair. The body of Ajit Singh Solanki (28) was recovered from Jai Sagar lake on Thursday morning, Bundi city police CI Lokendra Paliwal said. The deceased lived alone in a rented room in Guru Nanak Colony and had gone missing from there on May 11 but the landlord did not file any missing report with police, though he informed the matter to his family members, Paliwal said. The deceased was a contractual employee at the district food office and was reported to be a well-behaved youth with no bad habits, he said. Paliwal said prima facie it was a case of suicide, though no suicide note was recovered from him. “A diary recovered from his rented room suggested the deceased youth was deep distress due to a love affair and on a page he mentioned that he would not be able to live without the girl he loved,” he said. Police have lodged a case under Section 174 of CrPC to ascertain actual reason for his death and handed over the body to family members after postmortem on Thursday, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/youths-body-recovered-from-jai-lake-in-bundi/articleshow/75747571.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Mysuru||House rent drops in Mysuru amid Covid-19||Mysuru: The residential rental market in Mysuru has wilted under the pressure of Covid-19 pandemic. Real estate agents say the house rent in city limits has plunged by 10-20% in the past one month. Adisheshan Gowda, the Mysuru chapter chairman of National Real Estate Development Council, agreed that rents have reduced due to the Covid-19 crisis and lockdown. “It is not possible to predict the future even after the Covid-19 lockdown eases,” he said. Real estate businessmen said that rents have come down even in upmarket areas like Saraswathipuram, Jayalakshmipuram and Lakshmipuram. The advance amount paid for rented house has also fallen drastically in the past few days. “For two-bedroom independent houses in the heart of the city, the owners were demanding Rs 17,000 to Rs 19,000 per month with 10 months’ rent as advance. But now it has come down to Rs 14,000 to Rs 17,000. In the outskirts like Srirampura, Lingambudikere and Bannur Road, such houses are available for Rs 7,500 to Rs 9,000 now. For attached houses, the rent has come down to Rs 6,500 in these places. There are hardly any takers,” said Rajarathna N, an agent from Jayanagar. “The Covid-19 crisis is affecting the rental business and families depending on it in a big way,” said Sumanth Kumar, a real estate agent from Hosabandikeri.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/house-rent-drops-in-mys-amid-covid/articleshow/75744857.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Jaipur||Food packets meant for poor dumped in Bhiwadi||Jaipur: Negligence of Bhiwadi Municipal Council in Alwar district came into light when food packets meant for poor and migrants were found in trash bins. The council was given the responsibility to distribute the packets among poor. Till the packets were distributed among the poor, officials kept them in community halls in the city. Due to their negligence, the vegetables became stale and to hide their fault, officials dumped those in garbage collecting vehicles. Their action came to light when photographs of the food packets being dumped went viral. Council officials explained that only 15 kg onions and potatoes became stale and they dumped those to prevent people falling ill due to food poisoning. Council vice-chairman Baljeet Daayma alleged, “On May 6, vegetable sellers of the city donated vegetables to be distributed among poor people by the municipal council but they were unable to do so. Councillors were asked to send a list of people who are in need of ration immediately. They sent the list but it has been over six days but ration has not been delivered to anyone in the city.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/food-packets-meant-for-poor-dumped-in-bhiwadi/articleshow/75747570.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Kochi||27-year-old may be Ekm’s first leptospirosis casualty||Kochi: A 27-year-old man is suspected to have died from leptospirosis on May 4. He could be the first first victim of the the infectious disease in Ernakulam this year. Health officials said the man from Karumalloor panchayat had approached a private medical practitioner in a nursing home on May 2 nearby his home and died after two days while on the way to a specialty hospital in Kochi. The district has reported 38 leptospirosis cases from January to May 8 this year compared to 37 cases reported during the same period last year. “After consulting a doctor on May 2, he returned home. Later, he started vomiting and as there was no respite, he approached a private hospital in Aluva the next day. It was found that he was suffering from urinary infection. Next day morning, he had hematuria (blood in urine) and hemoptysis (blood in sputum), and the hospital authorities referred him to a hospital in Kochi. But he died on the way. Initially, it was suspected that he died of Covid-19 but his samples tested negative for the disease. Later, his autopsy report suggested leptospirosis as the cause of death,” said a health official. The health department has conducted an enquiry in Karumalloor to know the source from where he contracted the disease, which usually affects people working in muddy and marshy areas. Leptospirosis is caused by bacteria belonging to the genus leptospira. The infection is generally transmitted to humans by water or food that has been contaminated by rat/cattle urine after it comes in contact with wounds in the skin. “That’s why we give doxycycline tablets to NREGA workers. We can only say that it is a suspected case of leptospirosis as we could not conduct ELISA test, which is used to confirm leptospirosis. The man used to catch fish from small waterbodies in paddy fields. There are also cattle sheds in houses nearby his house. His friends said the man had a wound on his right leg,” said the official. “Leptospirosis cases are reported during this time when farming starts. The case reported in Karumalloor is a suspected case of leptospirosis,” said Ernakulam DMO N K Kuttappan. Panchayat authorities in Karumalloor have started awareness programmes in the area. “Since the lockdown started, many people frequent the waterbodies in paddy fields to catch fish. So, we have advised people to stop it. We have distributed doxycycline tablets to all residents in UC College ward and will give the tablets to NREGA workers too,” said Shiju G D, panchayat president.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/27-year-old-may-be-ekms-first-leptospirosis-casualty/articleshow/75744893.cms||T C Sreemol
May 15, 2020||Lucknow||4 escape from quarantine in Hardoi, Azamgarh||LUCKNOW: Two persons each escaped from quarantine facilities in Hardoi and Azamgarh in a span of 48 hours. A massive search operation was launched in both districts. While the duo in Azamgarh was caught, the two in Hardoi have been traced but not nabbed. So far, as many as 600 people have escaped from different quarantine centres in Sultanpur, Hathras, Azamgarh, Hardoi, Bahraich and Sitapur over the past seven weeks. Most of them were traced and have been booked. On Tuesday night, two migrants from Delhi were quarantined at Divyananda PG College in Sandila, Hardoi. Next day, the local corporator informed authorities that the duo was missing. “We had launched a manhunt but could not catch them. However, on Thursday evening, informers told us that they were hiding at a relative’s place,” said sub-inspector OP Singh, in charge of the quarantine centre. They are yet to be nabbed. He said that senior officials will take a call on whether an FIR will be registered in the incident. In Azamgarh, SP Triveni Singh said the duo who had escaped was nabbed and an inquiry would be conducted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/4-escape-from-quarantine-in-hardoi-azamgarh/articleshow/75747578.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Nagpur||Neeri training NU lab staff for Covid-19 testing||Nagpur: The testing capacity for Covid-19 seems to be ramping up in the city, with Nagpur University (NU) too preparing to start testing soon.The National Environmental Engineering Research Institute (Neeri), which is a hub for other testing centres in the region, is currently training personnel from NU’s Rajiv Gandhi Biotechnology Centre. As reported by TOI, Neeri has been recently appointed as a hub to train other laboratories for Covid-19 testing by the central government. Overall, there are 10 such hubs in the country.Krishna Khairnar, senior scientist and head of environmental virology cell at Neeri, informed that two personnel were being trained at the institute. Exhaustive training for technical as well as administrative know-how of testing has started from Thursday. “All procedures like sample receiving, sorting, documentation, assigning sample IDs, labellings, sample processing, aliquotings, RNA extraction, RT-PCR, result and analysis, documentation of results, report preparation, test report generation, uploading the data in various government portals etc are being covered,” said Khairnar. The aim is to establish a self-sufficient new training centre in the city, the scientist added. “The training is intensive and will take about 7-10 days. Usually it takes 15 days but we are trying to complete it faster so that trained personnel are ready at the earliest,” he said.NU sources said the RT PCR machine was ready and they were trying to get a small component required for testing of Covid-19 patients soon. At present, testing for Covid-19 is being held at five laboratories in the city including Neeri, Government Medical College and Hospital, Mayo hospital, All India Institute for Medical Sciences and National Veterinary College.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/neeri-training-nu-lab-staff-for-covid-19-testing/articleshow/75747058.cms||Manka Behl
May 15, 2020||Jodhpur||Man held for killing father in Rajasthan's Jalore district, pistol recovered||JODHPUR: The Jalore police on Thursday arrested a man for killing his father in his sleep in Dantiwas village of Bhinmal in Jalore district and recovered a country-made pistol from him. SP (Jalore) Himmat Abhilash Tak said Hemaram Choudhary (58) was found dead in his house at his farm with four bullets shot in his back. “He was living alone at his farm due to difference with his son Shravan who was living just a few metre away in another house. His son was a prime suspect for us,” Tak said. When the police interrogated him, he confessed to have killed his father while he was sleeping alone at the farm house. According to investigation, the victim, a widower, was having an illicit relation and Shravan was not comfortable with it. Both son and father had a heated argument over the issue. Owing to this, Shravan was also suspicious about his father's decision over the property. On Monday afternoon, the duo again had arguments. In the same night, when Hemaram was sleeping in his farm house, he entered the house and fired four bullets at his father. Hemaram was an active Congress worker and had liquor shops in Sirohi and Jalore districts. He was also engaged in petty finance trade, owing to which police had suspected some business rivalry behind his murder.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/man-held-for-killing-father-in-jalore-dist-pistol-recovered/articleshow/75747577.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Udaipur||Stuck in Dubai, teacher from Udaipur wants to return for father’s funeral||UDAIPUR: A 35-year-old Udaipur woman working in Dubai has written a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to help her reach India so that she is able to claim the body of her father who died at a hospital in Kerala on Wednesday. Deepti Menon, the only child of her parents, wrote that her father's body has been lying in the mortuary for 24 hours now and with no family support, her 64-year-old mother is helpless and vulnerable. Her father, Vijay Kumar Menon, a private contractor and mother Veliamma, a retired nurse, were settled in Housing Board Colony, Sector 11 in Udaipur. They frequently visited Kerala and her father, a kidney patient on hemodialysis, was hospitalised with severe pneumonia and septic shock on May 12 and died the next night. Deepti, who is married, works in Dubai as a Hindi teacher while her daughter lives with her grandparents back in India. Deepti had visited her parents in September last and had been trying to come back home for the past two months. Speaking to TOI over phone, Deepti said she approached the Indian embassy for help and registered herself to return home when the Indian government permitted international flights to bring home people stuck in foreign nations due to the lockdown. However, her pleas were not heeded to and now that her father has expired, her request is still pending for the next flight which is scheduled for May 17. “My mother is helpless and she does not have a son to depend on. This is why perhaps people wish for a son as daughters stand helpless. I beg to the Indian government to have mercy on me and let me go home so that I can perform the final rites of my father whose soul is waiting to be liberated,” the daughter cried. Deepti’s sworn brother Rakesh Prajapat also approached Udaipur MP Arjunlal Meena who sought all the documents and assured them to speak to the ministry of external affairs for relief.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/stuck-in-dubai-teacher-wants-to-return-for-fathers-funeral/articleshow/75747575.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Dehradun||Rajaji director rules out poaching of Gohri range carcass||Dehradun: Ruling out any chances of poaching, director of Rajaji Tiger Reserve on Thursday said that the post mortem report, of the carcass that was found in Gohri range near Rishikesh on Wednesday, indicates that the bear had died after a falling off from a cliff and breaking its spine. Rajaji director Amit Verma added, “The post mortem report shows that the bear died accidentally. Also, since the carcass is intact, there is no chance of poaching.” Meanwhile, on the same day, Santosh Ram, 29, was mauled by a wild boar while he had gone to the field to collect fodder of livestock in Bageshwar district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/rajaji-director-rules-out-poaching-of-gohri-range-carcass/articleshow/75746171.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Mysuru||Release Anand Teltumbde immediately: Devanur Mahadeva||Mysuru: Dalit writer and activist Devanur Mahadeva joined hundreds of activists and rationalists from across the country on Thursday, demanding the immediate release of activist and writer Anand Teltumbde. He extended his support to the Justice Day planned on Saturday, to show solidarity with Teltumbde. Anand Teltumbde was arrested on April 14 by the NIA, which accused him of having links with Maoists. Mahadeva appealed to the country to observe May 16th as Justice Day, to express solidarity with Teltumbde and other activists and intellectuals imprisoned in the Bhima Koregaon case. “Dr Anand Teltumbde is today a national icon for justice. At the time of his arrest, he was working as senior professor and chair of big data analytics in Goa Institute of Management. His biographical journey reminds us of the life of Babasaheb Bhimrao Ambedkar,” he said. He appealed to the people to change their social media display picture to Teltumde’s picture, for a day on Saturday. “A two-hour campaign will be carried out on social media between 4 pm and 6 pm on Saturday, demanding #Justice4Teltumbde,” he said. Meanwhile, in Mysuru and T Narasipura in the district, Dalit activists held a dharna demanding the immediate release of Teltumbde. They alleged that the central government hatched a conspiracy against Teltumbde. “His arrest is a black spot on Indian democracy,” they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/release-anand-teltumbde-immediately-devanur-mahadeva/articleshow/75744894.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Madurai||HC sets free three convicted in murder of CPI functionary||Madurai: Setting aside a trial court order, which convicted three people and sentenced them for the murder of a CPI functionary in Tiruvarur district in 2008, the Madras high court has acquitted them citing there is a mystery as to how police arrested the trio.There was an altercation between Rajendran, a CPI functionary and a person named Anand with regard to the leasing of a land at Avelipattam area in Tiruvarur district. Due to this, Anand along with his relative Senthil Kumar and Rajendran’s driver Sivakumar murdered the CPI functionary on the banks of the Ponnukondan rivulet in Panniyur Road on October 16, 2008.The Thirukular police had registered a case and subsequently arrested the three on October 17, 2008. The trial court in 2017 convicted and sentenced them to undergo life imprisonment. Challenging the order, the three filed an appeal before the high court Madurai bench in 2018. Hearing the plea, a division bench of justice P N Prakash and justice B Pugalendhi observed that Rajendran’s wife Boopathy had admitted that immediately after the incident, riots broke out in the area, as CPI cadres went on a rampage and mounted pressure on the police to arrest the offenders.The judges observed that they are unable to understand how the police arrested Anand and Senthil Kumar immediately when the eyewitnesses were examined only three days later. This defies logic, noted the judges. The judges further observed that while the two witnesses Little Mary and Raja stated that they were present at the place of occurrence, they asked why they did not disclose the identity of the perpetrators to the police immediately. “It must be remembered that Little Mary and Raja are not some rustic villagers, but, were members of a cadre-based political party, committed to the left ideology,” noted the judges.Citing that the testimonies of Mary and Raja are unnatural and superficial, the judges set aside the conviction and sentence of the trio and acquitted them of all charges.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-sets-free-three-convicted-in-murder-of-cpi-functionary/articleshow/75747079.cms||Kaushik Kannan
May 15, 2020||Jaipur||JCTSL buses will resume services with 50 per cent capacity||JAIPUR: With some relaxations in the lockdown, Jaipur City Transport Service Limited (JCTSL) has issued guidelines about the time when the buses will resume operations. According to the guidelines, whenever the work will resume, JCTSL buses will run with just 50% of their capacity. Considered to be lifeline of the city transport, the government is yet to take a decision on JCTSL buses resuming operations, but the department is all geared up. The guidelines mentioned that buses will be sanitised every day and after every four hours in the city. Drivers and conductors will resume duties with masks, sanitizers and gloves, which will be provided by the department. Veerendra Verma, officer on special duty at JCTSL, said, “It will be a herculean task to maintain social distancing in buses and bus stops. We have started working towards the guidelines and whenever the government decides to start the transport, we will be back in action.” No passenger will be allowed to enter the buses without wearing masks. Seats will be marked where passengers will be allowed to sit. Officials have been ordered to keep in mind not to have buses and bus stops overcrowded. Any employee found to have symptoms will be sent for home isolation and can resume duties only after medical check-up. There will be posters and banners inside buses, at bus stops and on roads to educate people about symptoms of coronavirus and social distancing. Drivers have been asked to take charge of the bus only after confirming about the mandatory requirement of sanitisation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jctsl-buses-will-resume-services-with-50-capacity/articleshow/75747579.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Jaipur||Lockdown effect: No more effluents flow into these villages in Rajasthan||JODHPUR: The Covid-19 pandemic has turned out to be a blessing in disguise for the inhabitants of Dhawa, Doli and Araba villages on Jodhpur-Barmer border, although temporarily. After 10 years, the villagers have got respite from the effluents and harmful chemicals coming from the textile and steel industries in Jodhpur, which had taken a toll on flora and fauna, and had destabilised agriculture and human life in these villages. Thanks to the lockdown, the toxic impact of the industrial waste is fading gradually, as nature and wildlife in the area comes back to life. “We have been fighting to save our villages and the agriculture here, ever since the problem surfaced 10 years back. We even took judicial recourse and the National Green Tribunal handed out various directions, but in vain,” said Narpat Singh Araba, who has been spearheading this struggle on all fronts. “But what the system failed to do, the pandemic has done for us. We know that it is temporary and with the lockdown lifted, when the industries would begin functioning full throttle, the situation would be the same again. But for now, we are happy and enjoying this spell,” said Araba. A large quantity of untreated water from about 750 tie-&-die and steel re-rolling industries of Jodhpur has been making its way directly to these villages, along the Jodhpur-Barmer highway some 25 km away, causing irreparable damage to not only the flora and fauna, but taking a toll on agriculture and human life also. Because of this untreated water, around 20,000 bighas of land and about a dozen natural water resources across half a dozen villages, remain inundated in this chemical effluent. The villagers have stopped using the cremation ground and sending their children to school, both of which remain inundated in the chemical-infused water most of the year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/lockdown-effect-no-more-effluents-flow-into-these-villages/articleshow/75747581.cms||Ajay Parmar
May 15, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur gets Delhi help for Covid analysis||NAGPUR: Dr Sanjay Zodpey, a director in New Delhi’s Public Health Foundation of India (PHFI), has conducted a detailed analysis of the Covid-19 situation in the city and given guidance how to deal in case of a sudden rise in cases. He made a detailed presentation at the divisional commissioner’s office on Thursday. Zodpey is also vice-president of Academics of PHFI which is an autonomously governed public private initiative registered under the Societies Registration Act. Divisional commissioner Sanjeev Kumar told TOI that Zodpey is also on the committee of Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and “an expert in tackling epidemic”. “He is a Nagpur resident and happened to be here. Therefore, we asked him to do an analysis,” he said. Kumar is expecting help from him on technical issues. A team from Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC), which included municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe, chief medical officer Dr Yogendra Savai and additional chief medical officer Dr Praveen Gantawar, were present. They too gave a presentation of innovative steps implemented by the civic body. Zodpey’s help is also being sought on development of Covid Care Centres and Dedicated Covid Health Centres, and management of suspected and positive persons.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/city-gets-delhi-help-for-covid-analysis/articleshow/75747082.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
May 15, 2020||Kozhikode||Five more test +ve in Malappuram||Malappuram: Five from Malappuram tested positive for the coronavirus infection on Thursday taking the number of active cases in the district to 11. Three of them are gulf returnees while two reached from Mumbai. The district has also witnessed a steep increase in cases under observation after 897 more were added to the list on Thursday, taking the tally to 3102. Those confirmed with the infection were a 27-year-old man from Anappadi near Thriprangode, who returned from Abu Dhabi, a 44-year-old man from Velimukku South near Munniyur who returned from Dubai, a 60-year-old man from Cherani near Manjeri who also returned from Dubai and a 31-year-old man and his brother's wife from Veliyankode who returned from Mumbai. They have been admitted to Government Medical College Hospital (GMCH) in Manjeri. The Thriprangode native was working as a driver in Baniyas East in Dubai. He returned to Karipur in a repatriation flight on May 7 and was shifted to a Covid care centre at the Calicut University hostel. On May 11, he was shifted to medical college hospital with symptoms. The Munniyur native is a tanker lorry driver in Ajman, UAE and he was staying in a flat in Jurf industrial area. He returned to Karipur on May 7 and was housed at Safa hospital in Kalikavu before being shifted to the medical college five days later with symptoms. The Manjeri native was working as a sales executive in an advertising firm in Al Qusaiz in Dubai. He had close contact with a Malayali man who tested positive in Dubai. He returned to Kannur from Dubai on May 12 and he was shifted to GMCH on May 13. It was on May 10 that the infected man from Veliyankode returned from Mumbai, along with his brother, brother's wife, and brother's son.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/five-more-test-ve-in-malappuram/articleshow/75744885.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Madurai||HC confirms life term for four convicted of youth’s murder||Madurai: Observing that witnesses turning hostile is endemic in our criminal justice system, Madras high court has confirmed a sessions court order convicting and sentencing four people to undergo life imprisonment for murdering a youth in 2009.The 17-year-old youth, Velmurugan was residing in Aavikottai village in Thanjavur district. Two people from the same village Stalin and Ramadoss were consuming alcohol at Velmurugan family’s agricultural land. Velmurugan’s brother Veeramurugan and his father Chellapandian berated Stalin and Ramadoss for consuming alcohol in their land.Due to this, Stalin, Ramadoss, his brother Sivadoss and Shanmugam abducted Velmurugan from a temple festival and murdered him on July 6, 2009. Veeramurugan also sustained injuries in this incident. The Madukkur police registered a case and subsequently arrested the four.The sessions court at Pattukottai convicted and sentenced the four to undergo life imprisonment in 2018. Challenging the order, they filed an appeal before the high court Madurai bench the same year.Hearing the plea, a division bench of justices P N Prakash and B Pugalendhi refused to accept the contention raised by the counsel appearing for the defence who stated that one of the witnesses had turned hostile and therefore, the prosecution case has suffered a dent.“If the testimony of a hostile witness is used as a yardstick to measure the veracity of the testimony of witnesses who had not turned hostile, our criminal justice system would collapse,” observed the judges.The judges observed that there is sufficient evidence to show that all the four accused shared a common intention to eliminate Velmurugan as they had gathered at the place of occurrence with weapons. The judges further observed that the nature of the injuries and the parts of the body which were subject to attack, show the intention of the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-confirms-life-term-for-four-convicted-of-youths-murder/articleshow/75747081.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Jaipur||Gehlot seeks Modi’s help to combat locusts||Jaipur: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Thursday reminded Prime Minister Narendra Modi about locust menace in Rajasthan and asked for central assistance to deal with the problem. In a series of tweets, Gehlot said the outbreak of locusts in Rajasthan has already started. Farmers in Rajasthan are facing the menace of locusts which are attacking the crops in several districts of state.I request PM Narendra Modi to take this problem seriously and immediately give instructions to concerned central officials to help Rajasthan get rid of this problem. He said last year, “Due to the attack of locusts, crops were badly damaged in 12 districts of the state. We need to take steps as soon as possible so that situation can be brought under control, otherwise, farmers would be very badly affected.” Gehlot said, “We need central assistance to deal with this problem. The government will extend cooperation to locust department of the Central government as in the previous year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/gehlot-seeks-modis-help-to-combat-locusts/articleshow/75747593.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Mumbai||Numbers in Mumbai rising average 6.7% daily, 5 wards have over 1,000 cases each||MUMBAI: The average daily Covid-19 case growth rate in the city stands at 6.7%, showed a civic analysis of ward-wise data, and five wards now have more than 1,000 cases each. Some wards with the fewest cases so far—T (Mulund), R North (Borivli, Dahisar) and B (Dongri, Umarkhadi)—have shown the highest growth percentages for seven days till May 11 (see box). Officials blamed a case spurt in slum pockets in May, but pointed out that because they had small case bases to begin with, the percentage growth could be exaggerated. Interestingly, of the five 1,000-plus-case wards, three—G North (Dharavi, Dadar, Mahim), G South (Worli, Prabhadevi) and K West (Andheri W)—had case rates below the city’s average. E ward (Byculla, Mumbai Central) and F North (Wadala, Matunga, Antop Hill) had higher rates. When it came to case doubling, three of five—G North, E, and F North wards—were doing so faster than Mumbai (11 days). E ward and F North were worry points. At the brightest end of the spectrum, a standout is D ward (Malabar Hill, Walkeshwar), which recorded the best doubling rate of 17.6 days and least case growth rate of 4% among all the wards. A couple of weeks ago, BMC had been left scrambling as cases climbed steeply in this posh ward. The analysis shows T, R North, and B wards have seen a spurt in cases from double to triple digits over the past fortnight. On April 25, T ward had 32 cases, R North 29, and B had 74. Now, they are T 263, R North 151, and B 144. Officials pointed at the spread of cases in congested slum pockets in these wards, like Indira Nagar and Ramgad and Mulund. In T ward, more than 50% cases are from the slums. In Borivli too, cases spread in the slums, though former corporator Abhishek Ghoshalkar said volunteers have managed to control the Covid-19 spread in the huge Ganpat Patil Nagar. Corporators TOI spoke to blamed the sharp rise in cases, especially in congested wards like E, on the civic administration’s delay in isolating high-risk contacts of a person testing positive. “Several patients who tested positive in my ward were asymptomatic, and there was fear that they may have infected others with weak immune systems,” said E ward corporator Javed Juneja. Speaking about K West, which witnessed a sharp spike in cases, MLA Ameet Satam said besides sealing of congested localities, mass screening has started in several pockets.In F North ward, which has reported over a 1,000 cases, slums are proving a challenge. “Almost 60% of the cases are from slum areas. In Antop Hill, localities like Sangam Nagar and Bhartiya Kamala Nagar have been marked out as red zones after there were over a dozen cases,” said Congress corporator from the area Ravi Raja.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/nos-in-city-rising-avg-6-7-daily-5-wards-have-over-1k-cases-each/articleshow/75747633.cms||Richa Pinto
May 15, 2020||Lucknow||UP: Migrant who died in train did not get any medical aid for 6 hours||LUCKNOW: It was the darkest night of life for 42-year-old Jayanti Upadhyay which she spent on Mumbai-Basti Shramik Special on Monday. She and her husband Vinod (44) thanked their stars when they made it to the list of passengers for the special train which would have freed them from penniless existence in the locked down maximum city. But her travails started the moment they left their Colaba house in Mumbai on Monday to catch the train. She first lost her nephew, who was killed in a road accident as the family was trying to board a bus for Lokmanya Tilak Terminus railway station. She came to know about it after she had reached the railway station. And before she could absorb the shock, her husband Vinod died in sleep onboard train. She had to travel six hours with his body till she reached Lucknow on Tuesday afternoon. Jayanti Upadhyay, Vinod's wife"Vinod Kumar was a heart patient, but did not receive medical aid for six hours during the journey after his condition deteriorated," the family says. The test done after Vinod's death revealed that he was also suffering from Covid-19. A resident of Gosainganj in Ayodhya, Vinod used to do photography at Gateway of India for the past 20 years for a living. Jayanti would live in Ayodhya with son Abhishek, a BA (II) student, and daughter Ruchi, studying in class X. She used to frequently visit Mumbai and stay with her husband for three-four months. Left pennilesss after the one-and-a-half-month lockdown, Vinod borrowed Rs 11, 000 from his elder brother, but with no hope of any reopening of the city in near future, he decided to return home. Jayanti's nephew Vikas Pandey (29), who also stayed in Mumbai with his elder brother, expressed willingness to come along. He was also a photographer and facing financial problems. “On Monday, we boarded the bus for railway station to catch 1.35pm train, but Vikas fell down while boarding. We wanted to get down but were stopped by cops and Vinod’s call on Vikas’s phone went unattended. Later, while waiting for train, a cop informed us that Vikas was declared dead due to brain hemorrhage. We again sought permission to go back but denied,” Jayanti told TOI on phone from a hotel in Ayodhya where she has been quarantined along with nine other family members. Jayanti said that Vinod, a heart patient for past two years, kept constantly crying on train for not being able to attend to Vikas and see his body. “He felt uneasy after few hours of journey and went to sleep at around 9pm. In the morning at around 8.30, I tried to wake him up, but he did not respond. I sought help from other passengers who tried to revive Vinod, but he remained motionless,” she added. “Neither the railway staff - Ticket Examiner (TTE) or Railway Protection Force (RPF) - was around for help, nor the train stopped at any station in between where I could get help. After sometime, his pulse was also gone,” she said before breaking down. As Jayanti couldn't operate mobile phone, she asked a co-passenger to make a call from Vinod’s phone to his elder brother Virendra, who works as home guard in Lucknow. Virendra then informed RPF and Government Railway Police (GRP) before rushing to Charbagh railway station in Lucknow with a private ambulance. Train arrived in Lucknow at 2.30pm on Tuesday. The body was handed over to the family after autopsy and cremated in Gosainganj. The autopsy could not ascertain the cause of death, hence viscera has been preserved for forensic examination. “On Wednesday, Ayodhya sub-divisional magistrate called and informed me that Vinod’s Covid-19 test has come positive. Later, officials came and quarantined our entire family. Jayanti’s swab samples have been taken for test,” Virendra told TOI. He demanded a government job for Vinod’s son and financial aid for family. DRM, NR, Sanjay Tripathi said “There is no provision of medical facility on the train, but RPF and GRP personnel are deployed to help in case any passenger faces emergency. However, in the unfortunate death of the migrant worker, family members did not alert any personnel on the train.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/migrant-who-died-in-train-did-not-get-any-medical-aid-for-6-hours/articleshow/75747601.cms||Rahul Tripathi
May 15, 2020||Nagpur||New swab collection teams to join; more tests, quick results expected||NAGPUR: In order to prepare for peak of Covid-19 as projected by the central government, district administration has decided to involve more medical colleges and hospitals for collecting swab samples. The slow pace of swab sample collection due to limited number of ENT teams is one of the major reasons behind delay in testing and extended stay for suspects at institutional quarantine facilities. On May 14, divisional commissioner Sanjeev Kumar wrote to four medical college hospitals in the city asking them to join swab collection work. Till now, ENT department teams from GMCH, IGGMCH and AIIMS have been collecting samples. Now, Government Dental College and Hospital (GDCH) and Government Ayurvedic College will also rope in their teams, along with ENT departments of Lata Mangeshkar Hospital (LMH), and Shalinitai Meghe Medical College. “Both GDCH and Ayurvedic College are directed to create minimum four teams which can be used for swab collection work. Shalinitai Meghe College will depute an ENT surgeon to strengthen the existing team of AIIMS,” said Dr Kumar. LMH has been asked to depute team on daily basis for swab collection, just like GMCH, IGGMCH and AIIMS. Officials at GDCH said that already nine associate professors and 16 PG students have been shortlisted for the task. Ayurvedic College has finalized 50 names of associate professors, professors and students for the same. This will increase manpower and ensure timely collection of swabs. The existing labs in Nagpur can together test 900 swab samples per day. This capacity is also set to increase in the next few days with IGGMCH and GMCH getting new machines. The new sample collection teams will cater to the needs of increased testing capacity. In view of a communication from the central government, the office of commissioner of health services, Mumbai, in letters dated April 13 sent to all collectors and commissioners of municipal corporations in the state had projected a spike in Covid-19 cases for 10 days between May 15 and 31 and directed local authorities to prepare for it. The projection for city is 11,114 cases during this period. The government has projected that 60% of total Covid-19 positive patients will be asymptomatic, 20% with moderate severity and remaining 20% with severe symptoms. The asymptomatic patients will be kept at Covid Care Centre, those with moderate severity at Dedicated Covid Health Centre (DCHC) and severe patients at Dedicated Covid Hospital (DCH). For city, the government had asked to keep 6,669 beds in CCC, 2,223 in DCHC and 2,223 in DCH. Municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe told TOI, “We have readied 12,000 beds and planning for more 12,000. There are 42 institutional quarantine centres having capacity of 15,000 beds. Of them, few will be turned into CCC if required.” A CCC with 5,000 beds is ready on Kalmeshwar road. Two more CCCs of 2,000 beds will be developed soon. “We require 2,500 beds for DCHC. NMC is developing five DCHCs with capacity of 450 beds each. Remaining DCHCs will be readied at private hospitals. For DCH, we need 2,500 beds. Over 2,600 beds are being developed at IGGMCH, GMCH, NKP Salve and Data Meghe Medical colleges. Few private hospitals have been identified and will be roped in if capacity at government hospitals is exhausted,” Mundhe said. The government wants 40% of projected capacity in each of three layers ready in the first phase. In case 75% of this 40% is occupied, next 30% should be prepared. Remaining 30% should be ready if 75% of second phase is occupied.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/new-swab-collection-teams-to-join-more-tests-quick-results-expected/articleshow/75747099.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
May 15, 2020||Jaipur||Minor raped by three in Rajasthan's Alwar, cops delay FIR||ALWAR: In what comes across as a case of negligence on part of the police, an FIR was lodged by Bhiwadi police in Alwar, three days after a minor girl was raped by three persons. The 16-year-old survivor’s father had allegedly requested the cops to file an FIR, but it was only lodged on Wednesday. Police have claimed to have detained two and arrested one person in this connection. According to the family of the survivor, the minor girl was abducted on May 10 and was raped by three youths near Aalampur area under UIT police station area of Bhiwadi in Alwar district. “She was going to her uncle’s home in the afternoon on May 10 when she was abducted by three youths near a Rain Basera (night shelter). They took her to an isolated room and gang-raped her. They also rammed the head of the girl on the wall which caused her serious injuries and also filmed a video of the act,” said the father of the survivor while talking to TOI on Thursday. He added that the day after, he approached a few police stations. However, the FIR was not lodged by the police. Since the girl sustained critical injuries, she was admitted to a hospital in Bhiwadi. “From Bhiwadi, she was referred to a hospital in Alwar. On Wednesday, the police lodged an FIR in this case,” the father claimed. However, police said that the case was lodged at the Mahila police station of Bhiwadi. “We have arrested one person and have detained two, since their age is being ascertained to find out if they are minors or adults,” said a senior police officer of Bhiwadi. Prem Bahadur, deputy superintendent of police (women cell) said that three of the accused were initially detained. “One is arrested, while two are in custody due to their age verification. We have registered a case under appropriate Sections of Pocso Act,” he added. Senior police officers said that it will be investigated as to how the FIR was delayed in this case. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/minor-raped-by-three-in-alwar-cops-delay-fir/articleshow/75747606.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Surat||Gujarat: Migrant labourers block highways in Dahej, Jambusar||SURAT: Thousands of migrant workers in Dahej and Jambusar in Bharuch district blocked two crucial state highways of these highly industrial clusters on Thursday, demanding arrangement for travel to native states . Sources said the migrant workers blocked the highway at Dahej near Jolva village and shouted slogans of their demands. They blocked the highway for nearly two hours, hampering the movement of the transport vehicles. Dahej police rushed to the spot and brought the situation under control by convincing the workers that they would be able to go home and blocking the highway was not the solution. In similar incident, labourers in Derol village poured out on the Bharuch-Jambusar highway and blocked the road for nearly three hours. It was after the intervention of the police that they dispersed. The trucks to and from Dahej were stuck in the blockage at Jolva as this is the only highway from where the movement of industrial goods is done in Dahej. Similarly, Jambusar-Bharuch highway is crucial to the movement of goods in Bharuch and Jambusar industrial areas. Bharuch SP, Rajendrasinh Chudasama, said, “Most of them are stranded due to the lockdown. Many have not even been paid lockdown wages and don’t have money to spend.” Chudasama added, “We convinced the migrants that they will be able to return as the special trains have started. Till now, about 8,000 migrants have boarded the special trains from Bharuch to various destinations.” An office-bearer of Dahej Industrial Association said, “Majority of the workers are hired through contractors. The industrial units have paid the wages to the contractors, but they are yet to pass on the money to the workers. This has irked the workers and they want to leave as early as possible.” Sources said that migrant anger has been brewing in Bharuch district for the past two days. On Wednesday, the workers had blocked the Jhagadiya highway too. Meanwhile, around 95% of the nearly 3,500 industrial units Bharuch district have started operations at less than 30% capacity. The industrial units, which are mainly into chemicals and dyes intermediates, glass manufacturing, engineering etc., are facing raw material shortage. The units are mainly located in Ankleshwar, Dahej, Vilayat, Panoli and Jhagadiya estates, employing close to 60,000 migrant workers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/migrant-labourers-block-highways-in-dahej-jambusar/articleshow/75744914.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Nagpur||Sample collection system at 2 govt hosps may lead to infection spread: RRT||NAGPUR: While noting that all standard operating procedures (SOPs) are being followed, the central government’s Rapid Response Team (RRT) has observed a major flaw in system of swab collection for Covid-19 at Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) and Indira Gandhi Government Medical College and Hospital (IGGMCH). The RRT pointed out that the system may lead to infection to other patients on neighbouring beds and recommended changes as per guidelines. RRT in its report stated, “Sample collection is being done at bedside. This may lead to infection to person lying on neighbouring bed though they have sample collection hood. Sample collection should be done at a segregated place with good cross-ventilation where others should not get infected.” Apart from treating Covid-19 patients, the IGGMCH and GMCH are receiving huge number of non-Covid patients. The hospitals take samples for Covid-19 in case of any symptoms or before going for surgeries or deliveries. Few who were admitted here had tested positive, including pregnant women and two of the city’s four deceased. According to RRT, even patients are mixing with each other before giving samples. “Fever patients are identified and directed to fever clinics by the registration clerk. Till that time patients stand in the same queue at a distance of one metre. From fever clinic the suspect is referred for sample collection which is inside a building and patient mixes with other patients as there is no dedicated corridor and patient movement is unsupervised,” RRT pointed out. RRT has recommended that fever patients with respiratory symptoms should be segregated before the entrance of registration room. “Screening OPD should be in separate place with facility to take sample. Dedicated corridor should be worked out for movement of suspects. Movement of suspects should be minimal and supervised. It should be ensured that there is no mixing of suspects with other patients. Formal checklist should be used for screening of suspect,” RRT said. RRT also said that relevant SOPs were available and processes are in place. “Required instruments and other logistics are in place. Additional facilities are being created and works are progressing as per schedule,” it said. The centre had appointed RRT for all red zones. RRT has to conduct survey, report exact situation and give recommendations as per guidelines to all agencies engaged in containing Covid-19. AIIMS-Nagpur has been given responsibility of Nagpur and Yavatmal districts. A two-member RRT of Dr Prashant Joshi and Dr Pradeep Deshmukh visited Mominpura, Satranjipura containment zones, MLA Hostel institutional quarantine centre, IGGMCH, GMCH, NKP Salve Medical College and Datta Meghe Medical College between May 5 and 7. TOI on Wednesday had reported that RRT credited the Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s (NMC) innovative steps for fewer deaths and positive cases in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/sample-collection-system-at-2-govt-hosps-may-lead-to-infection-spread-rrt/articleshow/75747085.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
May 15, 2020||Madurai||Spinning mills move HC against Tangedco||Madurai: The Tamilnadu Spinning Mills Association has petitioned the Madras high court stating that Tangedco was not following the suo motu proceedings of the Tamil Nadu Electricity Regulatory Commission (TNERC) to levy minimum demand charges for industrial consumers in view of Covid-19 lockdown. In the petition, chief advisor of the association based at Dindigul district, K Venkatachalam, stated that following the announcement of nation-wide lockdown, all the mills under the association were shut from March 24. Since the mills were closed, the consumption of electricity was only to the minimal extent for maintenance and for lighting and other safety purposes, which are essential concerning the safety and security of the industry. When the mills function normally, Tangedco would send the consumption charge bill (CC bill) for actual consumption of electricity in units as per tariff fixed by the TNERC. It would also collect a fixed charge called as maximum demand charge (MD charge) at 90% of the sanctioned demand or recorded demanded, whichever is higher as per regulation 4 (ii) of Tamil Nadu Electricity Supply Code, 2004. In extraordinary circumstances like lockdown at present, Tangedco has to levy only minimum demand charges under Regulation 6 of the code, since neither the licencee nor the consumer is responsible for such restrictions. Venkatachalam said that following number of representations sent by trade bodies, the TNERC on May 4 directed Tangedco to levy minimum demand charges to the extent of 20% of sanctioned demand or actual recorded demand, from March 24, whichever is higher till the lockdown is completely lifted by the government. Despite TNERC’s proceedings, the members of the association received a bill from Tangedco for April in which the demand charges were billed to the extent of 90%. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/spinning-mills-move-hc-against-tangedco/articleshow/75747083.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Kozhikode||Seven Gulf returnees show Covid symptoms, hospitalized||Malappuram: Seven NRKs who returned in separate repatriation flights to Karipur International Airport on Wednesday night and Thursday morning have been admitted to different hospitals, with symptoms of Covid-19 infection. According to the health administration of Malappuram, three natives of the district and two from Palakkad that arrived at Karipur from Kuwait on Wednesday night were directly shifted to the government medical college hospital (GMCH) in Manjeri. A Kozhikode native who returned in the same flight was shifted to Kozhikode Medical College Hospital (KMCH). A woman from Malappuram, who returned from Jeddah on Thursday morning was also shifted to Manjeri medical college hospital with symptoms. Apart from these women 15 others, including a pregnant woman from Alappuzha and two other women from Palakkad were also shifted to different hospitals after they experienced health issues. Among the total of 192 passengers that arrived from Kuwait, 64 were shifted to different Covid care centres while 113 were allowed to remain under home quarantine. A total of 26 Malappuram natives had returned from Kuwait, of whom 13 are admitted to the Covid centre at Shikshak Sadan. The others belong to Ernakulam, Idukki, Kannur, Kasaragod and Kozhikode districts. Among 155 NRKs, including 102 from Malappuram that returned from Jeddah, 40 were shifted to different Covid care centres, of whom 17 are from Malappuram district. Those in home quarantine are 109. The other passengers hail from the districts of Ernakulam, Kannur, Kasaragod, Idukki, Kottayam, Kozhikode, Palakkad, Thrissur and Thiruvananthapuram.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/seven-gulf-returnees-show-covid-symptoms-hospitalized/articleshow/75744908.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Jaipur||These warriors delivered ration to 10 lakh families||Jaipur: Corona warriors of the cooperative department, who have been playing a crucial role in delivering essentials at the doorstep, have so far distributed food packets to over 10 lakh families.Across the state, around 1,000 personnel have been working tirelessly to deliver the essentials door-to-door using 326 vans. Since lockdown was imposed in the country from March 25, it was a challenging task to deliver food items at reasonable rates to residents. However, the cooperative department took the initiative to deliver quality materials at reasonable rates through cooperative consumer stores, said minister Udai Lal Anjana.The department coordinated with all the collectors and formed a joint team of more than 1,000 personnel of the department and cooperative institutions to distribute the food packets. The responsibility of providing food door-to-door was entrusted to 34 consumer stores operating in the state and CONFED in Jaipur.“The corona warriors of cooperatives offered their services, especially in the curfew-affected areas of the state. During the lockdown, the departments and institutions worked as a team to realise the spirit of ‘one for all - all for one’,” said principal secretary and registrar cooperative Nareshpal Gangwar.Firstly, 21 mobile vans were flagged off in Bhilwara district to deliver food to over 1.25 lakh families. Apart from this, over one lakh ration kits were distributed in the district.In order to provide relief to the people, the department introduced 326 mobile vans, including 33 in Ajmer division, 36 in Bharatpur division, 103 in Bikaner division, 22 in Jaipur division, 88 in Jodhpur division, 20 in Kota division and 24 in Udaipur division.As of today, over 10 lakh families have been provided ration at reasonable prices and on an average 23,000 families are being distributed food items every day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/these-warriors-delivered-ration-to-10-lakh-families/articleshow/75747582.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Jaipur||4 cops among 16 injured as police, workers clash in Pali||Jodhpur: Tension prevailed in Pali on Wednesday after the workers of Umaid Textile Mills hit the roads and had a faceoff with police. The labourers went on rampage accusing the mill administration of cutting their salaries for April. However, the situation was soon brought under control. It all started when the workers gathered to protest against the mill administration. When police reached the spot to disperse the crowd, they started pelting stones. Swinging into action, police used mild force to disperse them. According to sources, 16 people, including four policemen, were injured in this faceoff. District collector Anshdeep said there was an issue of under-payment to the workers and it led to violence. “We found the mill administration guilty of not adhering to labour laws while paying them and also not informing the administration about the rift,” said Anshdeep, adding that an FIR has been lodged against the mill administration. Besides this, an FIR has also been registered against those who instigated the workers to resort to violence. According to the administration, there are about 2,400 people working in the mill, including in-campus and out-campus. “Some of them want to go home and some do not. So we have listed those, who want to go, and would proceed accordingly and those who want to stay and have some issues, we have assured them of all assistance,” said the official. Meanwhile, Pali has been inching closer to the 100-mark of Covid-19 positive cases with spike in rural areas following influx of migrant workers. The district has reported 97 positive cases till Thursday, 24 of these are from rural areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/4-cops-among-16-injured-as-police-workers-clash-in-pali/articleshow/75747588.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Madurai||Rs 65,000 fine on trio for hunting wild boar||Madurai: The forest department has slapped a fine of Rs 65,000 on three people for hunting wild boar with dogs in the buffer zone of Kalakkad Mundanthurai Tiger Reserve (KMTR) on May 7. Forest range officer C Nellai Nayagam said on May 8 the department got information about the incident and picked up the accused one after the other. Two of them hunted down the animal, the third accused cooked the meat and all of them consumed it. Deputy director of KMTR’s Ambasamudram division M G Ganesan slapped a fine of Rs 25,000 each on the duo who hunted the animal. Another Rs 15,000 was slapped on the third accused while the fourth accused is at large. The department has warned of action against those hunting hare, monitor lizard, deer, boar, fox, anteater, parrot, myna and pigeon. The public can report such incidents over the phone at 8248151116, 9865875955, 04634-283165 or 04634-250594.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/rs-65000-fine-on-trio-for-hunting-wild-boar/articleshow/75747088.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Madurai||Harassed by boys, minor girl sets self ablaze||(Cleared/for page1) Madurai: A girl from a village near Kulathur in Tuticorin set herself ablaze fearing sexual assault by a group of six boys who have been pestering her over phone. The girl who suffered 20% burns on her neck and chest is being treated at the Thoothukudi Government Medical College and Hospital and is said to be out of danger. Though the incident took place on May 9, it surfaced only on Thursday when a video clip of the girl narrating her ordeal started circulating. Tuticorin superintendent of police Arun Balagopalan told TOI that a case was registered on Thursday evening against the boys under sections 11 (sexual harassment) read with 12 (punishment for sexual harassment) of Pocso Act as well as under IPC and the Tamil Nadu Prohibition of Women’s Harassment Act. “There was no physical sexual harassment but they harassed her over the phone,” he said. In the minute-long video, the girl, a plus-one dropout, points fingers at the main accused Saravanan who called her on her mobile on May 8. “As I did not answer he called me from another number and scolded me,” She said he kept calling her again and threatened to torch her and her house. “So I removed the sim card. That night he and a few other boys came to my house and shouted at me,” she says. The SP said the girl’s mother scolded the girl after the boys left. “The next morning she doused herself with kerosene and set herself ablaze. She was rescued by her family and neighbours and hospitalised. She could not respond when we tried to probe,” he said. Police sources added that the girl’s family also did not divulge the harassment reason till Thursday and that they were in the dark till the video surfaced. The girl’s mother, Badrakali, told reporters at the medical college hospital that the accused were drunk when they picked a quarrel with the girl on Friday night. “The six boys have been torturing her when she went for work. They asked her to come here and there after getting drunk, and threatened to torch her. She was frightened and took this step,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/harassed-by-boys-minor-girl-sets-self-ablaze/articleshow/75747092.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Madurai||Cycle tyres come in handy to maintain social distancing||Madurai: In a novel initiative, the Madurai Corporation has come up with a simple yet effective solution to manage crowds when they throng to draw water supplied through vehicles. Managing crowds while fetching water has been a challenge for the corporation ever since the lockdown came into effect.Corporation commissioner S Visakan has instructed all the drivers to carry a bunch of cycle tyres, which can be spread out on the floor in such a way that each will have some distance from the other. Men and women, who come out of their house to draw water, have to wait inside circles and move one by one towards the vehicle.“The idea was implemented throughout the city from Thursday onwards. The commissioner came up with the idea as people started thronging to draw water throwing social distancing norms to the wind. Now, all the drivers carry a bunch of used tyres with them,” a corporation official said.“It would be difficult to draw circles at every place where the vehicles stop. Even if circles are drawn, it would disappear due to spillage of water. Cycle tyres’ idea solved the issue for us. People waited inside tyres till their turn came to draw water,” said a driver, who supplied water in Solaialagupuram.The corporation uses around 60 tractors and trucks to supply water in newly added 28 wards, since most localities do not have piped water connection. Vehicles are also used to supply water in old city consisting of 72 wards, where there are difficulties in supplying water due to lack of forced supply through pipes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/cycle-tyres-come-in-handy-to-maintain-social-distancing/articleshow/75747090.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Rajkot||Rajkot: Three including software engineer arrested for issuing fake travel passes||RAJKOT: Taking advantage of migrants’ desperation to travel home during the lockdown, a few unscrupulous elements turned this into an opportunity to rake in the moolah. In two separate offences lodged, a software engineer and his friend and a cybercafé owner were arrested for issuing bogus travel passes to people. B-division police arrested Dipen Kotecha and his friend Gaurang Dave who had issued inter-state passes to at least 20 people. Kotecha works in a private company in Ahmedabad, while Dave is a software engineer with a company in Pune. “Kotecha used to get customers, while Dave used to make the passes by changing the name and photographs on the original passes. They charged Rs 3,000-Rs 4,000 per pass and confessed to having requests from 20 people, mostly from migrants wanting to return from Surat,” said SR Tandel, assistant commissioner of police (ACP), north. In another case, Thorala police arrested Sanjay Makwana, a cybercafé owner in Veer Savarkarnagar, for issuing fake inter-city passes for people wanting to saunter around during the lockdown. Makwana had kept the photograph of his valid pass as the Whatsapp DP and sent out messages telling people to contact him for inter-city travel passes. He used to charge Rs 100 per pass and accepted payment only through Google Pay. Makwana confessed to issuing passes to at least 100 people in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/three-including-software-engineer-arrested-for-issuing-fake-travel-passes/articleshow/75744928.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Kochi||Officials tighten vigil against liquor smuggling||Kochi: Excise and police departments, which have been fighting illicit liquor rackets during the lockdown, now have a new problem to handle as there has been an inflow of liquor from the neighbouring states forcing them to increase checking and surveillance in the district. The possibility aroused after Centre allowed opening of liquor outlets but the state delayed opening of outlets even as the neighbouring states went ahead with opening of the outlets immediately. Officers said that liquor purchased in bulk from these states were being sold at exorbitant prices in the district. Senior officers said that they have received information about such smuggled liquor reaching the district through vehicles which comes with commodities from places like Mangaluru, Bengaluru, Coimbatore, etc. “We have received information that both amateurs as well as professionals are indulging in such smuggling. Amateurs does it in small quantities for personal use while professionals are trying to make quick bucks by selling it in exorbitant rates,” said an excise official. On Thursday, excise officials at Aluva arrested two persons with over 10 litres of Indian Made Foreign Liquor which was meant for sale in Karnataka only. The accused were smuggling the liquor from Karnataka in the guise of transporting fish for export purpose. Excise had also seized the refrigeration van used for smuggling. The accused had told excise that they used to sell the liquor at four times the original price. The accused used to change vehicles each time they travelled to Karnataka for buying liquor. They were chased down and arrested at Aluva by excise based on a tip-off. “Possession of liquor meant for sale only in other states and its sale in Kerala is a crime that can invite up to 10-year imprisonment and Rs 1 lakh fine. We have stepped up surveillance and inspection at checkposts and various border areas of the district,” said excise deputy commissioner A S Ranjith. Meanwhile, officials said that brewing of illicit liquor has also gone up. “Though there is a decline in incidences of spirit smuggling, there has been a spike in number of persons indulging in brewing arrack at home. In the district, over 50 major attempts were busted by excise alone during the lockdown,” said an excise official. Police said that apart from traditional arrack brewing at rural areas, there has been incidents of ‘new-generation’ liquor brewing at urban areas, where youngsters brew arrack using pressure cooker at the privacy of their homes. Police said that intelligence collection and patrolling have been tightened to keep such activities in check.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/officials-tighten-vigil-against-liquor-smuggling/articleshow/75744946.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Jaipur||Raj sends migrant workers to other states in seven trains||Jaipur/Udaipur/Jaisalmer: The government on Thursday sent seven trains from the state carrying migrant labourers while four trains carrying Rajasthani labourers reached the state. “We have sent seven trains to different states. These include Jodhpur to Fatehpur (Uttar Pradesh) with 1,467 labourers, Jaipur to Gorakhpur (1,480 migrant workers), Jaipur to Supaul (Bihar) with 1,200 labourers, Alwar to Gaya, Udaipur to Gorakhpur (Uttar Pradesh), Alwar to Siwan (Bihar) and Jalore to Jaunpur (Uttar Pradesh),” said transport commissioner Ravi Jain, who is coordinating with railway authorities. Jain added so far the state has sent 31 trains in which nearly 36,000 passengers were sent to their native states. “We have conducted their screening, provided them food and by and large we have paid for their fares,” he added. “Other trains that we received on Thursday included Vasai Road (Maharashtra) to Falna (Pali), Hyderabad to Pali, Andhra Pradesh to Jalore, Surat (Gujarat) to Jodhpur and Hubli to Jodhpur,” he added. Health screening of these passengers were done by the state health authorities and were given food packets. Jalore collector Himanshu Gupta said one train from a southern state came to Jalore. Rajasthani migrants who came to Jalore were initially taken to Poonjaji Genaji stadium where they were sanitised and then medical team screened them. Continuing its service for migrant workers, the RSRTC arranged extra buses and picked up walking migrant workers. “On Thursday, 950 migrant workers walking on the Agra Road were taken in buses and dropped at Bharatpur near the UP border. After clearance from UP, they would be transported to their states,” said Naveen Jain, RSRTC CMD.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/raj-sends-migrant-workers-to-other-states-in-seven-trains/articleshow/75747621.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Jaipur||Bhanwarlal Meghwal to be airlifted to Medanta Hospital on Friday||JAIPUR: Social justice and empowerment minister Bhanwarlal Meghwal will be airlifted to Medanta Hospital in Gurugram from Sawai Man Singh (SMS) hospital on Friday morning for advanced treatment, as per the wish of his family. Meghwal will be airlifted to Medanta Hospital at 6:30 am on Friday. On the instructions of Chief minister Ashok Gehlot, a team of 8 specialist doctors was formed for the treatment of Meghwal. Meghwal’s family members had expressed their desire to the chief minister to call asthma specialist Dr Virendra Singh for his treatment. Gehlot contacted chairman of Medanta hospital Dr Naresh Trehan. On the request of the chief minister, Trehan made arrangements to airlift Meghwal to Medanta hospital. Asthma specialist Dr Virendra Singh will also accompany him from SMS Hospital to the airport.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/meghwal-to-be-airlifted-to-medanta-today/articleshow/75747619.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Lucknow||Changing times: Brand UP to replace Made in China||LUCKNOW: As UP government prepares to woo foreign investors, especially those seeking to shift out of China, it is now also planning to give a push to ‘self-reliance’ by encouraging production of articles imported from China. Industries minister Satish Mahana told TOI on Thursday that 13.67% of India’s imports, worth $70.32 billion, are from China and include articles like incense sticks, Lakshmi-Ganesh idols, plastic ware, electronics, fabrics, fertilizers, furniture. “While we are looking to welcome investors who wish to leave China, we will also be encouraging production of goods which we have been importing from China,” he said. Besides, in line with the Centre’s decision to make swadeshi products available in canteens of paramilitary forces, the state government can also introduce the policy in state government canteens. The government is also looking at increasing the existing quota of 25% for purchase by government departments from MSMEs. “It is crucial to revive the economy at this point and the state government, under the CM’s leadership, is taking several steps. We are not just handholding existing industries but are also promoting industries in the pipeline, for which land allotment has started. We are working to attract new industries,” Mahana said. Keen to draw foreign investment, especially industries moving out of China, the state government is studying industrial policies of other countries also. “For instance, till now, we have been giving incentives on the basis of GST. A person who puts up a Rs 100 crore cement plant is paying 18% GST, while a person who invests Rs 100 crore in a paper plant pays 4% GST. The same capital investment will lead to diverse reimbursements. We are now looking at the option of offering this incentive on capital investment,” Mahana said. A panel of the CEOs of Noida Industrial Area, Greater Noida Industrial Area and Yamuna Expressway has been set up to address the concerns of industries in these areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/changing-times-brand-up-to-replace-made-in-china/articleshow/75747616.cms||Neha Lalchandani
May 15, 2020||Mangaluru||5th woman dies in Dakshina Kannada district due to Covid-19 complications||MANGALURU: Dakshina Kannada district recorded its fifth death due to complications caused by Covid-19 on Thursday. The 80-year-old woman was a resident of Kulashekar in the city. She was undergoing treatment at the ICU of Wenlock Hospital, the designated Covid-19 hospital in the district. The death of P-507 comes a day after a 58-year-old woman, who was a resident of Bolar in the city, succumbed to Covid-19. All five victims in this coastal district are women, who had prior medical conditions that hastened their end. P-507, like the other four victims, had a link to First Neuro Hospital, a supervised isolation centre at Padil. She was admitted there from March 15 to April 26 for high blood pressure and paralysis-related issues. A primary contact of P-432, the district’s second Covid-19 victim, this elderly woman and her 45-year-old son, who was her caretaker at the hospital in Padil, both tested positive for Covid-19 on April 27. The medical bulletin that deputy commissioner Sindhu B Rupesh released, quoting district health and family welfare officer Ramachandra Bairy, said the x-ray of P-507 did not reveal signs of pneumonia of the lungs. “The cause of death, which happened around 5.30am on Thursday, was due to ‘septic shock’,” the bulletin said. The health authorities had collected her swab sample on Wednesday and the report of the test is awaited, Dr Bairy said. The first Covid-19 death in the district, P-390, occurred on April 19. The second one (P-432), the mother-in-law of P-390, was reported on April 23. The third death (P-409) was reported on April 30 and the last (P-536 and P-507) on Wednesday and Thursday. The are 13 active Covid-19 cases in Dakshina Kannada now. Later on Thursday, the authorities discharged P-389, a 30-year old resident of Uppinangady. Admitted to Wenlock Hospital on April 19, her swab reports of May 10 and 13 tested negative. Her husband, a lawyer who contracted the infection while visiting the Supreme Court in Delhi, was discharged on May 6. The authorities also operated two Shramik special trains to Bihar and Rajasthan from Mangaluru Junction station during the day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/5th-woman-dies-in-dk-due-to-covid-19-complications/articleshow/75745258.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
May 15, 2020||Agra||1,200 Kashmiris return to valley by train||Agra: Around 1,200 Kashmiris, including 527 AMU students, who were stranded in various parts of Uttar Pradesh ever since the nationwide lockdown began, are scheduled to leave for their hometown by a special train to Udhampur. Confirming this, Aligarh district magistrate CB Singh said that around 400 people from Noida, 100 from Aligarh district and a few from Kasganj along with some students from the Aligarh Muslim University (AMU) will be travelling to Udhampur by a train which is scheduled to leave for Udhampur on Thursday night. Registrar of AMU Abdul Hamid said the train is scheduled to depart at 9pm from Aligarh junction and all passengers will have to undergo medical screening before boarding the train. “Nearly 1,000 students, including 300 from Bihar are still in the campus,” AMU officials said. They added that soon, students from Bihar will be sent to their state and other students who are from various countries including Mauritius, Oman and Bahrain. Last week, 1,282 students from Bihar returned home after medical screening. Earlier, 2,300 students from UP’s various districts were transported back to their respective home towns by buses within three days from May 1.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/1200-kashmiris-return-to-valley-by-train/articleshow/75746238.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Ahmedabad||West Ahmedabad reports 45 new Covid-19 cases||AHMEDABAD: In the last two days, eight toddlers, seven one-year-olds and one three-year-old, have tested positive for Covid-19 in the city. Four of these tested positive on Thursday, among the 266 new cases registered in the city. The western part of the city reported a total of 45 cases on Thursday. According to an AMC statement, two one-year-olds who tested positive were from Narol, and one was from Bapurnagar. All of them were boys. The three-year-old who tested positive is a girl from Viratnagar. Officials said that on Wednesday four one-year-olds had tested positive, two girl and two boys, from the Bapunagar, Amraiwadi, Rakhial and Saraspur areas. In the western part of the city on Thursday, a case was reported from Shiv Shanker lane near Udgam school. Fresh cases continue to be reported from the Gurukul area, with one on Thursday at Maruti Row Houses near Subhash Chowk. Two cases in one family, a 60-year-old man and a 59-year-old woman, were reported from Shantiniketan Apartments opposite HB Kapadia School in Memnagar. Fresh cases were reported from Ratandeep Complex opposite Prernatirth Derasar Satellite. This is the third day straight that cases have emerged from the area. A 43-year-old man from Nehrunagar also tested positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/west-reports-45-new-cases/articleshow/75747094.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Madurai||Under lockdown, deaths fall by 55% in Madurai corporation||MADURAI: Deserted roads and crowded households seem to have had a telling effect on the longevity of people, if Madurai corporation’s figures on deaths are anything to go by. The number of people who died in the corporation limits in April has come down by 55% compared to that in the same month last year. While 563 men and 368 women died in April 2019, only 246 men and 177 women died last month. While the obvious reason for this dramatic fall could be the corresponding dip in road accidents during the lockdown, officials point out that the city witnessed lesser number of suicides and murders too. Madurai city police commissioner S Davidson Devasirvatham points out that Madurai used to witness two to three suicides a day, but this has come down significantly. According to him, the city witnesses 15 to 20 deaths due to road accidents a month, but that had shrunk to single digit. Dr C Ramasubramanian, a mental health expert, says that depression increases in a person when he sees others achieving excellence which he could not. With the whole environment in a ‘depressed’ state now due to Covid-19, few would feel lonely. Moreover, a person is now surrounded by his family members who are readily available to lend a ear to him. He said that the non-availability of alcohol could also be a reason behind the lesser number of deaths as alcohol brings out repressed anger, reduces tolerance levels and breaks inhibitions. Nandini Murali, director of Speak, a suicide prevention initiative from MS Chellamuthu Trust and Research Prevention, said, “Suicide number may have come down, but it may spike in coming days due to various pressures including financial. We have to concentrate on prevention once lockdown is eased.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/under-lockdown-deaths-fall-by-55-in-madurai-corpn/articleshow/75747095.cms||Devanathan Veerappan
May 15, 2020||Rajkot||11 new cases in Rajkot’s Jangleshwar||RAJKOT: On Thursday, a 2-year-old boy among 11 people tested Covid positive in Rajkot city. All of the infected people are residents of Madina park of Jangleshwar area. According to Rajkot Municipal Corporation (RMC) all the patients had come in close contact of a 19-year-old positive woman, who is currently under treatment at the civil hospital. With this, city has registered 74 positive cases so far, of which 59 patients have been discharged while one succumbed to the infection. Five people tested positive in Rajkot rural so far, while a total of 79 people tested positive in Rajkot district. Three persons tested positive in Bhavnagar on Thursday. The new cases include a 40-year-old murder accused woman of Sartanpur village of Talaja taluka. She was accused in a murder committed 20 days ago. While on the run, she hid in Keriya village of Rajula taluka in Amreli for three days besides moving around in various villages of Mahuva taluka in Bhavnagar district. Tired of running, she finally contacted her bother expressing her desire to return to her village. Her brother took her to the police to surrender.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/11-new-cases-in-rajkots-jangleshwar/articleshow/75744951.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Lucknow||SRTC’s cab service for air passengers||Lucknow: People landing at the international airports in New Delhi and UP under Vande Bharat Mission can hire a UPSRTC cab to reach their destination in at least 250km radius of the airport. Ciaz and Innova, UPSRTC owned fleet, driven by corporation’s own drivers, will be available to people who make a requisition to district magistrates concerned to hire the cab. The people who show no symptoms of Covid-19 in medical examination and have undergone 14 day quarantine will only be eligible to make a request. People can travel to 250km and beyond from the airport on paying certain fare within UP. Maximum two people can travel in a cab along with the driver. The fare structure is under review, said MD, UPSRTC, Raj Shekhar. UPSRTC, on Thursday, constituted a three member committee to review the fare after the initial fare structure received criticism from all quarters for being exorbitant. “The committee will submit recommendations within 24 hours,” said the official. UPSRTC had fixed Rs 10,000 per person for 250km as the minimum fare for sedan and Rs 12,000 per person for 250 km as the minimum fare for an SUV. Beyond 250kms, Rs 40 was to be charged for every additional kilometer for sedan and Rs 50 for every additional kilometer for an SUV. Besides, people can also book a seat in a roadways bus to reach their native district provided the bus has 50% occupancy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/srtcs-cab-service-for-air-passengers/articleshow/75747629.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Madurai||Printing press owner ends life due to financial stress||Madurai: Depressed over mounting debts due to financial crisis in the wake of the prolonged lockdown, a printing press owner committed suicide by slitting his throat in the early hours of Thursday.The deceased was identified as R Ilangovan, 55, from Mothilal Main Road in Melaponnagaram. He was running his press in Ponmeni.On Wednesday night, he went to his press and stayed there. In the morning, he was found dead with injuries on his neck. Blood strains were also found on the floor. A police team from the SS Colony station rushed to the spot and shifted the body to the Government Rajaji Hospital.While police initially suspected that he could have been murdered, CCTV footage showed that it was a suicide. A suicide note left behind by him was also found.Inquiries by police revealed that he committed suicide as he was running into financial trouble. Though he could not earn anything in the last two months, he had debts to be repaid. He could have taken the extreme step as he could not repay the debts, police sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/printing-press-owner-ends-life-due-to-financial-stress/articleshow/75747093.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Bhopal||Torrid time for first to arrive on lockdown Rajdhani||Bhopal: Shooed away from the platform, futile haggling with cabbies out to fleece them, and a night sharing the footpath with strays – this was the fate of those who arrived in Bhopal on Tuesday midnight by the first Rajdhani of the lockdown bound for Bhilai.Their ordeal exposed the lack of preparedness of the administration and that Covid conditioning goes out of the window for a majority of train passengers when crowd instinct takes over.Chetan Bairagi, who arrived by the Rajdhani, says the night’s experience was traumatic. “I was stuck in Delhi for two months and was very excited when special trains were announced. My joy turned into a nightmare on arriving in Bhopal. If I had a clue it would be like this, perhaps I wouldn’t have come,” said Chetan.The train pulled into platform 1, but passengers were told that all the gates were closed on that side, and they would have to exit via platform 6. “We were shocked. It didn’t seem logical. We had to carry out luggage all the way to the other end of the station, only to realise that there was no transport to take us home,” Chetan said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/torrid-time-for-first-to-arrive-on-lockdown-rajdhani/articleshow/75747632.cms||Ramendra Singh
May 15, 2020||Madurai||Some wards see up to 10 times more deaths||Madurai: Among the 100 wards in Madurai city, a few like Chinna Anupanadi, KK Nagar, Uthangudi and Chokkikulam have been witnessing five to 10 times higher number of deaths. Assistant city health officer Dr S Vinoth Raja said that such a high number was due to the presence of hospitals. When a hospitalized person dies, it gets counted under the hospital’s ward irrespective of whether the deceased was from Madurai or outside. As many as 27 of the 100 wards in the corporation limits did not report even a single death in April. A health official said that the number of deaths in each ward depends on various other factors too, like the population of each ward, economic prosperity and number of elderly people. The number of deaths of men has been higher month on month compared to women due to alcoholism, higher number of suicides and accidents. A police higher officer said many men die early due to illnesses caused by alcohol. Since more men commute every day compared to women, they face higher risk of getting killed in road accidents. Among those abandoned on city roads, there are more men than women many of whom are from other districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/some-wards-see-up-to-10-times-more-deaths/articleshow/75747104.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Coimbatore||Tamil Nadu: Man held for driving wife to suicide||COIMBATORE: A Palladam resident was arrested for driving his 23-year-old wife to commit suicide on Wednesday. Police identified him as Faizal Ahamed, 27, of Sabari Nagar at Arumuthampalayam near Palladam. He had married Mubeena of Valparai four years ago. The couple has two sons. “Ahamed suspected Mubeena character and used to beat her. Unable to bear his torture, she had left for her parent’s house eight months ago and had returned after he pacified her. On Wednesday, Ahamed asked her to make tea while she was feeding their son. She told him that she was busy and asked him to prepare it. He got angry and thrashed her. He later left the house along with their one-year-old son,” a police officer said. “Ahamed returned after some time and found Mubeena hanging. With his mother Fathima’s help, he brought down the body and shifted it to the bathroom. They removed the sari used for hanging and burnt it near their home. They told their neighbours that Mubeena suffered injuries after slipping on wet bathroom floor and died,” the officer told TOI. The duo also informed the Palladam police who rushed to the spot and sent the body to the Palladam Government Hospital. Postmortem report revealed that she had committed suicide by hanging. Police arrested Faizal on Thursday and he confessed to the crime on Friday. He was remanded in judicial custody. Fathima will be arrested soon, the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/man-held-for-driving-wife-to-suicide/articleshow/75747102.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Kozhikode||High alert in K’god as 10 fresh cases emerge||Kannur: Ten Covid-19 cases in a single day in Kasaragod has put the district on high alert. Kasaragod had successfully contained the disease in the first stage. The ones who tested positive on Thursday, include two health workers, a panchayat member representing the CPM, her husband, and their two children. The health workers are from Kasaragod General Hospital and Kanhangad District Hospital, including a radiologist and nurse. The four from the family from Paivalike got the infection after the couple, who are CPM leaders, went to pick up a person coming from Maharashtra from Talapady border in their car. Incidentally, this person later had taken a cancer patient in his car to the district hospital on three occasions these days and entered the cancer ward, laboratory, and the X-ray room, apart from visiting many places. After the radiologist in this hospital tested positive, some staffers have been sent on quarantine. The person whom they picked up from Talapady on May 4 had tested positive on May 11. Two others who tested positive are two Kumbala natives, who came from Maharashtra. One of them, aged 58, has acute diabetes and cardiac problem, and hence he has been admitted to Government Medical College Kannur, at Pariyaram. Another patient who tested positive is a youth from Kallar, who reached the district from Bengaluru. A 65-year-old, who came from Manjeri in Malappuram in an ambulance that had started from Kottayam, has been admitted to the General Hospital with respiratory issues. As the possibility of the spread of the disease from those coming from other states is high, people should be vigilant, said district collector D Sajith Babu. Now there are 14 positive cases in the district, besides 1428 are under observation, of which 217 are in hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/high-alert-in-kgod-as-10-fresh-cases-emerge/articleshow/75744954.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Lucknow||Min: Expedite new power connections||Lucknow: With the state government lending a push to industrial activities, UP power minister Shrikant Sharma on Thursday pitched for swift allocation of power connection to industries, essentially the micro, small and medium scale enterprises (MSMEs) which are proposed to be set up in the state. Presiding over a review meeting, Sharma said that applications for new power connection under Nivesh Mitra and Jhatpat connection should be disposed of swiftly. Sharma said that the state government would soon issue guidelines for lockdown-4 allowing further economic activities in areas which are less or not affected by the novel coronavirus pandemic. The minister asked the power to assess the situation of the power distribution system at the distribution company level so that no consumer face any problem. He said that the demand for power is expected to escalate with the rise in commercial and industrial activities.“Thus, steps should be taken to expedite redressal of supply related complaints,” he said. Sharma said UP Power Corporation Limited was still receiving complaints of power outages because of damages to power infrastructure following inclement weather conditions in the recent weeks. Sharma directed UPPCL chairman Arvind Kumar to identify critical areas and get faults fixed by deploying special teams. He said that the work under Saubhagya scheme, which came to a halt following the lockdown, should also be speeded up.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/min-expedite-new-power-connections/articleshow/75747637.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Goa||Water supply works resume in Canacona||Poinguinim: Work on laying a pipeline for a water augmentation project in Canacona has resumed following ease in restrictions. A 600 mm pipeline is being laid alongside the NH66 highway at Chaudi, while work to construct water tanks at two different places is in progress, said PWD assistant engineer (water supply) Lester D’Souza. Work to raise the line from 400 mm DI (ductile iron) to a 600 mm DI pipeline, as well as laying of other distribution pipelines, was stalled due to the lockdown. Pumps to augment water from Chapoli dam have also been upgraded from 100HP to 240HP. All the works are estimated at Rs 19 crore, D’Souza said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/water-supply-works-resume-in-canacona/articleshow/75747638.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Jaipur||68 super spreaders; 71 med staff test +ve in 2 weeks||Jaipur: In the past 14 days, 71 medical staff and 68 others, who are asymptomatic and are said to be super spreaders, have been found to be positive for Covid-19 in Jaipur city. The super spreaders include fruit/vegetable vendors, shopkeepers, labourers, drivers, cooks/maids, mechanics, medical shop workers, halwai, painters, meat seller, milk seller and others.Among the medical staff, 18 doctors and residents in Jaipur have been found to be positive for Covid-19, according to the data provided by the chief medical and health officer-1 (CMHO-1), Jaipur.Among other super spreaders, 19 vegetable/fruit vendors, eight shopkeepers, five halwai, seven drivers, six labourers, four cooks/maids, four medical shop workers, three painters/plywood workers, three mechanics, two cloth traders, one barber, one meat seller and few others have been found to be positive for the virus.“The samples are being collected from the sabzi mandis, medical stores, grocery shops with the support of nagar nigam, district administration and police. There are around 12 teams involved in collection of samples. The police personnel bring these vegetables vendors and shopkeepers for collection of samples from high-risk areas in the city. Samples of influenza-like illness (ILI) symptom patients, those who have come in contact of corona positive person and people in high-risk areas are being collected,” said CMHO-1 Dr Narottam Sharma.On an average, each day over 500 samples are collected by CMHO-1. On Wednesday, 568 samples were collected in the city. One hundred in Ramganj area, 67 in Vidyadhar Nagar, 30 in Lalkothi, 55 in Nindad Harmada, 30 in Topkhana desh, 69 in Aamer, 15 in Talkatora, 109 in central jail, 71 in civil lines and 14 in ESI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/68-super-spreaders-71-med-staff-test-ve-in-2-weeks/articleshow/75747631.cms||---
May 15, 2020||India||Centre has responded to the needs of the poor, migrant workers, farmers: FM||NEW DELHI: Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said on Thursday that the Centre was taking swift measures to alleviate the problems faced by the poor, migrant workers and farmers and had initiated immediate steps as soon as the Covid-19 pandemic led to a lockdown, saying the sight of migrants on roads with children was tugging at her heart. Sitharaman elaborated on the measures in some detail, a likely response to opposition criticism that the Centre’s package on Wednesday did not address the woes of migrants. “We will keep in mind and prioritise concerns related to migrant workers, farmers and the poor and those who are in need,” she said, adding that within hours of the lockdown, the Centre unveiled the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana to provide relief to the poor, farmers and migrants. Detailing the second tranche of the Atmanirbhar Bharat package, the FM said the Centre will come out with more steps for the poor, farmers and migrants and recalled PM Narendra Modi’s comment that the government was committed to the poor. The outreach and its articulation was significant as the urban poor, small vendors and factory hands have been hit hard and many have headed home. “The government is fully alive to the job needs of migrants once they return home. Hence, the MGNREGA support,” she said. The FM cited data to show the increase in demand under MGNREGA, saying 40% to 50% more people had enrolled in May compared to the previous year period. “The government is concerned about migrants. Even today, it touches all our hearts when we see migrants, with families, children walking on the roads with their bag and baggage,” she said. The FM said the Centre was working with states to transport migrants using the rail network. She said the first step was the PM asking them to stay where they were so that they were safe and were provided with food and shelter. She cited data to demonstrate the scale of the operations undertaken by the Centre and states to transport migrants and said 1,200 Shramik Specials were ready and railways had already run 806 such trains and transported 10 lakh migrants to their destinations||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/centre-has-responded-to-the-needs-of-the-poor-migrant-workers-farmers-fm/articleshow/75748623.cms||Surojit Gupta
May 15, 2020||Lucknow||Rs 25k-cr worth work started, says Dy CM||Lucknow: Deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya on Thursday said that the state government was in the process of speeding up economic and construction activity in its bid to provide more job opportunities to labourers. He said that officers should take due permission and kickstart construction activities while following social distancing guidelines. Maurya said that work has already started on 1,300 projects, costing over Rs 25,000 crores, of PWD, UP Bridge Corporation and Rajkiya Nirman Nigam (RNN). Of the total projects, PWD alone comprises 1013 projects costing over Rs 11,800 crores. The PWD projects alone are engaging 12,819 labourers. Likewise, the 88 projects of UP Bridge Corporation, costing over Rs 3100 crores, are employing 1,896 labourers. The RNN is also executing 199 projects worth over Rs 10,533 crores and engaging over 5000 workers. Meanwhile, Maurya held a video conferencing with officials and public representatives from Kanpur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/rs-25k-cr-worth-work-started-says-dy-cm/articleshow/75747647.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Coimbatore||Guest workers seek to return home||COIMBATORE: More than 1,000 guest workers gathered at Sulur on the outskirts of the city late on Wednesday night and requested officials to send them back to Bihar, their home state. The officials advised them to approach respective village administrative officers (VAOs) to register their names. Based on the registrations, officials would give priority to stranded guest workers eyeing a trip home. Later, the guest workers were told to leave for their workplaces. However, more than 200 guest workers began walking towards Coimbatore railway junction from Sulur on Thursday morning but were intercepted by ex-army men and Sulur police and were sent back to their workplaces. Ranjan Kumar, a native of Patna in Bihar and a welder at Thennampalayam, said that the police used mild force against the guest workers in the name of dispersing the crowd. “My friends have reached their hometown from Coimbatore. We want to go to our hometown too, and the Tamil Nadu government should send us immediately,”said Ranjan. As of now, around 2,000 guest workers from Sulur taluk have been sent back to their home states such as Bihar, Odisha, Jharkhand and Assam.  Revenue department officials said that of 16,000 guest workers working in industrial sectors in Sulur Taluk limits, around 10,000 had registered their names with the respective VAOs and their details had been sent to the district collectorate. “As of now, 10,000 guest workers are ready to travel to their home town. But we are giving importance to stranded guest workers. Most of them are staying in their workplaces and their companies are providing food to them. However, a section of workers are staying in rented rooms and have run out of money for food and rent. We are sending them in batches to their hometown,” said Sulur tahsildar Meenakumari.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/guest-workers-seek-to-return-home/articleshow/75747103.cms||A Subburaj
May 15, 2020||Goa||Farmers in Mayem block ore transportation||Bicholim: Mayem farmers on Thursday blocked the e-auctioned mining ore transportation through the village, but later relented following intervention from the Bicholim mamlatdar Pravinjay Pandit. It may be recalled that the farmers had given an ultimatum to the mining company to resolve their issues and had threatened to stop transportation if the mining company does not initiate any action in terms of holding the talks to resolve the issue within two days. Accordingly, the farmers led by Sakharam Pednekar came on the road and stopped the transportation following the failure of the company to hold the talks. The mamalatdar immediately swung into action and went to meet the aggrieved farmers, who told him that they are fighting with the mining company since the last several years and that they fear that mining sludge would enter their fields. They also demanded compensation stating that mining has already destroyed their fields. Later, The mamlatdar pacified the farmers and told that a special meeting would be held on Friday at 2 pm to resolve the issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/farmers-in-mayem-block-ore-transportation/articleshow/75747644.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Coimbatore||Coimbatore: Chided by parents, woman kills self||COIMBATORE: A 23-year-old woman from Chinna Vadambacheri near Negamam killed herself after her parents chided her for spending too much time on her mobile phone. The deceased, Geetha, daughter of Govindaraj from Chinna Vadambacheri. was working as a sales executive but had not gone for work for the last five months. Her parents often scolded her for spending too much time on the phone and advised her not to use it often. On Wednesday evening, Geetha went to the terrace of her house and did not return. One of her neighbours, Sankara Vadivel, noticed smoke billowing from her terrace and rushed to her house and informed Govindaraj. Govindaraj and his wife rushed to the terrace and found that their daughter had set herself ablaze. They doused the fire somehow and took her to the Government Hospital at Palladam, where doctors declared her ‘brought dead’. A preliminary inquiry revealed that she poured kerosene on her to set herself ablaze. Police registered a case under section 174 CrPC and handed over the body to family members on Thursday after a postmortem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/chided-by-parents-woman-kills-self/articleshow/75747108.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Mangaluru||DC writes to MIA director to make better arrangements||Mangaluru: In the wake of complaints regarding handling of passengers at Mangaluru International Airport (MIA), deputy commissioner Sindhu B Rupesh has written to the director of the airport, hoping for better arrangements in the future. As part of Vande Bharat Mission, a Dubai-Mangaluru flight that landed around 10.04 pm at MIA on Tuesday, had 179 passengers on board, including many pregnant women. In a letter dated May 13, the DC stated that even though it was known that the flight would carry passengers of special categories, such as pregnant women and those requiring medical support, it has been reported that the airport had not arranged sufficient human resources, such as porters and assistant staff. The passengers were also not adequately briefed on the procedures involved at the airport. “I had specifically instructed your staff at the airport during my visit on May 9, to make all necessary arrangements to support passengers on arrival. It is requested that you personally oversee the arrangements during the next flight, so that such incidents do not recur, and also help the district administration in coordinating with the airport authorities and the concerned airlines ferrying the passengers,” the DC stated, in her letter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/dc-writes-to-mia-director-to-make-better-arrangements/articleshow/75744981.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Kochi||Govt takes over road work from Kochi corp||Kochi: With Kochi corporation failing to construct 10m-wide road to waste treatment plant premises at Brahmapuram, government has taken over the responsibility. Now, district collector will ensure construction of the road at a cost of Rs 1.99 crore. Though the National Green Tribunal (NGT), which visited the corporation’s solid waste treatment plant last year, had asked the local body to improve infrastructure facilities and to ensure proper treatment of waste. The local body authorities waited for six months for even placing the proposals at the council meeting for getting its nod. Five-metre-wide road around the solid waste treatment yard premises, uninterrupted water supply for dousing fire, installation of water pumps with adequate capacity and construction of a tank which can store water to be used by firefighters for hours on end were the major facilities which had to be set up by the corporation as per the NGT order. Construction of the 10m-wide approach road to the plant premises was mooted to facilitate smooth movement of fire engines. The local body is unable to start any of the works so far. A few months ago, the corporation authorities had placed the agenda for the road widening work before the council among other items for the nod of the council. Increase in the scheduled rates for the work was the reason for submitting the proposal for the nod of the council once again. But, LDF-led opposition objected to it citing extravaganza by the corporation. Meanwhile, the waste-to-energy (WtE) plant which is to be set up at Brahmapuram is facing uncertainty. The state government had asked the corporation to start measures to cancel the agreement with the private firm which is to implement the project on a public-private partnership model. Citing inordinate delay on the part of the firm in raising funds for the project, government withdrew approval for the private firm to start the project. The firm couldn’t demonstrate financial closure or arrangements for raising funds for the project even after 1,400 days of signing agreement with the corporation for setting up the plant, government order issued on April 30 said. As per the agreement, the private firm should have made arrangements for funds and other pre-requites within 180 days. Moreover, government also found that the demand made by the firm for 100% government guarantee for securing bank loan for raising funds for the project is against the agreement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/govt-takes-over-road-work-from-kochi-corp/articleshow/75744998.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Kochi||Excise officials who nabbed ganja peddler under quarantine||Thrissur: Five excise officials at Chavakkad were asked to undergo home quarantine on Thursday after they nabbed a ganja peddler who had come from a red zone in Bengaluru. Excise inspector K V Babu, preventive officer K Sunilkumar and civil excise officers Rafi, Rajesh and Sudheer Kumar were told to be under home quarantine after they nabbed Kurukkalath Veettil Jaffar of Manathala near Chavakkad with 100g of ganja. Jaffar, 42, came to Chavakkad with ganja on Wednesday, excise official said. When he realised excise officials were trailing him, he went absconding. On Thursday, he was arrested from a lodge at Blangad near Chavakkad where he was hiding. The accused was admitted to the isolation ward at Taluk Hospital, Chavakkad. Ironically, only 100g of ganja could be recovered from the accused even though the excise officials had chased him based on the inputs that he had brought 5kg of ganja from the neighbouring state. The accused must have sold the remaining quantity, and Rs 40,000 has been recovered from him, the excise officials said. The officials fear criminals could be using lockdown as a cover to illegally bring in ganja from other states, and could try to keep off from the chasing officials claiming that they are coming from Covid-19 red zones. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/excise-officials-who-nabbed-ganja-peddler-under-quarantine/articleshow/75745579.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Madurai||Sanitary staff, OHT operators seek protective gear, wage hike||Madurai: Sanitary workers and overhead tank operators working in police stations throughout the district should be given proper protective gear and wage hike said the panchayat sanitary workers and OHT operators association. In a petition, sent to the CM’s special cell, the president of the association, A Kondavellai has said that the sanitary workers attached to the various police stations in the districts, are risking their lives and fighting on the frontline during this covid-19 crisis along with the health workers and police personnel. He has said that most of these workers are away from their families and risking their lives. They should be given a pay of Rs 1,500 per day for their service during this crisis period. If a person working in this Covid-19 prevention activity dies while on duty, his family should be compensated with Rs 1 crore and the chief minister should pass an order to this effect. Other demands such as a basic pay of Rs 18,000 for contract sanitary workers, Rs 500 per day for daily wagers has also been urged. Salaries for these workers should be disbursed by the fifth of every month and promotions should be given based on their educational qualification, are some of the other demands.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/sanitary-staff-oht-operators-seek-protective-gear-wage-hike/articleshow/75747107.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Madurai||After good harvest, Dindigul farmers are now forced to sell produce for low price||Madurai: Even as farmers in Dindigul district saw a good harvest this year, they are losing crores of rupees as traders are buying their produce for low price citing transport issue amid Covid-19 lockdown. Meanwhile, cold storage facilities in the district are also inadequate making farmers lose their produce. Oddanchathiram market committee member and farmer producer group president, M Nallusamy, said that it would be very difficult for the farmers to recover from this crisis. Nallusamy said that he had planted papaya trees on his land, which started yielding well from January and before the Covid-19 crisis, he was selling the fruit at Rs 15 per kg. However, following lockdown, traders refused to buy the fruit for more than Rs 5 per kg. Last year a kg of papaya was sold for Rs 18 to Rs 20. “We can get a breakeven only if it sells for Rs 15,” he said. “The government speaks of many relief measures including cold storage but there are no adequate facilities and it is costly as we have to pay 50 paise per tonne, by the day for keeping our produce in them,” he said and added that he sold a kg of shallots for Rs 135 few months ago but now it has gone down to Rs 30-40. Similarly, P Karuppasamy, of Neelamalaikottai in Dindigul, who destroyed his cultivated tomatoes, said that the traders were taking a box of 15 kg tomato only for Rs 50, when labour for a box was Rs 20 and there were commissions and transport fees. Last year a box of tomatoes had sold for Rs 350 to Rs 400 per box. “It was cheaper to destroy my crops than maintain it because of the heavy loss and there was no help from the government,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/after-good-harvest-dindigul-farmers-are-now-forced-to-sell-produce-for-low-price/articleshow/75747109.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Goa||Plans afoot to open Fatorda fish market||Margao: Moves are afoot to reopen the South Goa Planning and Development Authority’s (SGPDA) wholesale fish market at Fatorda with reduced business hours and restricted number of vehicles. The authority has issued a notice in a local daily listing the conditions to be followed by the traders for letting them carry out the trade in the market. The notice stipulates that all fish-laden vehicles entering the wholesale fish market shall be duly registered with the directorate of fisheries and food and drugs administration. All fish traders associations and fish trading societies have to submit proper valid certificates of registration before entering the market, the notice says. Besides, all vehicles are required to submit to the SGPDA the details of the vehicle numbers and other details before entering the market. Vehicles will be allowed to enter the market only at periodic intervals to avoid overcrowding and ensure social distancing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/plans-afoot-to-open-fatorda-fish-market/articleshow/75747641.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Coimbatore||Class X students to have online revision classes||Coimbatore: With the state gearing up for Class X board exams from June 1, the school education department in the district is all set to offer online revision classes for government school students from Friday.Coimbatore chief education officer P Usha told TOI that they had been working on a website for the same for around 15 days now.She said government school teachers and students would be asked to register on the website. “While teachers were instructed to hold revisions with the help of social media apps, we have been working on the portal to engage students in a more organized way.”The officer said they had roped in professionals to design and launch the website, which is titled Cbe Schools. “We have trained two teachers on how to register on the website and they have trained a teacher each from 20 government schools in the district. The latter would in turn train other teachers in their schools,” Usha said.At least 40 students could attend an online session at a time and there can be multiple sessions, the officer said. “It will be like a virtual classroom session. Students could also interact and clarify doubts. There are provisions to ensure that one won’t be disturbed by others. Each school could hold sessions separately.”A total of 6,000 students could be registered on the portal, the officer said. “Of the more than 150 government schools in the district, we have chosen just 20 schools for now. We will include others soon.”Usha said they were planning to start sessions for government schools on a trial basis on Friday. “We are also looking to extend the facility to aided schools.”If students don’t have computer and internet facilities at home, they could login on their smart phones. “If they don’t have own phones, they would be asked to arrange one from relatives or neighbours for an hour to attend the sessions. If a student has none of these facilities, we have asked teachers to instruct them on important portions and other exam preparations,” the chief education officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/class-x-students-to-have-online-revision-classes/articleshow/75747111.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Mysuru||Mysuru city set to be free of containment zones from today||Mysuru: In the past two weeks, not a single Covid-19 case has been reported in Mysuru district, which is still classified under the ‘Red Zone’ category. In all, Mysuru had 44 containment zones, and with a total of 90 Covid-19 cases being reported across the district, was classified under the ‘Red Zone’. However, the authorities have re-designated containment zones, with 13 of them being taken off the list – nine in Nanjangud taluk and four of them in Mysuru city in last two days. The rules stipulate that restrictions within containment zones can be relaxed only if no fresh positive case is reported for 28 days. As many as 14 out of the total 15 erstwhile containment zones within Mysuru city have not reported fresh positive case in the past month. What is more, come Friday, Mysuru city will be without a single containment zone. Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) commissioner Gururdutta Hegde said that establishments plying non-essential commodities would be free to resume full-fledged operations between 7am and 7pm. “However, we have decided against allowing barber shops, saloons, spas, cinema halls and places of worship to open,” Hegde added. This fortnight-long clean streak has inspired hopes among officials in the district administration and residents of Mysuru soon being grouped under ‘Orange Zone’, which will result in the lockdown restrictions being relaxed further. Nanjangud taluk, where India’s first ‘Cluster Case’ of Covid-19 was reported, will however have to wait another fortnight to be free of all containment zones – the taluk had as many as 28 containment areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/mysuru-city-set-to-be-free-of-containment-zones-from-today/articleshow/75743664.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Coimbatore||Tangedco chops 154 trees to construct sub-station||COIMBATORE: Around 150 trees were felled on the Anna University Regional campus at Navavoor near the city on Thursday for constructing a sub-station there by Tangedco. University sources said Tangedco personnel and workers entered the campus saying that they were going to measure the land. “Within 10 to 15 minutes, they felled 154 trees using machines such as power saws,” a source said. “On learning this, students became agitated. While most of them are in their hometowns, some local students came to the campus and started filming the work of cutting down trees,” the source said. However, university officials intervened, and the work was stalled. Syed of the environmentalist organisation 'Osai' from the city, said the trees had been planted as part of a Miyawaki patch on the campus. “The sub-station can be constructed anywhere inside the campus. But, the trees, which are around five years old now, cannot be grown anywhere else,” he said. When contacted, a senior Tangedco official said the sub-station was now a long pending project and was an essential one to give unhindered power supply to the area. They had acted after the district collector had given them the nod. “Three years ago, we had paid for the one-acre piece of land on the campus for constructing the sub-station. When we had bought it, there were no trees there. After we bought the land, an NGO had planted the trees there. The university should have informed them that the land belonged to Tangedco, but they didn't. We have already given work orders based on the rates from three years ago. If we were to change the location now, the cost of the project would shoot up," the official said. When contacted, a senior university official said they didn't get any orders about the Tangedco work from their superiors. “We are sorting the issue out. We would negotiate with Tangedco officials and district administration officials and would probably look into giving them another area, where there are no trees,” the university official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/tangedco-chops-154-trees-to-construct-sub-station/articleshow/75747113.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Covid ‘hospitals’ at BKC, Worli to get deans||MUMBAI: The jumbo makeshift Covid care centres coming up at MMRDA ground in BKC, and NSCI Dome and Mahalaxmi Race Course in Worli—being prepped to function as full-fledged hospitals—will have medical deans at the helm. In addition to the 1,008-bed Covid care facility nearing completion in BKC, the MMRDA has plans for a second one with another 1,000 beds. Meanwhile, the combined beds strength at NSCI Dome, which currently has 500, and the facility coming up in Mahalaxmi Race Course will be 1,400. That apart, NSCI Dome will have a 70-bed ICU, of which 40 will be modular and 30 mobile. A dean will be given the charge of both NSCI and Mahalaxmi centres. Another dean will head the 1,008-bed facility at MMDRA, of which 504 will have oxygen support too. “These mammoth medical centres will almost work like hospitals. So, a decision has been taken to appoint deans to supervise them,” said Manisha Mhaiskar, principal secretary, who is on a deputation to the BMC. She added the process of recruitment will begin shortly. Civic authorities also plan another 500-bed facility on the J J Hospital campus in Byculla. Dr T P Lahane, who heads the Directorate of Medical Education and Research (DMER), said the super-speciality building could be converted into a Covid hospital. “We are looking at it as an option,” he said. Moreover, in what will be a major boost to beds in the western suburbs, MMRDA will develop yet another 1,000-bed facility, including a 100-bed Covid ICU. Metropolitan commissioner R A Rajeev said, “Work on the second facility will begin after handing over the first facility to the state government. The second facility will have 1,000 beds, 10% of which will be for an ICU.” Sources said the state government might have wanted to add more facilities in BKC due to its proximity to red zones such as Dharavi and Kurla that have seen a huge spurt in Covid cases. In the first 1,008-bed facility, which is likely to be handed over on Saturday, washrooms and toilets will be available for patients within the premises itself. A laboratory is also being prepared to examine patients in the hospital. X-ray and ECG facility will be available too. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray had requested MMRDA to assist in the modular quarantine and isolation facility in order to ramp up beds for Covid preparedness. Jupiter Hospital, Thane, will provide medical facilities as part of corporate social responsibility activity towards this quarantine facility at BKC. Lahane said over 4,500 private doctors who have shown willingness to participate in the Covid fight are likely to be placed in these upcoming hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/covid-hosps-at-bkc-worli-to-get-deans/articleshow/75747659.cms||Manthan K Mehta
May 15, 2020||Goa||Special cell at GU to deal with student grievances||Panaji: Goa University has formed a special grievance cell to handle any grievances of students related to examinations and other academic activities arising due to the altered academic calendar. Due to the Covid-19 pandemic and the resultant lockdown, based on University Grants Commission (UGC) guidelines, the academic calendar was revised by Goa University for postgraduate, undergraduate as well as professional college students. The cell’s term will be till December 31, 2020, GU registrar YV Reddy said in a directive. “Students grievances related to examinations and other academic matters are to be addressed to the chairperson of the Goa University Special Grievance Cell (GUSGC) and emailed to gusgc@unigoa.ac.in,” the circular states. Dean of faculty of natural sciences Kaustubh Priolkar will be the chairperson of the cell. Vice-deans of three different schools B R Srinivasan, M S Dayanand and Anthony Viegas will serve as members on the cell. The other members will be head of three different GU departments Ramballav Roy, Shaila Desouza and Sunita Umraskar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/special-cell-at-gu-to-deal-with-student-grievances/articleshow/75747654.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Coimbatore||Tamil Nadu: ‘Virat’ to help green gram farmers score a ton||COIMBATORE: The agriculture department is all set to promote a new variety of green gram among the pulse farmers in the district. Called Virat, it has a unique quality of flowering and fruiting uniformly, helping farmers harvest the produce in one go, no matter the extent of area under cultivation. Developed by the Indian Institute of Pulse Research in Kanpur, the new variety is expected to reduce cost and dependence on labour for farmers. Framers usually take up green gram and groundnut cultivation in the district during the summer farming season, which is already underway. Tom P Silus, deputy director, government of India schemes, agriculture department, said, “This new variety is known to yield 1,000kg to 1,100kg produce per hectare, compared to the CO8 variety that yields 900kg to 1,000kg. It is also suitable for red soil and black soil, which is predominant in the district, and requires very little rainfall. The entire 60-day duration of crop requires just three to four days of rainfall or so many days of irrigation.” Its main advantage is synchronized maturity. “Other varieties have staggered maturity. This means harvesting needs to be done as and when they develop. Only properly matured ones should be plucked, otherwise the pulse seed will not be of a good grade. So, labours have to be deployed for days for harvesting. In the case of the new variety, the crop will mature together and could be harvested in one go,” Silus said. The government is now trying to promote multiplication of Virat to make its seeds easily available for farmers. Mini kits that comprise seeds for a hectare, biofertilizers and a pesticide are available at all the agriculture block offices in the district. Farmers can get a free kit. As an incentive, the department is willing to buy back the seeds from farmers by paying them Rs 25 per kg over and above the market price. “So, if the market price is Rs 60 per kg, we will pay them Rs 85. We will also get them registered for a certified seed producing farm to ensure good value for produce in future too,” he said. Pulses are cultivated across 8,300 hectares in the district, of which green gram accounts for 497 hectares. While it fetches high price in the market, many farmers in the district prefer coconut, as pulses require a lot of labour for ploughing soil, application of fertilizers and manures, treating the seeds, sowing them and ensuring that the flowers don’t drop, among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/virat-to-help-green-gram-farmers-score-a-ton/articleshow/75747126.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Coimbatore||CITU wants safety gear for frontline workers||COIMBATORE: Frontline workers in the Covid-19 fight should be provided with protective gear and the families of the workers who died due to the infection be given compensation, members of the Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU) said on Thursday. CITU members, who held a protest in front of the union office at Kattoor in the city, said doctors, nurses, sanitary workers, police personnel, workers who provide drinking water and electricity, and media personnel have been working during the Covid-19 pandemic. But proper protective gear has not been given to all. Because of this, some of them had contracted the infection and died.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/citu-wants-safety-gear-for-frontline-workers/articleshow/75747118.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Surat||Surat: Forged bus permits found, offence registered||SURAT: Umra police lodged an offence against unidentified persons and booked them for allegedly forging bus permits of district collector office for Jharkhand and Chhatisgarh. The offence has been registered after a complaint was registered by a mamlatdar. Prior to the special train services, buses were issued permits to take migrant workers to their native states. Thousands of migrant workers left the city in the buses. Yogesh Mehta, mamlatdar of Udhna zone, lodged a complaint against unidentified persons stating that they had forged these bus permits. Preliminary investigation revealed three forged permits, of which two were of Jharkhand while one is of Chhatisgarh. It is suspected that many buses have already left from the city and reached their destination states using the forged permits. Mehta told police that he doesn’t know how the forgery came to knowledge of district collector office, but lodged the complaint based on orders received from higher officials. The accused have forged permits that look exactly like the original permits. It is suspected that some already issued permits were scanned and its printout were taken after making some alterations in details. “We are investigating to find the hand behind the forged permits. We are yet to get exact any strong clue in the case,” police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/forged-bus-permits-found-offence-registered/articleshow/75745001.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Vadodara||Vadodara: 45-year-old woman jumps off terrace, dies||VADODARA: A 45-year-old woman ended her life by jumping off the fifth-floor terrace of her building on Laxmipura Road on Wednesday afternoon. The woman Anita Devasi went to the terrace and jumped off when others in her family were taking an afternoon nap. Police said that Devasi was severely stressed as her daughter refused to go to her in-laws’ house in Pali district of Rajasthan.  “Devasi and her husband had been trying to convince their daughter to patch-up with her husband and go back to Rajasthan. But she was adamant on not going back. On the other hand, the in-laws were pressurizing the couple to send their daughter back,” said a police official. On Wednesday morning too, Devasi got a call from her daughter’s in-laws following which her husband got an epileptic fit and their neighbours had also gathered, police said. “Everything seemed settled after that, but the woman decided to end her life. We did not find any suicide note from the house,” the police official said. After the woman jumped off, she was taken to a nearby private hospital, but she succumbed in the evening. A case of accidental death was registered at Laxmipura police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/45-yr-old-woman-jumps-off-terrace-dies/articleshow/75743995.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Madurai||Reopened shops see sluggish sales on 1st day||Madurai: Owners of textile, garment and footwear shops, who resumed business on Thursday after a break of nearly two months, were disappointed to see slow sales and minimal foot traffic on the roads despite the festival season. With many either preferring to stay indoors or save money for essentials due to Covid-19 outbreak, some shops did not even see a single customer on the first day of reopening. Ashraf Tayub, secretary, Madurai Textile Merchants Association, said that he was relieved to be back in business, though the crowd on the first day was small. “It is was not more than a trickle compared to the same day last year during this festive season,” he said. “But we are confident that customers will show up soon and sales will pick up when they learn that the shops are open. We hope to see a better crowd this weekend as Eid Ul Fitr is around the corner,’’ he said. All shops are ready to comply with the rules and regulations laid down by the district administration, he said. Ashraf wants the government to consider giving permission to bigger textile showroom as they agreed to operate only the blowers instead of air conditioners to maintain a temperature between 24 degree Celsius to 27 degree Celsius in their buildings. A representation to this effect was made to the Madurai collector Dr T G Vinay on Thursday. “We will have to come up with some innovative ideas like bigger discounts to clear the stocks in the next two months,” said Thangaraj, a trader in Vilakuthoon. “BuTransport is important for our business and we hope that it will resume after May 17,” said Karuppasamy, another shopkeeper in the city. .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/reopened-shops-see-sluggish-sales-on-1st-day/articleshow/75747115.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Madurai||Fire breaks out at Ramnad GH||Madurai: A fire broke out at the government district headquarters hospital in Ramanathapuram on Wednesday night. However, there was no loss of life or major damage to property as police and fire department officials put out the fire immediately. According to hospital authorities, the fire was caused by an electric short circuit at around 9:45pm on Wednesday. “The fire was due to an issue in wiring and it has been rectified now. The fire was close to the virology lab where Covid-19 testing was carried out while the isolation ward was more than half a km away. Fire department officials have also inspected thoroughly,” said a senior official from the hospital. Though power supply was briefly shut, it was later restored. Hospital authorities also assured that all fire safety measures were in place and termed the incident as an unfortunate accident. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/fire-breaks-out-at-ramnad-gh/articleshow/75747125.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Coimbatore||Coimbatore: Postpone Class X exam till Covid-19 is under control, says students’ union||COIMBATORE: Members of Students Federation of India (SFI) on Thursday held protests across the district demanding that the Class X exam be held only after the Covid-19 pandemic is brought under control. The state government had announced that the exam will be held from June 1 to June 12. As the state is still dealing with the pandemic and the lockdown restrictions have not yet been fully lifted, holding the exam will be very unfavourable for the students, SFI district representative Dhinesh Raja said. “The chief minister said that transport service should not resume till May 31. How can students who have gone to their hometowns return for appearing for the exam? Also, if they get passes and return to the city, they will be quarantined as per the district administration’s norms. So, how can students who have gone to other districts come back and prepare for the exam?” Even when transport facilities were available, students from rural areas and tribal hamlets couldn’t get buses on time, Raja said. “We had heard of such incidents from Siruvani and the Nilgiris. As they could not catch buses, some students arrived late at the exam centres.” Schools used for Covid-19 related relief work have to be sanitised properly before students are made to write exams there, the members said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/postpone-class-x-exam-till-covid-19-is-under-control-students-union/articleshow/75747132.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Coimbatore||Nilgiris: 198 special groups to get financial aid||UDHAGAMANDALAM: The district administration has formed 198 special groups to help them financially during the Covid-19 crisis. Nilgiris collector J Innocent Divya said, “The ongoing lockdown has caused huge financial losses to many people like auto drivers, taxi operators and small vendors. We have categorized them into different groups based on their occupation to help them financially through the Tamil Nadu Urban Livelihood Mission.” The scheme has been modified to benefit the newly formed groups and to ensure them quick financial assistance. “A minimum of five people from the same trade could form a group. They have to then pool in some money. They will get a holiday period of three months for repayment,” the collector said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/198-special-groups-to-get-financial-aid/articleshow/75747130.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Madurai||MMC, Tirunelveli med college to begin plasma therapy trials||Madurai: After receiving approval from the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), Madurai Medical College (MMC) attached to Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH) and Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital (TMCH) in south Tamil Nadu are preparing to carry out clinical trials for convalescent plasma therapy to treat Covid-19 patients. The convalescent plasma therapy involves using antibodies from the blood of a recovered Covid-19 patient, to treat critically-ill Covid-19 patients. The blood of the recovered Covid-19 patient contains antibodies with the specific ability to fight the SARS nCoV-2 virus, which is to be transfused to the patient who needs it. While hospital authorities are tight-lipped about how and by when the trials will be conducted, suitable plasma donors, among those who have made full recovery, are being identified to donate their plasma. However, such donors are hard to come by as they must fulfil certain criteria, including being between ages 18-60, having weight above 50 Kg, not suffering from other transmittable disease and having normal pulse rate, blood pressure, haemoglobin level and body temperature. Further, the donors are also supposed to have had mild symptoms during the period of being treated for Covid-19. At Government Rajaji Hospital, most Covid-19 patients have only been asymptomatic. “Following ICMR’s approval, we have started collection of plasma from suitable donors. It is still only the initial stage and trials on patients are yet to begin. We are not allowed to disclose information about the trials or the donors,” said GRH Dean Dr J Sangumani. Meanwhile, authorities at TMCH also said that plasma therapy trials were yet to begin full-fledged but that they were prepared. “So far, we are yet to begin actual trials as it has not been necessary for it to be used for any of our Covid-19 patients,” said a senior official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/mmc-tirunelveli-med-college-to-begin-plasma-therapy-trials/articleshow/75747131.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Goa||Water tariff hike on hold: PWD minister||Panaji: The notification issued by the public works department (PWD) to increase water tariff to upto 80% in some categories will be kept on hold for now. The hiked tariffs will not be implemented at present and a decision about enforcing the new rates will be taken later, PWD minister Deepak Pauskar said on Thursday, after a meeting with chief minister Pramod Sawant. “The notification to increase water tariff per cubic meter from Rs 2.50 to Rs 3.50 for domestic cosumers has been issued. But we will not implement it immediately. The rate was increased last in 2015 and not hiked since. In 2019-20 budget, it was therefore hiked. We have issued the notification as per that. But we will not implement it, CM has said,” said Pauskar. Pauskar said that the hiked rates were notified only as a process, as per the revised rates announced in the budget. “We have kept it on hold. It is a process that notification has to be issued as per what is in the budget,” said Pauskar. He further said that there is sufficient raw water availability to get through the summer without experiencing shortages. Pauskar said that at the meeting with the CM, a review was held of the work of expansion of national highways “Work is on even during the lockdown. The stretch from Patradevi to Karaswadda was to be completed in May. Now, it is expected to be ready by November. By February 2021, the Zuari bridge will be complete in all respects,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/water-tariff-hike-on-hold-pwd-minister/articleshow/75747656.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Goa||Cavrem, Pirla villages parched as springs dry up||Quepem: Located less than 20km from Selaulim dam, the villages of Cavrem and Pirla have been plunged into a drought-like situation. With a population of over 2,500 people, Cavrem relies on natural springs for its drinking water needs, and two out of its three springs, which were earlier perennial water sources, have now dried up. Although the Selaulim dam caters to the drinking water needs of several talukas as far as Mormugao, Cavrem and Pirla are not linked to its supply network. The springs which have dried up are located at Gaonkarwada and Velipwada near Mallikarjun temple. The Gaonkarwada spring has been constructed like a well to contain water. In April, the flow of spring water through the outlet pipe has stopped, said locals. “We are facing a crisis as we don’t get water from Selaulim,” Samikxa Gaonkar, a local ward panch said, pointing out that the mining-ravaged Cavrem village provides crores of rupees to the exchequer and to miners. “The government has not taken any initiative to supply Selaulim water to Cavrem even after the issue was raised many times by the panchayat,” Samikxa said . Due to rampant mining and excavation of the hills below the water table in Cavrem, natural sources of drinking water have been drying up, said Ravindra Velip, an anti mining activist and a former panch member. “PWD is supplying us water in tankers, sometimes once in two days, but we can store only limited quantities in our houses,” said deputy sarpanch Tolyo Gaonkar. Due to the poor condition of the village roads, the tankers park far away from most houses, and people have to make several trips carrying buckets of water home, Tolyo added. “The plan to lay a Rs 5crore-pipeline from Cupwada connecting the JICA storage tank to Pirla, covering a 13km distance, is gathering dust since 2014,” said Velip. PWD’s assistant engineer (water supply) V Karmalkar said that the proposal to lay the pipeline was scrapped“as the cost and other technical difficulties made it unfeasible”. “Instead of laying a pipeline from Quepem side, the government will lay a new 27km pipeline from Sirvoi to Neturlim at the cost of Rs 24 crore, which will be tapped at Sulcorna to divert the water supply to Pirla and Cavrem villages,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cavrem-pirla-villages-parched-as-springs-dry-up/articleshow/75747661.cms||Johnny M
May 15, 2020||Lucknow||MNREGS turns job spinner for migrants in UP||LUCKNOW: Two days after chief minister Yogi Adityanath pitched for creation of 50 lakh jobs every day under Mahatma Gandhi Rural Employment Guarantee scheme (MNREGS), the rural development department galloped to the halfway mark of 26 lakh jobs, essentially for migrants who returned to UP following the lockdown. According to rural development department data, number of new jobs dramatically rose 26 times over a 20-day span from 1.46 lakh on April 21 to 26.29 lakh on Thursday. The biggest leap recorded on May 1 was coincidentally world labour day, when more than 2 lakh MNREGS jobs were generated. The graph, however, dipped on May 11, when 36,000 jobs were provided under the flagship scheme. Confirming the trend, additional commissioner Yogesh Kumar said, MNREGS was turning out to be the biggest job-spinner during the lockdown. “We are looking forward to raising the mandays to touch the 50-lakh mark in days to come,” he told TOI. Grassroots data show the number of gram panchayats, where work under the flagship scheme was planned, had swelled from 9,343 on April 21 to 46,405 on Thursday. This was a 5-time jump within 20 days. Rural development department officials said, 79% gram panchayats have already been covered under MNREGS. Statistics buttress the fact that rural development department began work under MNREGS in a graded fashion. While in covid green zones comprising 20 districts, MNREGS works were conducted in 13,265 gram panchayats, in 36 districts under orange zone, work was conducted in 24,482 gram panchayats. Likewise, in red zone (10 districts), work under the scheme was taken up in 8,658 panchayats. The largest number of 1,08,929 labourers were engaged in east UP district of Siddharthnagar under MNREGS. This was followed by Lakhimpur Kheri, Maharajganj, Ghazipur and Azamgarh, where at least 95,000 labourers were employed by the rural development department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/mnregs-turns-job-spinner-for-migrants/articleshow/75747657.cms||Pankaj Shah
May 15, 2020||Surat||Surat records 14 Covid-19 cases and recovery rate of 62%||SURAT: About 57 Covid-19 patients were discharged from hospitals in Surat city, which took its recovery rate to 62 per cent on Thursday. Municipal commissioner Banchhanidhi Pani said until now a total of 597 Covid-19 patients have been discharged in the city. "Recovery rate has been improving. More and more Covid-19 patients are recovering from the virus,” Pani said. Meanwhile, 14 new Covid-19 cases have taken their total number in the city to 963. The total number of Covid-19 patients, including 58 of rural areas, has gone up to 1,021 in Surat. Also, Saliya Haider, 78, a resident of central zone, and Soma Gavane, 55, a resident of Maan Darwaja, succumbed to the virus on Thursday, taking the toll to 44 in the city. SMC officials said both the patients suffered from comorbid conditions. Municipal commissioner has urged people not to send elder members of the family to purchase milk, medicines, groceries and other items from markets. "We have observed that many elders go to markets to purchase essentials items in the city. It is not advisable because they are susceptible to virus infection and particularly when 59 people engaged in selling milk, vegetables and dairy items had tested positive for coronavirus. So, I request young members of the family to go out for purchasing essentials items. Elders should stay at home,'' Pani said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/city-records-14-covid-19-cases-and-recovery-rate-of-62/articleshow/75745030.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Coimbatore||Tamil Nadu: Farmers told to join PM Kisan scheme||COIMBATORE: The agriculture department wants more farmers to register for the PM Kisan scheme. As many as 65,639 farmers in the district are beneficiaries of the scheme. They receive Rs 6,000 per year in three equal instalments. The department has identified 3,400 farmers who had registered for the scheme but are yet to receive money in their account, deputy director of agriculture Tom P Silus said. “The main reason they are not receiving the money is because of misspelt names and wrong address on Aadhaar card that did not match with the bank account. Such people should bring their Aadhaar card and bank passbooks, so that we can make corrections,” he said. Such farmers should approach the block agriculture officer to make the corrections, the official said. New farmers can also register for the scheme through self-registration method and wait for field officers to verify their documents. Those who have a minimum of 25 cents can register. For more information, farmers in Anamalai should call 9442447948, Annur 9486320064, Karamadai 9751016200, Kinathukidavu 9443349728, Madukkarai 8754101966, Periyanaickenpalauam 9442556138, Pollachi North 7010665166, Pollachi south 9442447948, S S KUlam 9442556138, Sulthanpet and Sulur 9865678453 and Thondamuthur 9894042204.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/farmers-told-to-join-pm-kisan-scheme/articleshow/75747128.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Madurai||38 positive cases take Covid count in southern TN to 641||Madurai: A total of 38 fresh Covid-19 cases were reported in the southern districts of Tamil Nadu on Thursday, taking the overall count to 641.As many as 23 out of the 24 total imported cases in the state were reported being from southern Tamil Nadu on Thursday, spiking the number of cases here. The biggest cluster of imported cases among the southern districts was in Tirunelveli. The district saw 13 imported cases and 3 local cases, including two children aged 5 and 8. Eleven of the imported cases were those who returned from Maharashtra while two cases were of those who returned from Qatar. According to health officials, all those who are entering the district from any other district, state or country are all being tested. Madurai district, meanwhile, saw seven imported cases and two local cases, all men, on Thursday. The total Covid-19 cases in the district is now 132 and is the highest among southern districts. All seven of the imported cases were those who had recently returned from Maharashtra and were being quarantined at a government quarantine facility. The two local cases were of a 47-year-old man who was working in Chennai and a 37-year-old man who was working as an ambulance driver in Chennai. Imported Covid-19 cases were meanwhile also reported in Sivaganga and Tuticorin. Sivaganga, which has been Covid-19 free for 24 days, recorded one imported case on Thursday after a 29-year-old woman, who returned from Maharashtra tested Covid-19 positive. In Tuticorin district, two imported cases of those who returned from Maharashtra were recorded while one was a local case. The total cases in the district now stands at 38. Dindigul, Tenkasi, Theni districts also recorded one fresh Covid-19 case each on Thursday. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/38-positive-cases-take-covid-count-in-southern-tn-to-641/articleshow/75747129.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Madurai||Teachers fear valuation camps may leave them vulnerable||Madurai: With the valuation camps for teachers to evaluate Class XI and XII state board examination papers set to be held in June, teachers are apprehensive about the conduct of the camps at the grassroots level even with Covid-19 preventive measures in place.The valuation camps are slated to be held by June-end after SSLC board exams from June 1 to 10 as well as one Class XI exam on June 2 and a Class XII re-exam on June 4. The evaluation centres would sees hundreds of teachers gathering across the state. According to school principals, several guidelines for Covid-19 prevention, which are yet to be made official, have been advised to be followed. These include maintaining social distancing, cutting down the number of examiners at a centre, wearing masks and using sanitisers.“However, the practical implementation would be extremely difficult at the ground level, particularly in districts like Chennai and any red zone including Madurai. The infrastructure will not be the same in all centres and facilities for toilets and washrooms may not be of good quality everywhere, which leaves us prone to infection even if we are careful. We can’t ensure everything is sanitised every time,” said a private school principal.Further, the exam papers are going to be exchanging many hands by the time the process ends and hence it remains to be seen how sanitisation could be ensured. Teachers also observed that some of their peers who have the habit of licking the tip of papers to turn them over must also desist from it at all costs.At the same time, teachers agree that there is no alternative and that students should not be kept waiting for their results much longer. “We can only hope for the best. Even for Class X students, it would be advisable for the exams to be postponed but evaluation could be conducted smoothly if teachers follow all right precautions. Otherwise, at this rate, everything would just keep getting postponed and students will be the ones who suffer most due to delays,” said the headmaster of a government higher secondary school.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/teachers-fear-valuation-camps-may-leave-them-vulnerable/articleshow/75747136.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
May 15, 2020||Lucknow||Random samples of inmates taken in all 71 UP jails||Lucknow: The UP prisons on Thursday started taking random swab samples of inmates in all 71 prisons to know the exact number of inmates suffering from Covid-19. The decision to this effect was taken two days after 10 inmates in Agra central jail were tested positive for Covid-19. Director-general of prisons Anand Kumar told TOI that all jail superintendents and jailors will ensure that random samples are taken in all the 71 jails. The reports and results will be compiled by DIG jail, Lucknow who will also maintain a record of the same. Kumar said that for the purpose of testing chief medical officers have deputed health teams in their respective districts. “The same facility has also been arranged for temporary jails in the state,” he said. On Thursday, samples of 524 inmates and 29 jail staff were collected by the health teams in their respective districts. It also includes those in temporary jails. Prisons PRO, Santosh Singh said that random sampling was conducted in Rampur, Badaun, Muzaffarnagar, Bahraich, Barabanki and Balrampur. Temporary jails where the samples were taken include Sultanpur and Meerut.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/random-samples-of-inmates-taken-in-all-71-up-jails/articleshow/75747667.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Madurai||Sastra univ robots deployed at GRH for Covid-19 care||Madurai: Special robots developed by Sastra Deemed to be University in Thanjavur were introduced at the ‘Corona Speciality Hospital’ in Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH). This is the first time robots are being used at the GRH to cater to Covid-19 patients.The three ZAFI Go robots donated to GRH are specifically designed to aid doctors and nurses working at hospitals, especially in the Covid-19 isolation ward. The robots are equipped with multiple trays to carry food and essentials for Covid-19 patients and have a range of 1,500m of radio controllable system. “The robots are being deployed from today (Thursday) in the Covid-19 isolation ward. These will be very useful for us and reduce the contact with patients,” said GRH dean Dr J Sangumani.The robot can carry up to 15kg at a time and serve up to 10-15 patients at a time. Its battery lasts up to three hours. The robots were developed as part of the Foundation for Innovation and Research at Sastra Technology Business Incubator (FIRST) initiative.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/sastra-univ-robots-deployed-at-grh-for-covid-19-care/articleshow/75747137.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Surat||Surat APMC comes to rescue of Valsad, Navsari mango farmers||SURAT: At a time when the farmers in south Gujarat’s mango bowl — Valsad and Navsari — are struggling to find buyers and labourers to pluck their ready harvest, Surat’s Agriculture Market Produce Committee (APMC) has come to their rescue. For the first time, the Surat APMC has started sourcing the alphonso and kesar varieties directly from the mango orchards in Valsad and Navsari and bringing it all the way to Surat. These mangoes will be on sale at six designated vegetable markets. When the first lot of 20 metric tonne of alphonso and kesar mangoes reached the designated vegetable markets on Thursday, the Surtis bought it all. “Not a single box of mango was left unsold on the very first day,” said Nilesh Thorat, secretary of APMC. “We are doing this for the first time to help the farmers, who are facing shortage of labourers and the buyers from Mumbai and other places due to lockdown,” added Thorat. According to Thorat, APMC plans to sell 2 lakh metric tonne of mangoes in Surat in the coming days. The mangoes from the orchards are packed in boxes on the highway and loaded in the transport vehicle. “It is like hitting two birds with one stone. Farmers of Valsad and Navsari were not getting buyers and people in Surat wanted mangoes. We have set the target of selling about 2 lakh metric tonnes of mangoes in Surat” says Raman Jani, chairman of APMC. What’s more. Compared to last year, residents in the city will be able to buy mangoes at discounted rates as there are no middlemen involved. “We are selling mangoes on no-profit-no-loss basis to help the farmers. Compared rate of Rs 1,700 and Rs 1,800 per 20 kg last year, the prices this year are at the lower side of Rs 1,400 per 20kg,” said Jani. Sanjay Naik, a farmer in Gandeva village in Valsad said, “We have now got a ready market in the lockdown and our mangoes will not go waste.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/surat-apmc-comes-to-rescue-of-valsad-navsari-mango-farmers/articleshow/75745061.cms||Melvyn Reggie Thomas
May 15, 2020||Kochi||Special care for those who fast at quarantine centres||Kochi: It was a difficult Ramzan for T H Shajahan, one of the stranded Keralites who was ferried to India in a flight which landed in Kochi from Abu Dhabi on Thursday night. He had lost his job and struggled a lot before managing to get a ticket in the homeward flight. After the flight landed at the Cochin International Airport, he was shifted to a quarantine centre set up at SCMS Cochin School of Business in Muttom along with other Ernakulam natives. But on reaching the centre early morning, he was surprised to see authorities offering him bread and fruits before he began fasting. “We were given chapati and chicken curry on Friday night. Next day morning, we were given bun, fruits and juice before we started fasting,” said Shahjahan. At the institutional quarantines set up in the district, the authorities have been taking special care to meet the requirements of those who are fasting during Ramzan. While local bodies are supplying food at the quarantine institutions identified by the government there are a few sponsors as well who are pitching in. In the mornings, samosa, fruits and juices are provided to those who go on fasting. There are three people who returned from UAE observing fasting undergoing quarantine at the hostel of SCMS Cochin School of Business. “Besides offering us food, the authorities enquire about our well-being,” said H Shajahan, who shares a quarantine room with two others. The authorities said they are prepared to meet the requirements of people housed in the quarantine. More people have started to come to the centre on Saturday and their number is expected to grow in the coming days. “Though we have been directed to provide vegetarian food, we can also provide their choice of food as they are fasting. But no one has approached us so far with any such demands,” said Bindu Manoharan, health standing committee chairperson of Kalamassery municipality. In Thrikkakara, the local body has collected details of food the people in quarantine would prefer to have. “We will give them food as per their choice, veg or non–ve,” said Thrikkakara municipality secretary P S Shibu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/special-care-for-those-who-fast-at-quarantine-centres/articleshow/75745052.cms||T C Sreemol
May 15, 2020||Goa||3 coast guard vessels to be unveiled||Panaji: Probably for the first time, three Indian Coast Guard vessels will be commissioned at Goa Shipyard Limited with no fanfare, largely in adherence to social distancing norms. Union minister for defence Rajnath Singh will commission an offshore patrol vessel and two interceptor boats via video conference from Delhi on Friday. The offshore patrol vessel has been built by Goa Shipyard while the two high-speed interceptor boats have been constructed by L&T Shipbuilding. All the three vessels will be commissioned at the GSL facility. The vessel was launched in February 2019 and was handed over to the Indian Coast Guard on February 24. ICGS Sachet, which will be commissioned on Friday, is the first offshore patrol vessel of the five vessels that GSL is building for the Coast Guard. The 105-meter long vessel will be based at Goa after it is commissioned. “In keeping with the MHA guidelines, only five people will be present for the commissioning,” said a GSL official. Minister of state for defence Shripad Naik will attend the commissioning ceremony at Vasco. Defence ministerRajnath Singh will commission an offshore patrol vessel and two interceptor boats via video conference||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/3-coast-guard-vessels-to-be-unveiled/articleshow/75747671.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Trichy||Spl sessions to pep up TNSTC crew||Trichy: The Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation (TNSTC) has commenced overhauling its fleet that was lying idle for more than 50 days due to the lockdown. TNSTC has also started rejuvenation sessions for its staff to boost their morale as and when they return to their routine. State transport secretary Dharmendra Pratap Yadav, who held a discussion with 240 branch managers across the state, insisted they interact with the crew members and technical staff and mobilise them to take up maintenance work at the respective depots. “Branch managers were told to communicate with the crew members to prepare them before relaunching operations after the lockdown. Crew members are critical in resuming public transport,” Yadav told TOI. In Trichy division, technical staff with the 13 TNSTC depots are working in shifts to bring the buses back to life by undertaking battery checks, engine oil refilling and lubrication work. “About 30% of our employees residing near the depots are carrying out the work. Our buses have never been idle like this, so the maintenance work is quite challenging,” a senior TNSTC official said. Ticket books and digital ticketing machines are also being readied, though TNSTC has suggested cashless transaction during the journey. Sources said a suitable infrastructure for facilitating cashless transaction in buses is yet to be established. Once public transportation resumes, buses will be disinfected every time they reach their destination. Sodium hypochlorite solution and hand sprayers will be placed in all bus stands and depots and the staff would be provided gloves and masks while disinfecting the buses, officials said. Officials also said AC buses would not be operated due to closed ventilation. While TNSTC is not clear about when bus services will resume, officials added they are prepared to operate any time. The standard operating procedures (SOP) shared with all divisions insist that conductors must permit only passengers wearing masks. Entry in buses is likely to be permitted from the rear door while exit through the front door to ensure social distancing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/spl-sessions-to-pep-up-tnstc-crew/articleshow/75747151.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Mysuru||Mandya reports 4 more Covid positive cases||Mandya: Four more Covid-19 cases have been detected in Mandya. According to deputy commissioner Venkatesh, four persons including a 6-year-old child, who have returned from Mumbai, have tested positive. The child (P-963) and his father (P-962) and P-961, a woman, entered Mandya district on May 11 while P-964 come to KR Pete on May 8. Soon after their arrival, all patients and their primary and secondary contacts were put under quarantine in different quarantine facilities. “There is a spike in Covid-19 cases in Mandya district. However, people should not be terrified as the district administration has been tracking every migrant’s movement. Moreover, the recovery percentage in Mandya district is far higher than the stipulated rate of World Health Organization (WHO)” he said. Meanwhile, with the increase in new cases, majority of which are related to migrant workers returning from Mumbai, the demand to move out all migrant workers to quarantine facilities is growing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/mandya-reports-4-more-positive-cases/articleshow/75745084.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Goa||Sanguem to miss date with Purumentachem Fest||Quepem: The ‘purumentachem fest’ at Sanguem – the second biggest summer fair in South Goa – will wear a deserted look this year due to the nationwide lockdown. The feast of Our Lady of Miracles church in Sanguem town is celebrated annually on the third Saturday of May. But this year, for the first time in recent memory, there will be no mass, no tiatr festival and no “purument” fair. Technology has come to the aid of the parishioners who will at least be able to view the mass proceedings at home. Live streaming of the three-day novena mass, at 6pm, has already commenced, said parish priest Tadeo D’Silva. The feast mass on Saturday will be shown live at 7am on GCTV as well as streamed on Youtube. But the biggest draw of the celebration, the familiar colours and buzz of the eight-day fair, which draws people of all communities, from Quepem, Curchorem, Sanvordem and Canacona and even parts of Salcete, will be missing this year. Vendors from different parts of Goa converge at Sanguem during this time to sell their produce and products. Prominent among the range of items available is a variety of dry fish which people buy and stock for the monsoon months. Dry chilies and spices grown and sold by local farmers are also a huge draw. The fair also attracts many furniture vendors who, at the end of this fair, shift their wares to Margao to participated in the famous “purumentachem fest” at Holy Spirit church. Another annual attraction that fans will miss out on is the three-day tiatr festival the church organises. “While commercial tiatrs are staged on the first and second day, the last day is reserved for local artistes to perform their tiatrs,” local tiatr actor Justiniano Fernandes told TOI. The church at Sanguem has over 6,000 parishioners within the town area itself and about 800 families scattered in the outlying area of Molcornem, Bhatti, Koxtti and Kadeabhag. Two residential chapels in Uguem and Molcornem, while three sub-centres - Valkini, Chincham and Kadeabhag - come under the jurisdiction of the church.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sanguem-to-miss-date-with-purumentachem-fest/articleshow/75747698.cms||Johnny M
May 15, 2020||Goa||‘Permit film shooting to resume in Goa’||Panaji: The All Goa Line Producers’ Association has called for film shootings to be resumed in the state. In a letter addressed to the chief minister, the association on Wednesday said that the state has the potential to do so given its “small infrastructure facilities like tourist taxis, catering, accommodation facilities, etc,” and that the in-house talent of actors, writers, musicians and recording studios can be used, while professional lights, sound, camera and technicians can be hired for three months from outside Goa. They also insisted on working with a limited number of people in their crew. “We will ensure that instructions given by the Goa government shall be followed . We can have a unit of 25 people maximum for the entire shoot,” the letter read. Sandeep Kotecha, president of the association, suggested that a film city must be erected in Goa since it would not only boost employment, but also improve filmmaking in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/permit-film-shooting-to-resume-in-goa/articleshow/75747684.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Goa||Shack owners look to CM for relief||Calangute: With 200-odd beach shacks along the Calangute-Candolim tourism belt shut since the third week of March following the Covid-19 lockdown, members of the Shack Owners Welfare Society (SOWS) will meet chief minister Pramod Sawant on Friday to discuss relief measures for shack owners. SOWS general secretary John Lobo told TOI that their immediate priority is to arrange for workers employed at shacks to return to their native places at the earliest. With no business, shack owners are feeling the pinch of having to feed these workers and pay their salaries, he said. Calangute panchayat has registered around 15,000 migrant workers. Some of those working in shacks, watersports activities, guesthouses, and other tourism businesses in Calangute and Candolim have been able to leave for their native places through the Shramik trains. Candolim sarpanch Blaize Fernandes said that they have registered around 6,500 migrants and confirmed that some have left.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/shack-owners-look-to-cm-for-relief/articleshow/75747676.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Goa||GMPF urges governor, CM Pramod Sawant to pursue mining restart||PANAJI: Goa Mining People’s Front (GMPF) has urged governor Satya Pal Malik and chief minister Pramod Sawant to continue their efforts towards resumption of mining, a sector that provides livelihood to three lakh people in the state. Recently, both the governor and chief minister had written to the prime minister and Union home minister seeking amendment to the relevant act to give mining leases extension up to 2037 and resume activities in the state. GMPF president Puti Gaonkar requested the governor for an urgent meeting. “We wish to bring to his notice that immediate resumption of the mining industry is very crucial for restoring the state economy and saving livelihoods of lakhs of people who are directly and indirectly dependent on mining for survival,” Gaonkar said. GMPF stated that resumption of mining will not only help boost the state’s economy, which has lost Rs 3,500 crore per year due to stoppage of the industry, but will also provide it relief in the current Covid-19 pandemic situation that has further “intensified the tragic economic condition of the state”. The body which represents the cause of lakhs of people gainfully employed in the mining industry pointed to the state’s borrowing, which stands at an all-time high of Rs 20,000 crore, and has increased debt in the past two years. The state witnessed a similar sharp spike in debt levels during the period from 2012 to 2016, when mining activities had stopped, GMPF said. Resumption of mining in the state can further augment the national foreign exchange reserves to approximately Rs 6,000 crore amid the present economic downturn on account of Covid-19, GMPF said. “We also request the governor not to give undue importance to utopian ideas being put across by some NGOs as we believe that the present solution for mining resumption as suggested by him and the government of Goa led by chief minister is done after considering the interest of the state and its people,” Gaonkar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/gmpf-urges-guv-cm-to-pursue-mining-restart/articleshow/75747707.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Surat||Sale of vegetables, fruits begin except in red zones||The sale of vegetables and fruits in the city, except for the containment zones, has started in the full swing after the deadline issued by the Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) concluded on Thursday. In an order, municipal commissioner Banchhanidhi Pani had prohibited the sale of vegetables and fruits from May 9 to May 14 to contain the spread of coronavirus, after 25 vegetable vendors tested positive of the virus. Dr Ashish Naik, deputy municipal commissioner (health and hospital), said, “The ban on sale of vegetables and fruits ended on Thursday. However, there will be no sale of vegetables in containment zones. Residents have been advised to maintain social distancing while making purchases.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/sale-of-vegetables-fruits-begin-except-in-red-zones/articleshow/75745092.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Goa||Ban sale of fish from outside Goa, government urged||COLVA: The South Goa Mechanised Boat Owners’ Society, along with trawler owners and traditional fishermen, on Thursday urged the government not to permit the opening of the wholesale fish market in Fatorda. They also want a ban on sale of fish from outside the state. Opening the wholesale market would be tantamount to allowing affected individuals from other states to enter Goa and endanger the lives of Goans, the society’s chairman, Antonio Fernandes, said. Further, he urged chief minister Pramod Sawant to not even allow vehicles carrying fish to travel through Goa. “They enter the state stating that they are travelling to Kerela, but do business here,” he said. They also claimed that they have just another fortnight left to do some business before the fishing ban kicks in on June 1, and hence, if the wholesale market is opened, it should be only for Goans. One fisherman, Anthony Rodrigues said that since the lockdown, Goan fishermen have been catering to the fish requirements of Goans. “The government asked us to sell our catch from our residences and we are doing so,” he said. Meanwhile, South Goa Planning and Development authority chairman and Nuvem MLA Wilfred D’Sa said that his office had received a representation from fish traders to open the wholesale market, but that a decision is yet to be taken.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ban-sale-of-fish-from-outside-goa-govt-urged/articleshow/75747686.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Lucknow||UPSRTC offers charter service to industries||LUCKNOW: In order to facilitate mobilisation of workers and labourers in the green zone, private transporters can operate and resume their services, while UPSRTC buses would be available to be chartered by industries in the orange zone. Giving the above information, principal secretary, transport, RK Singh said that the above decision was taken to provide manpower to the MSME sector and big industries and also to arrest falling revenue of the corporation. The principal secretary said that the average monthly revenue of the corporation has been around Rs 450 crore in the last two months. It is not even 10 per cent of its income in normal times, posing a major challenge to the government to pay staff salaries and meet other expenditures. Out of Rs 450 crore income, about Rs 150 crore is budgeted for the salary, Rs 150 crore for fuel and rest for maintenance and miscellaneous expenses, Singh added. The corporation operates about 10,000 buses daily, but due to the lockdown and almost zero economic activities, its revenue has nosedived except for the last two months since migrant workers have started returning to the state, said the principal secretary. He added that efforts would be made to recover losses by restarting transport services where ever it is possible within the protocol. Big industries and micro, small and medium enterprises, which are resuming their business activities, have requested the government to restart regular bus service for the staff failing which they would not be able to reach their workplaces. It is at this background the state government has started chartered bus service for the industry and allowed private transporters to operate in the green zone, the officer added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/upsrtc-offers-charter-service-to-industries/articleshow/75747701.cms||Subhash Mishra
May 15, 2020||Goa||Funds crunch: Major GSIDC projects on hold||PANAJI: Infrastructure projects which are nearing completion will be continued on priority while all other projects, especially where work orders have not been issued, will be put on hold, the Goa State Infrastructure Development Corporation (GSIDC) decided on Friday . Hit by a paucity of funds, particularly where resources were diverted to complete the South Goa district hospital, GSIDC has been left with no option but to prioritise projects. GSIDC has prepared a list of all projects and classified them into seven categories based on the progress achieved till date. “The discussion was mainly about how to move forward on the current works under way . Projects nearing completion, where around 10% is left, we will try and complete,” said GSIDC vice chairman Joshua D’Souza.Construction and completion of the High Court complex at Porvorim will continue while major projects such as the Mapusa and Margao bus stand will be stalled, said D’Souza. The administrative complex cum tower proposed at Patto has been put on hold along with the Rs 47 crore Accounts department office project. D’Souza confirmed that several bills remain pending and that funds were diverted to pay for the completion of the South Goa district hospital on urgent basis in view of the pandemic. Priority is being accorded to schools, hospitals and maintenance activity, GSIDC officials told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/funds-crunch-major-gsidc-projects-on-hold/articleshow/75747726.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Goa||Greens write to Centre over forest approvals||Panaji: A group of 291 conservation scientists and allied professionals, including several signatories from Goa and 12 former members of the National Board for Wildlife (NBWL), concern about “the lack of due diligence for environmental and forest clearances”, especially during the pandemic-related restrictions and hardships. They questioned the decisions and clearances given at the 57th meeting of the Standing Committee of the National Board for Wildlife (NBWL) on April 7. These were related to the 31 proposals affecting 15 protected areas, notified eco-sensitive zones, deemed eco-sensitive zones and designated wildlife corridors, including Bhagwan Mahavir Wildlife Sanctuary in Goa. They have thus written a letter to the Union government to voice their concerns about water security and forest trees. “In Mollem, part of a protected area and critical wildlife corridor 80,000 trees will be felled to make way for three infrastructure projects, namely widening of a railway line, highway road widening and laying of power transmission line, all in the guise of development,” said Tallulah D’Silva, architect, writer and educator. “It is now established beyond doubt that accelerating climate change, rapid loss of biodiversity and unravelling of ecosystems are acting in synergy and eroding the very foundations of human life and our collective wellbeing. The Covid-19 pandemic is one example of the consequences of the continued neglect abuse and destruction of natural habitats, ecosystems and landscapes, we need to be even more rigorous in evaluating decisions when forests and wildlife clearance proposals are put up,” said noted environmentalist and filmmaker Mike Pandey. Given the current circumstances and uncertain future, the signatories called for fresh appraisals and to hold in abeyance forest and environmental clearance decisions and postpone further meetings till all pandemic-related travel and meeting restrictions are completely lifted across India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/greens-write-to-centre-over-forest-approvals/articleshow/75747723.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Goa||Cong proposes Rs 100 crore economic package for Goa||Panaji: Congress on Thursday outlined a Rs 100 crore revival package which could provide assistance to a wide section of Goa’s population and sustain its economy. Spelling out the details of the stimulus package, opposition leader Digambar Kamat said that the roadmap will put money in the hands of those who contribute to 50% of Goa’s economy. Kamat, after submitting the revival roadmap to chief minister Pramod Sawant, demanded that the funds should be disbursed immediately in order to stop pushing people into debt traps. “If this package of Rs 100 crore is immediately released in the local economy, the hardships of Goans will be eased and the same money will be circulated back into the economy,” said Kamat. Kamat also urged the state government to cut down all wasteful expenditure, and to postpone activities related to the National Games, International Film Festival of India (IFFI), purchase of new vehicles and construction of monuments and memorials. The Congress MLA urged the government to pay attention to the agricultural sector and to safeguard the organised and the unorganised sector, which contribute more than 50% to Goa’s economy. “It is depressing that the state government is still not able to get any assistance from the Centre,” said Kamat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cong-proposes-rs-100-crore-economic-package-for-goa/articleshow/75747716.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Trichy||With 80% cases discharged, Ariyalur fast on recovery path||Trichy: Ariyalur, which witnessed a spurt in Covid-19 cases that placed it among the top five most-affected districts after the outbreak of the Koyambedu market cluster, is fast moving on the recovery path. Almost 80% of the 348 active cases have been discharged till Thursday. Until April 30, Ariyalur had only seven Covid-19 positive cases. But the outbreak of the Koyambedu cluster in the first week of May saw the number of positive cases soaring to 222 in the district. Since Ariyalur folk constituted a significant chunk of the workforce in Koyambedu market, the cases further soared to 348 in the second week of May. Though the number of cases was high, doctors had said that a significant number of the Koyambedu returnees were asymptomatic and in stable health condition. Health department sources said that 280 patients admitted to Ariyalur GH, Covid Care Centre (slum clearance board facility), Trichy GH and four isolation facilities have been discharged so far. One of the isolation facilities at Jayankondam is completely free of occupants now. Asymptomatic and stable returnees were observed for five days as per the guidelines. Patients in Ariyalur GH are being discharged based on X-ray analysis and test results after consultation with expert teams in Chennai. Ariyalur GH alone has discharged 92 Covid-19 patients in the past four days while the other discharges came from quarantine facilities and Trichy GH. “At present, we have 62 positive cases in treatment at the GH. Half of them are asymptomatic and stable and there is a possibility of more discharges in the coming days,” H Muthukrishnan, dean, Ariyalur government medical college hospital, said. Meanwhile, the district administration comprising revenue and panchayat departments has constituted block level teams to ensure that the discharged people are staying at home. “Panchayat chiefs were told to ensure disinfection in their jurisdiction,” an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/with-80-cases-discharged-ariyalur-fast-on-recovery-path/articleshow/75747168.cms||Deepak Karthik
May 15, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: Lockdown blues drive people to learn new skills||LUCKNOW: Rishi Shukla, a law student at Dr Babasaheb Bhimrao Ambedkar University, never used to touch a wire as he was afraid of electric shock but he can now fix electrical appliances at home. Rishi used his free time to surf the internet to learn the technicalities. Like him, a number of people are trying their hands on plumbing, gardening and even hair-cutting during lockdown. “My father didn’t allow us to switch on the air-conditioner since its servicing was not done. However, soaring temperatures made me put aside all my fears and I carried out the servicing myself after learning about it through the internet,” he says. “After I was successful, I tried my hands at my TV and repaired it too. However, I could not fix the fault in my mixer grinder after browsing many videos online,” adds Rishi. Similarly, Ambrish Bhargava who never held scissors even for art and craft is now busy giving hair cut to all children of his family by watching Jawed Habib video. “I don’t want my children eyes to become weak. Long hair are irritating them so I have decided to give hair cut not only to them but also to other members of my family,” he says. From fixing leaking pipes to maintaining their own gardens people are taking up many roles during lockdown. “I have never ever watered a plant in my life but during lockdown, I am looking after my garden and have pruned more than 50 pots,” says Rishi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lockdown-blues-drive-people-to-learn-new-skills/articleshow/75747737.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Anganwadi worker feeds hungry migrants treading home||HYDERABAD: An anganwadi worker from Mupkal village near Nizamabad district has come to the rescue of migrant workers who are embarking on long journeys by foot to reach their native cities. Ameena Begum, mother of four and a widow, has been waking up at 3 am every morning to cook food for 350 to 400 migrant workers walking on National Highway 44 to their homes. “I decided to start cooking for the migrant workers after my brother-in-law Wahab told me about the plight of the children who were walking hundreds of kilometres,” said the 42-year-old. After feeding the first batch of workers, she was informed that there were several others who were taking the same path and have been starving for more than two days. “I immediately rushed home, discussed the issue with my children and decided that I will continue to provide food until the lockdown ends. Since then, I have been providing food, water, tea, fruits and snacks to the migrant workers and their children,” the 42-year-old said. Looking at her determined mother, Ameena’s 22-year-old daughter donated Rs 20,000 embroidery work earning. Her son, Mohammad Azharuddin, who runs a chicken centre, is also donating Rs 500 every day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/anganwadi-worker-feeds-hungry-migrants-treading-home/articleshow/75746372.cms||Moulika.KV
May 15, 2020||Goa||Goa: Five quarantined after contact with Gujarat truck driver||PONDA: Following the confirmatory test of the Gujarat-based truck driver at Goa Medical College Bambolim for coronavirus, five persons, including three operators of a Ponda dhaba (road side eatery) and two workers of a transport company have been quarantined at the Ponda sub district hospital on Thursday as they came in direct contact with the truck driver on Wednesday. The driver had reportedly had his meals at the dhaba located along the Bethora-Borim Bypass Road , where the truck was parked for the last two days after the driver had unloaded his goods at a transport company in Ponda on Tuesday. On Wednesday morning, the driver was shifted to the Ponda sub district hospital after he developed fever and complaints of uneasiness. Ascertaining his travel history, the medical officers at the hospital conducted the TrueNet Screening test on the driver, which showed he was positive for the virus. Following the test result, his blood sample was sent to GMC for the Real Time RT-PCR (Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction) test, which also came positive, confirming his Covid-19 infection. At the same time, six who travelled together in a vehicle— a family of five people, including a one-year-old baby, and their driver, also tested positive for the virus and were referred to the ESI Hospital in Margao early Thursday morning. Local authorities in Ponda, supervised by deputy collector Kedar Naik and Ponda PI Mohan Gaude, arranged for the truck and the dhaba to be sanitised on Thursday, to prevent the spread of the virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/five-quarantined-after-contact-with-guj-truck-driver/articleshow/75747743.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Trichy||Thousands watch livestreaming of temple’s Panchaprakaram festival||Trichy: After receiving a good response for the livestream of Chithirai festival, the Samayapuram Mariamman temple management live-streamed the Panchaprakaram festival on Thursday. As the temple is closed for public darshan during the lockdown, the special prayers and rituals conducted at the temple were viewed by at least 50,000 users around the world. The Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments (HR&CE) that manages the Arulmigu Mariamman temple in Samayapuram said the Panchaprakaram festival is annually celebrated on the first day of Tamil month Vaikasi, to invoke the blessings of five elements of nature. HR&CE livestreamed the rituals and abishekams conducted by 15 priests from 1pm on Thursday on www.samayapurammariammantemple.org, the official website of the temple. Cauvery water in gold and silver utensils were brought to the temple and were used in the rituals conducted for the processional deity of the Samayapuram Mariamman temple organised at Vasantha Mandapam. “Devotees from various parts of the state called us and gave positive feedback for livestreaming the rituals during the lockdown. The response has made us consider live streaming selective festivals and rituals even after lockdown as people who cannot travel long distances will get a chance to watch the holy proceedings,” said K P Ashok Kumar, joint commissioner, Samayapuram temple. The link to the official website for watching the four-hours long ritual was shared by the temple management on various social media platforms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/thousands-watch-livestreaming-of-temples-panchaprakaram-festival/articleshow/75747190.cms||Deepak Karthik
May 15, 2020||Goa||Parts of Goa experience showers, thunderstorm||Panaji: Rain and thunderstorm lashed parts of the state on Thursday bringing much needed respite from the summer heat to Goans. While areas like Honda, Sakhali and Pernem received rainfall, the Mandur-Carambolim area experienced only a drizzle. Bicholim received heavy rainfall, while Panaji experienced cloudy skies and a cool weather through most part of the evening. TOI had recently highlighted a trough formation in the Arabian Sea. It was prevailing from Madhya Pradesh to Tamil Nadu earlier, but later moved from Marathwada to Tamil Nadu across Karnataka. Simultaneously, a well-marked low pressure region has formed over the Bay of Bengal. Owing to this system, the trough in the Arabian Sea was slightly intensified. This has resulted in moisture accumulation along the trough, thus inducing cloud formation. Due to this, rainfall was experienced in parts of Goa. The Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) at Altinho said that rain will lash parts of the state on Friday as well with a slightly higher spatial distribution owing to the trough and the low pressure area. “The system of a low pressure region will prevail in the Bay of Bengal over the coming days as well. Goa will experience rainfall on Friday too, but slightly distributed to a higher level,” IMD scientist Rahul M said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/parts-of-goa-experience-showers-thunderstorm/articleshow/75747741.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Rajkot||Gujarat: Five break into closed eatery only to kill hunger||RAJKOT: Hunger pangs can burn even the staunchest moral beliefs and self dignity. This came to light when a group of around five jobless, penniless and starving men in Junagadh town broke into an eatery on the intervening night of May 12 and 13. They left as neatly as they entered after cooking rice and potato curry in the kitchen, eating it and without stealing a single item, said cops. Video: A group of five men breaks into an eatery in Gujarat's Junagadh town; cooks rice, potato curry to eat, leave… https://t.co/eXnSC6cK26— TOIRajkot (@TOIRajkot) 1589521447000According to Jitesh Tank, owner of Gajanand Parotha House in Vaibhav Chowk, at least five people entered the kitchen from the terrace. “The CCTV footage shows one men entering the kitchen, searching for something. Later he notices the CCTV and covers it,” Tank told TOI. The magnanimous eatery owner, however, decided not to file any complaint against the break-in as nothing was stolen from his place. Tank said that on May 13 morning he got a call from the owner of an office near his eatery that the kitchen door of the eatery was open. “On entering the kitchen, I found that there were five used plates lying around. Some kitchen utensils were also used to prepare food. They seem to have prepared some rice and potato curry,” he added. After the unique break-in footage was uploaded on social media by the owner, police came to know about the incident. “A couple of constables from Junagadh B division station went to the spot and took the footage from the owner,” said Junagadh, deputy superintendent of police, Pradeepsinh Jadeja. Jadeja said from the evidences left there, it seems around five men entered the place, cooked some food and ate it before leaving the eatery. Lockdown across the country has left many daily wagers jobless and at the mercy of government distributed ration. Daily wagers and migrant workers in different towns of Gujarat are seen standing for hours in scorching May heat to get a ration kit that would last them for just couple of days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/gujarat-five-break-into-closed-eatery-only-to-kill-hunger/articleshow/75745140.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Techie raises fund for baby with heart condition||HYDERABAD: A baby, who was suffering from congenital heart disease (CHD), was successfully operated upon at a private hospital last week and continues to be stable. The surgery could be possible with the help of an IT professional, Sateesh Kumar Kolusu, who managed to raise Rs 1.68 lakh for the procedure within 24 hours. Sateesh heard about the baby through a friend. “This would not have been possible without the timely help of donors,” he said. The baby has to go through two more surgeries in the coming months. The baby’s father, Chandi Prasad, is a technician at a pharma company and his 24-year-old mother is a homemaker.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/techie-raises-fund-for-baby-with-heart-condition/articleshow/75746390.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Trichy||No mask while stepping out? Pay fine||Trichy: Manapparai municipality has started levying a fine of Rs100 on people stepping out in public places without a facemask and has penalised 36 people so far. The move is part of the municipality’s efforts to keep the town free from Covid-19 infection as there are no active cases currently here. Manapparai municipality, which has 27 wards and about 11,000 households, had 65 people under home quarantine including those who returned from other states. Though the town does not have any positive cases, adjacent hamlets including Keelaiyur and Puthanatham have recorded Covid-19 cases. As a lot of people shuttle between the town and nearby villages to trade vegetables, the municipality said that they were alerted about people coming out without wearing facemasks. In the surprise inspections conducted in the last three days, sanitary officials from the Manapparai municipality have collected Rs3,600 as penalty from people for not wearing facemasks. “Facemasks are available in adequate numbers but people intentionally skip wearing the protective gear. Our objective was not to net penalty but make people fall in line to keep the town safe,” said A L Nedumaran, Manapparai municipality sanitary officer. Two teams with 10 officials supervised the inspections in Gandhi Nagar, Rajiv Nagar and Manjampatti. Trichy Corporation is yet to take such aggressive measures to make people accustom to the new normal such as wearing masks and maintaining social distancing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/no-mask-while-stepping-out-pay-fine/articleshow/75747186.cms||Deepak Karthik
May 15, 2020||Rajkot||Onion farmer ends life, family blames meagre returns on produce||Rajkot: An onion farmer committed suicide in Bhavnagar district’s Isora village on Thursday. While the family members and acquaintances claimed that he too drastic step due to meagre returns on produce and debt, police blamed family dispute as the reason. Bhupat Jethwa (53) was found hanging with a tree in his farm in Isora village of Talaja taluka. His family members told police that Jethwa was under severe mental stress over the last few days as he was not able to harvest the crop considering the meagre prices in the wholesale market.Jethwa was cultivating five bigha land in partnership and had grown onion in two bighas. His son Lalji said, “I had heard my father telling someone that he suffered a loss of Rs 35,000 to Rs 40,000 because of poor price in the market. He released goats and sheep in the farm for grazing on onions because it’s not financially viable to harvest the standing crop.” According to police investigation, Jethwa had also borrowed nearly Rs 40,000 to grow onions, but was unable to pay the debtHowever, LD Gamara, police inspector of Talaja police station said, “The family members are trying to misguide the police by stating crop prices as the reason. There was a family dispute because Jethwa’s both sons were unemployed. The actual reason will come out in investigation.” One of his sons was a diamond artisan in Surat, but he is jobless due to lockdown. He also has three daughters.Village sarpanch Sailesh Rao said, “Jethwa was very disturbed over the last few days and he left for his farm on Wednesday night. His son first saw him hanging with tree and informed me. We immediately took him to Talaja government hospital where he was declared dead on admission.” Bhavnagar is the largest onion-growing district in Gujarat, but the farmers are getting only Rs two to Rs five per kg in the wholesale market. With such meagre returns, they can’t even recover the production cost and its not viable to pay labuor charges for harvesting the crop and transportation cost to bring the crop to market. The auction process has been suspended in all the marketing yards and farmers are at the mercy of the traders. .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/onion-farmer-ends-life-family-blames-meagre-returns-on-produce/articleshow/75745170.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Nashik||Maharashtra stares at acute labour shortage as 15 lakh migrants may not return: Netas||MUMBAI: Maharashtra and especially its big cities such as Mumbai, Pune, Nashik and Nagpur could be staring at an acute labour shortage as an estimated 15 lakh migrants who have left for their home states of Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand and Madhya Pradesh are unlikely to return in the near future over fears of contracting coronavirus. On May 1, the Central government permitted interstate movement of migrants, students, pilgrims and tourists stranded since the announcement of a lockdown in the last week of March. It is estimated that 15 lakh migrants have already left for their home states from Maharashtra and more will leave in the coming weeks. Bihar’s Sanjay Nirupam, a former MP, and Uttar Pradesh’s Kripashankar Singh, a former junior minister for home, who made Mumbai their home over four decades ago, said a large number of migrants are unlikely to return as they fear dying of the Covid pandemic. “In my opinion, while lakhs of people from Bihar and UP have been working in Mumbai, no steps have been taken towards creating their official records. Even after the Central government allowed movement of migrants, there was no policy. The government woke up only after 16 labourers were run over by a train near Aurangabad,” said Nirupam. Nirupam further said even if migrants decide to come back, it will be after more than a year. “They may get daily wages in their home states from the Employment Guarantee Scheme or farming during the sowing season. If they do not come back, Mumbai, Pune, Raigad and Nashik will face a serious situation as certain industries such as steel employ a large number of people from Bihar and UP,” said Nirupam. Endorsing Nirupam, Kripashankar Singh said people who lived in and around containment zones before migrating may not return “forever”. “The NDA government has declared a package for migrants. In addition, even the UP government has come out with a package for migrants who will be given work under the MGNREGA and other cottage industries. The UP government has agreed to provide jobs to migrants wherever they are. Under such circumstances, I do not think migrants will return to Mumbai. They are also anxious about coronavirus,’’ said Singh. “I think only those migrants who have their own rooms or businesses here may return. Daily wagers will prefer to stay in their home states.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/maha-stares-at-acute-labour-shortage-as-15l-migrants-may-not-return-netas/articleshow/75750496.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra stares at acute labour shortage as 15 lakh migrants may not return: Netas||MUMBAI: Maharashtra and especially its big cities such as Mumbai, Pune, Nashik and Nagpur could be staring at an acute labour shortage as an estimated 15 lakh migrants who have left for their home states of Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand and Madhya Pradesh are unlikely to return in the near future over fears of contracting coronavirus. On May 1, the Central government permitted interstate movement of migrants, students, pilgrims and tourists stranded since the announcement of a lockdown in the last week of March. It is estimated that 15 lakh migrants have already left for their home states from Maharashtra and more will leave in the coming weeks. Bihar’s Sanjay Nirupam, a former MP, and Uttar Pradesh’s Kripashankar Singh, a former junior minister for home, who made Mumbai their home over four decades ago, said a large number of migrants are unlikely to return as they fear dying of the Covid pandemic. “In my opinion, while lakhs of people from Bihar and UP have been working in Mumbai, no steps have been taken towards creating their official records. Even after the Central government allowed movement of migrants, there was no policy. The government woke up only after 16 labourers were run over by a train near Aurangabad,” said Nirupam. Nirupam further said even if migrants decide to come back, it will be after more than a year. “They may get daily wages in their home states from the Employment Guarantee Scheme or farming during the sowing season. If they do not come back, Mumbai, Pune, Raigad and Nashik will face a serious situation as certain industries such as steel employ a large number of people from Bihar and UP,” said Nirupam. Endorsing Nirupam, Kripashankar Singh said people who lived in and around containment zones before migrating may not return “forever”. “The NDA government has declared a package for migrants. In addition, even the UP government has come out with a package for migrants who will be given work under the MGNREGA and other cottage industries. The UP government has agreed to provide jobs to migrants wherever they are. Under such circumstances, I do not think migrants will return to Mumbai. They are also anxious about coronavirus,’’ said Singh. “I think only those migrants who have their own rooms or businesses here may return. Daily wagers will prefer to stay in their home states.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maha-stares-at-acute-labour-shortage-as-15l-migrants-may-not-return-netas/articleshow/75746408.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Goa||6,000 want to enter Goa from other states, 85k seek to leave||Panaji: More than 6,000 people staying within the country have registered with the government seeking to enter Goa in the coming days. Two thousand others have already entered the state with their own vehicles or through public transport after registering with the interstate movement cell. “We have to give permission to Goans who want to return to the state,” chief minister Pramod Sawant said on Thursday. Goa reported seven Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, and soon after that, another on Thursday. Six of these comprised a family of five and their driver who were tested at the state’s border while coming in from Mumbai.A senior official said passes to enter Goa are issued on merit and only after the respective district collectors scrutinise each application. Most of the Goans registered with nodal officer Kunal are from Maharashtra and Karnataka. Sawant, meanwhile, said that over 8,000 Goans expatriates and 3,000 seafarers have registered to return. Nearly one lakh migrant labourers had signed up to leave Goa and return to their native places. Of these, 15,000 have already departed. A majority of 22,000 migrants from UP seek to return to their homes, followed by 12,000 from West Bengal, 10,000 from Karntaka and Bihar each, 8,000 from Jharkhand, 7,000 from Odisha and 5,000 from Maharashtra. Sixty students from Ghatprabha, Karnataka, were recently ferried back to Goa in three KTC buses under supervision of the interstate movement cell, a senior official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/6000-want-to-enter-goa-from-other-states-85k-seek-to-leave/articleshow/75747753.cms||Murari Shetye
May 15, 2020||Agra||Stay put in district where your duties are assigned: DM to health workers||Agra: Hathras district magistrate (DM) has raised objections over doctors and health workers travelling from highly-infected areas like Agra, Mathura and Aligarh to the city daily, in violation of rules during coronavirus outbreak.DM Praveen Laxkar has written a letter to chief medical officer (CMO) and directed him to ensure that doctors and health workers stay in the districts where their duties are, till condition improves.He further said that due to their movement, there is possibility of spread of infection.When contacted, DM Laxkar, said, “We have received complaints from public. So I have given the directions. If anyone is found flouting the norms, despite this warning, strict action will be taken against them.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/stay-put-in-district-where-your-duties-are-assigned-dm-to-health-workers/articleshow/75746404.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Nalgonda SP’s family chips in to distribute grocery||HYDERABAD: Moved by the plight of workers during lockdown, ‘Manam’, the family group of Nalgonda superintendent of police (SP) AV Ranganath distributed provisions to 175 families in the district on Wednesday. “After seeing people’s plight due to the lockdown, we decided to help them. Initially, we thought we would contribute Rs one lakh, but we managed to pool Rs 2.08 lakh,” said Anuradha, the SP’s wife. The family visited an orphanage, a child care centre and also a leprosy home to distribute rice, oil and clothes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/nalgonda-sps-family-chips-in-to-distribute-grocery/articleshow/75746409.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
May 15, 2020||Goa||CM to meet Goa’s bankers to discuss PM relief package||PANAJI: Just days after prime minister Narendra Modi announced a Rs 20 lakh crore Covid relief package, chief minister Pramod Sawant has called for an urgent meeting of bankers to enable Goa to avail maximum benefit of the various schemes announced. “We have called for a state-level banking committee (SLBC) meeting at 4pm on Friday. We will give direction to avail maximum benefit from the financial package announced by the Centre,” he said. Sawant told reporters that while Modi has not announced a state-wise financial package, the state must avail the benefits sector-wise. He said that the government will make efforts ensure that sectors such as agriculture, industry and infrastructure receive the benefits of the relief package. He also said that state contactors will be promoted to encourage them to bid for bigger projects. Sawant said that 147 suggestions have already been received from the public for steps to revive the economy and that the portal inviting suggestion will be kept open for another week. Meanwhile, the chief minister has requested people not to spread any Covid-19-related rumors. He warned that cases would be registered against those found spreading the rumors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cm-to-meet-goas-bankers-to-discuss-pm-relief-package/articleshow/75747757.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Aurangabad||Maharashtra stares at acute labour shortage as 15 lakh migrants may not return: Netas||MUMBAI: Maharashtra and especially its big cities such as Mumbai, Pune, Nashik and Nagpur could be staring at an acute labour shortage as an estimated 15 lakh migrants who have left for their home states of Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand and Madhya Pradesh are unlikely to return in the near future over fears of contracting coronavirus. On May 1, the Central government permitted interstate movement of migrants, students, pilgrims and tourists stranded since the announcement of a lockdown in the last week of March. It is estimated that 15 lakh migrants have already left for their home states from Maharashtra and more will leave in the coming weeks. Bihar’s Sanjay Nirupam, a former MP, and Uttar Pradesh’s Kripashankar Singh, a former junior minister for home, who made Mumbai their home over four decades ago, said a large number of migrants are unlikely to return as they fear dying of the Covid pandemic. “In my opinion, while lakhs of people from Bihar and UP have been working in Mumbai, no steps have been taken towards creating their official records. Even after the Central government allowed movement of migrants, there was no policy. The government woke up only after 16 labourers were run over by a train near Aurangabad,” said Nirupam. Nirupam further said even if migrants decide to come back, it will be after more than a year. “They may get daily wages in their home states from the Employment Guarantee Scheme or farming during the sowing season. If they do not come back, Mumbai, Pune, Raigad and Nashik will face a serious situation as certain industries such as steel employ a large number of people from Bihar and UP,” said Nirupam. Endorsing Nirupam, Kripashankar Singh said people who lived in and around containment zones before migrating may not return “forever”. “The NDA government has declared a package for migrants. In addition, even the UP government has come out with a package for migrants who will be given work under the MGNREGA and other cottage industries. The UP government has agreed to provide jobs to migrants wherever they are. Under such circumstances, I do not think migrants will return to Mumbai. They are also anxious about coronavirus,’’ said Singh. “I think only those migrants who have their own rooms or businesses here may return. Daily wagers will prefer to stay in their home states.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/maha-stares-at-acute-labour-shortage-as-15l-migrants-may-not-return-netas/articleshow/75750498.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: Gomtinagar family back from Aligarh, 3 test Covid +ve||LUCKNOW: Three members of a Gomtinagar family, including an elderly couple, were diagnosed with Covid-19 on Thursday, three days after returning from Aligarh. The alley of their house in Viram Khand was sealed by administration and movement of residents restricted to contain the spread of virus. Another case, the fourth on Thursday, was detected when a 20-year-old man from Sadar tested positive and was admitted to RSM hospital, pushing total cases in the city to 281. District infectious disease unit in-charge Dr K P Tripathi said the family had gone to Aligarh on May 9 to attend funeral of a relative. Chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Narendra Agrawal said, “The family of an elderly couple and their son returned on May 11. We received alert from Aligarh administration on May 12 that the family had come in contact with an infected person who died following which swab samples of the three were collected. Their reports came positive. The two elderlies have been admitted to KGMU and son to RSM hospital. Samples of their neighbours are being collected.” The CMO feigned ignorance when asked whether the family had taken permission for travel saying police and district administration should have stopped them at borders if they had no pass. Calls and messages in this regard to district magistrate Abhishek Prakash went unanswered. The 29-year-old son of the couple, however, told TOI over phone that he is admitted in KGMU and not RSM hospital. “We went to Aligarh on April 27 to see my ailing grandmother after taking due permission from administration. She died on April 28 and was not a Covid-19 patient. We came back on May 11,” he said. “My uncle (father’s elder brother) died in Aligarh on May 12 and he was diagnosed with Covid-19,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/gomtinagar-family-back-from-aligarh-3-test-ve/articleshow/75747765.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra stares at acute labour shortage as 15 lakh migrants may not return: Netas||MUMBAI: Maharashtra and especially its big cities such as Mumbai, Pune, Nashik and Nagpur could be staring at an acute labour shortage as an estimated 15 lakh migrants who have left for their home states of Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand and Madhya Pradesh are unlikely to return in the near future over fears of contracting coronavirus. On May 1, the Central government permitted interstate movement of migrants, students, pilgrims and tourists stranded since the announcement of a lockdown in the last week of March. It is estimated that 15 lakh migrants have already left for their home states from Maharashtra and more will leave in the coming weeks. Bihar’s Sanjay Nirupam, a former MP, and Uttar Pradesh’s Kripashankar Singh, a former junior minister for home, who made Mumbai their home over four decades ago, said a large number of migrants are unlikely to return as they fear dying of the Covid pandemic. “In my opinion, while lakhs of people from Bihar and UP have been working in Mumbai, no steps have been taken towards creating their official records. Even after the Central government allowed movement of migrants, there was no policy. The government woke up only after 16 labourers were run over by a train near Aurangabad,” said Nirupam. Nirupam further said even if migrants decide to come back, it will be after more than a year. “They may get daily wages in their home states from the Employment Guarantee Scheme or farming during the sowing season. If they do not come back, Mumbai, Pune, Raigad and Nashik will face a serious situation as certain industries such as steel employ a large number of people from Bihar and UP,” said Nirupam. Endorsing Nirupam, Kripashankar Singh said people who lived in and around containment zones before migrating may not return “forever”. “The NDA government has declared a package for migrants. In addition, even the UP government has come out with a package for migrants who will be given work under the MGNREGA and other cottage industries. The UP government has agreed to provide jobs to migrants wherever they are. Under such circumstances, I do not think migrants will return to Mumbai. They are also anxious about coronavirus,’’ said Singh. “I think only those migrants who have their own rooms or businesses here may return. Daily wagers will prefer to stay in their home states.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/maha-stares-at-acute-labour-shortage-as-15l-migrants-may-not-return-netas/articleshow/75750497.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Kochi||Adhere to protocol in dengue, lepto cases, hospitals told||Kochi: Small scale private medical institutions and practitioners in Ernakulam have been asked to strictly adhere to treatment protocol and identify red flag signs in connection with treatment in leptospirosis and dengue fever cases. Primary health centers have been advised to share the protocols with the private medical institutions in the respective areas. The move is following the death of a 27-year-old man due to suspected leptospirosis case in Karumalloor early this month and the rising number of dengue fever cases in Ernakulam. The protocol involves identifying red flags, which are symptoms of a particular disease and involves history taking and examination during consultation. If the patient developed red flag signs, doxycycline tablets should be administered immediately and refer him to better medical facility. “When a patient approaches a medical practitioner with red flags, which are symptoms of these diseases, the doctor should analyse the cause and understand history of the patient and administer doxycycline before referring him to another hospital, where better facilities, including laboratory, are available. Though district health officials conduct classes on protocol details to private medical institutions every year, they do not attend it, forcing us to distribute leaflets of red flags. Government hospitals and major private ones are obviously aware of the protocols,” said a health official. “We have to educate private hospitals regarding protocols. Whenever patients come with fever and body pain, doctors in government hospitals think of leptospirosis and dengue fever and start treatment early by administering simple doxycycline oral tablets. But small-time private practitioners aren’t aware of these protocols. We have asked public health centres to share the protocols with clinics and other small private medical practitioners in their area. Problems are mainly reported from many small hospitals and clinics,” said another health officer. “We can diagnose a disease through travel and occupational history of the patient. If the patient says he has a recent travel history outside Kerala and developed fever, the doctor should think of Malaria. By identifying red flag signs and taking treatment steps accordingly, we can bring down mortality rate,” he said. There are less than 400 private medical institutions including major hospitals in the district. Indian Medical Association has been holding meetings for private medical practitioners on the protocols zone wise. Four teams of doctors, under ‘unite for healthy Ernakulam’, from four medical colleges have been formed in the district to visit private hospitals in their respective areas and provide awareness on protocols. “We have already asked the medical institutions to follow protocol on treatment and identifying red flag signs. Since there is lockdown, we conducted meetings on Zoom video. We will discuss it during a meeting convened on Tuesday,” said additional district medical officer Dr S Sreedevi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/adhere-to-protocol-in-dengue-lepto-cases-hospitals-told/articleshow/75737759.cms||T C Sreemol
May 15, 2020||Agra||Activist moves NCPCR over six-month-old's death due to lack of ambulance||Agra: A child rights activist on Thursday wrote to the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) over the death of a six-month-old infant due to the unavailability of an ambulance.Earlier, TOI had reported that the family lost their baby while walking 10 km to a government hospital as no ambulance responded to the distress call.Later the district administration ordered a probe into the baby's death. A three-member committee was set up to probe the matterChild rights activist Naresh Paras, who filed the complaint, said, “The child could have been saved had the ambulance reached on time. I have requested NCPCR to take cognizance of the matter and ensure an impartial probe into the entire matter. Strict action should be taken against those found guilty. Authorities must ensure that such an incident does not happen again." In his complaint letter, Paras has requested the commission to help the bereaved family. “Due to the lockdown, the medical system in Agra has completely collapsed for non Covid-19 patients. At least, four children died in the city due to unavailability of timely medical assistance. Each of these cases reveals carelessness on the part of the authorities. The district administration have ordered an investigation but failed to take action," Paras said. Since, April, at least four cases of gross medical negligence surfaced in Agra, where non Covid-19 child patients were denied treatment by private and government hospitals.The first case took place on April 22, when a pregnant woman went into labour but was allegedly denied admission in at least two private hospitals. After over six hours, she was admitted at the district woman’s hospital. By that time, the fetus had died in the womb.On April 24, an ailing 12-year-old boy died after he was allegedly turned away by six private hospitals. The third incident happened on April 29, when three private hospitals allegedly refused to treat an eight-month-old baby. When his parents took him to SN Medical College, too much time was wasted in filling up forms for admission, and the delay cost the boy his life.On May 5, an eight-day-old girl suffering from fever died on way to the district hospital after allegedly being turned away by six private hospitals. The child's father claimed that 10 hours were wasted on going from one hospital to another.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/activist-moves-ncpcr-over-six-month-olds-death-due-to-lack-of-ambulance/articleshow/75746399.cms||Deepak Lavania
May 15, 2020||Lucknow||After Pope’s call, prayer becomes weapon against pandemic strike||Lucknow: On the call of Pope Francis, the head of the Roman Catholic Church, members of Christian community in the city on Thursday observed a day of prayer and hymns for people across the world who have been suffering because of the coronavirus pandemic directly and indirectly. Pope Francis had on Tuesday appealed to people of all faiths to observe May 14 as ‘World Inter-Religious Day of Prayer’ for an end to novel coronavirus. Following his appeal, the Catholic Diocese of Lucknow spent the day offering prayer service at churches and streaming it live for people on their official YouTube channel. “We observed the day with prayer, worship and singing of hymns. Members of our community also went forward to perform humanitarian services and distribute essentials among the needy at this time of health crisis,” said Father Donald D’Souza. Confined to their homes, men and women joined in too. Anita Sampson, a homemaker, spent the day fasting and listening to Pope Francis’s address online. “Prayer is our greatest weapon against the virus. Even if we are sitting at home safely, all we can do is pray, sing hymns in the name of God and do charitable work from time to time for the many homeless and poor,” she said. “In difficult times, we must stand together for peace and humanity and should help in all possible ways to contain the virus. A large number of our Muslim brothers and sisters are already observing Ramzan, the holy month of fasting and praying. We, along with members of other communities, have been praying for the pandemic to end for many days. The Pope’s call has added fervour,” said Tina Francis, a resident of Sarojininagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/after-popes-call-prayer-becomes-weapon-against-pandemic-strike/articleshow/75747782.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Agra||Woman on Shramik express delivers baby girl||AGRA: A migrant labourer delivered a baby girl in Shramik express at Agra Fort station on Thursday. A team of railway staff, including a doctor, helped the woman in the delivery. The incident took place on Thursday morning at around 9:20am when a train coming from Ahmadabad halted at Agra Fort. According to railway officials, a woman, identified as Manju Devi of Birari village under Ekdil police limits of Etawah district, who was traveling in Shramik express had gone into labour. As soon as the train reached Agra Fort, passengers informed the railway staff about her condition. “Upon hearing the alarm raised by passengers, the railway team rushed to help the woman. The woman and the baby girl were declared healthy and safe. They were later sent to S N Medical College for medical assistance. The train, therefore, departed one hour later,” divisional commercial manager of Agra division SK Shrivastav said. This was the second such case at Agra Fort in last six days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/woman-on-shramik-express-delivers-baby-girl/articleshow/75746412.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Trichy||Kudimaramathu work launched in delta districts||Trichy: The public works department (PWD) has launched Kudimaramathu work to rejuvenate water bodies and channels in delta region on Thursday, in view of the commencement of kuruvai cultivation soon. Work will be taken up at an estimated cost of Rs 125 crore in Trichy, Thanjavur, Nagapattinam, Tiruvarur, Pudukottai, Karur, Perambalur and Ariyalur districts, officials said. Food minister R Kamaraj inaugurated the work in Tiruvarur district on Thursday. Deepening of water bodies, strengthening of bunds, desilting of supply channels and repair of sluices are the works usually taken up under the scheme initiated by PWD in participation with local farmers. Farmers have begun preparatory works for kuruvai paddy cultivation expecting that water will be released from the Stanley Reservoir in Mettur in Cauvery for delta cultivation on June 12. Initially, the work commenced in Anaikuppam, Pillur villages in Nannilam taluk in the district at an outlay of Rs 62 lakh. This includes the renovation of the sluices across Valapparu in Anaikuppam village for Rs50 lakh. Kudimaramathu works have also begun in Thanjavur district on Thursday. Works would be taken up gradually in the remaining districts in the delta region, officials said. Meanwhile, farmers have appealed the government to execute works properly before water is released into the Cauvery river on the customary date of June 12, without any corruption. They also alleged poor implementation of the scheme stating that the works were just an eyewash. “According to the scheme, the works should be executed with the participation of Ayakatar’s Association. However, in many cases, influential people from the ruling party are doing the works in the name of farmers, leading to irregularities. That should be stopped. Without the participation of farmers, no work should be allowed to be taken up”, Thanjavur District Cauvery Farmers Protection Association secretary Swamimalai S Vimalnathan said. “A number of works that was taken up last year was left incomplete. So, at least this year, all the work should be completed before releasing water in Cauvery,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/kudimaramathu-work-launched-in-delta-districts/articleshow/75747193.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
May 15, 2020||Mangaluru||GP member spends Rs 15,000 to send Bihar migrant labourers home||Mangaluru: Among the migrant labourers from Bihar who boarded the special train home on Thursday were 14 people who could have missed the journey since their purse was empty. Turning into a saviour for these people, who worked in Jokatte on the outskirts of Mangaluru, was Aboobakker Bava, a member of the Thokur gram panchayat. He not only provided food to them, but also spent Rs 15,000 towards their train and bus fare. Bava is also an active member of Nagarika Horata Samiti. Democratic Youth Federation of India (DYFI) state president and Samiti member Muneer Katipalla said that Bava has been taking part in all the fights for people’s rights in the village. “He has no craze for publicity though he is the backbone of all fights that is being carried out for the rights of the people. He is in the forefront of fights against land acquisitions and pollution,” Katipalla said. Poor quality rice distribution alleged Migrant labourers stranded in Jokatte were given rice which was not fit for consumption, alleged DYFI state president Muneer Katipalla. Demanding an inquiry into the incident, Katipalla said that about 100 migrant labourers received poor quality rice. There were more than 3,000 migrant labourers stranded in Jokatte. “The contractors hiring them for construction and other work have ignored their demands after the lockdown. When they held a protest, officials of the labour department distributed 100 bags – each containing 5kg of rice. However, it was not fit for consumption. Following this, Nagarika Horata Samiti, Jokatte, made arrangements for their stay and food,” Katipalla said. When asked, Dakshina Kannada additional deputy commissioner M J Roopa said that the district administration has not supplied poor quality rice to migrant labourers. "It is not possible since the district has sufficient stock of quality rice in our godowns. This allegation is not true," she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/gp-member-spends-rs-15000-to-send-bihar-migrant-labourers-home/articleshow/75745180.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Goa||Goa to purchase new Rs 1.5 crore Covid-19 testing machine||PANAJI: In a bid to ramp up the state’s testing capacity, the health department will purchase a Covid-19 testing machine worth Rs 1.5 crore. The proposal was approved by the cabinet on Thursday, a health official said. The new machine can generate results in five minutes, and will ensure an additional 500 tests a day. In addition to testing at the virology laboratory of Goa Medical College (GMC) and hospital, TrueNat testing facilities have been installed at two district hospitals and three sub-district hospitals. Though TrueNat tests deliver faster results, confirmatory tests are required to be carried out in the event a sample tests positive for Covid-19, the official said. The real-time reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) tests conducted at the GMC virology laboratory are time-consuming and takes four to five hours to generate results, the official said. On an average, over 400 TrueNat and RT-PCR tests are conducted every day. “Testing done in GMC’s virology laboratory is not automatic. Everything has to be done manually, and hence results can’t be known instantly,” he said. As for the fresh seven cases detected on Thursday, the official said all of them had tested positive via TrueNat, but their confirmatory test results were known hours later. Since May 1, the number of people entering the state have risen, thus requiring more tests. “If results are known faster, it will reduce the necessity to keep persons in facility quarantine for longer hours. Dealing with fewer people will lessen the risk of transmission,” he said. Persons arriving from outside Goa are placed in facility quarantine until their results are declared. They are placed in home quarantine if they test negative for Covid-19. Those with travel history to a foreign country need to be placed in facility quarantine for 14 days. As of Thursday, 6,200 tests have been conducted in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/state-to-purchase-new-rs-1-5cr-covid-19-testing-machine/articleshow/75747770.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Rajkot||Woman, son arrested for killing alcoholic father in Rajkot||RAJKOT: A woman along with her 21-year-old son were arrested in Veraval town on charges of them allegedly murdering her alcoholic husband. The body of 45-year-old fisherman Pravin Dalkhi was found near a jetty at Bhalka village on May 10 with head injuries and strangulation marks on the neck. Police got suspicious and called his son Sunil for questioning. During interrogation, Sunil broke down and confessed to the murder. Sunil said his father was addicted to liquor and daily created a fracas at home. “On the night of May 9, he again resorted to his drunken fights and beat up Pani, his wife, and also created a major ruckus. Fed up of the regular torture, the mother-son duo first forced some poisonous substance down his throat, but Dalkhi puked it out. On the pretext of taking him to hospital, they took him near the jetty where Sunil strangulated him with a rope,” said NG Vaghela, police inspector, Veraval. However, seeing that the man was still not dead, the son picked up a wooden log and smashed it on his father’s head.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/woman-son-arrested-for-killing-alcoholic-father/articleshow/75745186.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Goa||IMA writes to state govt, pushes for testing drivers, transport staff for virus||Panaji: In view of fresh Covid-19 cases detected in Goa, including a lorry driver from Gujarat, the Indian Medical Association (IMA), Goa, has demanded that all goods carrier drivers and accompanying workers be tested for Covid-19. “They should be tested by a nasopharyngeal swab irrespective of whether they have any upper respiratory symptoms or fever,” said IMA president Dr S Samuel in a statement. Authorities should ask them to limit their movement until their test results are known. It will help the state achieve proper containment of the Covid-19 pandemic, even if a person tests positive for the virus, the statement said. The guidelines of the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) exempting drivers and accompanying staff transporting essential supplies from being tesed, the IMA said, was meant for the smooth flow of supply chains. Subjecting them to the tests will not hinder the transport of goods, said the statement. “ It is to keep our Goa safe by fast containment,” said Samuel. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ima-writes-to-state-govt-pushes-for-testing-drivers-transport-staff-for-virus/articleshow/75747763.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Hyderabad||9 lakh lockdown violations cases||HYDERABAD: The Cyberabad police have booked over nine lakh cases against those violating lockdown rules until now. Around 20, 591 vehicles, of which 16,000 were two-wheelers, 1,401 three-wheelers, 2, 246 four-wheelers and 144 other vehicles have been seized. Special drives round-the-clock have also been conducted. The traffic police had booked (contact and non-contact) 9,15,182 cases against motorists for various violations. A campaign to stress on the importance of wearing helmets while riding two-wheelers was also started.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/9-lakh-lockdown-violations-cases/articleshow/75746432.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Erode||Tamil Nadu may extend lockdown till May 31 with more easing||CHENNAI: With the state continuing to see a rise in Covid-19 cases, the Tamil Nadu government is likely to announce a lockdown extension up to May 31, but with some more easing of norms. On Thursday, the state government-appointed health expert team recommended to chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami a phased easing of the lockdown. The experts strongly recommended ramping up testing to better map the virus spread. Sources said the government would not allow public transport, gyms, malls and theatres to operate during the extended lockdown period. “Industries might work with some more concessions. The state is considering permitting government offices to work with 50% strength on alternate days and a six-day-a-week work schedule,” said a source. The state will take a call on Saturday factoring in local aspects and recent spike in cases. The CM had already requested the Centre not to resume regular flights and train services until May 31. On Thursday, TN issued guidelines making testing mandatory for all those coming from other states. This comes close on the heels of arrival of special trains from Delhi on Thursday and Saturday. An order issued by chief secretary K Shanmugam said that among those coming from hotspots like Delhi, Gujarat and Maharashtra, people testing positive would be taken to hospitals, while those testing negative will remain in institutional quarantine for seven days. The health expert team was in a three-hour-long session with the chief minister at the Secretariat during which they recommended increased testing. “Lockdown is going to enter the next phase. There can only be a gradual easing of lockdown and it cannot be eased completely. Otherwise, there will be a rise in infection,” National Institute of Epidemiology’s Prabhdeep Kaur told reporters. The team had told the government that ramping up testing could help identify the disease spread and there was no need to panic over high number of cases. This will help focus on areas and take effective decisions for prevention, contact tracing and isolation of cases. The state identifies 20 contacts from a positive case and evolves strategies. Kaur said there would be a rise and fall of cases in a pandemic and effective strategies should be evolved to contain the infection and prevent spread to villages, districts and other parts of the state. “When there is a wave, people should not panic. We should focus on control measures,” she said. The expert members advocated much more community participation in containing the spread. Social distancing norms should be adhered to at workplaces and there must be distance of one metre between individuals. None should go to workplaces without wearing masks. In an order, the government, meanwhile, clarified that passengers, who are due to attend the funeral and rituals associated with death of immediate family members, alone be released for home quarantine after initial testing at the airport/arrival point, provided the mortal remains are received in the same aircraft/vehicle. The other categories like terminally ill and individuals requiring medical attention in a hospital, pregnant women and elderly persons over the age of 75 years and requiring assistance, need to be taken to the quarantine centre till the Covid-19 results are made available.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/state-may-extend-lockdown-till-may-31-with-more-easing/articleshow/75757640.cms||Julie Mariappan
May 15, 2020||Kochi||Ekm Jn rly station all set for passengers from Delhi||Kochi: Arrangements to screen passengers and ensure social distancing at Ernakulam junction railway station have been made after passenger train services started. Thiruvananthapuram bound train from New Delhi will reach Ernakulam junction early on Friday morning. Health workers have started marking one-meter distance and removing middle seats for passengers. Medical counters will be set up to screen the passengers and there will be separate entry and exits. KSRTC buses will be parked at specific points to transport passengers to their destinations. “Around 250 passengers will alight at Ernakulam station on Friday at 1.40am. They will be screened at the counter and symptomatic people will be transported to Kalamassery medical college,” said an officer in-charge of arranging facilities at the station. Around 27 passengers will board the train to Thiruvananthapuram from Ernakulam. Meanwhile, on Wednesday morning, demonstration of automatic hand sanitizer, robot that can carry food for Covid patients and social distancing safety helmet was held at the station. The sanitizer dispenser device would dispense the liquid for .75 seconds when someone places their hands under the dispenser. This is a rechargeable device developed by R Nidheej, junior engineer in signal division. The device will be installed at the entrance of the station to facilitate passengers to it. The ‘railmitra’ robot will be distributing essential items like medicines, food and water to Covid patients and collect bottles, plates and masks. The robot, also developed by R Nidheej, has a UV disinfection chamber to disinfect contaminated items. UV lights fitted at the bottom of the robot can disinfect contaminated floors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/ekm-jn-rly-station-all-set-for-passengers-from-delhi/articleshow/75737822.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Trichy||Man who defaced sign board spotted||Trichy: A day after the signboard of Trichy district court was defaced, the police have made some headway by identifying a person with the help of CCTV footages, on Thursday. The name board on the wall at the entrance of combined court campus was found damaged on Wednesday morning, following which officials from the court lodged a complaint with the sessions’ court police the same day. Session’s court police SI Sridhar and his team launched investigation with some local people in the area. They found a platform dweller in the area and got a clue from the man. The police source said that a man damaged one word – ‘Needhi’ in Tamil and two words -‘Combined Courts’ in English with a steel rod around 4am on Wednesday. The police presumed that the man was mentally unstable. The police scoured through CCTV footages in nearby areas and found a suspect with a steel rod. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/man-who-defaced-sign-board-spotted/articleshow/75747197.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu may extend lockdown till May 31 with more easing||CHENNAI: With the state continuing to see a rise in Covid-19 cases, the Tamil Nadu government is likely to announce a lockdown extension up to May 31, but with some more easing of norms. On Thursday, the state government-appointed health expert team recommended to chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami a phased easing of the lockdown. The experts strongly recommended ramping up testing to better map the virus spread. Sources said the government would not allow public transport, gyms, malls and theatres to operate during the extended lockdown period. “Industries might work with some more concessions. The state is considering permitting government offices to work with 50% strength on alternate days and a six-day-a-week work schedule,” said a source. The state will take a call on Saturday factoring in local aspects and recent spike in cases. The CM had already requested the Centre not to resume regular flights and train services until May 31. On Thursday, TN issued guidelines making testing mandatory for all those coming from other states. This comes close on the heels of arrival of special trains from Delhi on Thursday and Saturday. An order issued by chief secretary K Shanmugam said that among those coming from hotspots like Delhi, Gujarat and Maharashtra, people testing positive would be taken to hospitals, while those testing negative will remain in institutional quarantine for seven days. The health expert team was in a three-hour-long session with the chief minister at the Secretariat during which they recommended increased testing. “Lockdown is going to enter the next phase. There can only be a gradual easing of lockdown and it cannot be eased completely. Otherwise, there will be a rise in infection,” National Institute of Epidemiology’s Prabhdeep Kaur told reporters. The team had told the government that ramping up testing could help identify the disease spread and there was no need to panic over high number of cases. This will help focus on areas and take effective decisions for prevention, contact tracing and isolation of cases. The state identifies 20 contacts from a positive case and evolves strategies. Kaur said there would be a rise and fall of cases in a pandemic and effective strategies should be evolved to contain the infection and prevent spread to villages, districts and other parts of the state. “When there is a wave, people should not panic. We should focus on control measures,” she said. The expert members advocated much more community participation in containing the spread. Social distancing norms should be adhered to at workplaces and there must be distance of one metre between individuals. None should go to workplaces without wearing masks. In an order, the government, meanwhile, clarified that passengers, who are due to attend the funeral and rituals associated with death of immediate family members, alone be released for home quarantine after initial testing at the airport/arrival point, provided the mortal remains are received in the same aircraft/vehicle. The other categories like terminally ill and individuals requiring medical attention in a hospital, pregnant women and elderly persons over the age of 75 years and requiring assistance, need to be taken to the quarantine centre till the Covid-19 results are made available.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/state-may-extend-lockdown-till-may-31-with-more-easing/articleshow/75747194.cms||Julie Mariappan
May 15, 2020||Trichy||Call to help Indians stranded in Kuwait||Trichy: The Kuwait Tamil Islamic Committee (K-Tic) has written to the minister for external affairs to extend a helping hand to hundreds of Indian citizens including Tamils stranded there by arranging special flights. K-Tic said that more than 10,000 Indian citizens including several women living in various amnesty shelters in Kuwait are awaiting repatriation. Though the Kuwait government has announced amnesty for expatriates whose working visas had expired, the relevant applications forwarded by social activists to the Indian Embassy was not considered for emergency exit passport within the stipulated time, said AB Khaleel Ahmed Baaqavee, K-Tic general secretary. “Such migrant labourers could not be accommodated at the concerned camps. So, they have been asked to vacate the camps and are forced to stay in open grounds in the country. They are spending every moment with hardships without proper food and bathroom facilities. Diabetic and cardiac patients fall in this category are suffering badly due to non-availability of medicines,” he added in the letter. “As the summer is about to begin in Kuwait, the expatriates might face more hardship staying in open yards. The Indian government should take immediate steps to comfort them through the Indian Embassy,” he added. Social help groups are providing aids to them for the moment, however, it may not be possible to continue as the Kuwait government has extended the lockdown till May 30. “We have requested the concerned minister for the Indian Embassy to take necessary steps immediately to at least accommodate them in Indian schools for the time being,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/call-to-help-indians-stranded-in-kuwait/articleshow/75747196.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
May 15, 2020||Navi-mumbai||Central team in Navi Mumbai to gauge Covid-19 situation; NMMC gets 64 more cases||NAVI MUMBAI: A Central team is on a two-day visit to Navi Mumbai to take stock of the Covid pandemic. The team visited the NMMC Vashi hospital on Thursday. Meanwhile, 64 persons from the NMMC area, 20 from PCMC and seven from Panvel taluka tested positive on Thursday. According to a central government projection, the positive count has been pegged at 0.4% (6,000) of the population, which is estimated at 15 lakh. The civic body said the count of over 900 till date was on expected lines, but the focus was on containing infection among those connected to the APMC and those travelling to Mumbai. The APMC count is a little less than 33% of the total cases. In less than a week, the 185 positive cases at APMC has soared to 350, said the civic body. It has also spread its team to find out symptomatic cases. NMMC's civic officials said while the total tally of positive cases at 974 is inching towards the 1,000 mark, all precautionary measures are being taken to stop the spread of the virus. The final coronavirus cases tallies for PCMC and Panvel taluka are 219 and 81, respectively. An APCMC officer said, “Among the positives from the PCMC area are a 47-year-old constable from Kharghar who works in Mumbai, a 54-year-old BEST bus conductor from Kalamboli, a 37-year-old police constable from Kamothe who works in Mumbai, a 46-year-old engineer from Kharghar, a 42-year-old nurse from Kalamboli who works at Nair Hospital, a 51-year-old BEST employee from Kamothe who works at BEST’s Dadar depot, and a 55-year-Kharghar resident posted as a constable at Shivaji Nagar police station.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/central-team-in-navi-mum-to-gauge-covid-situation-nmmc-gets-64-more-cases/articleshow/75747205.cms||SANJAY BANERJEE
May 15, 2020||Lucknow||50% patients in 21-40 age-group keep UP Covid recovery rate high||Lucknow: The covid recovery rate in UP has been steadying above the 50% mark for couple of days, giving the state government and health officials much to cheer in time of pandemic. While the hard work by corona warriors contributed towards controlling the spread, experts cite other reasons too., Demographic experts say the current recovery rate in the state is linked to comorbidity or risk factors and age-group of patients. According to state health department data, 49.5% Covid-19 patients are in the 21-40 age-group while 25.6% fall in the 41-60 age-group. Experts believe almost 59% patients in the first category have limited comorbidity, which refers to multiple medical disorders in a person. This can be corroborated medically too. “Age does play an important role in recovery. In younger patients, comorbidity conditions or risk factors like blood pressure or diabetes are less common and their bodies have just one task in hand and that’s to battle coronavirus,” said city-based physician Dr Sunil Verma. Head of pulmonary medicine department, King George’s Medical University, Prof Surya Kant said, “The virus is known to trigger complications in existing medical conditions and thus cannot cause much harm in a fairly healthy younger population.” He said, the infection rate among the high-risk 60 plus age-group was as low as 7.7%. Health experts also attribute the steady recovery rate to an early lockdown. “Since affected persons were quarantined, many patients were either primary or secondary contacts. The lockdown didn’t allow the virus to spread or strengthen the infection chain,” said Dr Vikasendu Agarwal, state surveillance officer. He said, the number of cases in UP was lower due to strict surveillance measures during the lockdown. While lauding the state’s efforts to battle the pandemic, social scientists Aarti and Vishwajeet Kumar had a word of caution. “Numbers can be deceptive. On a macro scale, data suggest things have been good so far, but number of positive cases over past two weeks was more than those discharged,” said Vishwajeet. “Different cities are on a different point in the pandemic trajectory. Data suggests UP has done a fair job, but it doesn’t mean other states are not doing well. The covid gulf between Maharashtra and UP is primarily because cases in Maharashtra were much higher than UP in the initial phase,” said Aarti.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/50-patients-in-21-40-age-group-keep-up-covid-recovery-rate-high/articleshow/75747802.cms||Shailvee Sharda
May 15, 2020||Trichy||Forest officials make poachers plant saplings to mend their ways||Trichy: Forest department in Trichy began sapling plantation from Thursday in memory of a 24-year-old forest watcher C Chandru who died while rescuing a 7-year-old elephant in Udumalpet forest range a few days back. To start with, a group of seven person, who were detained for indulging in poaching activities, were made to plant sapling in front of Trichy divisional forest office. While they were let off after a fine of Rs 2,0000 and a warning of jail term if they were found to be indulging in such activities, all the seven offenders took oath that they would not poach wild animals after planting the saplings. It was wildlife crime control bureau (WCCB) from New Delhi which had alerted forest department in Trichy on the poaching activity by seven persons near Kannanur forest in Trichy forest range. It was a tik-tok video that went viral in which all seven of them were holding a wild hare after poaching it using dogs. Wild hare is protected under schedule IV of the wildlife protection Act 1972. While they are found in good numbers in the forest across Trichy district, they are often targeted by poachers for meat. “While the video was viewed by close to 1,000 people, the perpetrators were intercepted and brought to the forest office,” said a senior forest official. “While they confessed to their crime, a couple of them were found to be juveniles. Besides, they didn’t know that poaching is a crime and confessed that they did it for fun,” said D Sujatha, Trichy district forest officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/forest-officials-make-poachers-plant-saplings-to-mend-their-ways/articleshow/75747201.cms||Sampath Kumar
May 15, 2020||Madurai||Harassed by six boys, Tamil Nadu girl sets herself on fire, survives||MADURAI: A girl from a village near Kulathur in Tuticorin set herself ablaze fearing sexual assault by six boys who were harassing her over phone. The girl, who suffered 20% burns on her neck and chest, is being treated at the Thoothukudi Government Medical College and Hospital and is said to be out of danger. Though the incident took place on May 9, it surfaced only on Thursday when a video clip of the girl narrating her ordeal started doing the rounds on social media. Tuticorin superintendent of police Arun Balagopalan told TOI that a case was registered on Thursday evening against the boys under Sections 11 (sexual harassment) read with 12 (punishment for sexual harassment) of Pocso Act, several sections of the IPC and the Tamil Nadu Prohibition of Women’s Harassment Act. “There was no physical attack, but they had harassed her over phone,” he said. In the minute-long video, the girl, a Class XI dropout, pointed fingers at the main accused Saravanan who called her on phone on May 8. “As I did not answer, he called me from another number and scolded me,” According to the victim, Saravanan kept calling her and threatened to torch her and her house. “So I removed the sim card. That night he and a few other boys came to my house and shouted at me,” she said. Video revealed girl harassed by accused The SP said the girl’s mother scolded the girl after the boys left. “The next morning she doused herself with kerosene and set herself ablaze. She was rescued by her family and neighbours and hospitalised. She could not respond when we tried to question her,” the officer said. Police sources said the girl’s family, too, did not reveal anything about the harassment and cops were in the dark till the video surfaced. The girl’s mother, Badrakali, told reporters at the hospital that the accused were drunk when they picked up a quarrel with the girl on Friday night. “The six boys have been torturing her when she went for work. They asked her to come here and there after getting drunk, and threatened to set her on fire. She was frightened and took this step,” she said. ( The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/harassed-by-6-boys-tn-girl-sets-herself-on-fire-survives/articleshow/75747204.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Trichy||Tamil Nadu: Five more Covid-19 positive in central region||TRICHY: The central region of Tamil Nadu added to its Covid-19 tally after four from Perambalur and one from Karur districts tested positive on Thursday. All the four ceases Koyambedu returnees. Three of the infected were admitted to Perambalur Government Hospital while the other taken to the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital (MGMGH), Trichy. With this, the total number of positive cases in Perambalur surged to 137. A total of 79 Covid-19 positive people, including 48 in Perambalur Government Hospital, are undergoing treatment. Other active cases are receiving treatment at MGMGH in Trichy and Ariyalur Government Hospital. In all, 25 people were discharged from Perambalur GH after testing negative for Covid-19. Despite recording new case of Covid-19 on Thursday, Ariyalur district remained at the top with the highest number of cases, 348, among the eight districts in the region. In Karur, two people, including a 38-year-old nurse of Karur Government Medical College Hospital, tested positive. The district recorded a total of 56 cases so far. Officials said that they were trying to identify if the nurse was infected in the hospital or at her place which was in a containment zone a week back. The other infected is a 55-year-old man from Kulithalai, who returned from Maharshtra on Tuesday. Trichy district had no new cases on Thursday but Mahatma Gandhi memorial government hospital (MGMGH) in Trichy discharged three patients. Trichy collector S Sivarasu appealed to the returnees of other states and districts to report to the health department officials and get quarantined at their houses for 14 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/five-more-ve-in-central-region/articleshow/75747206.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Kochi||Phase II works under Operation Breakthrough begin||Kochi: To avoid waterlogging in Kochi in the monsoon season, authorities started works under the second phase of Operation Breakthrough on Friday. More machinery and workforce have been roped in so as to complete the works in three weeks. According to officials, three teams have been arranged for carrying out the works in each reach (stretch). “They will be working round the clock so as to finish the job on time. We are confident about completing vast majority of the works before the onset of monsoon,” an official said. “Now, we are starting around 17 works while we are awaiting approval from the state government for five more works. We have prepared detailed plan for the purpose,” he said. Desilting and clearing the obstructions in Changadampokku thodu has been divided into three reaches. “There will be three teams in each reach. This will help us complete the works as per schedule. Same is the case with other works like desilting of Karanakkodam thodu and Chilavannoor backwaters. We have roped in firms which have expertise in desilting backwaters in Alappuzha. They have most advanced machinery. Availability of labourers due to the lockdown was another problem,” the official said. Cleaning the mouths of canals opening to backwaters is the major task undertaken by Operation Breakthrough team in the second phase. The high court has instructed the authorities to complete the first phase works under Operation Breakthrough by May 12. One of the problems we faced in carrying out the work is depositing the silt dredged out from mouths of canals like Thevara canal and Thevara-Perandoor canal. The surrounding areas being wetland, we had to identify dryland for the purpose,” sources said. For sorting out waterlogging issues in areas like Jawaharlal Nehru Stadium and Changampuzha Park, a study has to be conducted to find whether a culvert construction would resolve the issue. Kochi Metro Rail Ltd (KMRL) has been instructed to conduct the study and implement projects accordingly. As a temporary solution, KMRL has been instructed to connect Changadampokku and Karanakkodam thodu near Jawaharlal Nehru Stadium area by providing two 1.2 metre diameter reinforced cement concrete (RCC) pipes. There are 22 box culverts across the railway line which bifurcate the city along Pachalam-Vyttila stretch. These culverts are too narrow to carry water from one side of the canal to the other side. So, railway authorities should take measures to avoid waterlogging in these areas, the high-power committee decided. But, jetting the blocked culverts using high-power water pumps will be done using funds from Operation Breakthrough.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/phase-ii-works-under-operation-breakthrough-begin/articleshow/75745224.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Hyderabad||BJP to hoist black flag against AP GO||HYDERABAD: BJP state chief Bandi Sanjay asked party workers across the state to hoist black flags on top of their houses on Friday between 10 am and 11 am to protest against the government order by Andhra Pradesh regarding the Pothireddypadu project.  Bandi Sanjay raised questions and asked why chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao had kept quiet regarding the order. He alleged that KCR had an undisclosed understanding with AP CM YS Jaganmohan Reddy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bjp-to-hoist-black-flag-against-ap-go/articleshow/75746456.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Mangaluru||Kannadigas stranded in Gulf allege step-motherly treatment over evacuation||Mangaluru: Kannadigas working in Gulf countries (United Arab Emirates, Bahrain, Kuwait, Oman, Qatar, Dubai, Saudi Arabia, Muscat and Doha), who have been anxiously waiting to return to their home, are now irked over just one flight that was flown to Karnataka, that too after a backlash. The flight, which landed at MIA here on Tuesday, was earlier scheduled for Kerala. But it was diverted to Karnataka after a hue and cry. “Around eight lakh Kannadigas work in the Gulf countries, and majority of them are from coastal Karnataka. This (not flying enough flights) is nothing but a step-motherly treatment towards us. Other neighbouring states have flown several stranded expatriates, especially from the Gulf. But Karnataka has received only one flight from Dubai,” said an expat from Dubai. Meanwhile, social media is abuzz with criticism against the state government and MPs for allegedly not being able to influence the Union government to operate more flights to Karnataka. A voice message, which is doing rounds on social media, gives credence to the alleged indifference. In the message, a man, who claims to be Mangalurean working in Kuwait, claims there are thousands of Kannadigas working Kuwait. The energy-rich country, despite being small, has been providing facilities to everyone, “unlike our country and state”. Many sick, pregnant women, students and people who have lost jobs and those with Visit Visas are eagerly waiting to get back home, “but not a single flight has been allotted to us”. “Gulf Kannadigas have been contributing to the state and the country’s economy. But now, we have been left out. The neighbouring state Kerala had two flights from Kuwait alone, apart from other Gulf countries,” he alleged. An official from an Indian embassy in the Gulf countries pointed out that the Union government is positive about bringing expatriates back to country, subject to cooperation from different states. box More flight from Gulf soon: DVS When TOI asked Union fertiliser minister D V Sadananda Gowda about the allegation that the state has been neglecting its citizens, he rejected the same, saying Karnataka is doing its best to help the stranded Gulf expats. “We have been able to divert Dubai flight to Mangaluru scheduled for Kerala. There are plans of having two more flights from the Gulf to Karnataka. Information on the same will be provided soon,” he said. According to Gowda, who is overseeing the evacuation, said though there are lakhs of expats working in the Gulf, not all of them would want to return home. “As per the details I have received, about 1,000 Kannadigas from Saudi Arabia, 400 from Qatar and small numbers in the rest of the middle-east countries want to return. However, the numbers for Kerala, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu and Gujarat are higher than that of Karnataka. This is the reason for these states to have more flights than Karnataka,” he explained. Giving details about the next set of evacuation flight details, Gowda said 11 flights, including four flight from the Gulf, will fly to to Karnataka between May 16 and May 22. Flights from Dubai will land in MIA and in Bengaluru. “After May 22, we are planning more than 18 flights to Karnataka,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/kannadigas-stranded-in-gulf-allege-step-motherly-treatment-over-evacuation/articleshow/75745212.cms||Kevin Mendonsa
May 15, 2020||Salem||Tamil Nadu: Govt doctor transferred for ‘acting as agent of private hospitals’||DHARMAPURI: Director of medical services S Gurunathan on Thursday issued an order transferring the nodal officer of the government hospital in Pennagaram, Dr Sivakumara Senthilmurugan, to Krishnagiri government hospital following allegations of him acting as an agent to lure patients to private hospitals. Medical officer of the hospital Dr S Kanimozhi has sent a letter to the director of medical services in this regard. She sought stern action against the errant nodal officer. According to Dr Kanimozhi, Dr Sivakumara Senthilmurugan, who was working as the ortho doctor in the hospital, has shifted patients to private hospitals. “After performing surgeries and treatments under CM’s comprehensive insurance scheme at the private hospital, he once again brought back the patients to the government hospital for post-surgery treatments,” she said. The ortho doctor also did not allow other doctors to carry out their work, she alleged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/govt-doc-transferred-for-acting-as-agent-of-private-hospitals/articleshow/75747219.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Trichy||Expert: Short-term plan needed to handle post Covid-19 situation||Trichy: NIT-Trichy director Mini Shaji Thomas, while stressing the need for a short-term strategic plan to handle the situation post Covid-19 crisis in the engineering institutions, said that conducting examinations and timely declaration of results for outgoing students could be a bigger challenge besides attracting foreign students this year. She was addressing a webinar session organized on Wednesday by Tiruchirappalli Local Centre of The Institution of Engineers (India) on ‘Challenges and contributions of engineering Institution to combat Covid-19’. While uncertainty over reopening of institutes continues, she said pending semester classes in NIT-T have already been completed by engaging students through digital platforms. Further, there are plans to conduct semester examination through online mode for the theoretical subjects. She said that many of the decisions taken like conducting online examinations for final year students and conducting online viva for research scholars were taken after conducting a survey with the students. She said that the institutions need to focus on research funding from industries as projects from government agencies are shrinking. Attracting foreign students could be a challenge in these testing times including their scholarships, she said. She lauded engineering institutions that came up with lots of products to fight Covid-19 pandemic. “NIT-T students alone have submitted 173 projects related to Covid-19 and we are trying to materialise as many as possible,” she said. Explaining the challenges in conducting classes after reopening, such as financial viability, infrastructure development, alumni engagement and the challenges for residential institutions, she suggested adoption of short-term strategic plan to run the institutions amid all odds. More than 100 participants participated in this online program held through video conferencing mode. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/expert-short-term-plan-needed-to-handle-post-covid-19-situation/articleshow/75747210.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Chennai||With two deaths, 447 new Covid-19 cases, Tamil Nadu moves to second spot on national list||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu on Thursday recorded 447 Covid-19 cases, its lowest count in the last 10 days, but now has more people infected than all states except Maharashtra. There are 9,674 cases in TN, 82 more than in Gujarat. Two more people died taking the state’s Covid tally to 66. Chennai reported 363 cases and neighbouring Tiruvallur 15, Kancheepuram eight, and Chengalpet nine. In Sivaganga, where no cases were recorded since April 20, one person, who came from Maharashtra, tested positive. At least 21 more people who came from Maharashtra and two from Qatar tested positive, said health minister C Vijayabaskar. For the first time since May 4, the state reported fewer than 500 cases, but the number brought no relief to epidemiologists, virologists, and infectious diseases experts, because the number of people being tested has come down. “The medical expert committee has told the state that the increasing incidence of the disease is not a cause for concern as long as testing is high and mortalities are low. We have tested more than 2.9 lakh people so far,” Vijayabaskar said, minutes before the state medical bulletin was released. The medical bulletin showed 11,773 people were tested for the infection on Thursday, nearly 900 less than compared to 12,666 on Wednesday. With the incidence, the positivity rate has dropped to 3.80% from 4.02%. Positivity rate is number of fresh case over number of people tested that day. Since May 9, the state has been testing people coming via ships, flights, trains and by road. The state health department does not have the number of such people screened. The media bulletin said 1,275 who came by flights were tested of whom nine people tested positive (results of 348 samples are pending). “Swabs are taken at the airports, seaports or facility centres for every inbound passenger. If they are positive they are sent to hospital for consultation,” Vijayabaskar said. Experts say positivity rate must go down organically without reducing the number of people who are being tested. After the meeting with Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami, National Institute of Epdimiology deputy director Dr Prahdeep Kaur said the state should ramp up testing. “Testing will tell where cases are. When tests are reduced there may be surprises lurking. The last thing we want during a pandemic is a sudden increase in the number of cases,” she said. On May 6 when the state announced it had screened 13,281 people, 771 people (5.8%) were positive for the viral infection. Three days later, when the test numbers dropped to 12,999 people, positivity rate dropped to 4% after 526 people were positive. The state tested 12666 people on Wednesday and the positivity rate was 4%. On Thursday, the number of cases, people tested and the positivity rate dropped. But the state added two more labs -- Bioline Laboratory, Coimbatore, and Premier Health Centre, Chennai – for testing. Now, Tamil Nadu has 58 authorised Covid-19 testing labs, including 38 in the government sector. The Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital recorded two deaths – a 43-year-old man, who has been on dialysis with complaints of Hepatitis C and hypertension and a 45-year-old woman with diabetes mellitus and hypertension and hypothyroidism. In the same hospital, five staff nurses tested positive. On Thursday, six doctors – three from private hospitals –and five dentists from the Madras Dental College tested positive. At least 64 people were discharged from hospitals across the state taking the total number of people discharged to 2,240. At the end of the day, active cases went up to 7,365 from 6,984 on Wednesday.Pushpa.Narayan||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/with-2-deaths-447-new-cases-tn-moves-to-2nd-spot-on-national-list/articleshow/75747220.cms||Pushpa Narayan
May 15, 2020||Rajkot||Rajkot: Pregnant woman slaps female doctor||RAJKOT: A female gynaecologist was allegedly abused and slapped by two women including a pregnant woman and her mother, in a government-run Padmakunvarba Hospital in Gundavadi area of the city late on Wednesday night. In her complaint lodged with the police, Dr Arva Soni, 25, identified the pregnant woman as Amri, her mother Roshan and husband Zahid. Dr Soni said that the trio came to the hospital at around 11:30pm, after Amri started having labour pains. However, the woman reportedly got agitated after Dr Soni asked them to remove their footwear outside the labour room. Amid a brief argument, Amri allegedly slapped her twice, followed by her mother who too hit the doctor. Even Zahid hurled expletives at Dr Soni before the trio left from there. A-division police is trying to trace the three accused, who mentioned only ‘Rajkot’ as their address at the hospital’s entrance register.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/pregnant-woman-slaps-female-doctor/articleshow/75745234.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Jagga Reddy takes a dig at CM K Chandrasekhar Rao||HYDERABAD: Senior Congress leader Jagga Reddy on Thursday said chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao may not allow the benefits of Kalayana Lakhsmi scheme to reach people if they do not choose spouses as per the CM’s wishes. He was taking a dig at a proposed plan by the state to roll back the benefits of Rhythu Bandhu scheme for farmers who do not produce crops suggested by the government. He added that 60% people did not get the benefit last year and many might not this time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/jagga-reddy-takes-a-dig-at-cm-kcr/articleshow/75746483.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Nagpur||Migrants go without food for 27 hrs in Chennai-Barauni train||NAGPUR: Migrants returning home are suffering the most, with government agencies taking them granted and treating them shabbily, while private operators are fleeing them. While migrants travelling in the Chennai-Barauni Shramik Special train went without food for 27 hours, those returning from Pune to Nagpur, and heading towards MP and Chhattisgarh border, were charged Rs3,000 per head by private bus operators. The tall claims of Indian Railways serving food to the migrants in ‘Shramik Specials’ were exposed when over 1,600 migrants, including small kids, travelling in Barauni-bound train went without food for more than 27 hours. The migrants, including students, had harrowing tales of shabby treatment and apathy, leaving them hungry and thirsty after they started from Chennai Central station at 4pm on Wednesday. Railway had charged Rs885 from these migrants, including service charge for meals. “At Chennai, we were given ‘upma’ and one water bottle. We expected food at Vijayawada at 10pm, but despite the train stopping for over an hour, no food was served,” said Bhagalpur-based Sharanya S Prasad, a XII student studying in Chennai. “We slept hungry with the hope that food will be served at Nagpur. But here at 8.25am, we got one water bottle, a banana, Rs5 biscuit packet and Rs5 farsan packet,” said Mohammed Salim and other labourers aboard the train. Nagpur has a base kitchen run by IRCTC, and a statement by IRCTC for May 14 showed lunch was served to these migrants. IRCTC officials, who did not want to be quoted, said, “It was not lunch but brunch time. We supplied 1,209 packets, each with two bananas, biscuit and mixture packet. Ideally, passengers should have been served lunch in Itarsi at 2pm.” “We give the food to one passenger to distribute, as staff cannot go inside. It is possible the person did not distribute it equally,” they said. Sachin Kumar, a passenger, said, “When we complained to railway officials at Nagpur, they promised lunch at Itarsi. There at 2pm, again no meals were served even as train stopped for an hour. We were not even allowed to get down to fill water bottles. When I tried, I was hit with a stick by a RPF jawan. We were not sure whether the water tank was cleaned or not, but I was thirsty and helpless.” Interestingly, on May 14, a railway ministry release claimed it ran 800 ‘shramik specials’ transporting over 10 lakh migrants and also served food. TOI tweeted videos of the migrants’ plight to the railway minister. Finally, when the train reached Jabalpur at 7pm, half the passengers got food packets containing lemon rice, but the rest went without food. Those observing roza were the worst sufferers. Jabalpur DRM Sanjay Biswas said, “I did not get any intimation from Central Railway about serving food to these migrants.” “The staff randomly left 20-20 rice packets on both gates of the coaches, so only half the passengers got food. There were 72 passengers in the coach, with any Covid-19 distancing. We are not beggars to take packets from the floor. Also, no water bottles were supplied,” said a peeved Sharanya. TOI followed the train’s progress till Katni, where water bottles were supplied, but again not enough for all. “The staff used abusive language when we asked for additional water bottles for kids,” said Rajesh Yadav. Meanwhile, some construction workers from Pune were charged a hefty Rs3,000 per head by private bus operators. Tomanlal Shahu said, “We 15 boarded a private bus from Pune and paid Rs45,000. The bus dropped us near Sitabuldi police station on Thursday. Police directed us to reach Ganeshpeth bus stand, from where ST buses charged us no money.” “I boarded the bus from Wagholi. There were 30 people, all charged Rs3,000 per head. We spent all our saving on travel and walked to the bus stand to see how to reach our hometowns,” said Sohanlal Shahu. City police could only remain mute spectator to this exploitation. Addl CP (crime) Nilesh Bharne said, “I’m not concerned about buses coming from Pune, but it is for sure these migrants are being shifted to the borders free of cost by Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/migrants-go-without-food-for-27-hrs-in-chennai-barauni-train/articleshow/75753750.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
May 15, 2020||Kochi||Ernakulam records threefold rise in dengue fever cases||Kochi: Ernakulam witnesses a steep hike in dengue fever cases compared to previous years. As many as 307 cases were reported in the district from January 1 to May 8 this year. This is a threefold increase from 2019, which saw 90 dengue fever cases during the same period. The number was 198 in 2018. Most of the cases are reported from eastern areas including Varapetty, Paipra, Kothamangalam, Muvattupuzha, Ayavana and Kadavoor in Ernakulam rural. Of the 307 cases, 61 are from Kochi corporation limit alone. Dengue cases are reported from 40 divisions in the corporation limit. Lockdown also played its part to facilitate breeding of Aedes aegypti mosquitoes in the city. “Since hotels remain closed for more than one-and-a-half months, many hoteliers gave grinders for service. We noticed stagnant rainwater in grinders kept outside a service centre. It has become a breeding ground. We also noticed that open plastic barrels placed on roadsides for hand washing as part of Break the Chain campaign have become a breeding ground as many do not use it or leave it unattended,” said a health official. Health officials notice people often tend to discard plastic waste or small bins on the compound or in the nearby rubber plantations. Rainwater gets collected in such bins. “When we visited the house of a dengue fever patient at Varapetty, we did not find any source of breeding of Aedes mosquito. But on detailed surveillance on the compound, we found that tarpaulin sheet, which is used to cover logs in front of the house, has become breeding ground of the mosquito. As against common perception, Aedes mosquitoes breed in clean water. It needs only one spoon of water to breed on and spread the fever. Source can be anywhere and the flying distance of this mosquito is 100m to 150m. The peculiarity of Aedes mosquito is that there would be transovarial transmission where pathogens are transmitted from parent to offspring arthropod. If the Aedes mosquito lays eggs in a dry container, it will remain attached to the sides of it. The eggs can survive for up to six months in the dry container. When we pour water in the container and keep it for a week, it becomes a source for the mosquito to grow. Many are ignorant of this fact. Sometimes the eggs remain attached to the brim of the utensil if it is not washed properly,” said the health official. “One should not wait for health workers to come and clean it. Every individual has the responsibility to clean the containers since they are going to suffer. The mortality rate of dengue fever is 10 to 12%. It is very easy to identify Aedes mosquito as it has black and white striped legs,” said the official. The officials noted outbreak of dengue fever in hilly areas. “Epidemiological studies say dengue fever will reach its peak every three years. Dengue cases in Ernakulam are mostly reported from hilly areas. People can use the lockdown as an opportunity to clean their compounds properly to control the vector,” said DMO N K Kuttappan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/ernakulam-records-threefold-rise-in-dengue-fever-cases/articleshow/75745277.cms||T C Sreemol
May 15, 2020||Business||FB-backed Unacademy’s majority of workforce to WFH permanently||Bengaluru: Education technology startup Unacademy said 60% of its 1,000-people workforce will work from home (WFH) permanently even after the Covid-19-induced lockdown is over. Backed by investors like Facebook and Sequoia, the rule applies to sales, operations, and support teams at Unacademy. It will be the first sizeable startup or a company in in the country to make the move, even as global tech giants, like Twitter, have announced permanent work from home for nearly all employees earlier this week. “This phase has made us rethink how we work. We have seen some teams being super productive remotely and realised we will be able to scale faster and more efficiently in this way,” said Gaurav Munjal, CEO of Unacademy, in internal communication. While 60% of the workforce is allowed to work from home, they will need to come to office 2-4 times a month for “meetings, discussions, reviews, etc” the announcement said. Teams in other functions that require closer day-to-day collaboration like product, technology, marketing, human resources, and content will work from office once the lockdown is lifted. What has helped Unacademy is that it was already working with over 10,000 educators remotely. “We have always had thousands of educators, who are on contract, working from home. So we are fairly efficient at this process and teams were used to handling educators remotely,” Munjal told TOI. He said that Unacademy is likely to cut back on real estate rents after this move, but how much will depend on the layout change required after ensuring six-feet distance between seats. The development comes as tech majors — Facebook and Google — have told employees to be prepared to work from home till the end of the year. About 83% of organisations plan to review their work from home policies, and 46% hinted at reimbursing the expenses incurred for setting up home internet for work, revealed a survey of 103 Indian companies by Willis Towers Watson last month. Unacademy has been seeing an uptick in subscribers and time spent by the students on its platform since the imposition of lockdown.  In April, Unacademy had 82% increase in revenues against March with time spent on its platform at 1.4 billion minutes, a 40% increase than March. The five-year-old startup raised $110 million led by Facebook, private equity firm General Atlantic and existing backer Sequoia Capital India valuing it at $500 million in early 2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/fb-backed-unacademys-majority-of-workforce-to-wfh-permanently/articleshow/75746515.cms||Digbijay Mishra
May 15, 2020||Kochi||Toddy shops open & close in a flash||Kochi: The first day of toddy sale after a 50-day lockdown disappointed hundreds of drinkers in Ernakulam who thronged the toddy shops from morning as most of the shops remained shut due to delay in excise’s toddy-transport permit issuance and unavailability of toddy. Moreover, only 92 toddy shops opened in Ernakulam, which has more than 500 shops in 15 ranges, but those too ran out of toddy within hours forcing hundreds who queued under scorching sun to return home with the empty bottles they brought. A total of 5,675 litres of toddy was sold in 92 shops opened in seven ranges in Ernakulam division on the first day. The highest sales were recorded in Aluva range where 1,948 litres of toddy was sold. In Angamaly it was 1,650 litres and in Ernakulam, 567 litres were sold. The least amount of toddy was sold in Kuttampuzha range — 160 litres. The shops at Angamaly and Aluva were opened only in the afternoon due to delay in the arrival of toddy trucks from Palakkad. Hundreds have started queuing outside each shop even before the opening time of 9am. Strict monitoring by excise and police was ensured in and around all toddy shops to control rush and maintain social distancing. Only two staffs, including the manager, was allowed at each shop. Wearing face masks was mandatory for all and serpentine queues were not permitted. All the customers had to bring their own bottles. Only toddy was allowed to be sold and permits to sell food is yet to be announced by the government. Once the stock was over, excise asked the owners to shut the shops to avoid queuing. Toddy shop employees said that the lack of toddy has affected the sales very much and they hope to record better sales in the coming days as toddy tapping sector has revived over the past few days. More than 80% of toddy sold in Ernakulam is brought from Palakkad’s Chittoor and most shops are yet to get the pass to bring toddy from there amid lockdown. “Only 70 litres of toddy was in stock in our shop and that was sold in two hours. Each bottle of 700ml was sold at Rs 40. There was much demand for toddy but we did not have the stock. If the permit to sell food is given, the business will increase,” said Biju Jose, manager of a toddy shop at Kaloor. Ernakulam excise deputy commissioner A S Ranjith said that the crowd is expected to increase in the coming days as more shops will be opened. “The availability of toddy will increase and more shops will start functioning. But the excise department is ensuring that Covid-19 protocols are followed,” said Ranjith.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/toddy-shops-open-close-in-a-flash/articleshow/75737913.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Care hosp donates masks to cops||Hyderabad: In a bid to render a helping hand to the on field officers, Care Hospital donated N95 masks, disposable masks, gloves and sanitizers to Cyberabad police. The Care Hospital senior staff handed over 200 N95 masks, 200 disposable masks, gloves and sanitizers donated to Cyberabad commissioner of police VC Sajjanar on Thursday. As frontline workers, police officers are vulnerable to contracting coronavirus, efforts to contain which are on full swing across the country. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/care-hosp-donates-masks-to-cops/articleshow/75746495.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Rajkot||22 cured in Aravalli district, five in Palanpur||PALANPUR: As many as 22 Covid-19 patients were discharged in Aravalli district on Thursday after their repeat tests came negative. According to district health officer Ashish Nayak, the district has reported a total of 79 cases of which 41 have been cured, 36 are active and two died. In Palanpur, five patients including two women from a village near Deesa, two from Deesa town and one from Tharad, were discharged. Dr Jawahar Chandani, executive officer, Banas Medical College, said the total number of patients who recovered as reached 41 now. “We have 37 patients under treatment.” On Thursday, an inmate of the Palanpur sub-jail tested positive and was admitted in the hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/22-cured-in-aravalli-district-five-in-palanpur/articleshow/75745251.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Trichy||Trichy: Village assistant officer on Covid-19 duty dies in accident||TRICHY: A village assistant officer (VAO) returning home after Covid-19 duty died after his two-wheeler was hit by a truck near Mannarpuram on the Trichy-Chennai four-lane road on Wednesday. Police said S Kumar, 46, of Ragavendrapuram in Srirangam, was the VAO of Sirugamani East in Karur district. He was deputed at the Government Engineering College, Sethurapatti, where he was to take care of 178 Malaysia returnees quarantined there. Police said Kumar was returning home on his motorbike when a truck knocked him down from behind. Kumar was thrown off the bike in the impact, sustained injuries on the head and died on the spot. Truck driver M Sekar, 20, fled the spot. Further investigation is on. The district administration provided Rs 25,000 to Kumar’s family for the furneral.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/vao-on-covid-duty-dies-in-accident/articleshow/75747222.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Agra||BJP youth wing member who tested Covid +ve dies||AGRA: A 35-year-old member of BJP's youth wing, Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM), who had tested Covid-19 positive, died during treatment at SN Medical College (SNMC) on Thursday. He was admitted at emergency ward of the government hospital with fever and breathing difficulties on May 12. So far, 27 coronavirus infected patients have died in Agra district. Also, a nurse of SNMC was tested positive on Thursday. A resident of Vishnu Colony under Shahganj police station limits, the BJYM member was suffering from weakness for the past one week. According to family members, on May 10, the father of two started having breathing difficulties as well. He was taken to SNMC where he was admitted at the emergency ward. Doctors started treating him and his sample was taken for Covid-19 testing. On Wednesday, he was confirmed positive and shifted to an isolation ward. His health deteriorated on Wednesday evening. The SNMC’s administration confirmed his death on Thursday morning. Later, health department team collected samples of the patient's family members for testing. Meanwhile, according to Agra district administration, four new Covid-19 positive cases surfaced on Thursday. So far, 785 cases have been reported from Agra district. These included a 28-year-old nurse of SNMC who had served at the Covid-19 isolation ward. The other cases were related to Shahganj, Lohamandi and Nai Ki Mandi locality. Chief medical officer RC Pandey said, “All the new Covid-19 patients have been shifted to an isolation facility. A team of doctors is attending to them. People are being screened in the area around their houses and the places they had visited. Their contacts are being identified. We will conduct a health check of all these people." “So far, 389 people have recovered and discharged from hospital. All the people who had come in contact with any Covid-19 patients are being screened. We are doing massive sampling in the hotspots to identify the infected patients and send them to institutional quarantine,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/bjp-youth-wing-member-who-tested-covid-ve-dies/articleshow/75746511.cms||Deepak Lavania
May 15, 2020||Salem||Tamil Nadu: Man hacked to death by five-member gang||KRISHNAGIRI: A 34-year-old man was hacked to death by a five-member gang near Uthanapalli here on Wednesday night. Police are yet to ascertain the motive behind the murder. Police identified the deceased as K Muniraj, of Anumanthapuram village. He was a farmer. According to a police officer, the incident took place around 10pm on Wednesday when Muniraj returned home from farmland along with his 12-year-old son Santhosh. “Muniraj stopped the bike outside the house and his son went inside. As he was trying to park the vehicle, the five-member gang suddenly surrounded him and hacked him with sickles, killing him on the spot. The gang then fled,” the officer said. Hearing the commotion, neighbours rushed to the spot and found Muniraj lay dead in a pool of blood. When alerted, the Uthanapalli police reached the spot and sent the body to the government hospital in Hosur for postmortem. On Thursday morning, kin of the deceased protested in the village with the dead body. They urged police to take stern action against the murderers. Police, however, pacified them and promised to nab the accused at the earliest. Subsequently, they dispersed after an hour’s protest. The Uthanapalli police have registered a case and further inquiry is on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/man-hacked-to-death-by-5-member-gang/articleshow/75747227.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Coimbatore||Infighting claims 50-yr-old female elephant’s life||Coimbatore: A female elephant, aged about 50 years, was found dead in the Odanthurai reserve forest under the Mettupalayam forest range in Coimbatore forest division on Thursday. The forest department field staff attached to Mettupalayam forest range were on a patrol in the Odanthurai forest range when they spotted the decomposed carcass of the elephant. When alerted, forest veterinary doctor Sugumar reached the spot and conducted postmortem. Three injuries were found in the carcass during the autopsy. The official said a male elephant might have attacked the female elephant, injuring it. After the postmortem, the carcass was left inside the forest for natural decay. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/infighting-claims-50-yr-old-female-elephants-life/articleshow/75747232.cms||---
May 15, 2020||Coimbatore||Coimbatore: Cop, 6 others arrested for extorting money||COIMBATORE: A traffic policeman, who was placed under suspension, and his six accomplices were arrested by the city police on Thursday for kidnapping a college student and extorting Rs 81,000 from him at Kuniyamuthur. S Kaviyarasu, 20, a final year BSC (compute science) student of a private college, smoked marijuana at his rental room along with his friends at BK Pudur near Kuniyamuthur on April 26 night. The cop, S Ayyalu Ganesh, 38, of Kovaipudur, and his two friends M Sathishkumar, 28, of Kannamanaickanur near Madukkarai, and A Afsal Ali, 33, of Kovaipudur, took video of Kaviyarasu smoking marijuana (ganja). They threatened the college student that they would upload the video on social media and demanded Rs 50,000 from him. Three days later, Kaviyarasu gave Rs 43,000 to Ayyalu Ganesh. But the cop forwarded the video to his friend Faizal on April 30. Faizal and six others hatched a plan on the same day and kidnapped Kaviyarasu and confided him in a room. They demanded Rs 2 lakh from Kaviyarasu to release him. However, they released him after he paid Rs 38,000 in cash to Faizal. However, Faizal and others kept demanding the remaining amount. Unable to bear the torture, Kaviyarasu approached the Kuniyamuthur police who registered a case. Police arrested Ayyalu Ganesh, Sathishkumar, Afsal N Saleem Basha, 38, B Nowshath, 36, S Jainulabuddin, 38, and K Sivanandam, 30. Three more accused involved in the case are absconding. Ayyalu Ganesh, who was attached to Coimbatore city police, was arrested in December 2019 for assaulting his wife and his mother-in-law over a family dispute at Sundakkamuthur. Later, he was placed under suspension.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/cop-6-others-arrested-for-extorting-money/articleshow/75747239.cms||---
