May 16, 2020||India||E-filing paving way for virtual courts, no going back: CJI||NEW DELHI: Chief Justice of India Sharad Arvind Bobde on Friday said the coronavirus pandemic forced rethinking on the functioning of the top court, which paved the way for virtual courts. He stressed that this step will not be reversed. "We went for video conferencing to reduce the footfall in court premises. We have to change according to needs of the times. We have to accept the present situation. There is a need for change of mindset. Now there is no going back," he said at the inauguration of an online demo of the Supreme Court e-filing module, which was webcast. Coronavirus lockdown: Latest updatesThe inauguration was also attended by the Chairperson of the Supreme Court e-Committee, Justice D.Y. Chandrachud. This business of e-filing is the first step towards establishing e-courts, the CJI added. Chief Justice Bobde said it is an extraordinary situation in extraordinary times, and the pandemic forced rethinking of how the top court operates. "To rethink what is essential for the essence of the judicial system... The Supreme Court was the first institution to respond to this danger (Covid-19 spread)," he said. It was decided not to open in the usual way and then transitioned into virtual courts and through this move, it was ensured that the court should not become the centre to propagate the virus, he added. He insisted that this business of e-filing is the first step towards e-courts, and there is no doubt, e-filing received impetus due to coronavirus. More on Covid-19  Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage  Lockdown 3.0: What's allowed and what's not in the three zones  It's time to mask up and stay safe: Join TOI's #MaskIndia campaign  MHA's guidelines for home isolation  Trust the newspaper for your daily verified news "Technology must be simple to use, and does not exclude any citizen anywhere. The rule of law must survive irrespective of virus. Artificial Intelligence can play a great role in organisation of courts, categorisation of matters and automation of courts. If we were to have this system during Ayodhya matter, then we could have dealt much more efficiently, as there were thousands of pages to go through," the CJI said, contending that the lockdown prepared the apex court for a new working environment. Justice Chandrachud said the pandemic has thrown up unprecedented challenges, and it calls for a calibrated and institutional response. "What we do today will define the futurea Besides the Supreme Court, we have 17,000 courts. Overcoming the initial glitches, the deployment of VC hearings have been utilised across the nation," he said. He cited Patna High Court has dealt with 450 cases via video conferencing, and trial courts have dealt with lakhs of cases. "We have devised: E-filings, which is available 24/7. Digitalised objection scrutiny mechanism. E-payment of Court fees and incorporating digital signatures. Dashboard will be a comprehensive e-folder of all individual data of respective lawyers," said Justice Chandrachud, insisting that e-filing is important for an efficient justice delivery system. Supreme Court Advocates on Record Association (SCAORA) President, advocate Shivaji Jadhav as well as the Supreme Court Bar Association (SCBA) President, senior advocate Dushyant Dave were also present on the occasion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/e-filing-paving-way-for-virtual-courts-no-going-back-cji/articleshow/75766828.cms||---
May 16, 2020||India||Writer raises issue of no food in hospital for Covid-19 patients, Aaditya Thackeray intervenes||MUMBAI: Maharashtra minister Aaditya Thackeray had to intervene after a scriptwriter drew his attention towards a city hospital that had run out of food to serve to its patients. Scriptwriter Vishal Kapoor took to Twitter and said the cook at Sanjeevani Hospital in Malad, where his uncle was admitted after his Covid-19 diagnosis, had left and hence the patients didn't have any food to eat. "URGENT: My uncle, tested Covid+, is in the ICU at Sanjeevani Hospital Malad East. We were informed that the cook at the hospital has left and the patients haven't got food since yesterday. Request urgent help @CMOMaharashtra @AUThackeray (sic)," he tweeted. Taking note of the tweet, Thackeray tagged Shiv Sena corporator Amey Ghole and asked him to look into the matter. In a follow up tweet, Kapoor, whose writing credits include Marathi horror "Lapachhapi" and TV series "Bombers", said the hospital is "arranging food from a nearby restaurant for the patients." Ghole said he had spoken to the hospital and learnt there was an issue with the in-house facility but they have now made an alternative arrangements for the same. "Thank you everyone. Appreciate the prompt response and support @AUThackeray @AmeyGhole @CMOMaharashtra," Kapoor said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/writer-raises-issue-of-no-food-in-hospital-for-covid-19-patients-aaditya-thackeray-intervenes/articleshow/75766837.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Chandigarh||Immunity against Covid-19: Besides food, now chyavanprash and honey for Chandigarh's poor||CHANDIGARH: Ayurvedic supplement chyavanprash and natural tonic honey, being distrubuted for free among the city's poor, will boost their immunity during the Covid-19 pandemic. The municipal corporation, joined in this effort by the volunteers of the Association of Professional Social Workers and Development Practitioners (APSWDP), has distributed 1,500 kilograms of these bottle sets, so far. Resident welfare associations and other social groups, meanwhile, have distributed 47,000 packets of cooked food. Medicne maker Dabur sent over the chyavanprash and honey under its corporate social responsibility (CSR) initiative. The civic body decided the operating areas of distribution volunteers. They work daily. MC social development officer Vivek Trivedi said: “We have identified 2,000 families, women and children mostly, who will receive these bottles." He said: "The tonics will go to the locations of rehabilitation colonies, homeless people, and labourers. Dr Sumit leads a team of Swarnani Youth Club volunteers in this effort. Besides, 10 shelters for the urban homeless are also being covered under the Ayush ministry initiative to use Ayurveda products for boosting people's immunity.” Already, the civic body is trying to supply groceries, cooked food, and other items to all sectors. Mayor Rajbala Malik and municipal commissioner K K Yadav have also visited the target areas. The MC has collboarated with the UT administration to arrange for the comfortable stay of migrant labourers at the shelter in Maloya village.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/immunity-against-covid-19-besides-food-now-chyavanprash-and-honey-for-chandigarhs-poor/articleshow/75767126.cms||Deepak Yadav
May 16, 2020||Chandigarh||High court allows Chandigarh woman to abort malformed baby in 22nd week||CHANDIGARH: The Punjab and Haryana high court has allowed a 22-week pregnant poor woman to abort after the PGI's permanent medical board also agreed that the stress of carrying a malformed baby was dangerous for her. The petitioner had cited poor prognosis as the reason to seek this permision. On May 11, the board evaluated her at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) on orders of the high court and said she was fit clinically but under the mental stress of carrying a fetus affected with Arnold Chiari II malformation (congenital brain defect that spoils body balance and coordination). Looking at severe congenital anomaly in the fetus, the board recommended her medical termination of pregnancy even at this advanced stage. The high court order reads: “This court has no choice but to accept the request of the petitioner, which is also recommended by the permanent medical board.” The court also directed the PGI to have the head of the obstetrics and gynaecology department supervise this abortion. The institute must give all necessary facilities to the patient, including any deserving benefit of the poor patient welfare fund. She must be considered, within the law, if she applies. Abortion is a qualified right in India under the MTP (medical termination of pregnancy) Act but it can be performed only by a registered doctor before 12 weeks of pregnancy. In case the woman is pregnant for between 12 and 20 weeks, the opinions of two doctors are required. They permit abortion only if continuing the pregnancy poses a substantial risk to the woman or her physical and mental health. If the child to be born faces similar substantial risk of physical or mental abnormalities or serious handicap, then also abortion may be allowed. The Chiari malformation can cause swallowing difficulty, vomiting, headaches, dizziness, neck pain, poor hand coordination, unsteady gait, numbness, and tingling of the hands and feet. Raising such a child involves big expenditure.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/high-court-allows-chandigarh-woman-to-abort-malformed-baby-in-22nd-week/articleshow/75767186.cms||Neha Sharma
May 16, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh home quarantine figure close to 6k, majority from slums||CHANDIGARH: The rise in Covid-19 positive cases took the count of city's home quarantined people to 5,900 by May 13 evening. Most of these numbers are from poor and packed colonies. More than 3,000 of these people have completed quarantine period but been advised home stay of another 14 days as a precaution. As the city’s tally of Covid-19 positive cases approaches 200 (more than 185 having contracted the virus, so far), the UT administration has turned regular buildings into quarantine centres in different sectors, for the time when things get worse. The administration has also used hotels to quarantine the flyers coming home from abroad. A source in the UT administration said: "Senior officers review the home quarantine situation daily and ensure that isolated people don't leave their home. Their need are being taken care of.” Home quarantined people are spread across the city and dedicated teams of the civic body supply them with essential commodities at doorsteps for a charge. Special cleaners in protective gear lift their daily garbage. The MC and the UT information technology department developed a CVD Tracker app to keep the home quarantined people under watch. Police get an alert if any of them steps out. The app is a must-download for them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/chandigarh-home-quarantine-figure-close-to-6k-majority-from-slums/articleshow/75767234.cms||Deepak Yadav
May 16, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbaikars join the virtual flash mob of 500 moms from around the world||There’s no reason to let a lockdown spoil your exercise routine. A group of mothers in Mumbai demonstrated exactly that as they joined an online community comprising moms from across the globe. This virtual flashmob saw around 500 moms from different parts of the world get into a fun, fitness mode together. ‘We felt like one giant, happy mom-tribe’Pooja Patil works out with her sonA mother-baby duo does the 'Flying Baby pose', a core-strengthening move As they all logged in, the screen was full of cute babies and their mothers. Says Pooja Patil, who spearheaded the flash mob from Mumbai, “We had been practicing for this virtual flash mob involving mothers since the last two Sundays. We would meet online and practice the choreography with our kids; it was such fun. We felt like one giant, happy mom-tribe.” Soumya Ahuja Patel, who participated from Australia, shares, “Who says quarantine can’t be fun? Moms can achieve anything and everything. This was my first such celebration with my baby Avyaan.” Adding to that, Sydney-based Malashree says, “It was one of those rare times when you get to dance with your kids. And, my daughter and I thoroughly enjoyed dancing together for this event.” Flash mobs around the world amid lockdown In the second week of March, quarantined Italians held ‘flash mob singalongs’ as they sang and danced in their windows, balconies and terraces to boost morale amid the pandemic  On April 20, a Michigan neighbourhood asked people to wear costumes and showcase their dance routine while maintaining social distancing  On May 3, a flash mob had Americans unpacking and putting up their Christmas lights with the hope that the holiday spirit would help people get through this difficult time On May 4, neighbours in a local community in the UK took part in an ‘umbrella flash mob’ to lift their spirits during this time of crisis||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbaikars-join-the-virtual-flash-mob-of-500-moms-from-around-the-world/articleshow/75766225.cms||Ismat Tahseen
May 16, 2020||India||Government unleashes long-pending reforms to overhaul farming||NEW DELHI: The Centre on Friday unleashed three crucial, long-pending reforms to reshape the architecture of farmer-market ties, allowing them to sell their produce without any restrictions, and also unveiled a Rs 1 lakh crore fund to build agri infrastructure to raise productivity and make the sector globally competitive. Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman announced the fund and said the far-reaching policy reforms were part of an 11-point action plan to revive the sector and ensure better returns for farmers. The government will amend the Essential Commodities Act, 1955, make a central law on agriculture marketing and create a legal framework to provide price assurance to farmers and help improve the quality of their produce. Read our coronavirus live blog for all the latest news and updatesCoronavirus outbreak: Complete coverageThis was the third tranche of the Rs 20-lakh-crore package that Prime Minister Narendra Modi has announced to nurse the economy back to health. The "Atmanirbhar Bharat" policy is aimed at making the Indian economy competitive and emerging as a major player in the global supply chain on the back of Make in India products. Seen with the recent announcements, the measures aim to increase farm earnings and encourage associated industries to offset the impact of Covid-19 on the farm sector even as the Centre has taken steps to ensure procurement to keep the rural economy moving. "The Rs 1 lakh crore agri infrastructure fund will be created immediately," Sitharaman said, adding that the money would be spent on creating infrastructure projects at farm-gate and aggregation points (primary agricultural cooperative societies, farmer producer organisations, agriculture entrepreneurs and startups). The need to improve the connection between farm-gate and retail has been on the table for a long time but action has been tardy. More on Covid-19 Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage Lockdown 3.0: What's allowed and what's not in the three zones It's time to mask up and stay safe: Join TOI's #MaskIndia campaign MHA's guidelines for home isolation Trust the newspaper for your daily verified news Better infrastructure is intended to complement flexibility that farmers are expected to get from the proposed agri market reforms. They should be able to directly sell farm produce to any private entity or food processing company from farm-gates and registered warehouses without the licensing mechanism of registered mandis (agri markets) currently run under the Agricultural Produce Marketing Committee Act. Experts said the reforms unveiled by the FM will help improve the linkage of the farm sector with markets and also give an impetus to contract farming while private sector involvement will help attract better technology, inputs and market knowledge for farmers. "These are big reforms. They should have happened in the first term of the Narendra Modi government. Now, they have done it so der aye durust aye (better late than never)," said Ashok Gulati, Infosys chair professor at economic thinktank ICRIER. He said the Agriculture Produce Price and Quality Assurance reform was aimed at allowing contract farming. "Earlier, it was based on the discretion of states and it was on a case-by-case basis but now there will be a central law to allow direct buying from farmers," said Gulati. He added that the quality of farm products would improve as large retail buyers would insist on quality. "Most importantly, it will allow the markets to intervene. Farmers will not sow looking at prices in the past but prices in future. So, the sowing pattern will change in a sense as the market will assure her/him of a particular price," he said. Officials explained that the inter-state movement or sale of foodgrains came under central laws even as Sitharaman said the law would deal with this aspect. "It will help in barrier-free inter-state trade and provide adequate choice to farmers to sell their produce at attractive prices," she said, adding that it would also help in e-trading of agriculture produce. The Centre on Friday integrated an additional 38 new mandis with the e-NAM (National Agriculture Market) platform, reaching a milestone of 1,000 mandis on this pan-India electronic agri produce trading portal. The amendment to the EC Act will deregulate agriculture foodstuffs, including cereals, edible oils, oilseeds, pulses, onion and potato. Unlike the existing law, the new one will impose stock limits under very exceptional circumstances like national calamities or an unexpected surge in prices. "No such stock limit will apply to processors or value chain participants, subject to their installed capacity or to any exporter subject to the export demand," the FM said. The third reform point — a facilitative legal framework — will help farmers engage with processors, aggregators, large retailers and exporters in a fair and transparent manner. It will help farmers reach an agreement in advance with big traders, processors and exporters to get the pre-agreed price for their produce in terms of a contract farming kind of mechanism. Other measures include a Rs 10,000-crore scheme for formalisation of micro food enterprises with an aim to promote the government’s vision of "vocal for local with global approach" — a move which will give impetus to a cluster-based approach to promote local produce through export. The finance minister cited examples such as "makhana" in Bihar, mango in UP, saffron in J&K, bamboo shoots in the north-east, chillies in Andhra Pradesh and tapioca in Tamil Nadu among several others for promotion and support through the cluster-based approach. Sitharaman referred to schemes announced in the Budget and said the focus would be their implementation. She spoke of an allocation of Rs 20,000 crore for fishermen through the Pradhan Mantri Matsya Sampada Yojana, ongoing national animal disease control programme and developing animal husbandry infrastructure through a Rs 15,000 crore fund.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/government-unleashes-long-pending-reforms-to-overhaul-farming/articleshow/75768028.cms||Vishwa Mohan
May 16, 2020||India||NIA arrests key conspirator in 2019 Visakhapatnam espionage case||NEW DELHI: The National Investigation Agency on Friday arrested a key conspirator in the 2019 Visakhapatnam espionage case involving Pakistan-based spies who had honey-trapped some junior-level Navy personnel via social media for collecting sensitive and classified information regarding location and movements of Indian naval ships and submarines. Mohammed Haroon Haji Abdul Rehman Lakdawala, aged 49, was arrested in Mumbai after NIA investigators traced him based on questioning of arrested accused in the case and technical analysis. Haroon, a middle-level business operator from Mumbai, runs a small cloth business, apart from dealing in property and operating a small tours and travel firm. He has close relatives in Karachi and was a regular visitor to Pakistan since an early age. It was during these visits that he was trapped by ISI and then used as a money conduit to pay Indian recruits in lieu of the classified information that they shared. Haroon is said to have helped Pakistani intelligence agents transfer the money, often in small amounts that would not arouse suspicion, to Indian spy recruits through mobile wallet apps such as PayTM etc. Investigation revealed that Haroon had visited Karachi on many occasions to meet his Pakistani handlers under the guise of conducting cross-border trade. During these visits, he came in contact with two Pakistani spies namely Akbar @Ali and Rizwan, who directed him to deposit money into the bank accounts of navy personnel at regular intervals. During searches at the house of Haroon on Friday, a number of digital devices and incriminating documents were seized by NIA. The 2019 Visakhapatnam espionage case relates to an international racket involving individuals based in Pakistan and at different locations in India, including Visakhapatnam and Mumbai. Pakistan-based spies recruited agents in India between 2011 and 2019 for collecting sensitive and classified information regarding locations/movements of Indian naval ships and submarines and other defence establishments. Investigation revealed that few navy personnel came in contact with Pakistani nationals through various social media platforms such as Facebook, Whatsapp etc. During chats and messages, often comprising sexually-explicit content, exchanged with accounts of ISI agents posing as young women, the Indian recruits were lured into sharing classified information in lieu of monetary gains. The money was deposited into the bank accounts of the navy personnel through Indian associates having business interests in Pakistan. Fourteen accused, including 11 Navy personnel and one Pakistani-born Indian woman Shaista Qaiser, have been arrested in the case so far. The espionage racket was busted in an operation code-named ‘Dolphin’s Nose’, jointly executed by naval intelligence, central intelligence agencies, and Andhra Pradesh State Intelligence wing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/nia-arrests-key-conspirator-in-2019-visakhapatnam-espionage-case/articleshow/75768411.cms||Bharti Jain
May 16, 2020||India||Govt likely to amend Essential Commodities Act||NEW DELHI: The Centre will amend the Essential Commodities Act to provide for notifying stock limits for a retailer or wholesaler only if retail prices increase abnormally—by 100% in case of perishable items like onion, potato and tomato and 50% in the case of non-perishable essential commodities. The government will shortly bring in an ordinance to effect changes in the Act, sources said. The EC Act is used by the government to put a cap on prices and specify stock limit for essential items. The government has worked out a formula for taking a decision to impose stock limit. Sources said as per the formula, the current price of an essential commodity will be compared with the average price of the same item for past one year and past five years, whichever is lower. “If the prevailing retail price of a perishable item is more than double of the lowest average price, the stock limit norm can be imposed,” said a source. Announcing the decision to amend the law, Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said stock limit can be imposed under very exceptional circumstances like national calamities, famine etc which lead to abnormal surge in prices. She said after the amendment, agriculture food items including cereals, edible oils, oilseeds, pulses, onion and potato will be deregulated. Sitharaman said the changes will enable better price realisation for farmers and no stock limit will apply to processors or value chain participants, subject to their installed capacity or to any exporter, subject to the export demand. The government has already lifted the stock limit norms for these entities. “This is done through notification as per the enabling provision of EC Act. But after the change in law there will no need for such notifications,” a source said. Though there is a perception among traders that the law was more useful during the 1980s when hoarding was rampant and now it has lost significance, in recent years the government has successfully used the stock limit provision on several occasions to rein in artificial price rise of onion, tomato and pulses. Sources said comprehensive amendments will be made in the Act later to eliminate punitive measures such as preventive detention, jail, confiscation of vehicles and attachment of properties of suspected hoarders and black marketers. The financial penalty would be increased by 10 times of the confiscated items.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/govt-likely-to-bring-in-ordinance-to-amend-essential-commodities-act/articleshow/75768479.cms||Dipak K Dash
May 16, 2020||India||Lockdown: Mighty shrines face heat as coffers dry up||NEW DELHI: The lockdown seems to have hit man and God alike. As doors of major shrines across the country remain shut for over 45 days now, their daily collections have hit rock bottom, so much so that some temple managements are even struggling to meet regular expenses. Some are meeting the shortfall by dipping into their reserves. Kerala’s Sree Padmanabhaswamy Temple, which used to see an average monthly income of around Rs 3 crore, is now netting a mere Rs 7.5 lakh. The temple needs Rs 1.1 crore to pay salaries to its 307 employees and meet other expenses. Senior officials of Travancore Devaswom Board, which runs the temple affairs, didn’t explain how they were meeting the shortfall. Similarly, Guruvayur temple has witnessed its monthly collections nosedive from around Rs 5 crore to Rs 1.5 lakh. The temple is now meeting its routine expenses of Rs 10 crore per month largely from the interest from its fixed deposits of Rs 1,529 crore. Its reserves include about 700kg of gold. The lockdown has caused a loss in revenue of around Rs 100 crore to Sabarimala temple in Kerala. Travancore Devaswom Board, which manages the temple, cancelled the 10-day festival that was scheduled in March and the Vishu in mid-April. It was also forced to cancel two monthly pujas. The hill shrine of Lord Venkateswara at Tirumala in Andhra Pradesh, considered the richest Hindu temple in the world, too, has taken a hit. Pre-lockdown, the temple’s monthly income was Rs 200 crore, which has now come down to zero. Its monthly expenses are around Rs 150 crore, which the temple board is now managing from some “surplus funds”. The temple has a cash reserve of Rs 14,000 crore. In Maharashtra, the famous Saibaba Temple at Shirdi, which used to earn Rs 22 crore monthly pre-lockdown, is now seeing “negligible” revenue. The Sai Sansthan, which has a monthly wage bill of Rs 18 crore for its 6,000 employees, was unable to pay salaries for the months of March and April. The Sansthan has decided not to reinvest the matured fixed deposits for paying salaries. The temple has a deposit of Rs 2,500 crore, apart from a sizable gold reserve. The Siddhivinayak Temple in Mumbai, which has 250 employees, has been forced to pay the monthly wage bill of Rs 85 lakh from the management fund. The temple’s monthly income of Rs 8 crore has completely dried up. The trust, which has a fixed deposit of Rs 350 crore, is confident of sailing through this phase. Mumbai’s iconic Haji Ali dargah is being maintained with the reserve funds as no collection has come during the lockdown. Earlier, Haji Ali would collect between Rs 25 lakh and Rs 30 lakh monthly. Similarly, Dargah Ajmer in Rajasthan is banking on its savings and interest to meet monthly expenses of Rs 55-60 lakh. The Dargah’s earnings have nosedived since lockdown. The Dargah management refused to share details of its monthly income without permission from the ministry of minority affairs. Up north, Mata Vaishno Devi temple in Jammu has been managing its affairs with its own reserves. The temple has 3,000 staff working for it. To shore up its daily collection, its board is planning to start “paid prasad” services online. On an average, the daily collection at the shrine used to be Rs 1 crore, which has come down to almost zero. Assam’s Kamakhya temple has seen its average daily collections of Rs 1.5 lakh-2 lakh become “nil” now. Its monthly expenditure before the coronavirus crisis was around Rs 40 lakh. Now, the temple board is managing the expenditure from its reserves. Closure of the famous Jagannath Temple in Puri, Odisha, has taken a heavy toll on its collections, which has fallen to Rs 1,000-2,000 daily from nearly Rs 3 lakh. The total loss to the temple so far is estimated to be around Rs 1.65 crore. The temple’s cash reserve is around Rs 600 crore, from which the administration is meeting the monthly expenses of Rs 5 crore. The Golden Temple in Punjab has also been hit badly. Its income crashed from nearly Rs 7 crore a month to just Rs 4 lakh. It, however, quickly improved as the state allowed some relaxation in lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/mighty-shrines-face-heat-as-coffers-dry-up/articleshow/75768417.cms||---
May 16, 2020||India||TOI e-Paper goes behind paywall in India||NEW DELHI: The e-Paper of The Times of India, the world’s largest-selling English daily, is now available for a modest fee of Rs 199 (plus GST) every month in India. The e-paper, which had been free to subscribers in India,and only required registration, went behind a paywall on Friday evening. Within a few hours, several hundreds signed up for it, availing of the simple process and multiple online payment options, including debit card, credit card, net banking, and Paytm. TimesPrime, which offers a select bunch of exclusive stories for online readers, will also be made available shortly to e-Paper subscribers. Internationally, TOI’s e-Paper has been a paid-only facility since 2009. Online subscription can be purchased for US $3 per month or $30 per annum. The e-paper replicates various editions of TOI and gives online readers an experience similar to reading the physical newspaper, but on a screen. TOI had a total readership of over 1.73 crore, according to the latest round of the Indian Readership Survey.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/toi-e-paper-goes-behind-paywall-in-india/articleshow/75768509.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Patna||Move to shift cops from police lines to vacant govt buildings||PATNA: Policemen residing in the police lines across the state are being shifted temporarily to vacant government structures in the wake of 22 Covid-19 positive cases found on the BMP campus in state capital having headquarters of 5th, 10th and 14th battalions followed by one case each from the police lines in Araria and Nawada. ADG (headquarters) Jitendra Kumar said the police lines at Patna, Muzaffarpur and Bhagalpur are being decongested in order to maintain social distancing and hygiene. “The district police chiefs concerned have been directed to assess the situation as per requirement and availability of vacant space in government buildings,” he told TOI. He said the BMP headquarters doesn’t require to be decongested as only one or two companies are stationed while rest are deployed in different districts. Meanwhile, door-to-door survey of BMP headquarters and police lines are being done across the state. “Around 2,000 houses on the BMP premise have been surveyed and more than 12,500 police personnel and their family members screened so far,” he said. Kumar said altogether 32 cases of Covid-19, including 21 from BMP-14 and BMP-1 battalion respectively in Patna, had been reported so far. “Eight out of 32 have recovered.Kaimur district police had five positive cases while Araria and Patna rail police reported two cases each. Madhubani and Nawada district police had one positive case each. Samples of 884 police personnel had been collected in state and 32 were found positive,” he said. The ADG said the IPS officer, whose BMP-14 bodyguard was found infected, has been tested negative. “The IPS officer’s staff and family members also tested negative,” he said. Kumar said the woman IPS officer is safe because her cook from BMP-1, who tested positive, was kept in quarantine after she returned from leave.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/move-to-shift-cops-from-police-lines-to-vacant-govt-buildings/articleshow/75765804.cms||Debashish Karmakar
May 16, 2020||Coimbatore||Assistant director dies in road accident near Annur||Coimbatore: Arun Prasath alias Venkat Pakkar, an assistant director in Tamil film industry, died in an accident on Annur–Mettupalayam Road at Jadayampalayam on Friday. Police said Prasath, 37, a native of Annur, was on his way to a temple on his motorcycle on Friday morning. When he reached near Jadayampalayam, a speeding truck coming from the opposite direction rammed into the motorcycle. He suffered severe head injuries and died on the spot. The Sirumugai police sent the body to the government hospital in Mettupalayam for postmortem. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/assistant-director-dies-in-road-accident-near-annur/articleshow/75766848.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Business||India Cements shares soar 14%||Chennai: The stock prices of south India’s largest cement maker by volume The India Cements Ltd., on Friday soared nearly 14% at the BSE after the company informed the markets that billionaire retailers Damanis of D-Mart had increased their shareholding in the company to nearly 20% during the Jan-March quarter. It was 4.73% in December quarter. The company’s stock prices rose sharply to Rs 114.1 apiece with a net gain of 13.19% at the BSE. In a filing with the stock exchanges the cement maker said that the Damanis through different entities controlled 19.89% of equity of the company. In an earlier filing on February 28 the company had informed the exchanges that the retailer group’s holding was 7.27%. The Damanis now have become the second largest shareholders in the company after the promoters whose holdings stand at 28.26% as per the stock exchange filing. Institutional investors, including mutual funds sold their stakes in the company during the Jan-March quarter and now stands reduced to 2.7% from the earlier 11.1%. The shareholding of foreign portfolio investors also dropped to 12.85% from 14.57% earlier.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/india-cements-shares-soar-14/articleshow/75766131.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Patna||Special flight brings back stranded ONGC staff to Patna||PATNA: Air India operated two special flights to and fro Jayaprakash Narayan International Airport here on Friday carrying stranded employees of Oil and Natural Gas Corporation (ONGC) Limited. The first flight – AI-1731/1732 (Mumbai-Patna-Mumbai) – reached Patna airport at 9.15am and departed for Mumbai at 10am with 105 ONGC employees. Another flight – AI-1673/1674 – between Patna and Mumbai landed here at 5.45pm with 110 stranded ONGC employees. The same flight departed at 6.15pm for Mumbai. An Air India official said first flight from Mumbai came empty to pick the stranded employees of ONGC in Patna, while the second flight brought back the employees stuck in Mumbai. “The second flight returned empty to Mumbai. All the 110 employees, who reached Patna airport, were screened by a health department team,” the executives said. Special flights apart, the city airport has also handled 27 cargo flights, including one freight aircraft as well as medical emergency flights, during the lockdown period. Over 700 metric tonnes of cargo reached here during the last 50 days, which included essential goods, medical supplies or equipment brought from various cities across the country. Assistant general manager (air traffic management) Santosh Kumar said besides the cargo flights, the city airport also handles air ambulances in emergency cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/special-flight-brings-back-stranded-ongc-staff/articleshow/75765778.cms||Faryal Rumi
May 16, 2020||Patna||Patna: 9 to 5 working hours a thing of the past?||PATNA: The nationwide Covid-19 lockdown has drastically changed the work culture of most organizations in the city with the virtual disappearance of 9-to-5 office hours. Remote working has become the new normal for most establishments and people are gradually adjusting themselves to the new order. Even in establishments, which do not provide ‘work from home’ facility for its staff, the work environment is witnessing a remarkable change these days. In most offices, only one-third of the total strength is called for work daily for maintaining social distance. Naturally, only essential business is being transacted in these offices. “In the regional office of the Geological Survey of India (GSI) at Kankarbagh, only officers above the rank of deputy secretary are supposed to report to their duties daily. The remaining officers and staff come to office on rotational basis. Most officers and staff are working from home and disposing of some urgent works,” GSI director Bishwapriya told this newspaper. He pointed out that even work from home was not a good proposition for many employees, who did not find sufficient space and time for office work at home. “In fact, ‘work for home’ mostly turns into ‘work for home’ as one has to listen to the demands of other members of the family, including wife and children, who all are staying together,” he added. Even banks are working with limited officers and staff. “Usually not more than 50% of the staff report to their duties daily and the others have the liberty to dispose of some urgent assignments online from home,“ said Indian Bank manager Arvind Kumar. As normal academic activities are paralysed in all universities and no one is attending classes, there are no working hours for teachers and students. Most teachers are busy preparing e-content and video lectures and uploading them to the designated websites for the benefit of students. Naturally, they have adopted ‘work from home’ culture. Even the officers and non-teaching employees of colleges and universities do not report to their duties daily and the normal 9 to 5 office hours have become a thing of the past. “In Nalanda Open University, only one-third of the staff are reporting to their duties and there are hardly any fixed hours of work. At times, they have to stay longer in their office rooms,” said joint registrar Amar Nath Pandey. However, the work from home culture enforced by some establishments has turned the entire timetable of most employees topsy-turvy. As they have no fixed working hours and they need not go to their offices, they remain in pyjamas while working online. “I have become lazy these days and don’t bother to shave or take a bath. Sometimes, I have to complete my assignments at night when all my family members are asleep,” said a corporate office employee, Rakesh Ranjan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/9-to-5-working-hrs-a-thing-of-the-past/articleshow/75765684.cms||B K Mishra
May 16, 2020||Patna||IIIT-Bhagalpur develops new software for coronavirus tests||BHAGALPUR: The Indian Institute of Information Technology (IIIT), Bhagalpur, has developed a software that can read chest X-ray films or plates and diagnose whether a patient has contracted the Covid-19 virus or not. Authorities at IIIT, Bhagalpur, said that the software can read scanned chest X-ray film or plate scanned and uploaded in a computer in less than one second. They also claimed that the cost of diagnosis for Covid-19 using this software will be less than Rs 100 in comparison to conventional microbiological swab test which varies between Rs 3,500 to 5,000. IIIT director Prof Arvind Choubey, who along with assistant professor Sandip Raj have developed the software said that sample testing with the help of this technology in presence of a team of doctors and experts at Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College and Hospital (JLNMCH) was 100% successful. “Chest X-rays of more than 20 persons were uploaded in the computer and the software gave 100% result and matched with the conventional microbiological swab tests. Software analysis accuracy is expected to be around 95-96%, with only 4-5% of error or less dependent on other factors,” Prof Choubey said. He added, “We are forwarding the information regarding the software technology-based diagnosis of Covid-19 to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), Union ministry of health and ministry of human resources development. The software can be used with digital X-Ray machines, besides computed tomography imaging machine (CT Scan) for detection of the virus.” JLNMCH Superintendent Dr R C Mandal said that this new technology is ‘extraordinary’ and can be helpful in detection of Covid-19 within seconds. “We look forward to further work on this technology,” said Dr Mandal. JLNMCH principal Dr Hemant Kumar Sinha said, “We will ask our radiology department to learn the technology and utilize it.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/iiit-bhagalpur-develops-new-software-for-corona-tests/articleshow/75765246.cms||Kumar Rajesh
May 16, 2020||Business||Franklin MF to appoint adviser for fund returns, will start investor vote||MUMBAI: Franklin Templeton Mutual Fund, the troubled fund house that’s winding up six of its debt schemes with assets aggregating nearly Rs 25,900 crore, is appointing an independent adviser to oversee the process of returning money to investors. The fund house is also asking its investors to vote in favour of closing these six schemes. Additionally, it has warned investors that a negative vote may delay the process of closing the schemes and, in turn, that of returning the money. In a letter to investors, the fund house’s president Sanjay Sapre said that the trustees of the schemes will be appointing an independent adviser to assist with the liquidation of the portfolios. On April 23, the fund had announced it was closing six of its debt schemes and said the illiquidity in the debt market due to Covid-19 pandemic-related issues was one of the reasons for it to take the extreme decision. Sapre said that in the next few days, the fund house will also send a letter to its investors about the voting process. Under Sebi rules, investors need to agree to the fund house’s proposal to close the schemes. The MF can prepare a payment schedule and finalise payouts to its investors only after the voting process is complete and it gets a majority support of investors in each of the six schemes separately. Sapre warned investors that a ‘negative’ voting will not reverse the winding up process and such a vote will not help the six schemes to recommence the redemption and subscription process. “The purpose of the vote is to authorise the trustees to take the next steps for disposal of the assets of the scheme and distribution of the proceeds to the unit-holders in accordance with regulations.” Sapre assured investors that the six schemes continue to receive inflows regularly and so far all maturities and other commitments have been received as per schedule. “We continue to see a marked reduction in borrowing levels across some of our funds under winding-up, as we receive these cash flows via coupons, scheduled maturities and prepayments.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/franklin-mf-to-appoint-adviser-for-fund-returns-will-start-investor-vote/articleshow/75767160.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Kolkata||KMC, five civic bodies to deploy private agencies for bio-waste disposal from patients’ homes||KOLKATA: KMC on Friday decided to engage two private agencies to collect bio-medical waste from homes, where Covid-positive patients displaying mild or no symptoms will live in isolation. Donning PPE, these agency members will visit the earmarked houses and collect contagious bio-medical waste, such as gloves, masks and wipes, in yellow disposal bags, which will subsequently be destroyed in an incinerator. The state urban development department has reportedly asked heads of seven municipal corporations across the state to implement the guidelines for the collection of bio-medical waste from homes, where Covid-19 patients or suspects are isolated. A source said private agencies, already empanelled and working with hospitals, would be engaged for the work in Kolkata, Howrah, Bidhannagar, Durgapur, Asansol and Siliguri municipal corporation areas. The focus would be on Kolkata, where there were 286 containment zones at present, said a civic official. KMC will have the health department database on the number of people in home isolation. Patients and families will be asked to keep their household and bio-medical waste separately. The agency personnel, in PPEs, will collect the medical waste, dump it with that from Covid hospitals, and then, take them to be incinerated to cut out contamination. State health officials pointed out that till ICMR revised its isolation guidelines it was not a matter of worry as hospitals and quarantine centres followed waste disposal rules. The new guideline says, “Very mild symptomatic cases and pre-symptomatic or asymptomatic lab-confirmed cases as clinically assigned by the treating medical officer can opt for home isolation. Such cases should have adequate facility at their residence for self-isolation and also for quarantine of family contacts.” This, the officer said, meant Covid patients in home isolation would dispose of their masks, gloves and anything that might contain body fluid. This would be hazardous to those who come in contact, primarily municipal workers and sweepers, he added. The health department on Friday distributed a few lakhs of yellow bags to all quarantine centres for bio-medical waste collection. “The central pollution control board issued guidelines for collection and disposal of bio-medical waste that we referred to the health department. The waste generated at patients’ houses must be treated as bio-medical waste and proper precautions be taken for its disposal,” said state PCB chairman Kalyan Rudra. An NGT order is in place, asking for stringent steps for disposal of such waste. “The Harijan bustee in Howrah now has an alarming number of Covid-19 patients and they reportedly contracted the virus from bio-medical waste,” said environmentalist Subhas Datta.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kmc-5-civic-bodies-to-deploy-pvt-agencies-for-bio-waste-disposal-from-patients-homes/articleshow/75766853.cms||Saikat Ray
May 16, 2020||Surat||Minister asks Surat textile players to diversify to suit global demand||Surat: Union textile minister Smriti Irani has asked the Surat textile entrepreneurs to reorient themselves and diversify their manufacturing skills to suit the global demand in the times of coronavirus pandemic. She also assured all possible support to help revive the country’s largest man-made-fabric (MMF) sector. Interacting with the textile industry stakeholders from Surat and across the country at a webinar organised by Southern Gujarat Chamber of Commerce and Industry (SGCCI) on Friday, Irani said, “We are working hard to get the textile sector back on track post Covid-19. Lockdown has given opportunity to many textile firms to develop PPE kits, masks, swabs etc. in record time. As times are changing, textile sector needs to diversify to suit the domestic and global demand related to the pandemic.” “Starting industrial activity in red zones is the prerogative of local administration and medical teams. However, I will need exact mapping of the units and textile offices in red zones of Surat, so that I can take it up with the administration for the early commencement and terms of guidelines,” said Irani In the 40 minutes discussion, the industry players discussed about the challenges they face around the mass exodus of labourers, severe liquidity issues, lockdown wages to the workers and notices issued by labour department, no clarity on the interest waiver in the Rs 3 lakh crore worth of loans to the MSMEs etc. The industry stakeholders also raised the challenging issue of bringing back the migrant workers back to work after the lockdown is over and the industries would commence operations. SGCCI president, Ketan Desai said, “It is required that the government increase the existing grant amount of Rs 2 crore to Rs 25 crore for the yarn bank operating in the city. This will benefit the powerloom weavers in sourcing yarn at concessional rates.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/minister-asks-surat-textile-players-to-diversify-to-suit-global-demand/articleshow/75765313.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Surat||Surat top cop spends hour daily at traffic points||SURAT: For the past three days, city police commissioner R B Brahmbhatt has been spending an hour daily at the busy traffic junctions. This is his attempt to motivate cops who are enforcing lockdown for one-and-half months on the field and also to understand the problems they have to face from violations. On Friday, Brahmbhatt visited Adajan end of Cable Stayed Bridge and spent an hour monitoring the traffic movement. “I started visiting the traffic points to understand why so many vehicles are coming on the road despite lockdown. Most of the vehicles have permits or have valid reason to commute,” said Brahmbhatt. Out of 350 vehicles checked during his one-and-half-hour’s stay at Adajan, only two were found without permit, he added. During his visit the chief does not call any other officer to the spot. He continues monitoring the situation alone with his striking force. Since the start of lockdown, Brahmbhatt has been visiting different areas in the city at least twice a day. “I prefer to spend time on the road instead of the office in the current situation. Spending time in the field helps bring the actual situation to light. I choose areas randomly after assessing where traffic movement is the highest,” Brahmbhatt added. In the recent past, the senior police officials took disciplinary actions against many cops who were found negligent in their duties at important crossroads in the city. The negligent behaviour were caught on the spot by the seniors during their visits.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/surat-top-cop-spends-hour-daily-at-traffic-points/articleshow/75765516.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Vadodara||71-year-old becomes victim of Covid-19||Vadodara/Anand: Anand recorded its eighth Covid-19 death as a 71-year-old man, a resident of coastal town Khambhat, passed away on Friday. The septuagenarian was also suffering from hypertension, diabetes, heart-related ailments and epilepsy, district health officials said. The patient was on ventilator at Shree Krishna Hospital, Karamsad where he passed away. With this, the death toll in Anand has reached eight. The district, however, did not register any fresh Covid-19 positive case in 24 hours ending Friday evening. Anand, which has been declared red zone, so far has registered 85 positive cases of whom 71 patients have been discharged and eight died. Six patients are currently undergoing treatment. Of the six patients, two are being treated at cardiac care centre, Khambhat while four are at Shree Krishna Hospital, Karamsad. Of them, one patient is on ventilator and one on oxygen support while the condition of four others is said to be stable. So far, samples of 716 individuals have been tested of which 630 have come negative.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/71-year-old-becomes-victim-of-covid-19/articleshow/75767643.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Business||Zomato cuts 13% jobs, rest face up to 50% pay||BENGALURU: Online food delivery major Zomato is slashing its team size by 13%, or 520 people, and implementing a temporary pay cut of up to 50% for the rest of its staff due to the virus outbreak hitting its core business hard. People being laid off will receive 50% of their salary for up to six months, or until they find a job, whichever is earlier. This also includes health insurance. For employees who face a pay cut, expected to last for at least six months, the company will allocate double the amount of stock grants. Zomato co-founder and CEO Deepinder Goyal told his staff that he expects the number of restaurants to shrink by 25-40% over 6-12 months. “Therefore, we need to make sure that we preserve as much cash as possible to weather the storm if the business environment gets worse, or continues to be the same for the rest of the year or more,” he added. Earlier, Zomato had fired about 540 of its customer support staff in September, citing automation of large chunks of support functions. After the latest round of layoffs, Zomato would employ just under 3,500 people. To reduce real estate costs, which is its highest recurring cost outside payroll, Goyal said Zomato has decided to make work-from-home — partial or full-time — a permanent feature for staff, depending on the nature of their work. In April, TOI reported Zomato’s rival Swiggy was cutting about 1,000 jobs in its private kitchens business as food delivery order volumes continue to remain significantly below what it was before the Covid-19 outbreak. Both the platforms have started expanding in grocery delivery since the lockdown. Zomato’s grocery delivery is available in 185 cities and Goyal said the company sees “long-term” potential in it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/zomato-cuts-13-jobs-rest-face-50-pay/articleshow/75767153.cms||Digbijay Mishra
May 16, 2020||Patna||Absentee medical college teachers put on notice||PATNA: The state health department on Friday put 28 absentee medical teachers, senior residents and tutor residents in different government medical college and hospitals on notice, asking them to join duty within three days or face the music. As per the press statement issued by the health department, some of the medical professionals have been absent for almost a year. The list includes both contractual as well as permanent medical teachers. “The contractual teachers and those on certain tenure will lose their job as their contract will be cancelled for being absent for more than 15 days without informing the department. Permanent ones will face administrative action under Disaster Management Act, 2005 and Epidemic Disease Act, 1987,” the press note signed by Vivekanand Thakur, undersecretary, government of Bihar, read. Health department had earlier warned absentee doctors twice and asked them to resume duty. Taking into consideration Covid-19 pandemic, the state health department had cancelled leaves of all medical staff, including doctors, nurses and paramedics.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/absentee-medical-college-teachers-put-on-notice/articleshow/75765385.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Patna||Farmers in a spot of bother as fruit, maize production hit in Bihar||PATNA: Frequent unseasonal rain, storm and hailstorm since March along with nearly two-month lockdown due to coronavirus pandemic has not only affected mango and litchi farming, but also pushed down the sale price of maize crop, leaving farmers in a spot of bother. Last year, the average selling price of maize for the farmers was Rs 2,200 per quintal, which encouraged them to go for cultivation over an increased area this year at the cost of other crops. However, its sale price has fallen to as low as Rs 800 per quintal due to overproduction, continued lockdown and consequent disruption of export market. “The input expenditure, including labour cost, on the production of one quintal of maize is Rs 1,200. Farmers are getting less than that,” said Abhishek Kumar, a resident of Chandwa village in Katihar district said, adding even his mango and litchi fruits were destroyed due to rain, hailstorm and the continued easterly winds. The overproduction of vegetables and their restricted consumption due to coronavirus pandemic have also downed their prices at the local level, slashing the returns that the farmers used to get on them from the traders. However, due to overproduction, their sale price in the urban areas has remained at the affordable level for the customers. “The mango and litchi farming in the district has been hit by hailstorm, corona lockdown and lack of customers,” said Babu Kumar, a local. First the low temperature marred the flowering of mango and litchi, followed by around 50% destruction of fruits by the rains storm, hailstorm and easterly winds, which also delayed maturity of mango and litchi. Raja Babu, a farmer from Nawada village in Mushahari block of Muzaffarpur district, said the delay in maturity of ‘shahi’ litchi means that the fruit would now be sold only locally instead of hitting fruit shops in cities like Mumbai, Delhi, Amritsar, Lucknow and Kanpur. The fate of vegetable growers is no different. “The arrival of vegetables to Bhagalpur town has been hit due to the sealing of main arteries at several points due to the detection of corona positive cases,” Babu said, adding the vegetables usually come to Bhagalpur from the diara areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/farmers-in-a-spot-of-bother-as-fruit-maize-production-hit/articleshow/75765184.cms||Abhay Singh
May 16, 2020||Patna||Bihar: 28 special trains bring back 35,000 people||PATNA: At least 35,000 stranded migrant workers, students and other people reached Bihar by 28 Shramik special trains from 10 states, including Delhi, on Friday. ECR chief public relations officer (CPRO) Rajesh Kumar said five special trains from Rewari, Narnaul, Gurgaon, Panipat and Bhiwandi in Haryana, carrying around 6,100 migrant workers and others, reached Kishanganj, Purnia, Khagaria, Muzaffarpur and Madhubani, while a special train from Bengaluru carrying 1,170 people reached Darbhanga. Three special trains from Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus, Mumbai and Kolhapur in Maharashtra reached Chhapra, Katihar and Muzaffarpur, while a special train from Tirunelveli and two from Chennai, carrying about 3,700 migrant people, reached Bettiah, Barauni and Purnia. Similarly, two special trains from Alwar and one from Jaipur in Rajasthan reached Supaul, Siwan and Gaya. Seven more special trains from Patiala, Jalandhar, Ludhiana, Sahibzada Ajit Singh Nagar, Chandigarh and Bhatinda in Punjab, carrying about 9,000 people reached Darbhanga, Gaya, Ara, Araria, Katihar, Sitamarhi and Motihari stations. Similarly, three special trains from Delhi, carrying around 3,700 people, reached Muzaffarpur, Saharsa and Bhagalpur, while another special from Ghatkesar in Telangana reached Purnea with about 1,260 passengers. One each special train from Surat in Gujarat and Karamnasa in Uttar Pradesh reached Araria and Chhapra, respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/28-special-trains-bring-back-35k-people/articleshow/75765275.cms||Kumod Verma
May 16, 2020||Coimbatore||Coimbatore: Two drink solvent to get a high, die||COIMBATORE: Depressed over not getting access to alcohol easily due to the lockdown, two labourers from Kurumbapalayam in Pollachi died after consuming a chemical solvent, police said.  The deceased, A Boopathy Uthiraraj, 34, and D Suresh, 30, hailed from Kurumbapalayam near Pollachi and were employed in a casting company at Kurumbapalayam. Police said they came to know that a solvent used in their work has high alcohol content. After completing work on Thursday, the duo took a bottle of the solvent with them and consumed it later after mixing it with water, hoping to get a high. In a few minutes, both developed severe stomach pain. They were immediately rushed to the Pollachi government hospital, from where they were referred to CMCH. However, the duo died without responding to treatment on Friday morning. Following the postmortem, their bodies were handed over to family members. Pollachi Taluk police registered a case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/two-drink-solvent-to-get-a-high-die/articleshow/75766852.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Business||Eco can’t be locked down for long, have to live with Covid: SBI chairman||Rajnish Kumar, the chairman of the country’s biggest lender State Bank of India (SBI), is clear that economic activity needs to resume. He also believes it is the pace of recovery that will determine the damage to the economy and bank books. He points out that any loss to the GDP will get distributed between the government, businesses and individuals, and thus impact banks. In an interview to TOI, Kumar speaks of what is required. Edited excerpts: How much of the loans are likely to turn into non-performing assets (NPAs)? Our scenario analysis depends on how quickly the lockdown is lifted and what is the pace of recovery thereafter. If there is a GDP loss, it will get distributed among the government, corporates and individuals. Corporate profits are down. Ultimately, this gets reflected in the balance sheet of banks. How much loans go bad depends on the pace of recovery. What is the state of the economy? Is it worse than the worst-case scenario in the financial stability report? The financial stability report has a base case, medium severity and high severity scenario. I think we are between the base case and medium severity scenario. The position will be clearer once we exit the lockdown. One thing that is becoming clear from the pronouncement of WHO and other agencies is that the world will have to learn to live with Covid-19, and economic activity cannot be kept under lockdown for a long period. We have to find ways to ensure that the virus does not spread and the economic activity resumes. While a lot of activity is happening in rural areas, it is unfortunately the cities — that contribute the most to GDP — that are badly impacted. Ultimately, for economic activity to come back, it is important for consumption points to become operational. Will the Rs 20-lakh-crore package help? Thursday’s announcement was around MSME (micro, small & medium enterprises), NBFC (non-banking financial companies) and power sectors. Liquidity has already been provided by the RBI and the government has provided risk capital by providing guarantees to NBFCs & MSMEs. And state governments will probably be guaranteeing obligations of the power distribution companies. The liquidity support, coupled with the guarantee, will help businesses and control non-performing loans in this sector. The money will be used by MSMEs for working capital, including the purchase of raw material. Everything will depend on how quickly we come out of the lockdown. What other measures do you think are required? I am very confident that the next set of announcements will be on increasing investment. I think they will be around easing the laws for production, setting up manufacturing facilities, availability of land and labour laws — major issues. So, the factors of production and factory productivity, the next set of reforms should be around that. This is also a dilemma for the government, whether to put more money in productive sectors like infrastructure or put more into the hands of people. What is needed to protect the financial system? Banks and intermediaries have to be proactive in managing asset quality, particularly in the corporate book. There is some help from the regulator and the government. The 90-day moratorium and government support to NBFC, MSME and power sectors will improve cash flows and reduce delinquencies. In the power sector, bank exposure — so far as it is to state and Centre — is safe. As far as independent producers are concerned, the guarantee will help. The three-month moratorium to borrowers will end in two weeks, should it be extended? It is difficult to say. This is a call that the RBI has to take. It would all depend on how the lockdown exit strategy works and how quickly the system comes back to normal. A restructuring may not be required immediately. It will be sector specific and case to case. A picture will emerge in the second quarter. Would a ‘bad bank’ help lenders to deal with NPAs after the lockdown? Banks’ books have been cleaned up as most of the loans have been fully provided for. There are certain advantages outlined in the concept paper prepared at IBA (Indian Banks’ Association). It is all about resolution. There are a lot of cases going in NCLT (National Company Law Tribunal). Decision making will be centralised and maybe become faster and more professional. I think more discussion is required at the RBI and government level. Banks have been parking nearly Rs 8 lakh crore with the RBI. When will lending start? There is excess liquidity in the system. In April 2020, we got Rs 1.25 lakh crore as deposits as against Rs 14,000 crore in April 2019. A lot of money has come from central and state governments, and our increase in market share shows that there has been a flight to safety. There is usually negative growth in credit in April every year and, as we are in surplus, there is no choice but to park with the RBI. Demand can come only when economic activity picks up. What can be done to spur demand? Ultimately, it is investment that leads to jobs. And when there are jobs, demand will come. Other than that, putting money into the hands of consumers also leads to demand. The Rs 40,000 crore transferred to JDY accounts, in that sense, is consumption money. But at the same time, unemployment has gone up, which will suppress demand. The cycle of investment and consumption needs to be revived and the government has to do a balancing act between spending on consumption and spending on infrastructure. Do you continue to fund NBFCs? Have you extended a moratorium to them? We are helping NBFCS in every manner. We disbursed funds in March. The government guarantee will ensure credit flow to NBFCs, especially those who do not command a high rating. We have been providing moratorium on a case to case basis. Bank staff have been under strain while working during the lockdown. Unlike other businesses, ‘work from home’ option is not available to many... Strategies are being worked out on what type of roles can be done (remotely) after taking into consideration system securities. We are trying to ensure that a certain percentage of workforce will have the flexibility to work from anywhere. The work is going on and we will have a blueprint in a month or so.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/eco-cant-be-locked-down-for-long-have-to-live-with-covid-sbi-chairman/articleshow/75767180.cms||Mayur Shetty
May 16, 2020||Patna||Over 600 Covid cases in state in a fortnight||PATNA: The number of Covid-19 positive cases in state has shot up sharply since migrant workers started coming back by special trains from different parts of the country on May 2. The Covid positive figures crossed 1,000-mark on Friday. While Bihar recorded its first three coronavirus cases on March 22 (all with foreign travel history), the figure crossed 50 on April 9 and 100 on April 20. The number of positive cases doubled to 200 on April 24 and to 400 on April 29. Thereafter, their numbers surged to 800 within 13 days, on May 12 and crossed the 1000-mark on Friday. As per the information shared by state health department principal secretary Sanjay Kumar, out of 999 positive cases reported till 10am on Friday, 416 were migrants, who constitute 41.6% of the total cases in state. Sanjay said 358 of them have been tested between May 5 and 14. The first Shramik special train reached Bihar on May 2. Over 2.35 lakh migrants and students have reached the state by 197 trains so far. The highest number of 130 Covid-19 positive cases in Bihar were reported on May 12. Earlier, 85 had tested positive on May 10 and 74 on May 13. After the migrants’ inflow increased, the state government started random testing from May 8 with focus on migrants coming from red zones and those vulnerable to the virus. Maximum 115 positive cases among the migrants have come from New Delhi, followed by 97 from Gujarat. Sanjay said the health department was analysing the data and all migrants returning to the state were being sent to institutional quarantine centres. Cases reported initially were mainly of foreign returnees. Then Bihar government started testing all persons returning from abroad before lockdown. Till mid-April, over 20 positive cases had history of foreign visits. Three of them had transmitted the virus to at least 50 others. State nodal officer for Covid-19, Dr Ragini Mishra said they have got the list of 36 Bihar natives, who recently came back to India. “They are being quarantined in the city where their flight lands. For example, few have been quarantined in Lucknow and Gaya. They can either go for paid quarantine in hotels or stay in government’s centre,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/over-600-covid-cases-in-state-in-a-fortnight/articleshow/75765704.cms||Sheezan Nezami
May 16, 2020||Mumbai||Two months into lockdown, BMC’s added little capacity for moderately-to-seriously ill coronavirus patients||MUMBAI: Two months after Mumbai went into lockdown, the BMC’s infrastructure for serious Covid-19 patients appears tragically inadequate. With more and more patients and families complaining about difficulties in finding a hospital bed in the city, civic officials admit most BMC centres and hospitals for moderate to serious patients are “95% occupied”—and even the remaining 5% are primarily on account of the lag between discharge and admission: Only 21 of 438 ICU beds at BMC’s disposal were free when TOI checked, and those, too, were in various stages of being allotted. It’s the same with even non-ICU beds for Covid patients: About 95% of the 4,678 beds reserved for moderately-to-seriously ill patients are occupied, said civic officials. Queries about capacity enhancement of ICU bed (with oxygen support) and ventilators in the last couple of months have failed to yield a clear picture. But from the look of things, there has been little or none despite grandiose announcements. As a result, BMC and the state government are still “racing” to expand infrastructure for seriously ill patients. On paper, the BMC looks prepared. “We have almost 60,000 beds distributed across Covid Care Centres-1. Many centres with oxygen-supported beds and ICUs are in various stages of completion,” additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani said on Friday. But the reality of the Covid Care Centres (CCCs) is that they are quarantine centres that have come up from scratch and till now have only basic medical facilities. A close look at BMC’s Covid infrastructure shows the crisis is in hospital beds—of which ICU beds are a small subset—and not for CCCs. In early March, the BMC’s recently-transferred commissioner Pravin Pardeshi had told TOI that the city had 300 ventilators, while Kakani had said 1,000-odd ICUs in the city’s public and private hospitals would be utilised for Covid treatment. An internal BMC report dated May 14 shows the civic body hasn’t ramped up the capacity of these two vital aspects by much. An estimated 4% to 5% of Covid patients turn critical and need ICU and oxygen or ventilator support. The BMC has 248 ventilators for Covid patients at its disposal, of which 132 are said to be available. Due to the treatment focus on oxygen support, many patients need to be upgraded to ventilator support (see box). Considering the Centre’s observation that only 1.5% of the 1.3 lakh critical care beds (either ICU or oxygen-supported) are in use across the country, Mumbai’s stretched statistics underline its status as India’s Covid hotbed, where bed capacity has to be upgraded on a daily basis. “We are adding new Covid wards in KEM Hospital and Sion Hospital every other day,” said a senior civic doctor. These two hospitals, the biggest in the BMC healthcare pyramid, were initially meant to be non-Covid zones, but the grim ground reality has forced a policy change. The BMC’s update on May 13 said of the 7,016 patients admitted in hospitals and quarantine facilities, 6,340 tested positive. The remaining beds are in various stages of being allotted. Manisha Mhaiskar, principal secretary on deputation to BMC, said 20-25% of the bed capacity gets churned every night as patients are discharged or transferred to step-down facilities after becoming asymptomatic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/2-mths-into-lockdown-bmcs-added-little-capacity-for-moderately-to-seriously-ill-corona-patients/articleshow/75768309.cms||Malathy Iyer
May 16, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Foreign returnees to pay Rs 7,000 to Rs 22,000 for 14-day quarantine||GAYA: An estimated 8,000 foreign returnees will have to remain under paid quarantine in hotels, guesthouses and monasteries in Bodh Gaya for a period of 14 days. A tariff chart has been worked out by the establishment owners and officials in this regard. Officials said five different types of accommodation would be offered to the returnees, each with a different price. The total cost ranges between Rs 7,000 and Rs 22,400 for 14-day quarantine. Gaya DM Abhishek Singh said hotel rooms have been divided into three categories – super deluxe, deluxe and non-AC, depending on the available facilities. Super deluxe rooms will cost Rs 1,600, deluxe rooms Rs 1,000 and non-AC rooms Rs 800 per day. Air-conditioned guesthouse rooms will be available at Rs 800 per day and non-AC rooms in guesthouses at Rs 600 per day. The returnees will have the option to choose any of the five categories of accommodation. The tariff rate is in addition to meal and snack charges. Different categories of ‘thali’ options would also be there for the returnees. They will also have the option to pay item wise for their meal or snack consumption. Being non-profit organisation, the Bodh Gaya-based foreign monasteries do not formally charge room rent from their guests but receive donations, which monastery managers claim is voluntary. However, those provided accommodation in the monasteries will have to mandatorily offer donations not exceeding Rs 500 per day. Asked about the number of rooms available in Bodh Gaya for occupancy, the DM said about 4,500 rooms have been earmarked for the foreign returnees. As per sources in the Magadh divisional commissioner’s office, only six flights have so far been scheduled to land at Gaya airport between May 6 and June 3. Each flight will carry less than 200 passengers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/foreign-returnees-to-pay-rs7k-to-rs22k-for-14-day-quarantine/articleshow/75765439.cms||Abdul Qadir
May 16, 2020||Surat||Migrants turn violent in Dahej, pelt stones at cops||Surat/Bharuch: A day after migrants blocked two crucial state highways in Bharuch district, hundreds once again gathered near Dahej on Friday and hurled stones at the police teams, demanding trains to return to their native places. A group of at least 150 migrant workers gathered near Jolva village adjoinning Dahej and resorted to stone pelting, forcing police to lob teargas shells to disperse the mod. Rajendrasinh Chudasama, superintendent of police, Bharuch, said, "The workers are already desperate to return and they are being misguided by some local elements. We have enough proofs, captured through drone cameras, about some locals who are instigating the unrest. We will book them too.” AC Gohil, police inspector, Dahej said, " The crowd was so agitated that despite repeated requests for peace, they started pelting stones and blocked the road. Police fired seven teargas shells to disperse the crowd.” After they were dispersed, Chudasama held a meeting with the agitated workers and explained to them that the administration was trying to ensure their earlist return by Shramik Special trains. “I personally appealed to them to remain patient as their online registration was done and they only had to wait for confirmation from the authorities,” he said. Bharuch collector Dr. MD Modiya said, “Around 13,000 migrants have been sent in nine trains to their native states and another 30,000 people are awaiting their turn. Many applied a week before and therefore they are getting impatient. We have sent five proposals each with details of migrants to Bihar and Uttar Pradesh and one to Jharkhand. Without the consent of these states, we cannot move forward.” Dr Modiya said the adminsitration has enough food grain kits that will be given to the migrants here. Moreover, the industrial activities are picking up in the district with 3,700 units being granted permissions. These units employ around 1.72 lakh people, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/migrants-turn-violent-in-dahej-pelt-stones-at-cops/articleshow/75765253.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Surat||Covid-19: 55 discharged in Surat city, two succumb||Surat: Around 55 Covid-19 patients were discharged from hospitals in Surat city on Friday, taking the total number of recoveries to 652."The recovery rate in Surat city is fast improving. Of the 55 patients discharged, 21 were from Covid care centre at Samras Hostel and 34 were discharged from New Civil Hospital,'' Banchhanidhi Pani, municipal commissioner, Surat. However, new cases continue to surface in different parts of the city with 28 testing postive. Seven new cases were reported from Limbayat zone, six from Varachha (A), six from Katargam and four from Rander zone. Two persons from Limbayat zone also succumbed to the infection, taking the total death toll due to Covid-19 to 46. The dead include 54-year-old cancer patient Ramchandra Jagtap and another 47-year-old man Chitranjan, who was also a diabetic, Meanwhile, the civic body has started pre-monsoon preparation across the city. "As monsoon is approaching, our teams have got engaged in pre-monsoon activities like trimming trees, cleaning drainage among others,'' Pani said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/55-discharged-in-surat-city-two-succumb/articleshow/75765336.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Mukhiya’s husband shot dead in Vaishali||PATNA: A 55-year-old man, husband of Dilawarpur Govardhan panchayat head Poonam Devi, was shot dead by two motorcycle-borne criminals at Panapur village under the Bidupur police station area in Vaishali district around 10am on Friday. The incident occurred when the deceased, Luv Singh, was busy at the house of one Arun Arun Mehta. Two motorcycle-borne youths pumped three bullets into Singh’s body. Singh was rushed to the government primary health centre at Bidupur from where he was referred to PMCH. However, he succumbed to his injuries on way to Patna. The deceased’s son, Manorajan Kumar, said his father’s murder was fallout of a political rivalry. SHO of Bidupur police station Amrendra Kumar said the reason behind the murder was yet to be ascertained. “Raids are on to arrest the culprits,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/mukhiyas-husband-shot-dead-in-vaishali/articleshow/75765532.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Patna||Pet dog gives company to sisters at quarantine centre||BEGUSARAI: Dogs are known for their unconditional loyalty and considered man’s best friends. This unflinching love for each other came to the fore in Begusarai on Wednesday when two young sisters refused to go to nearby quarantine centre without their dog, a white colour Pomeraian breed and aged about one year. The sisters did not want to leave the dog alone in the house at Garhara railway colony after their parents tested positive for Covid-19. The authorities had to agree to let the dog accompany the two sisters to the nearby Asurari government middle school quarantine centre as the small dog also resisted every bid to part with them. Incharge of Asurarari Government Middle School quarantine centre Mithu Prasad said the sisters were discharged on Friday along with two other women and sent to home quarantine after they tested negative for coronavirus. “The dog was allowed to accompany the sisters during their quarantine after I made an appeal to Barauni circle officer (CO) Sujit Suman in this regard,” he said. The CO said the father of the sisters is a cancer patient and had gone to Mumbai for treatment before returning home on May 8 after obtaining special permission. “The cancer patient had gone to Mumbai along with his wife and a son. However, the man and his wife were later tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday. As the condition of the man deteriorated, he was referred to Patna for treatment. His wife, on the other hand, was put in an isolation centre, leaving the two sisters to go to the quarantine centre with their pet dog,” Suman added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/pet-dog-gives-company-to-sisters-at-quarantine-centre/articleshow/75765308.cms||Rajiv Kumar
May 16, 2020||Patna||Patna: Now, booking of waitlisted tickets for AC trains allowed||PATNA: The railways has allowed to book waitlisted tickets in the air-conditioned special trains running between Rajendra Nagar Terminal and New Delhi (02309/02310) for journey from May 22. The waitlisted tickets for special trains can be booked through the IRCTC website. Earlier, railways had decided to issue only confirmed tickets for the Rajendra Nagar Terminal-New Delhi AC special train introduced since May 12. ECR chief public relations officer (CPRO) Rajesh Kumar said railways has allowed 20 waitlisted tickets in the first AC coaches, 50 in the AC-2 tier and 100 in 3 AC and AC chair car coaches effective from May 22. Though railways has cancelled all other passenger trains till June 30, it has permitted 200 waitlisted tickets in the sleeper class in a few more special mail and express trains proposed to run from May 22 on different routes across the country. “Railways intends to continue with the practice of passengers’ arrival at the railway stations at least 90 minutes before departure of trains. Thermal screening and health check-up of each passenger is mandatory,” CPRO said. Under the new guidelines for the special trains, the Railway Board has prohibited Tatkal or Tatkal premium or RAC tickets for the AC special trains. “Even authorized agents are not allowed to book tickets in this special train. Besides, railways is not providing facilities like free catering or prepaid meal booking in the special train. Railways will also not provide linens to passengers in this particular train. Passengers are required to bring their own food, water bottles and linens for journey,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/now-booking-of-waitlisted-tickets-for-ac-trains-allowed/articleshow/75765750.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Kolkata||54 zones in Kolkata shake off containment tag||KOLKATA: Fifty-four city zones — mostly in north and central Kolkata — which were on the list of containment zones, are now getting rid of the tag. Firhad Hakim, the chairman of the board of administrators governing the Kolkata Municipal Corporation, on Friday said the number of containment zones have been brought down to 286 from 340. Some of the containment zones which have been made green zones include large areas of Belgachhia, Narkeldanga, Rajabazar and Bowbazar. In south Kolkata, too, there was relief for some areas, including Tollygunge and Patuli, said civic sources. According to Hakim, this could be achieved because of efficient micro planning. “We were really worried at a point of time when containment zones were being added in quick succession. Then we got tougher with anyone flouting lockdown norms. Simultaneously, we deployed our health and solid waste management teams to take care of the Covid suspects. Cops also played their roles properly,” Hakim said. TOI had reported on Friday how containment zones in Belgachhia and Narkeldanga had not reported too many cases in the past three weeks. A bit of relief was also provided in wards lying in the Entally-Beniapukur-Park Circus zone. For example, the sharpest drop was noticed in wards 60 and 66. There was good news from the south, too, as parts of Patuli and Tollygunge walked back into the green zone. On Thursday, police station OCs had written to the KMC, telling them that the mandated 21 days have passed in this zone without a fresh case being reported. The cops quoted WHO and ICMR guidelines and appealed that residents be allowed to return to normal life. The drop, though, has been attributed to a number of reasons by police and KMC. “There was a marked change in fever surveillance, testing and stricter lockdown. We blocked all entries to the Belgachhia slum and repeated the same in Narkeldanga. We also took help of the local peace committee, comprising people from all faiths,” said DC (ESD) Ajoy Prasad. Sources said at least a dozen of those admitted to hospitals with Covid from here have returned home and are in home quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/54-zones-in-city-shake-off-containment-tag/articleshow/75766696.cms||Saikat Ray
May 16, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Bring back migrant workers fast, says Nitish Kumar||PATNA: Bihar CM Nitish Kumar on Friday asked the officials to do all necessary preparations in advance to transfer minimum Rs 1,000 in the bank accounts of all the migrant workers who returned from outside and are staying at quarantine centres. CM had earlier announced that all returnee migrant workers would be paid Rs 500 plus reimbursement of their train and other fares on completion of 21-day quarantine period. He had also said each returnee migrant worker would be provided minimum Rs 1,000. While holding a review meeting with senior officials on the issues related to Covid-19 and the lockdown, CM further asked the officials to bring back remaining migrant workers through trains as early as possible because many of them are coming from red zones where Covid-19 infection was prevalent. “If return of such migrant workers is delayed further, chances of their getting infected will increase,” CM said. Nitish also asked the officials to make necessary arrangements at the quarantine centres so that inmates do not face any difficulty. He also advised people to maintain discipline at the quarantine centres and ensure safety of their family and society by following the rules. The CM said the state government has made necessary arrangements for transportation returning migrant workers. “There is no need of returning workers to walk barefoot or stealthily entering the state. Instead, they should report to the nearest block or police station. The local administration will arrange buses or other vehicles for their transportation to the quarantine centres and from there to their homes,” the CM said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bring-back-migrant-workers-fast-nitish/articleshow/75765126.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Patna||Two migrant workers die, Covid test reports awaited||BETTIAH/BHAGALPUR: A 40-year-old migrant worker, who had returned home from Delhi/NCR on Tuesday, died at Bettiah’s MJK Hospital & Government Medical College here early Friday morning. “We are waiting for the results of his sample test,” West Champaran DM Kundan Kumar told this newspaper. “The body will be disposed of as per protocol after confirmation of sample test,” the DM said. “ The deceased was found COVID symptomatic with high fever, cough and loose motions on his return from Delhi. He was promptly hospitalised after screening,” Kumar further said, adding, the deceased had also shown co-morbidity conditions like bronchial infection and hypertension. In a similar incident, authorities at Bhagalpur are waiting for the Covid-19 test report of a migrant worker, who fell unconscious and died at a hospital hours after arriving on a Shramik Special from Chandigarh on Wednesday. The 50- year-old migrant worker fell unconscious at Bhagalpur railway station after getting off the special train that brought 1,293 migrants from Punjab. Health department sources said apart from high fever, the deceased also had trouble breathing and was rushed to the Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College and Hospital (JLNMCH) in an unconscious state. Dr R C Mandal, superintendent at JLNMCH, said, “The migrant worker died shortly after he was brought to the hospital. Swab sample is being tested for Covid-19.” The hospital manager, Sunil Kumar Gupta, said the migrant worker’s condition was critical and he could not be saved despite being put on ventilator support. Earlier, the Bettiah deceased along with three of his co-workers, including his brother, had returned from Delhi on Tuesday on a hired four wheeler. While the other two migrants carried on to their separate villages in the vicinity, local sources said the brothers, on reaching their village in Yogapatti block, avoided entering their home and camped in a bamboo grove close by. A couple of villagers then took them to the local Primary Health Centre and further to the quarantine centre at the Lakshmipur High School.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/two-migrant-workers-die-covid-test-reports-awaited/articleshow/75765352.cms||Abhay Mohan Jha
May 16, 2020||Patna||Woman recovers, denied entry into house||DARBHANGA: Even as the government is applauding those who recovered from Covid-19 virus, a woman in Darbhanga town was not allowed by neighbours to enter her house after treatment till the district administration intervened. The woman was tested positive on return from Delhi. After treatment and successive negative test reports, she was discharged from Darbhanga Medical College and Hospital (DMCH) on Wednesday. But her neighbours opposed her entry in her rented accommodation in Bhagwandas area. Even the driver of the ambulance in which she returned and a paramedical staff faced resistance from the locals. Finally, the woman was brought back to DMCH and kept in the isolation ward. On getting information, Darbhanga DM Thiyagrajan SM ensured her entry into her residence. DMCH medical superintendent Dr R R Prasad said the woman, along with her husband, son and mother, had come to Darbhanga from Delhi in an ambulance. “First, her husband was brought to the hospital for Covid-19 test. After his report came positive, his wife, mother-in-law and son were also brought and tested. Both wife and mother-in-law tested positive for the virus and were admitted. On Wednesday, when her test report came negative again, she was sent to her residence, leading to the incident in her area,” he said. Prasad said her husband, who happens to be the first positive case of the district, and his mother-in-law were also released on Friday after testing negative twice.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/woman-recovers-denied-entry-into-house/articleshow/75765485.cms||Binay Kumar Jha
May 16, 2020||Kozhikode||Regulations on hosp visits in K’god||Kannur: The lockdown and quarantine violation on the part of a local leader has put Kasaragod district on a knife-edge. Even as health officials have claimed that things are under control the district administration has been forced to enforce stringent measures in hospitals and public places, apart from strengthening surveillance measures. The man from Paivalike panchayat had brought his relative from the state border at Talapady on May 4, who tested positive for the disease on May 11. The local leader then visited the district hospital at Kanhangad on three occasions, which has now given a headache to the authorities. It was only after the person he brought from the border tested positive for Covid that he, his wife, and family members were put under quarantine. They had tested positive on May 14. It is now a tough exercise to identify his contacts, as he visited many places and interacted with several people including doctors, nurses, and health workers. At least 17 staffers including doctors and nurses in the district are on quarantine following this and also two health professionals tested positive the other day. In the backdrop of the present development, visitors to hospitals would be restricted by passes and people should avoid the unnecessary visits, said district collector D Sajith Babu. All the patients visiting the hospitals would be examined adhering to the safety measures, he said. Further, those who are on quarantine should not venture out. If somebody steps out, the entire locality would be marked as a hotspot as per the existing guidelines, so the people should take this into consideration, added the collector. But, despite the precautions, the influx of people from across the border is a concern. The border is porous and people are using country roads to reach the district from other states. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/regulations-on-hosp-visits-in-kgod/articleshow/75765763.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Patna||Doctor gets show-cause notice over AES death in Muz hospital||PATNA: The health department is all set to recommend the cancellation of the licence of a doctor posted at the community health centre in Sitamarhi district for his negligence in following the SOP for treatment of AES patients, which led to the death of an eight-year-old girl at the SKMCH in Muzaffarpur late on Thursday night. Taking a strong exception to the death of Chandani Kumari, a resident of Aurai block in Muzaffarpur district, principal secretary of health department Sanjay Kumar issued a show cause notice to Dr Anil Kumar Singh posted at the community health centre at Runnisaidpur in Sitamarhi district and sought to know why his licence should not be cancelled due to his apathy and callousness. The health department secretary said the doctors and para-medical staff in the district have been imparted training on the SOP to deal with patients with symptoms of AES/JEE. Kumar said medicines and other facilities have already been provided to the hospital for the purpose. According to the health secretary, the doctor didn’t follow the line of treatment despite the minor girl showing symptoms of AES. The girl was referred to the SKMCH at Muzaffarpur where she was admitted around 1.10 am on May 12, but the records show that the girl was brought to the hospital at 4.30 pm on May 11. The superintendent of the SKMCH Dr S K Shahi said the blood sugar level of the patient was just 22mg/dl at the time of her admission. She also had convulsions, which suggested her to be infected with AES. “She breathed her last during treatment despite our best efforts to save her,” he told this newspaper over phone. On the other hand, sources in the health department said the girl was admitted to the Runisaidpur community health centre when her blood sugar was 26mg/dl and fever was recorded at 98 degree F, which suggested it to be a case of hypoglycaemia. The medical officer on duty, however, didn’t follow the line of treatment and referred the patient to the SKMCH, which led to her death. Sources said the health department would recommend the medical council of India to cancel the licence of the doctor in question if his reply was not found to be satisfactory. On being contacted, the SKMCH superintendent said that at present there was no patient with AES symptoms in the facility.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/doctor-gets-show-cause-notice-over-aes-death-in-muz-hospital/articleshow/75765572.cms||Ramashankar
May 16, 2020||Patna||Lawyers hail BCI order to dispense with coats, gowns||PATNA: Lawyers at Patna high court have welcomed the administrative order by Bar Council of India (BCI) on Thursday to dispense with the use of coats, gowns or robes as precautionary measure amid against Covid-19 pandemic. The Supreme Court on Wednesday dispensed with the heavy gowns and coats for lawyers during hearing in the present circumstances. Patna High Court Advocates’ Association president Yogesh Chandra Verma said robes and coats are not washed regularly. “It should be dispensed with in future also. Bar had been demanding it for long. It is British legacy we are still carrying,” he said. Verma said there is no problem in centrally airconditioned high court. “However, lawyers in district courts find it difficult to carry coats and robes in summer,” he said. Senior advocate Mukul Sinha said there is no problem with the order in present circumstances when hearing of cases is conducted through videoconferencing from residence. “Otherwise also, coat should be dispensed with in summer,” he said. Another senior lawyer YV Giri welcomed it in the present scenario. “Light uniform should be allowed in future too. We are habitual to this traditional dress code, but it requires change. There has to be some distinct dress code for lawyers, but not so heavy like at present,” Giri said. He said the existing dress code could be kept for winter only. A light dress code, perhaps a small ‘bundi’, could be adopted, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/lawyers-hail-bci-order-to-dispense-with-coats-gowns/articleshow/75765729.cms||Debashish Karmakar
May 16, 2020||Varanasi||One tests Covid +ve; 6 of Gorakhpur zone cured, discharged||Gorakhpur: A fresh case of novel coronavirus was reported in Gorakhpur on Friday taking the Covid tally of the district to 11. The 30 year-old-man of Rasoolpur area in Gorakhpur returned from Mumbai on May 10 and stayed at his sister’s house in Nausad area for two days. On the third day he felt unwell and was taken to BRD medical college where his sample was sent for test. On Friday his test report came out to be Covid positive. “This is the first case reported from the city area. Rest of the ten cases were from rural areas of the district,” informed CMO Dr Srikant Tiwari. Meanwhile, two infected patients of Gorakhpur were discharged on Thursday evening after being cured completely. Now, the active cases in the district are nine. Besides the two from Gorakhpur, four more patients—two each from Deoria and Kushinagar—were also discharged from BRD Medical College on Thursday after they had recovered fully. They all will stay in home quarantine for 14 days. At present, there is no positive case in Kushinagar,said Kushinagar CMO Dr NP Gupta.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/one-tests-covid-ve-6-of-gorakhpur-zone-cured-discharged/articleshow/75767792.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Ahmedabad||Denied AC room, woman hangs self in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: A 25-year-old woman Dimple Chauhan, hanged herself from a ceiling fan with her saree on Thursday, after her husband told her to sleep in a room that did not have an air-conditioner because their two year old son was unwell. Nikol police sources said they received a message from private hospital that a woman had hanged herself. “We rushed to the hospital and found Dimple Chauhan lying dead on a stretcher. Her husband Jayesh Chauhan, 29, a resident of Gajanand Residency on Singarva Road was standing next to the body,” said a Nikol police official. Nikol police officials said the two had been married for four years. Jayesh said that because their son was ill and would sleep with her, on Wednesday night he told his wife not to sleep in the air-conditioned room, saying he could catch an infection . “According to Jayesh, Dimple said she would not sleep downstairs the room without the AC, they quarrelled over this and she stopped talking to him,” added a police official. According to police, on Thursday, Dimple after finishing her work at about 1.30pm, went to the room with their son. “After some time, Jayesh heard the child crying and went to the second floor but the room was bolted from the inside. When forced the door open, he found that the child was crying in the cradle and Dimple was hanging from the ceiling fan by her saree,” a police official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/denied-ac-room-woman-hangs-self/articleshow/75767691.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Kolkata||Curbs ease in pockets of north, central Kolkata||KOLKATA: The government has started easing restrictions in some containment zones in central and north-central Kolkata, from where multiple Covid-19 cases and subsequent deaths were reported at frequent intervals in the past. Some of these pockets fall on Armenian Street, Canning Street, Ezra Street, Cotton Street, Muktarambabu Street, Tara Chand Dutt Street, Phears Lane, Damzen Lane and Sagar Dutta Lane. The decision to ease some curbs was taken after local councillors, cops and health department officials monitored the number of cases. The barricades used to seal these pockets have now been partially removed and non-residents are allowed to use these stretches for movement. In many such zones where this informal “de-containment” has been done, two-wheelers are being allowed to travel. The round-the-clock cop deployment has also been withdrawn from these areas to a large extent. However, shops selling non-essentials have not been allowed to open. A councillor in central Kolkata said, “In many of these containment zones no Covid cases have been reported in the past two to three weeks. This is one of the reasons why restrictions have been eased.” Earlier, when cops had sealed these areas, there had been crowds at shops in adjacent localities since people could not access the shops in the containment areas. “This emerged as a big problem. It was becoming difficult to maintain social distancing norms,” said an officer of Burrabazar police station. Cops said they were now focusing on areas where Covid cases are being reported at frequent intervals. “Some of the areas in Posta and Burrabazar are Covid sensitive. We are trying our best to contain the virus here,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/curbs-ease-in-pockets-of-north-central-kolkata/articleshow/75766661.cms||Zeeshan Javed
May 16, 2020||Surat||Surat man arrested for beating wife to death||SURAT: Limbayat police arrested a 25-year-old labourer on Friday for allegedly killing his 23-year-old wife as she did not agree to bear a child. Shiv Hari Yadav and his wife Rumi had bitter disputes as Yadav wanted a child. On Thursday, the couple again had a nasty fight over the issue near a farm in Devadh village on the city’s outskirts and Yadav badly thrashed her. When she fell unconscious, he dragged her into the sugarcane farm and sat there entire night, believing that she would regain consciousness. However, sensing something wrong, Yadav himself called up the police control room and confessed to the murder, said said an official from Limbayat police station. He was taken into custody from the spot. Yadav told police that he and Rumi had gone out to buy vegetables on Thursday evening and walked for some distance up to Devadh village. As they entered into an argument again an altercation broke out between them, following which Yadav started beating Rume. “After beating her black and blue, when Rumi fell unconscious, Yadav did not realize that she had succumbed to her injuries, and waited for her to come around,” said an official from Limbayat police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/surat-man-arrested-for-beating-wife-to-death/articleshow/75765632.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Coimbatore||‘Ayurveda helps boost immunity’||With no cure or vaccine available right now, the general consensus on the way forward to deal with Covid-19 seems to be to build immunity to remain unscathed by the virus. TOI’s Pratiksha Ramkumar caught up with senior ayurveda physician and assistant chief medical officer of Arya Vaidya Pharmacy Dr Sreedevi to talk about immunity building, food as medicine and improving wellness through ayurveda.Can you tell us some good ayurveda practices in place for boosting immunity?When you wake up in the morning, clear your systems of urine and move your bowels. Follow this up by rubbing oil all over your body and perform some physical exercises. This should be followed by a warm water bath, but cold water should be used for the head. People who are prone to eye problems should apply anjanam. Also, run two drops of oil in the nasal sense organs which keeps all senses intact and do a gargling of gingelly oil, which will complete the entire upper respiratory tract.Any interesting herbal tea recipes or food that people can consume to boost immunity?There is a tea decoction made with palm jaggery, tulsi, ginger and pepper. First inhale the steam from boiling the tea and then drink it. The inhalation can take away the kapha accumulated in upper respiratory tract and will clear sinus also. You can also have light food items like red rice porridge which enhances strength. Senior citizens can have light food that gives them energy, like idli, which is also a steamed food.Any medicinal food for children to improve their immunity?It’s better not to give them too much curd because it increases phlegm formation. Add turmeric to curd to lighten it. You can also consume green gram, which is equal to mutton soup in terms of protein. Mutton soup is good because goats eat grasses that have medicinal value. Adding pepper and turmeric to any soup gives it medicinal value. People should also take some bitter and astringent food. We also advise against sleeping during the day.Any fruit or vegetable that can be consumed in the time of the pandemic?Orange, amla and apple are high in vitamins. All cooked vegetables are good for consumption, especially greens like spinach and broccoli. Broccoli is high in protein also.Are there any ayurvedic medicines that people with lung infection or prone to wheezing can have?We do have some medicines like muhmur aushadham. We can give some choornas or arishtams. Vaidyas, based on the patient’s strength, will prescribe these medicines. We also serve medicated porridges.How beneficial is consumption of chyawanprash and dashamoola rasayanam for Covid-19 prevention and treatment?Chyawanprash is one of the best rasayanams we have. It has hundreds of ingredients and is a powder done over three to four days. We process all the ingredients into a kashayam, then strain it, further grind it with ghee and mix it with a medicinal chooranam. It boosts immunity, because its rich in vitamin C and can clear the upper respiratory tract. Dashamoola rasayanam is a mix of 44 ingredients made into a jam. It has powerful medicines which when taken in small quantities every few hours are effective in clearing upper and low respiratory tracts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/ayurveda-helps-boost-immunity/articleshow/75767697.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Kolkata||2 RPF men +ve in Howrah, 14 quarantined||Howrah: Two cops from the railway protection force (RPF), who were on duty at Howrah station, have tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday. They are undergoing treatment at Howrah Orthopaedic Hospital that has been turned into a Covid hospital in the district. Fourteen other RPF sleuths, who had come in close contact with the cops, have been quarantined. This is the first incident of Covid contraction among RPF personnel in Howrah. At least 200 RPF personnel have been deployed on duty at Howrah, Dankuni and Bandle stations to handle the trains ferrying migrant labourers and AC passenger trains. “There are total 250 personnel at the RPF barracks. After the positive reports came, we sent the two to the hospital for isolation and quarantined 14 others at the barracks,” said Rajnish Tripathi, a senior commandant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/2-rpf-men-ve-in-howrah-14-quarantined/articleshow/75766864.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
May 16, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu tally zooms past 10,000, 5 deaths in a day take toll to 71||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu’s Covid-19 count topped the 10,000 mark on Friday with 434 people testing positive, 309 of them in Chennai. The state’s death toll rose to 71, with five more fatalities. The first case in the state was reported on March 7 when a 45-year-old patient who came to Chennai from Oman tested positive. On April 12, 36 days after the first case, TN crossed the 1,000-mark. The cases jumped from 1,000 to 2,000 in 16 days and doubled from 2,000 to 4,000 in a week. Six days later, on May 11, it crossed the 8000-mark. Four days later, it has reached 10,108. Chennai has more than half the cases in the state — 5,946 cases as of Friday. The city has also reported 48 of the 71 deaths so far, including four on Friday. Chennai’s neighbours saw double-digit increases in infections — Tiruvallur reported 21 cases, Chengalpet 20 and Kancheepuram 11 — while nine other districts reported single-digit increases. The government said 359 patients were discharged from various hospitals in the last 24 hours, taking the total number of people cured to 2,599.With this, nearly a quarter of the patients have recovered and the mortality rate is 0.70%. There are 7,435 people under treatment in either hospitals or at Covid care centres or in home isolation. The state health department said most new cases are detected through contact tracing and a few others from among those with recent travel history. On Friday, 43 people who came from other states – 40 from Maharashtra, two from Gujarat, one from Karnataka – tested positive, besides six people from the Maldives. Five districts had cases only from interstate or international travellers. There were Tirunelveli (22), Thoothukudi (10), Kanyakumari(4), Ranipet (2), and Pudukottai (1) The state has tested 1,275 of the 1,461 people who arrived at the Chennai and Trichy airports since May 9 and nine have tested positive. The number of people tested, however, dropped by nearly 900 for the second consecutive day on Friday to 10,883. On May 7, two days before permitting interstate and international passengers, the state had tested 14,102 people. On May 9 it made testing for all inbound passenger compulsory, yet number of samples being tested dropped. More frontline workers including seven doctors, three from government, vendors and policemen tested positive. Health secretary Beela Rajesh, who held meetings with doctors’ bodies and private hospitals and another with NGOs, told them that this was the new normal and people would have to learn to live with the situation. The doctors were asked to open services at hospital clinics with adequate precaution. IMA president Dr CN Raja said he had urged the government to help doctors in private sector procure PPEs at government rate, include treatment of Covid-19 in CM’s health insurance scheme and help private doctors set up fever clinics. The state also urged NGOs to help the government create awareness and bring in behavioural changes among the public. “We want them to wear masks, wash hands and maintain social distancing norms. This will help us break the chain,” Beela Rajesh said. Of the five deaths reported on Friday, a 53-year-old woman and a 32-year-old man -– both with kidney diseases -- died at the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital in Chennai on Thursday. The woman also had diabetes and heart disease. A 57-year-old- man died at the Omandurar Hospital and a 61-year-old man with heart disease, diabetes and hypertension died at Stanley Medical College Hospital on Friday. A 34-year-old man died in Tuticorin on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tn-tally-zooms-past-10000-5-deaths-in-a-day-take-toll-to-71/articleshow/75767712.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Coimbatore||Doctor expects surge in cases post lockdown||The district hasn’t reported any new Covid-19 cases in the past 12 days. In an interaction with Dr Sudha Ramalingam, director, research and innovation, PSG Institute of Medical Sciences and Research, TOI’s Pratiksha Ramkumar, discusses the chances of another novel coronavirus wave in the state in the next few weeks and the pattern of spread post lockdown. Excerpts: There are no active cases right now and there is a lull in new cases. What does it mean for the district?All the diagnosed cases have been cured and discharged with no major fatalities. The severity of cases was mild and fortunately no new cases have been reported. However, we have to wait and watch if there will be fresh cases as more than 80% case is asymptomatic. But with good public health measures and personal hygiene, I am optimistic that the case load will be low. Is Covid-19 present in the district’s air?In laboratory studies, when the virus was artificially induced in the air, it was found to stay for three hours before disappearing. But it is hard to say if the same will happen in real world situation. Unless we sample the air and test it for the virus, we will not know. As of now, there is no evidence to suggest the virus would spread by airborne route. What are the chances of an asymptomatic patient infecting his family members?According to the World Health Organization, symptomatic individuals have cough and sneezing, etc. But an asymptomatic person does not have droplet spread, so the chances of spread are less. The chances of virus spread via other body fluids are not yet known. But we must be cautious and take all precautionary measures. If any family member develops symptoms, they should report it to health authorities. After lockdown, what all precautions should people take to protect themselves while working in air-conditioned offices?Centralised air-conditioned offices are not advisable. We will never know who is Covid-19 positive, and there would be high chances of spreading. However, in offices with split or window air-conditioners, it’s advisable to keep the temperature between 24 degrees Celsius and 30 degrees Celsius. Facilitate better air circulation by switching on exhaust fan or keeping windows open. People should continue to follow standard precautions like practising hand hygiene, wearing masks and social distancing. Why are the public not being tested? Is it not required?In a country like India, testing its entire population is not feasible due to lack of adequate testing kits and manpower, and time and cost involved. No matter whether we test 10% or 100% positive, the control mechanism is the same. So, checking everyone is not required. Has community spread started in Tamil Nadu?We don’t know the stage of pandemic we are in. We must wait and watch the case trajectory. In Chennai, more testing is done because of Koyambedu cluster which spreads to Villupuram and Cuddalore. In Coimbatore, we are not seeing such clusters, which is why we are probably not doing mass testing. In fact, we get very less patients with flu symptoms in our fever clinic itself, which could be an indicator of the situation. Why there are cases being reported despite lockdown? Does it mean lockdown is not working?The basic idea of lockdown is to slow down the spread of virus and prepare the health system for the huge influx of cases. Lockdown has slowed down the numbers. Once the lockdown is relaxed, there will be a surge in cases, unless people take precautionary measures that are suggested by the government and avoid large public gatherings.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/doc-expects-surge-in-cases-post-lockdown/articleshow/75767700.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Varanasi||Gorakhpur: In one-room home, migrant brothers quarantine on terrace||GORAKHPUR: When Achchelal (30) and his brother Shri Ram (32) returned from Delhi and were asked to remain in home quarantine for 14 days, they did not know how this would be possible in a single-room home of seven-member family. Hence, the brothers are forced to stay at the terrace of their house under a tarpauline for the quarantine period, while their parents, children and wives occupy the only room the house has. The brothers worked at a utensil factory in Delhi and returned home on May 9 after covering an 800-km journey partly on foot and partly through lifts on trucks. They were sent to home quarantine after thermal screening by local administration. Their family has installed a pedestal fan on the terrace for the two brothers but the fan does not do much to keep the scorching May heat at bay. However, the brothers don’t complain and are looking forward to the end of quarantine. “We can’t put our family at risk. It is just a matter of 14 days, and this is nothing compared to the struggle we faced in Delhi after the lockdown,” said Achchelal. DM Vijyendra Pandian said, “Those who don’t have enough rooms for home quarantine, may contact the administration. We will make arrangements for them.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/in-a-one-room-home-migrant-brothers-quarantine-on-terrace/articleshow/75767827.cms||Arjumand Bano
May 16, 2020||Coimbatore||Three of a family drown in Aliyar||COIMBATORE: Three members of a family, including two teenaged girls, died after being swept away in the waves of the Aliyar river on Friday. The deceased were identified as S Kannammal alias Kamalam, 40, and her two daughters S Sandhya, 18 and S Sathya, 15, all hailing from Kondampatti village near Kinathukadavu. Kannammal was working as a noon-meal scheme staff at Kondampatti government school. Her daughters were studying in Class XII and Class X at a government school in the same locality. Kannammal’s husband Subramani, who hailed from Indira Nagar at Anaimalai, died in an accident 15 years ago. Later, she moved to Kondampatti village for work. The family had gone to Anaimalai four days ago to spend time with their relatives. On Friday, Kannammal, her two daughters and her relatives had gone to Aliyar river for washing clothes. Her daughter Sandhya went deep into the river and raised an alarm after she lost balance. Kannammal and Sathya attempted to rescue her, but got swept away as the waves proved too strong. Their relatives alerted farm workers in agriculture fields nearby who retrieved the bodies from the river. The bodies were sent to Government Hospital, Pollachi for postmortem, and were later handed over to family members on Friday evening. Anaimalai police have registered a case under section 174 CrPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/3-of-a-family-drown-in-aliyar/articleshow/75766863.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Goa||Aguada sand bar closed for river traffic from May 21||Panaji: With the monsoon likely to hit the state in June, the captain of ports department has decided to stop all inland river vessels from venturing into sea from river Mandovi from May 21 to September. The ports department has also ordered the lighthouses along the Mandovi to cease operations from June 1. “As the period of foul season in Goa is from May 21 to September 2020, the captain of ports is therefore notified that until further notice, the Aguada Sand Bar shall remain closed for all inland traffic vessels with effect from May 21,” said a notice to mariners. The captain of ports has also ordered closure of the lighthouses of Malim, Campal, Tejo Front and Tejo Rear, Reis Magos and Aguada Beacon with effect from June 1 until further notice.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/aguada-sand-bar-closed-for-river-traffic-from-may-21/articleshow/75768321.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Goa||Goa hopes to get Rs 100 crore from ore e-auction||PANAJI: The state government is set to e-auction around 2.5 million tonnes of iron ore this month, the directorate of mines and geology said. If all of it is sold, the state, currently reeling under an economic crisis, stands to earn around Rs 100 crore. However, industry sources said that the e-auction may elicit a poor response since the mining season has come to an end. “In this situation, no mining company will invest in the e-auction when they know it isn’t possible to export the ore,” a source said. The ore is currently lying at different plots across the state, including Pale, Rivona, Collem, Advalpal, etc, and varies from low grade to high grade. Chief minister Pramod Sawant and governor Satya Pal Malik have written to the Union government to amend the relevant laws to allow for the resumption of mining in the state. In 2012, a Supreme Court judgment had declared mining after 2007 illegal. Ore lying at jetties and plots was subsequently declared state property. The government then identified 15 million tonnes of ore lying at jetties and plots, of which around 12 million tonnes have been e-auctioned. In March 15, 2018, mining in Goa came to a halt following a SC order quashing the second renewal of 88 mining leases. Recently, the apex court permitted export of ore extracted before March 15, 2018. In March 2020, after a two-year hiatus, mining companies have resumed transportation of royalty-paid iron ore in the state. Around six mining companies have got permission to transport ore from both the directorate of mines and geology and the Goa State Pollution Control Board (GSPCB). There is 1.45 million tons of royalty-paid ore which the respective companies have started transporting; there is also another 7.7 million tons on which royalty has not been paid, an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/state-hopes-to-get-rs-100cr-from-ore-e-auction/articleshow/75768320.cms||Murari Shetye
May 16, 2020||Coimbatore||Abandoned baby rescued||Udhagamandalam: A seven-day-old male baby, found abandoned in front of a temple near Ketti in the Nilgiris on Thursday, was shifted to the Ooty Government Headquarters Hospital.Locals who noticed the baby lying in front of the temple at Kollimalai had informed police. Superintendent of Ooty GH Dr H Ravi Kumar said the baby was treated for mild scratches. “His condition is stable. We are taking extra care to feed him, He will soon be send to a home,” he said.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/abandoned-baby-rescued/articleshow/75766871.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Varanasi||Woman falls into river, SDRF finds body in 55 minutes||Gorakhpur: A woman fell in Rapti river and drowned while talking on phone at Sohgaura bridge on Thursday evening. Later, the State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) team of Gorakhpur swung into action and retrieved her body within an hour. As per report, 22-year-old Shivani Nishad, daughter of Awdhesh Nishad of Gagha area, was on a call at Sohgaura bridge around 8 pm on Thursday when she accidentally fell in Rapti river and drowned. The passersby, on hearing the sound of a loud splash, informed police. On Friday morning, the villagers tried to retrieve the body with the help of a net but to no avail. Finally, a 12-member SDRF team led by Nitish Shukla retrieved the body in 55 minutes and handed it over to inspector GN Singh. The grandmother of the deceased was present during the operation, informed Lucknow SDRF media cell in charge.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/woman-falls-into-river-sdrf-finds-body-in-55-minutes/articleshow/75767842.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Hospitals can’t turn away any patient in need, fumes Telangana high court||HYDERABAD: Expressing deep shock at the death of a young Gadwal woman and her baby boy, the Telangana high court on Friday directed that the government must see to it that patients needing emergency medical care are not turned away by state-run hospitals. The court said no hospital should refuse medical assistance to such women or those with non-Covid medical emergencies. It also asked police to ensure a hassle-free transport of pregnant women during the lockdown period and doctors to treat them with a sense of urgency. Expressing concern over the plight of people caught between health emergencies and lockdown guidelines, a bench of MS Ramachandra Rao and Justice K Lakshman also sought to know if the government has fixed responsibility on anyone for the tragic deaths of R Jenila (20) and her son on April 26 night. They had died at Petlaburj Maternity Hospital in Hyderabad after going through a traumatising experience of being referred from one hospital to another hospital. The bench also said that there was every need to provide compensation to the kin of the deceased woman while hearing two PILs. The case was posted to May 18. The bench also spoke about how people locked up in red zones and containment areas were not allowed to move out and said that it was the duty of the government to supply essentials to them. “How will people from such areas seek medicines in emergencies? The only solution is to appoint nodal officers, park ambulances in those areas and give the phone numbers of the nodal officers and ambulances to people living in these areas,” it said. When Jenila was suffering from labour pains, doctors suspected her as a Covid-19 carrier since she came from a red zone (Gadwal) and was made to make rounds of several hospitals in Gadwal, Mahbubnagar and Hyderabad and denied timely medical help. Sreenitha Pujari, one of the petitioners in her plea, sought directions to the government to set up nodal officers in Covid-19 hotspots and widely publish phone numbers of the nodal officers. The bench agreed with this suggestion and directed the government to appoint nodal officers and ensure that their contact numbers are made available to people. Sreenitha also sought setting up of dedicated helplines for women seeking non-Covid essential medical help. Another facility she sought was transport facility for pregnant women during the lockdown. “A private vehicle carrying the pregnant woman along with an attendant going for scanning, vaccination, hospital visits, etc, should be allowed without any movement pass,” the bench said. Advocate general BS Prasad informed the bench that a probe had been into the Gadwal incident and a report from the inquiry officer is expected in day or two.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hospitals-cant-turn-away-any-patient-in-need-fumes-hc/articleshow/75768335.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Mangaluru||Reformed don who never forgot his roots||Mangaluru : The life of N Muthappa Rai, 68, a reformed don and businessman, who breathed his last at a hospital in Bengaluru on Friday, was full of action and drama. Rai’s name was linked with alleged extortion, murder and conspiracy cases. In his later years, he preferred to be a reformed man, and founded pro-Kannada not-for-profit organisation Jaya Karnataka. Born in Puttur, he stayed connected to his roots and expressed his gratitude to the people of his hometown as well as to the Lord Mahalingeshwara Temple, by donating a magnificent chariot to the temple, a decade ago. Sahaj J Rai, a BJP worker and former Jaya Karnataka district youth president, said, “As his relative and neighbour in Puttur, I have grown up seeing him closely. Since I was the students’ union president, he recognised my leadership skills and offered me the post of Jaya Karnataka Dakshina Kannada district youth president. The first thing he told me was to identify people in need. He donated 250 wheelchairs for endosulfan victims,” he said. A devotee of the Puttur Mahalingeshwara, he went straight to the temple and then to his house, whenever he came to Puttur. He claimed that the God had appeared in his dreams and asked him to dedicate a chariot. Sahaj said that last year he donated a magnificent chariot (Brahma Ratha) costing Rs 2.5 crore to the Kukke Sri Subrahmanya temple. “Work on a new chariot for Someshwara Somanatha Temple in Ullal is complete, but handing over of the chariot has been delayed due to the pandemic,” he said. Recollecting his meeting with Muttappa Rai last December in Bengaluru, he said, “He kept saying that he was fit and all right. I spoke to him over phone 15 days ago, and he inquired about my business in Dubai, and assured me that in a year’s time everything will be back to normal. For me he is a ‘good human being don’ who loved homemade traditional Tulunadu specialities like ganji (rice porridge) chicken and fish curry,” he said. Patron of kambalaRai was a patron of kambala, and has been sponsoring the Puttur Kotichennaya Jodukere Kambla for almost two decades. He is known for making an appearance like a star, surrounded by security guards, during the kambala event. He invited several Bollywood and Sandalwood personalities for the kambala, thus adding glamour to the traditional sport. Condoling his death, Prof K Gunapala Kadamba, president, Kambala Academy, said, “His first connection to this 26-year-old kambala event was in the form of donations, and later he started sponsoring the event. This kambala is unique because of its long track, and it has the highest number of viewers. He is responsible for converting the traditional sport of kambala into a festival in Puttur. There was a point, when he even wanted to look after the buffaloes. He honoured at least 2-3 talents from the field of sports and Yakshagana, during the kambala every year,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/reformed-don-who-never-forgot-his-roots/articleshow/75765801.cms||Deepthi Sanjiv
May 16, 2020||Jaipur||Contractor arrested for thrashing worker in Alwar||JAIPUR: The Bhiwadi police on Friday arrested a contractor accused of assaulting migrant workers employed by him with a private company in Alwar district. The migrant workers had complained against the contractor as well as the local police for the alleged assault. Contractor Jitender Singh was accused of hitting one of his employees Gautam with a stick on Thursday morning leaving him seriously injured. An FIR was filed earlier in the day at Neemrana police station. Gautam was one of the 24 are migrant workers from Palamu district in Jharkhand. Trouble started on Wednesday night when they started walking towards their state after the contractor allegedly denied them food and ration. They worked at HNV Company in Neemrana which deals with making vehicle parts. The workers further alleged that the police used force when they were walking on the highway. Bhiwadi SP Amandeep Kapoor denied the charge. “We have arrested the contractor. We got know to that both parties are from same village in Jharkhand and their families also fought and lodged FIRs there,” the SP said. He added, “It has been verified that the Neemrana police didn’t beat the workers. Since they were walking, the police simply sent them back homes. The police officials even shared their numbers in case they faced any difficulties.” Gautam’s brother Pardesi said, “After walking about 30-km, we got a call from the contractor who told us to share our location. He informed the police that we were on the highway on foot. The moment police reached the spot, they beat us up and chased us away. Some of us were injured.” Pardesi added, “We started walking because the contractor stopped providing us food and ration. We had registered ourselves on the government portal on May 3 for our travel back to our state, but our turn didn’t come. The shopkeeper who helped us register also charged Rs 50 each. We earn around Rs 500-600 each day, but our payment hasn’t been made by the contractor.” Gautam Vishwakarma, who received stitches on the head, said, “Next morning, the contractor told us that we can’t leave. But, we insisted that we want to go home. In a fit of rage, he hit me hard with a stick on the head. Later, they took me to the hospital.” Another worker Surender said, “Our landlord and the shopkeeper tortured us and demanded money on the contractor’s directions. We usually pay Rs 2,000 for the house rent, but in this situation we are unable to pay. We wanted to go home as we didn’t have money, food or ration. Now the company has assured us it will drop us home.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/contractor-arrested-for-thrashing-worker-in-alwar/articleshow/75767703.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Coimbatore||Pray that he is not a Covid-19 spreader||COIMBATORE: A 22-year-old guest worker was stopped from boarding train to Odisha on Friday morning as he was suffering from slight breathlessness. His temperature was, however normal at 98 degree Celsius. He was taken to ESI Hospital, where he will be tested for Covid-19 and treated. On Thursday, TOI had caught a guest worker recording a temperature of 102 degree Celsius on camera. But in a complete disregard for the efforts to contain the spread of novel coronavirus, he was allowed to board a Shramik train. Health officials, however, dismissed it as an error in reading. The 11th Shramik special train, meanwhile, departed from the city railway junction with 1,464 guest workers at 9.45am on Friday. The train is expected to reach Palashur in Odisha at 7.45pm on Saturday. The train will have two stops in Odisha – at Rayagada around 7am and Balangir at 10.40am. The train with 24 coaches carried only the passengers who were cleared by the district administration after a detailed health check-up. They were allowed inside the station building only after they were thermal screened for temperature. Their hands were sanitized, and their luggage were completely disinfected under the monitoring of state health department and railway authorities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/pray-that-he-is-not-a-covid-19-spreader/articleshow/75766878.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Goa||No weekly market, Mapusa vendors hawk on street||Saligao: With the Mapusa Municipal Council (MMC) not allowing the weekly Friday bazaar, the vendors resorted to selling their items on the street, along the stretch from the Mapusa Urban Co-operative Bank’s head office to St Jerome’s Church. This, however, resulted in chaos with people crowding to buy fruits, vegetables and other essentials from the vendors, without maintaining the required physical distance. The vendors were later dispersed by the police. MMC chairperson Ryan Braganza had earlier stated that following instructions of the government, the weekly Friday bazaar should remain closed during the lockdown. Speaking to TOI, Braganza said that the vendors were selling their wares without required permissions from the municipality. “After we got information that there was a huge gathering of people, we dispersed the vendors with the help of police,” the MMC chairperson said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/no-weekly-market-mapusa-vendors-hawk-on-street/articleshow/75768513.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Goa||CCP’s contract staff, daily wagers yet to get April pay||Panaji: Despite the government stating that salaries must be paid to all, salaries of 18 contract staffers and more than 200 daily wagers of the Corporation of the City of Panaji have not been paid for the month of April. The staff say they received salaries for December, January and February only in the first week of March and the salary for March only on April 28. Meanwhile around 70 permanent staff have received their monthly salary which works out to around Rs 65 lakhs in total, whereas the contract workers whose salary works out to a meagre Rs 3.25 lakh per month for 18 persons, including peons, LDCs and engineers, remains pending. Sources say more than 250 daily wage workers who do door-to-door garbage collection and sanitation haven’t received their salaries yet. The corporation was in the news last month for purchasing a new car for the mayor, at a cost of Rs 20 lakh. “Daily wage workers are taking loans from money lenders for their daily expenses. If they have Rs 20 lakhs to buy a car why is there no money to pay salaries?” a disraught worker told TOI. Mayor Uday Madkaikar told TOI that the contracts had expired on March 31. “It was decided to extend the contracts of the workers for another six months and the daily wagers’ contracts for another three months. The decision was taken at the standing committee meeting last Monday. The minutes of the meeting will be finalised by Monday and the salaries will be paid after that,” Madkaikar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ccps-contract-staff-daily-wagers-yet-to-get-april-pay/articleshow/75768514.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Nagpur||My top priority is to retain NMC for BJP in 2022: Pravin Datke||NAGPUR: Soon to be MLC Pravin Datke has set his sights on BJP winning the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) elections to be held in 2022 with a formidable majority. The former mayor was elected unopposed from BJP’s quota and will be swearing in with chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and others in Mumbai on Monday. The son of former BJP leader late Prabhakarrao Datke, founder of Shikshak Sahakari Bank Ltd, would join ranks with senior BJP leaders from city — Anil Sole, NG Ganar and Girish Vyas — in the council. “The party has entrusted me with a big responsibility and I will make full use of it for serving the common man. For the first few months, I will try to learn from the senior leaders in the upper house, including those from ruling coalition. I will also visit the library and study rules of legislature and other topics,” Datke told TOI. It was a long journey for the young and dynamic corporator, who had aspired to become an engineer and an entrepreneur after completion of his mechanical engineering diploma from Datta Meghe Polytechnic. However, after his father’s death in 1999, he took a plunge into politics by joining the Bhartiya Janta Yuva Morcha (BJYM) in 2000, when he was 20. In 2002, he was elected corporator from Mahal for first time and retained the seat with a record margin in 2007. In 2014, he became mayor and served for three years. He also occupied the post of BJYM city president and Maharashtra general secretary. He was also the youngest ruling party leader in the corporation at 30. Currently at 41 years, he holds position of city BJP chief. “I will be working under the guidance of Nitin Gadkari, Devendra Fadnavis, Chandrashekhar Bawankule and other senior BJP leaders. I will help all of them in fulfilling their vision of developing Nagpur. I will continue to remain one who will work at the ground level with other workers,” Datke said adding he would be going to Mumbai on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/my-top-priority-is-to-retain-nmc-for-bjp-in-2022-datke/articleshow/75767725.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
May 16, 2020||Agra||Agra district jail prisoner who died found Covid-19 positive||AGRA: After central jail, Novel coronavirus (Covid-19) has now reached Agra district jail. A 90-year-old prisoner, who died during treatment at SN Medical College (SNMC) with Covid-19 symptoms on May 13, has been found to be infected with the virus on Friday. So far, there were 27 Covid-19 deaths in Agra district. As a precaution to prevent the further spread of the virus inside the prison, 28 inmates who had come in contact with the infected prisoner were quarantined in a separate block, while six staffers were home quarantined. A team from Agra municipal corporation conducted sanitisation of the jail premises. Agra district jail superintendent Shashikant Mishra said, “The person was under treatment at the jail hospital since May 3. He was suffering from loose motions, vomiting and weakness. He was shifted to SNMC on May 13. Later, he died during treatment. After his death, samples were collected for Covid-19 testing in which he was found positive." “A health department team has conducted screening of all the prisoners and staffers who had come in his contact. In the first phase, samples of six prisoners and three staffers are being sent for lab testing," he said. Last week, a 60-year-old Covid-19 infected prisoner of Agra Central Jail had died at SNMC. So far, 10 prisoners of the central jail have been tested positive. Meanwhile, nine new Covid-19 cases surfaced in Agra, taking the district tally to 794.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/agra-dist-jail-prisoner-who-died-found-covid-19-ve/articleshow/75765821.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Goa||Garbage dumped along Benaulim beach cleared||Colva: Karnataka Commercial and Industrial Corporation (KCIC), the agency entrusted with cleaning beaches from Arossim to Cavelossim, has finally cleared garbage lying along the Benaulim-Colva beach stretch. In a report on May 17, TOI had highlighted how the agency had collected garbage strewn along the beach and had dumped it in piles at the foot of sand dunes along the Benaulim-Colva beach in April. Tourism director Menino D’Souza had said that the collected garbage was kept for drying and would subsequently be segregated and transferred to the garbage treatment plant. He had also said that tree branches and wood would be stacked at the same place as these were not accepted by the plant. The garbage lay at the same spot for over a month until KCIC cleared it recently.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/garbage-dumped-along-benaulim-beach-cleared/articleshow/75905605.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Ahmedabad||UP migrant dies of heatstroke while walking towards Sabarmati railway station||AHMEDABAD: In a tragic development a migrant worker who was going on foot from Bhadaj with seven others to board a train from Sabarmati railway station, fainted and died on road on May 9. His body was handed over to his contractor who has made arrangements to send it to his native village in Uttar Pradesh. The migrant worker, who had first travelled from Surat to Ahmedabad, and then stayed on rent here, died on road after he fainted due to heatstroke in Bhadaj said officials of Sola high court police station where a case of accidental death was registered. The deceased was identified as Bhola Malkhan, 33, native of Pathari village in Banda district of Uttar Pradesh. He was walking towards Sabarmati railway station with seven others on May 9 afternoon, when he felt giddy and told his friends that he was unable to walk. He told his friends that he wanted to return to his rented house in Bhadaj and rest for a while. But as he began walking back, he fell on the road in front of HP petrol pump in Bhadaj, said investigating officer and head constable of Sola high court police station, Karansinh Ramsinh. His friends called up 108 and the ambulance staff found him dead and informed police. Police said prima facie it seems that Malkhan died of heatstroke as he was walking in the afternoon when the temperature was high. “We also came to know from his friends that he was suffering from epilepsy which worsened his health condition and he died,” said Ramsinh. He also said that viscera samples were sent for forensic examination which will ascertain cause of death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/up-migrant-dies-of-heatstroke-while-walking/articleshow/75767731.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Indore||Shajapur, Agar-Malwa take it to zero||INDORE: In a major relief in times of corona, Shajapur and Agar-Malwa districts of Ujjain division currently have no active Covid-19 cases. According to Shajapur collector Virendra Singh Rawat, the district has so far reported total eight cases including one death. The last patient, who was undergoing treatment, was discharged on Thursday after he managed to recover and his two back-to-back laboratory test report came negative. “Currently, there is no Covid-19 patient reported or admitted in hospital and as of now, we are ‘free’ from the disease,” said Rawat adding that intensive survey and sampling is underway in Shajapur and therefore, chances of reporting new cases there in coming days can’t be ruled out. “We are taking 4-5 samples daily on finding any suspected case,” said the collector, adding that the district population of Shajapur is around 85,000, where threat is only from outsiders including local labourers, who are returning from different parts of the country. A similar ‘relief’ is there for the residents and officials in Agar-Malwa district as no positive patient is undergoing treatment there. “The district has so far reported 13 cases including one death. The last patient undergoing treatment in the hospital was discharged on May 12,” collector Sanjay Kumar told TOI. He added that they have been told to restrict sampling due to a load on laboratories and therefore, they are sampling in only most required case. “Different teams of health department are on door-to-door survey of people while suspected cases are being treated with utmost priority. If required, samples of the patient are being taken for laboratory testing,” he said. According to Kumar, last positive patient reported in Agar-Malwa was tested on April 30 and as per the protocol, no new case should be reported thereafter in next 21 days to take the district into green category. Alirajpur district of Indore division is presently ‘free’ from the disease as no positive patient is reported there in last over a week while local hospitals have discharged all three patients, who were tested positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/shajapur-agar-malwa-take-it-to-zero/articleshow/75766886.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: 50kg doda post seized, 2 arrested||JAISALMER: In a joint operation by the BSF and the police, two smugglers were arrested with 50 kg doda post and Rs 2.93 lakh cash near the international border in Sriganganagar district. According to BSF Rajasthan frontier official sources, the BSF intelligence branch at Ganganagar sector got information that two persons were going to smuggle drugs, following which the BSF along with police, blockaded the area near village Likhmewala 82 RB under Raisinghnagar police station area. Sources said that they stopped a pick-up vehicle and searched it and found that it was full of doda post and nabbed the two persons. As much as 50.5 kg doda post was found with the two during search, and Rs 2.93 lakh and three mobile phones were also seized.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/50kg-doda-post-seized-2-arrested/articleshow/75767714.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Goa||‘We need to gradually open local industry’||Panaji: The state government needs to start looking at easing the restrictions on the local industry, especially on private enterprises, which generate revenue for the state and also create employment, said president of Goa Chamber of Commerce and Industry (GCCI) Manoj Caculo. He said that if Goa’s economy is not revived, people would die of hunger and desperation and not due to Covid-19. “Government has to take proactive action. Covid is here to stay. We should start opening up little by little. People are not dying of corona but they will die of hunger,” Caculo said. He said that many Goans returning from overseas have lost their jobs and they could find gainful employment in Goa only if economic activities are allowed to resume. “Restaurants should be allowed to start,” Caculo said, adding that many Goans work on cruise lines and in food and beverage outlets abroad. “Many of them are now coming down and they will look for employment to feed their families. They will not get employment immediately and they won’t return immediately. So where are their jobs?” said the GCCI president.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/we-need-to-gradually-open-local-industry/articleshow/75768342.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Business||Vera deploys traveller tracking system for T||Hyderabad: City-based startup Vera Smart Healthcare on Friday said it has rolled out launched a ‘Traveller Tracking System’ (TTS) to screen people for Covid-19 at railway stations, bus stations and Hyderabad airport and will soon cover all district borders of entry to Telangana to track and monitor coronavirus contacts. Recently the company commenced ‘iMASQ’ (Intelligent Monitoring Analysis Services Quarantine) with Artificial Intelligence services for COVID 19 surveillance in containment zones. The startup is doing this in collaboration with the Telangana government as part of an effective public health management strategy. “ The TTS deployment began earlier this week at Secunderabad Railway Station, where 500 travellers are alighting every day. TTS screens all travellers, records their travel history, symptoms, positive contacts, if any, home address. All this information is geotagged and shared to the district administration as well as the relevant police stations to enable home quarantine of the traveller if no symptoms are found, or to immediately hospitalise the person if symptoms are detected,” Vera said. Dharma Teja Nukarapu, founder and CEO, Vera Smart HealthCare, said “This is a real-time solution to deal with life treating conditions, limited medical access and infra hard-pressed regions.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/vera-deploys-traveller-tracking-system-for-t/articleshow/75766887.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Chennai||Government offices in Tamil Nadu to work for 6 days, on Saturdays too||CHENNAI: As part of its phased exit plan and to compensate for the loss of working days during the lockdown, the state government on Friday introduced six-days-a-week work plan, including Saturdays, for all government employees. As per a government order, all offices will function with 50% staff strength from 10am to 5.45pm from Monday, and bus facility will be provided to the staff. “To ensure regular functioning of offices with social distancing, the government directs all offices to function with half the work force at any given day,” chief secretary K Shanmugam said in the order. Staff strength in government offices during the lockdown period now is capped at a maximum of 33%. Personnel and administrative reforms minister D Jayakumar said the move was aimed at extending welfare measures to people without any disruption in this time of crisis. “The administrative machinery should not come to a halt as there is no vaccine available yet. Departments like social welfare, fisheries, animal husbandry, backward classes will have to function to address grievances,” the minister said. Jayakumar said social distancing norms will be maintained at offices and sanitizers will be available. Public would be allowed entry into offices only with masks. According to the plan, in the first week, one batch will work on Monday and Tuesday and the next batch will work on Wednesday and Thursday. The first batch will again work on Friday and Saturday. In the following week, the second batch will begin the weekly schedule, and the batches will keep rotating in subsequent weeks. All group ‘A’ officers drawing pay from 59,300 to 1,98 lakh to 1.28 lakh to 2.25 lakh and all head of offices irrespective of pay will attend office on all working days. Other staff will work only for four days a week. The order is applicable for all offices, including, commissions, boards, corporations, universities, companies, institutions, and societies of the state. All officers/staff will be available for official work and will be accessible through electronic mode of communication. Meanwhile, employees’ associations have asked the government to ensure adequate protective measures for employees at workplaces. JACCTO-GEO coordinator G Venkatesan said this was only a temporary measure to clear the backlog of 45 days. “We are ready to cooperate with the government to overcome the crisis,” he said. Tamil Nadu Government Employees Association president, M Anbarasu said the workforce would not see the increase in day of work as a burden given the challenging times. “Our staff come from far off places to district headquarters. They should be extended proper transportation,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/govt-offices-in-state-to-work-for-6-days-on-saturdays-too/articleshow/75767727.cms||Julie Mariappan
May 16, 2020||Trichy||International flights to Chennai may be diverted to Trichy airport from next week||TRICHY: Several central districts have ramped up their institutional quarantine facilities after the state government indicated its intention to divert some of the Chennai-bound international flights carrying stranded Indians to Trichy from next week. Official sources in Trichy told TOI that the government decided not to land some of these flights at Chennai airport to take the load off crowded quarantine facilities in Chennai. Though an official order was yet to be issued, the districts have decided to keep their quarantine facilities ready. A senior official in Trichy said around 5,000 beds in hostels of educational institutions across the district were available to accommodate the passengers. In Karur, an official said they had hostel facility ready in a college to accommodate about 600 passengers. Altogether, about 15,000 passengers could be lodged in institutional quarantine in Trichy, Karur, Pudukottai, Thanjavur, Ariyalur and Perambalur districts. Meanwhile, all 178 quarantined Malaysia returnees in Trichy have been sent home after they tested negative for Covid-19 on Friday. District collector S Sivarasu said the discharged passengers were advised to be on home quarantine for 14 days. The group comprising pregnant women and elderly passengers had arrived by a special Air India Express flight on May 9. No one had virus symptoms, and only a male patient with renal issues was admitted to Mahatma Gandhi memorial government hospital (MGMGH). In all, 117 passengers were put up at government engineering college at Sethurapatti while 60 others chose self-paid hotel facility. On Friday, the administration made transport facilities for 163 of these people to go to their homes in 19 districts in the state. While four passengers went to Andhra Pradesh, one to Karnataka, and 10 returned to their homes in Trichy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/intl-flights-to-city-may-be-diverted-to-trichy-airport-from-next-week/articleshow/75769054.cms||Gokul Rajendran
May 16, 2020||Allahabad||Nurse on duty in hospital’s ‘Covid ward’ among 5 new positive cases||Prayagraj: Five more persons, including a staff nurse and a lab technician, tested positive for Covid-19 infection on late Thursday night, taking the tally in Prayagraj district’ to 31. Nodal Officer and additional chief medical officer Dr Rishi Sahai told TOI that five persons, including a staff nurse posted at the Covid ward at SRN hospital, a lab technician working at Kalindipuram quarantine centre , a man from Pratappur and two people from Soroan tested positive for coronavirus infection on late Thursday night. Currently, the district has 22 Covid-10 positive patients. While 16 patients are being treated at Covid-19 level one hospital and six at SRN hospital. One patient has died and eight have recovered, he added. Following spurt in number of cases, the Alopi Bagh has been declared a hotspot area where the health department has taken up cluster containment and sanitization exercise. “Apart from 16 positive cases in Prayagraj, four patients of Pratapgarh, six of Fatehpur and three patients of Kaushambi are being treated at Covid-19 level one hospital in Kotwa while six corona positive cases are getting treatment at Swaroop Rani Nehru Hospital” he added. Meanwhile, Covid-19 cases showed a rising trend on Friday too, with the detection of 18 new cases in different districts of eastern Uttar Pradesh including Varanasi, Ballia, and Ghazipur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/nurse-on-duty-in-hospitals-covid-ward-among-5-new-positive-cases/articleshow/75767916.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Agra||AC short circuit kills couple in Firozabad||Agra: A couple died of choking and suffocation inside their house in Firozabad district on Friday morning, after a short circuit was reported in the air conditioning (AC) system. Deceased were identified as Ajay Mishra, 48, and his wife Nisha Mishra, 45. They were residents of Mohalla Bhagwan Ashram, Tundla. The incident occurred around 7 am, after which Tundla police and fire tenders reached the place. A fire brigade team had to cut open the iron grill window of the house to gain access and recover the couple's bodies. Superintendent of police (city) Prabal Pratap Singh said, "Prima facie, it looks like a short circuit in AC. The couple's bodies have been sent for post-mortem."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/ac-short-circuit-kills-couple-in-firozabad/articleshow/75765853.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Chennai||International flights to Chennai may be diverted to Trichy airport from next week||TRICHY: Several central districts have ramped up their institutional quarantine facilities after the state government indicated its intention to divert some of the Chennai-bound international flights carrying stranded Indians to Trichy from next week. Official sources in Trichy told TOI that the government decided not to land some of these flights at Chennai airport to take the load off crowded quarantine facilities in Chennai. Though an official order was yet to be issued, the districts have decided to keep their quarantine facilities ready. A senior official in Trichy said around 5,000 beds in hostels of educational institutions across the district were available to accommodate the passengers. In Karur, an official said they had hostel facility ready in a college to accommodate about 600 passengers. Altogether, about 15,000 passengers could be lodged in institutional quarantine in Trichy, Karur, Pudukottai, Thanjavur, Ariyalur and Perambalur districts. Meanwhile, all 178 quarantined Malaysia returnees in Trichy have been sent home after they tested negative for Covid-19 on Friday. District collector S Sivarasu said the discharged passengers were advised to be on home quarantine for 14 days. The group comprising pregnant women and elderly passengers had arrived by a special Air India Express flight on May 9. No one had virus symptoms, and only a male patient with renal issues was admitted to Mahatma Gandhi memorial government hospital (MGMGH). In all, 117 passengers were put up at government engineering college at Sethurapatti while 60 others chose self-paid hotel facility. On Friday, the administration made transport facilities for 163 of these people to go to their homes in 19 districts in the state. While four passengers went to Andhra Pradesh, one to Karnataka, and 10 returned to their homes in Trichy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/intl-flights-to-city-may-be-diverted-to-trichy-airport-from-next-week/articleshow/75767743.cms||Gokul Rajendran
May 16, 2020||Ahmedabad||Called to board train, sent back||Ahmedabad: Vimla Sharma, 28, a native of Unnao district in Uttar Pradesh, had her four-year-old daughter in her lap and was fanning her with her torn gown so she would have some respite from the extreme heat. Her discomfort was to be exacerbated when she learned that she would not be making the journey back. “I walked for miles to get myself registered at a civic facility in Vatva, then I went to Vastral and then to another facility near Ramrajyanagar on NH-8. My little daughter walked with me and now she has no energy left. I also filled a form online. I was called by some government person who told me to come at Nikol to board a bus which will drop us to the railway station from where I will get a train to Kanpur, from where Unnao is 50km away. Now, I am asked to return,” said Sharma, abusing and crying at the government’s apathy at the same time. Sharma was living with her elder brother in the Rabari Colony area and surrendered their rented lodgings to the landlord, as she thought she would finally get a train on Friday. “My brother was working in a steel polishing unit which has been closed for about two months. Our landlord was taking a monthly rent of Rs 3,500 for a small room, which we couldn’t afford. So we began trying to return our native place two weeks ago, but have failed ever since,” she said. She wasn’t the only one unable to hide her misery. Some 2,000 migrant workers gathered at Mangal Pandey Hall in the Nikol area after being called by some government workers. A couple of hundred were sent to the railway station and the rest had to return. Avdheshkumar Anuragy, a native of Banda district in the Bundelkhand region in UP, said he worked as a carpenter now has no money left. “I too got a call and was told to reach at Mangal Pandey Hall at 2pm, which I did. Now they are telling me to go back,” said Anuragy. Meanwhile, some volunteers randomly selected a few persons, gave them chit-sized token, took money from them and sent them to the railway station in a bus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/called-to-board-train-sent-back/articleshow/75767737.cms||Ashish Chauhan
May 16, 2020||Goa||154 seafarers arrive by bus, quarantined at Vasco hotels||PANAJI/VASCO: After a seafarer who entered the state from Mumbai was found positive for Covid-19 on Thursday, the state government is working to get companies to disembark their crew directly at the port in Goa. “We are in talks with companies and making efforts to get ships to disembark their Goan crew in Goa itself. We are trying to get the next vessel with around 300 Goans to bring them here directly ,” Reddy said. The vessel is likely to reach India next week. More than 150 seafarers from two vessels returned to the state by bus on Friday. The 154 returnees -86 from the Karnika and 68 from Norwegian cruiseliner Seven Seas Voyager have been sent to four hotels in Vasco where they will undergo quarantine for 14 days before they are allowed to go home. “Their swab samples will be taken on Saturday and Sunday and tested,” ports secretary P S Reddy said. The quarantine will be amidst tight police security. Three police personnel would be posted at each hotel for the duration of the 14 day quarantine period, to make sure that the quarantined seafarers do not leave or move around, said police officials. An official from the company that brought the seafarers to Goa said, “The seafarers were in Mumbai, and only after testing negative for Covid-19, they have been quarantined. After 14 days, if they test negative again, they would be sent home.” The process started in the morning of Friday and by afternoon they were registered and alloted their rooms for quarantine. The seafarers from the Karnika spent almost two months on board the vessel docked in Indian waters, while they waited to be disembarked. The first batch of seafarers who arrived from Marella Discovery are on home quarantine while 16 crew from Angriya are in institutional quarantine at a resort in Chorla.  Around 400 seafarers are expected to return to Goa by ship on May 30, and two other ships are expected to drop off large batches of 800 and 500 Goan seamen next month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/154-seafarers-arrive-by-bus-quarantined-at-vasco-hotels/articleshow/75768516.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Varanasi||Ex-prof of BHU, one other test Covid-19 +ve in Kashi||Varanasi: The Covid-19 positive cases showed a rising trend with the detection of 18 new cases in different districts in eastern UP including Varanasi, Ballia, and Ghazipur on Friday. In Varanasi, two new Covid-19 positive cases were detected on Friday. The number of positive cases has now rose to 92 in the district. Among two new infected person one is an 80-year-old retired professor of Ayurveda from BHU, who lives in Shivala Assi locality in Bhelupur area, which has become a new hotspot. The other 42-year-old person is the resident of Naria Sunderpur hotspot in Lanka area. District magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma said the number of hotspots has now increased to 34 in the district including 30 active hotspots. Four hotspots including Bajardiha, Lohta, Gangapur and Nakkhighat have moved to green zone. Out of 92 positive cases, 55 have got cured. Presently there are 35 active cases, while two infected persons have died. While nine new cases were found in Ballia district, seven cases were detected in Ghazipur district, two in Varanasi district. Besides, a Covid-19 suspect died in Azamgarh on Friday and his test report is awaited. In Jaunpur district also, a migrant worker died at a quarantine centre. Meanwhile, 16 Covid-19 symptomatic members of a family have been quarantined in Bhadohi district. The village wher the family resides has been barricaded. Most of the infested persons are migrant workers, who returned to their homes from different cities. With the detection of new Covid-19 cases the total number of infected persons has reached to 10 in Ballia district. Nodal officer Dr Jiya-ul Hoda said nine persons tested positive on Friday. Earlier, the district had only one positive case. Now, Ballia has six hotspots, two in Bairia, two in Murli Chhapra and one each in Revati and Sohaon. The migrant workers had arrived from Ahmedabad (Gujarat). Meanwhile, as many as seven persons including five members of a family of Gopalpur in Birno area of Ghazipur district tested positive for coronavirus. The other two infected persons belong to Bhikhampur of Dullahpur area and Bharthana of Manihari block. All the infected persons had returned from Mumbai. The number positive persons has reached 15 in Ghazipur now. In Bhadohi district, symptoms of infection were found in 16 members of a family of Ramaipur village in Gyanpur area. They had returned from Mumbai recently. Their samples have been sent for testing and they have been quarantined at the hospital. The village has also been sealed for sanitization. Meanwhile, a 35-year-old resident of Jahanaganj area of Azamgarh district, who had arrived from Mumbai by a truck on May 13, was admitted to the hospital after falling ill. Later, he was referred to Balrampur hospital Lucknow for treatment where he died on Friday. Azamgarh DM NP Singh said that his sample report is awaited. A 34-year-old resident of Nathupur village in Zafrabad area of Jaunpur district died at the quarantine centre in Mungara Badshahpur area on Friday. He had returned from Mumbai on Thursday. His test report is also awaited. Team of doctors and officials reached the quarantine centre after getting information.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/ex-prof-of-bhu-one-other-test-covid-19-ve-in-kashi/articleshow/75767866.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Goa||Dhaba staff still await Covid-19 test||Ponda: Worried that they may have contracted Covid-19, staff at a roadside eatery have demanded that they be tested for the virus as well. Three operators of the dhaba where the Gujarat truckdriver who tested positive for Covid-19 had his meals, have already been tested and quarantined. The remaining staff, who claim they were present when the patient visited, were expecting health authorities to check up on them at least on Friday— two days after they came in contact with the patient. They have not been tested yet. Two employees of a transport company who came in direct contact with the patient were also tested and quarantined on Thursday. On Wednesday morning, the truck driver was shifted to the Ponda sub district hospital after he developed fever and other symptoms. His TrueNet Screening test and RT-PCR test, both confirmed he had the virus. The dhaba and the patient’s truck were sanitised on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/dhaba-staff-still-await-covid-19-test/articleshow/75768518.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Jodhpur||Mount Abu administration starts 15-day job scheme for the needy||JODHPUR: The administration of the state’s only hill station and prominent tourist destination, Mount Abu, has struck upon a unique model for providing employment to those who lost jobs due to the lockdown and that too without causing any burden to the state exchequer. Under this model, a person from one such family has been picked by the municipal council to provide employment in forest department and in the municipal corporation. A target of providing jobs to 600-700 affected families for a month in two phases of 15 days each has been kept. Mount Abu municipal council chief Jitendra Vyas said the first batch of 329 workers completed its schedule of 15 days’ job on Friday. The next batch of 340 workers will begin work from Saturday for the next 15 days. The idea had been shared by SDM Ravindra Goswami at a meeting of the Abu Paryavaran Samiti held on April 27 considering the condition of petty workers who were dependent on tourism and were rendered jobless due to lockdown. It was estimated that 700 such families across 25 wards have been affected due to loss of jobs, which included those working in hotels and restaurants, photographers, boat operators and attendants, lorry and cart operators, swing operators, sellers of various objects and eatables. “The fund was not an issue as we decided to pay these workers the minimum wages as per government rules from the samiti collected from vehicles entry fees at the checkposts,” he said. The first list was prepared with the help of councillors with a condition that 12 persons including 5 women and 7 men would be selected from each ward who will be provided employment for 15 days with a view to cover all the families. Vyas said being a tourist destination, cleanliness was of utmost importance and considering the zero footfall, we considered it to be a befitting time to do this. So with Goswami’s idea, it was decided that 50% of the workforce will be given to the forest department and rest 50% would be managed by municipal council. Work at forest department included cleaning while municipal works included cleaning of nullahs, roads, etc.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/mt-abu-admn-starts-15-day-job-scheme-for-the-needy/articleshow/75767729.cms||Ajay Parmar
May 16, 2020||Allahabad||Objection to affair drove man to plan family’s murder||Prayagraj: A man was arrested along with three others on Friday for allegedly murdering his elderly parents, wife and sister over their objections about his extra-marital affair in Preetamnagar, under Dhoomanganj police station. The arrests were made hours after the four were found murdered at their Preetamnagar residence. The accused was identified as Aatish Kesarwani, Anuj Srivastava, Raj Krishna Srivastava alias Bachcha and Ankit Pasi Police said while Aatish and his friend Anuj were arrested on Thursday night, their two accomplices Raj and Ankit were arrested on Friday morning from Kaushambi. Police have also arrested Aatish’s alleged lover and his family’s domestic help Ranjana Shukla as she was aware about the murder plan. The four members of the family who were found dead on Thursday afternoon were identified as Tulsidas Kesarwani (65), his wife Kiran (60), his daughter Niharika alias Gudia (27) and daughter-in-law Priyanka (25). SSP (Prayagraj) Satyarth Anirudh Pankaj said, “Aatish had sought his friend Anuj’s help in getting rid of his family members around 14 days ago. Anuj had then contacted his maternal uncle Raj Krishna and another person to execute the crime.” Aatish had also assured Anuj that he would give them Rs 8 lakh (Rs 2 lakh for each of those involved) for the murder. He has also given Anuj Rs 75,000 in advance and had assured him that he would pay the remaining amount after the job is done. Police had picked up Aatish on Thursday for questioning. “However, he appeared uncomfortable during interrogation and was unable to give clear answers. He later confessed to having plotted to kill his parents, wife and sister.” Police said that Aatish’s family members were against his illicit relationship and Aatish’s adultery often led to arguements in the family. A few days back, Aatish’s sister had reportedly uploaded a photograph of Aatish and Ranjana on social media. Aatish was annoyed with his sister for posting the photograph online. Police also recovered the money and jewellery which the accused had taken from the house to make the crime look like a dacoity and mislead the police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/objection-to-affair-drove-man-to-plan-familys-murder/articleshow/75767935.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Goa||GCCI asks guv to convince Centre on mining resumption||Panaji: With Goa’s economy in a bad shape and the government facing severe revenue crunch, resumption of mining is the only solution to ensure the survival of state’s economy and the common man, said the Goa Chamber of Commerce and Industry (GCCI). A GCCI delegation led by president Manoj Caculo met Goa governor Satya Pal Malik on Friday, and asked him to convince the Centre of the need to restart iron ore extraction in Goa. President of Goa Barge Owners’ Association Atul Jadhav, who was also present, pointed out that without operational barges, transportation and export of iron ore could not be possible. For this, Jadhav said, the government should allow barge owners to avail the subordinate debt scheme offered to MSMEs by the Centre. “In Goa, no industry is functioning properly and the state is not getting any revenue. At least if mining is started with controls and in a sustainable way, then things will improve. We feel that the governor’s word will add some weight,” Caculo said. All the mining stakeholders said that amendment of the Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation) (MMDR) Act can pave the way for mining operations to restart. GCCI has urged Malik to convince the Centre of the need to roll out an ordinance amending the MMDR Act. Malik, according to the delegation, said that he would speak to the officials in the prime minister’s office and to the home minister to see that the issue is discussed at the next Union cabinet meeting. “As of now, we see that amendment of the MMDR Act is the only way to restart mining and this can come as an ordinance after being passed by the cabinet. It need not wait for the parliament session,” Caculo said. Caculo specifically said that GCCI was not speaking in favour of mining lease holders and said that the state was free to form a mining corporation or even auction the mines at a later stage. The priority, Caculo said, was on resuming mining activity. He said that the concerns and demands of the environmentalists and NGOs can be addressed in “phase II” but first mining has to start. Jadhav, at this point, mentioned that unless barges are repaired and in working condition, export or transportation of extracted ore would not be possible. “If we had got money earlier to repair the barges, 56 barges would have been there today to load a ship. It takes seven barges to load a ship. Unfortunately, today we have only 17 barges ready so the exporter and mine owners have to pay demurrage to the ship in foreign currency till the ship is loaded,” Jadhav said. Jadhav hopes that the central government and the MSME ministry will allow barge owners to avail of the subordinate debt scheme. “If subordinate debt funding is given, that we can repay within five years. We are not asking for subsidy. We are saying give us this subordinate loan,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/gcci-asks-guv-to-convince-centre-on-mining-resumption/articleshow/75768353.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Agra||State govt should pay 50 per cent salary of half the staff of hotels and restaurants: UP Tourism DG||AGRA: UP director general (DG) of tourism, Ravi Kumar NG, has suggested the state government should pay 50% of the salary of at least half of the employees working in hotels, resorts and restaurants, in order to save their jobs that have been hit by the lockdown following the coronavirus pandemic. In a draft proposal for a “bailout package” for the tourism industry to assist in its revival, which was submitted to the state government on Friday, Ravi has also suggested the state government should formulate a comprehensive master plan to ensure preparedness during epidemics or natural disasters in future. He has suggested the existing tourism policy should be modified to give hotel and restaurants 25% discount on electricity bills, 50% relaxation in property tax till March 2021 and tax exemption on bar licenses till December 2020, besides paying compensations to registered tourist guides till December 2020. He has also suggested exemption from road and toll tax for tourism vehicles till December 2020. Confirming this, Ravi said, “The tourism industry has been badly hit by the Covid lockdown across the world. Industry stakeholders have demanded an economic package for its revival, hence a draft proposal has been sent for approval to the principal secretary of tourism. He told TOI there is dire need for issuing post-lockdown standard operating procedures (SOPs) for the tourism industry, which follow Covid protocol. “The focus is on survival and revival of the industry, and how to boost domestic tourism with the Covid protocol,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/state-govt-should-pay-50-salary-of-half-the-staff-of-hotels-restaurants-up-tourism-dg/articleshow/75765885.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana to hard sell its land bank to woo firms exiting China||HYDERABAD: Two weeks after Prime Minister Narendra Modi urged states to woo companies that might leave China following the Covid-19 outbreak, Telangana said it’s pitching itself as one of the best destinations in the country with a large land bank available. The state government has submitted its proposal to woo investments in Telangana to the Union commerce and industry ministry, highlighting that it has nearly 1.45 lakh acres of land suitable for the establishment of industries. “We are not looking at organising large-scale investors’ meetings to woo investments. Our strategy is to directly contact the company. It’s a company to company contact,” said Jayesh Ranjan, principal secretary, Telangana IT & Industries department. “The best of the names in the world have come to Telangana in the last six years and have got the highest level of satisfaction. They are guiding us,” he said. He said Telangana has the highest land bank in the country with suitable land for industrial development. Of the total land bank, about 80,000 acres is available within 100-km radius of the international airport at Shamshabad, with access to railway stations, power lines, bulk water supplies and on top of that over 30% of the total land parcels are in a plain area, where industries could be set up immediately. The rest of the land was dotted in the districts surrounding greater Hyderabad. Rajasthan was second-placed with over 88,000 acres suitable for industrial promotion. Gujarat, Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Karnataka are among the states that have sent their offers to the Union ministry to facilitate investments. Industries and IT Minister KT Rama Rao, who recently participated in a video conference with the members of the European Business Group (EBG), had advised them not to look elsewhere as Telangana was the best investment destination with its industrial policy TS-iPASS and a good ranking for its Ease of Doing Business (EoDB). KTR will soon meet the industry and trade organisations to attract investments into Telangana. Telangana State Industrial Infrastructure Corporation (TSIIC) vice-chairman EV Narsimha Reddy said TS-iPASS) Act in 2014 provides clearances to mega projects within 15 days and projects of other nature within 30 days, i.e., shortest in the country. Telangana has attracted investments worth $11.5 billion since the launch of its new Industrial policy in 2015. The state has remained in the top two names for Ease of Doing Business in India consecutively for last three years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-to-hard-sell-its-land-bank-to-woo-firms-exiting-china/articleshow/75768348.cms||Roushan Ali
May 16, 2020||Ajmer||52 days on, Ajmer gets to relish kadhi kachori||AJMER: After 52 days of lockdown, Ajmer’s popular breakfast kadhi-kachori was back on the platter as shops on Kutchery Road reopened. On the first day, social distancing was maintained and people preferred to take away their favourite snack. Elsewhere, the kachori is served with fried potato or with chatni or sauces, but in Ajmer kachori is preferred with kadhi. “Because of the homogeneous culture of Marwaris and Sindhis, kachori is served with kadhi, made up of gram flour,” said a shopkeeper. “It is fantastic to have our favourite breakfast back on street,” said a customer from Vaishali Nagar. In Ajmer, there is a tradition that shopkeepers leave houses early to have kadhi-kachori as breakfast. There are about 65 big shops and around 200 vendors, mostly in Kaiser Ganj, Kutchery Road, Naya Bazaar, Nallah Bazaar and Agra Gate, who dish out this breakfast snack. “This snack is easily available in Ajmer at a very reasonable price,” said a customer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/52-days-on-ajmer-gets-to-relish-kadhi-kachori/articleshow/75767735.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Jamshedpur||Run trains at controlled speed, loco pilots told||JAMSHEDPUR: Chakradharpur railway division on Friday instructed loco pilots to run trains at a controlled speed and asked the guards on board to be vigilant to avoid running over migrants. The directive comes following the death of a migrant worker in West Singhbhum on Thursday and the running over of 16 migrants in Aurangabad district (in Maharashtra) on May 8. In both the cases, the migrants were run over by goods trains while they were resting on the tracks. The senior divisional commercial manager of Chakradharpur railway division, Manish Kumar Pathak, said, “The security personnel have been asked to immediately alert officials concerned if they spot anyone walking on the tracks.” The division is only handling the movement of freight and special parcel trains at the moment, besides Shramik Specials bringing migrants back to Jharkhand and the Bhubhaneshwar-New Delhi Rajdhani Express, which passes through Tatanagar station. “The speed of freight trains is comparatively less than that of coach trains, but we have asked the loco pilots to keep eye on the tracks,” Pathak said. West Singhbhum SP Indrajeet Mahatha said following the Aurangabad mishap, the Chakradharpur railway division and the West Singhbhum police have jointly set up a committee of local police officials, GRP and RPF to keep an eye on Manoharpur, Sonua, Jaraikela and on other stations of the district to avoid any mishaps. A GRP official said, “In the past 15 days, several poor migrants have returned to the district from Odisha by walking on the tracks.” The migrant worker, who was run over by a goods train near Goilkera railway station on Thursday, is yet to be identified, the SP said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/run-trains-at-controlled-speed-loco-pilots-told/articleshow/75766573.cms||B Sridhar
May 16, 2020||Goa||Seven held for drinking in public||Panaji: Goa police have arrested seven persons from across the state for drinking in public places, in violation of lockdown orders. TOI had first reported that Goa police had decided to file FIRs against those found consuming alcohol in public places despite the lockdown being in force. “Cases of drinking in public have been registered in Panaji, Bicholim, Old Goa, Margao and Ponda,” a senior officer said. Liquor shops in the state reopened on May 4 after the Union government relaxed some of the lockdown restrictions for districts in the Green Zone. All police stations have been directed to act against people drinking in public.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/seven-held-for-drinking-in-public/articleshow/75768519.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Agra||Agra: Cop misbehaves with woman who looks for water at railway station||AGRA: In a video which is being widely circulated online, a constable of Railway Protection Force (RPF) could be seen charging with a stick and hurling abuses at a woman who was looking for drinking water at a railway station along with her child. The incident took place at Raja Ki Mandi railway station on platform 2 on Thursday, when the woman believed to be mentally challenged along with her teenage child visited the station. In the video, RPF constable, identified as Hari Prakash, was found reprimanding the woman along with another railway staff for entering the station premises. RPF Agra division has now ordered a departmental inquiry. Senior commandant RPF, Prakash Kumar Panda, told TOI on Friday, "It was an unfortunate incident and should have never happened in the first place. However, Raja Ki Mandi railway station premises is off limits for general public, until the train services resume. On Thursday, the mentally challenged woman visited the station for water and the constable misbehaved." "I have called for a departmental inquiry, but we are also going to start a special counselling session for cops to be more cordial with civilians while on duty. Owing to Covid-19 outbreak, cops are working round the clock without leave, which sometimes lead to such an incident, which is again regretful," he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/cop-misbehaves-with-woman-who-looks-for-water-at-rly-stn/articleshow/75765876.cms||Arvind Chauhan
May 16, 2020||Nagpur||MP seeks special task force to end liquor menace in Wardha||WARDHA: Linking emergence of novel coronavirus (Covid-19) cases in the district to illegal manufacturing and sale of country liquor, BJP member of Parliament Ramdas Tadas has demanded special task force for crackdown on bootlegging. The first Covid-19 victim of Wardha district was reportedly having bootlegging connections because of which she is suspected to have contracted the virus. Stating that police have failed to stop production and sale of illegal country liquor in the district, where prohibition is in force since 1950, Tadas has written a letter to Maharashtra chief secretary demanding formation of a special task force involving local administration, revenue and excise departments, villagers, women SHGs along with police. “Despite prohibition, liquor is manufactured or smuggled in the district and its availability is an open secret,” said Tadas adding that police alone could not tackle the problem all these years. “This is the responsibility of all of us and we should come together to end the problem,” said Tadas. Bhai Rajnikant, an activist who has been fighting against bootleggers for over five years and has formed women’s village committees to spread awareness about prohibition, said police are capable to stop liquor flow in the district, but they are not willing to act. “Corrupt personnel are responsible for this scenario where illegal liquor is being sold in almost every village,” he said. Highlighting the gravity of the situation, Bhai Rajnikant said, “If you walk into any village at evening time, you can easily find eight out of 10 residents in drunken state.” According to Bhai Rajnikant laws to punish offenders are weak and hence smugglers and bootleggers have no fear. Krishna Sayare, a resident of Stationfail area on Deoli road, said, “In our ward, a person is involved in sale of liquor. We had complained many times to city police, but to no avail. All residents have fed up with this, but we have no option. The bootlegger has connections in the police department.” Additional SP Nilesh More said, “We have been running special washout drives to destroy breweries.” He admitted that during such drives, police failed to arrest the culprits as they flee from the spot before the raid. SP Basavaraj Teli said, “We are trying our best to stop illicit liquor business. Forming such a task force is not in my capacity. There is no proof that coronavirus entered the district because of liquor smuggling.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/mp-seeks-special-task-force-to-end-liquor-menace-in-wardha/articleshow/75767739.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Rajkot||30 booked for vandalizing checkpost in Rajkot||RAJKOT: As many as 30 people were booked for allegedly vandalizing a checkpost between Bhadala and Bhandaria villages of Jasdan taluka in Rajkot district on Thursday. Police said the accused committed the crime after a youth’s bike was seized by them as the youth had no license and number plate on the vehicle. “We have booked Jasa Kakadia, Ramesh Vavadia and Ashish Gohel for allegedly leading the group to attack the checkpost,” said H P Gadhvi, sub-inspector with Bhadala police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/30-booked-for-vandalizing-checkpost-in-rajkot/articleshow/75636249.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Vadodara||Vadodara: Sharpshooter nabbed within hours of escape from police custody||VADODARA: Notorious criminal Anil alias Anthony Gangwani was nabbed from Jhalod taluka in Dahod on Friday, hours after he fled from the police custody in Vadodara. He was nabbed from a car when he was trying to cross the border and enter Rajasthan with his mother and wife. Anthony’s two friends who helped him in renting the car too have been arrested by LCB (rural) cops. The Raopura police has registered an offence against the cops who were guarding Anthony when he gave them a slip. According to the police, Anthony and his four accomplices were nabbed by the Chhani police on May 7 for breaking lockdown rules. The cops learnt that Anthony was wanted in taluka as well as Savli police station in connection with prohibition cases registered against him. Taluka police took custody of Anthony and then handed him over to Savli police on May 12. Savli cops then decided to get Anthony tested for Coronavirus. He was kept in SSG Hospital with two cops who guarded him round the clock. On Friday at about 3 am, Anthony managed to give a slip to the cops and fled from the fourth floor of the hospital. The policemen raised alarm and immediately informed city and rural police about Anthony’s escape. Soon, a message was sent to every district police about his escape as it was expected that he would try to flee the state by road. “We learnt from his accomplices that he was travelling towards Jhalod in a car that he rented. We immediately alerted Jhalod police that arrested him,” said D B Vala, LCB police inspector. He, though, said that Anthony’s escape wasn’t pre-planned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/sharpshooter-nabbed-within-hours-of-escape/articleshow/75767656.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Indore||Cops rely on technical inputs to stop drug trafficking||INDORE: After recently receiving inputs from CBI over drug trafficking in Covid-19 shipment in the country, Indore zone officials are relying heavily on technical inputs to track such cargos moving through the area. Based on inputs received from Interpol, CBI had on Wednesday issued an alert relating to international drug trafficking activities taking advantage of this global pandemic scenario and of possible drug shipments concealed in cargo relating to Covid-19 protective equipment. IG Vivek Sharma said, “Given the present set of circumstances, with priorities on side of allowing people to move smoothly across our state without meeting accidents and without facing any problems, our priorities have shifted to managing this big influx which has been unprecedented but simultaneously we cannot be oblivious of the fact that the criminals might take advantage of the police engagements elsewhere.” The officials of Indore zone, he said, have been asked to rely more on technical than physical verification. “The outlaws are always waiting for an opportunity to do such activities in the garb of one thing or another and so we are getting into the technical way of keeping an eye on these people,” he said. He added that they are watchful of the people who are operating in liquor and narcotics as well. “We recently caught a truck in Manpur which was heading to Gujarat. We have also factored in the possibility of people taking advantage of diluted focus on borders and so the technical inputs received are being watched into instead of checking all the vehicles on check posts which are already fully packed with migrants,” he said. IG said that there are two major check posts in Indore division -- Sendhwa in Barwani district which accounts for 90% of the traffic and Pitol in Jhabua district which accounts for 10% traffic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/cops-rely-on-tech-inputs-to-stop-drug-trafficking/articleshow/75766925.cms||Karishma Kotwal
May 16, 2020||Goa||Goa: Police warn of action if Covid-19 patient details shared online||PANAJI: After confidential lab reports were circulated on social media about Covid-19 patients, inspector general of police (IGP) Jaspal Singh advised people not to post such irresponsible messages on social media, or else they will face action. He also said that for authenticity of any post citizens should call the 112 helpline. The warning from Goa Police has come after social media was abuzz with reports of Covid-19 patients which created panic among people. Singh told TOI, “In this time of crisis, it is important that we take care not to spread fake news that will create alarm in the society or lead to panic. Matters such as patient privacy need to be strictly guarded.” He also said that some people have been found circulating these details on social media. “We must refrain from irresponsibly posting patient details which is not only illegal but causes trauma and prejudice to the families,” he said. He also said that if citizens have any query or doubt regarding any policy, decision, procedure or authenticity of any post they need to contact public authorities instead of sharing these on social media. Health minister Vishwajit Rane also said that confidential lab reports of Goa Medical College (GMC) and directorate of health services (DHS) are being currently circulated by many on Whatsapp . “This act is violation of patients privacy and I request you all to not indulge in leaking or sharing any such information,” he said. Rane said if such acts are repeated or continued by any individual, the government is authorised to take action against him/her under the provisions of the law. Chief minister Pramod Sawant has also warned people against circulating such private health-related posts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/police-warn-of-action-if-patient-details-shared-online/articleshow/75768521.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Allahabad||Ruling out going back, for these UP migrants heart is where their home is||Prayagaj: Thrown out of work and left to fend for themselves during a trying lockdown, UP migrants who recently returned from various cities to their hometowns are ready to start a new chapter of their lives by staying back. Thousands of migrant labourers returned to various UP districts between March and April amidst the novel coronavirus (Covid-19) outbreak. While some of them were lucky to board state-run buses, others were forced to get rides in packed trucks. Then there were those who had to walk hundreds of kilometres, including women and children, to reach home from far-flung cities like Mumbai, Hyderabad, Delhi and Nashik. After undergoing a medical check- up and being for quarantine, over 5,000 migrants have also got jobs under Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Generation Act (MGNREGA). Many migrants are also trying to take traditional jobs like farming, wood work, bamboo work and making slippers. Sipahi, a native of Jasra, had been working in an industrial unit near Hyderabad, before the lockdown was enforced and he was rendered jobless. He used to live their with his wife and two siblings. These days he is busy repairing his native house and has no plans of going back. “I am planning to cultivate pulses and don’t want to return once the lockdown ends. It was a bad phase of our lives and I don’t want to recall it any more,” he added. Another migrant Lotan said, “Many migrants have got jobs via government schemes after return. I am also trying to get a job, but I won’t return to my old job in Delhi. I walked hundreds of kilometres along with my wife and children from Delhi to Kanpur. We boarded a truck from Kanpur to reach Prayagraj.” Malaq resident Pushkar said he is trying his luck in business. “I plan to sell fruits in urban areas of the city after purchasing it from the local mandi. After coming back, I want to forget about that bad phase of my life,” said Pushkar, who worked in a footwar factory in Delhi and returned to his native town on foot. District Panchayat Raj officer (Prayagraj) Renu Srivastava said that around 9,000 migrants have been given job cards and over 5,000 have already got jobs in projects for beautification of ponds, road construction, construction of community toilets in more than 700 villages..”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/ruling-out-going-back-for-these-up-migrants-heart-is-where-their-home-is/articleshow/75767948.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Goa||Cop turns lyricist, garners citizens’ support to protect Goa||PANAJI: Keen on not just enforcing the law but also leading by example, deputy superintendent of police (DySP) Edwin Colaco has used music to inspire citizens to keep their motherland safe amid the Covid-19 pandemic. Through ‘Mhoji Maim, Mhojem Goem’ (My mother, my Goa), a song he has penned, the officer seeks to invoke both dedication and gratefulness in each citizen. “Just as a child thanks his mother for nurturing him and vows to protect her, in this song too, every citizen expresses gratitude to his motherland and pledges to protect her under any circumstances,” Colaco says. This pledge, he says, becomes all the more significant in the face of the pandemic that has brought many countries to their knees. The song was visualised from the eyes of citizens who have grown to become police officers, doctors, nurses and sanitation workers, Colaco says. “As a token of gratitude for having been raised peacefully, they vow to protect their motherland and eliminate the disease from Goa,” he adds. Music for the song has been composed by Elick Vaz, and it has been sung by Gautami, Elick, Cielda And O’Luv. The Covid-19 pandemic has seen the emergence of several heroes in the recent past. One was lady assistant sub-inspector (LASI) Varsha Kelkar who turned out to be a good Samaritan for 70 labourers stranded in Goa without work or food. Adding to the talents displayed by the men in uniform, Vijay Sridhar Dessai, attached to the traffic cell of the Curchorem police station, had enacted the role of Yamraj, the mythological lord of death and justice, to urge motorcyclists and four-wheeler drivers to adhere to the social distancing rules applicable to vehicles.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cop-turns-lyricist-garners-citizens-support-to-protect-goa/articleshow/75768520.cms||Murari Shetye
May 16, 2020||Surat||Migrant’s death: Kin allege thrashing by Surat cops, police deny||SURAT: A 36-year-old migrant labourer from Odisha, who was working a textile unit, died on Thursday night. His relatives initially refused to accept the body on Friday, alleging that he died after being thrashed by cops, a charge dismissed as baseless by senior police officials. Satyawan Narayan Swain, who was employed in Gopinath Textile mill in Anjani Industrial Estate, was shifted to SMIMER Hospital in 108 emergency ambulance after he fell ill. However, he was declared dead on admission. Police said the preliminary postmortem revealed that Swain died of heart attack. The deceased’s brother-in-law (wife's brother) Manoj Pradhan alleged, "Police forcibly entered the building where Swain lived, but also pulled him out from his room on the fifth floor and thrashed with baton," Pradhan alleged while talking to TOI. Pradhan workers in nearby unit where Swain was employed. Pradhan further claimed, "Some labourers had gathered near a hotel behind the place where Swain lived to check for the railway tickets at around 6pm on Thursday. Police came there and while dispersing crowd, they chased few labourers up to Gopinath Textile." When contacted, city police commissioner, RB Brahmbhatt said, "The allegations (of police thrashing) are baseless and postmortem has revealed he died of heart attack. The family and some of his friends made an issue, but they were convinced to accept the body and cremation has also been done.” Padmanabh Swain, who lived in room adjoining the deceased’s also told TOI that he did not see Swain being thrashed by cops. "Swain returned to the room in evening. He cooked food and was not feeling well. Meanwhile, his condition started deteriorating and we shifted him to the hospital in 108 ambulance." Swain's wife Pratima and a five-year-old mentally challenged son live in Baruda village of Ganjam district in Odisha. Meanwhile, People's Union of Civil Liberties (PUCL), a non-government organization (NGO) mailed a letter to chief minister Vijay Rupani backing the allegations of Swain’s brother-in-law.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/migrants-death-kin-allege-thrashing-by-cops-police-deny/articleshow/75767762.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
May 16, 2020||Indore||Bright minds already working to deal with pandemic: Rajnath Singh||INDORE: Social media and telecommunication have helped uninterrupted interaction during ongoing Covid situation and it’s absence can make collaborative efforts difficult, said defence minister Rajnath Singh on Friday. In a pre-recorded message shared during the first ever ‘E-Convocation’ 2020 of Jaipuria Institute of Management organized in view of ongoing Covid-19 situation, Singh said that youths with bright minds can create technology driven solutions through innovative skills. “This convocation is one of the living examples as to how life is going to be different after this Covid-19. There would be a huge difference between post corona world order and pre-corona world,” he said adding that future is going to be very challenging for the whole country. Encouraging graduating students of management studies, Singh said the can find opportunity in every situation and management skills can be used as tools to face post Covid-19 situation. He said that it’s those young bright minds, who can create technology driven solutions innovative skills. “I see many such bright minds have already started utilizing their skills on creating solution to deal with coronavirus pandemic in an efficient way,” he said, while adding incubated startups at IIT Kanpur, and IIT Hyderabad are working on low cost easy to use portable ventilators and even Arogya Setu application is one such example. Over 900 graduating students of institute’s PGDM course from Lucknow, Noida, Jaipur and Indore took part in the e-convocation. Institute chairman Sharad Jaipuria and vice chairman Shreevats Jaipuria congratulated the students and asked them to remain focussed to achieve their goals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/bright-minds-already-working-to-deal-with-pandemic-rajnath/articleshow/75766936.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Kanpur||IIT-K’s Cupro Health tech to launch AI-powered disinfectant chambers||Kanpur: CuproHealthTech of IIT Kanpur will soon launch a series of high-end, fully automatic disinfectant chambers which can sanitize people before they enter public spaces. One of the first products that is going through rigorous testing is the intelligent disinfectant chamber. The chamber will determine the temperature of the person before allowing them to enter and the AI-powered camera will record the face of the individual and moderate their entry. Once the person enters the chamber, it will completely sanitize them from top to bottom within seconds. The whole process is fully automatic. IIT Kanpur has been making valuable technological interventions since the Covid-19 pandemic hit the country. “Our researchers and the startups incubated at IIT-K have together developed PPE kits, ventilators, reusable N95 masks, oxygen concentrators and more. The disinfectant chamber is another crucial addition to the repertoire,” said professor Abhay Karandikar, Director of the institute. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/iit-ks-cupro-health-tech-to-launch-ai-powered-disinfectant-chambers/articleshow/75767961.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Agra||Labourer with diabetes dies on Shramik express||Agra: A 54-year-old migrant labourer on way home to Ballia, died on Shramik Special express train in Mathura junction. Shriji Prasad, who was suffering from chronic diabetes, was travelling with his three children, wife and brother. At 7 pm, he was de-boarded from the train after his condition deteriorated during his journey from Alwar. SHO GRP Mathura junction Subodh Kumar said, “The man's body has been sent for post-mortem. His wife and son have stayed back in Mathura, while two daughters and the man’s brother have left for Ballia on the same train.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/labourer-with-diabetes-dies-on-shramik-express/articleshow/75765901.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Udaipur||Gulab Chand Kataria defied lockdown, needs quarantine: Congress||UDAIPUR: Congress Working Committee (CWC) member and former MP Raghuveer Singh Meena tendered a written objection to the Udaipur collector on Friday against leader of opposition Gulab Chand Kataria getting a registry done of 15-bigha land in his name at the registry office in Jhadol (Phalasiya), some 50km away from Udaipur, during lockdown. Meena asked the district collector to keep Kataria and all those who came in his contact during the registry process in quarantine. He also demanded a case be taken against the legislator under the Disaster Management Act, 2005, for disobedience of government orders. Offering his explanation, Kataria said being the leader of opposition he has access to movement as he keeps travelling between Jaipur and Udaipur. “I spoke to the officials at Jhadol two days in advance to know whether there is any problem to get the registry done and when they had no objections, I went there taking all precautions of social distancing and sanitisation,” Kataria said. Congress leader Meena, however, said, “At a time when Udaipur is a hotspot for coronavirus and the entire municipal zone is declared a containment zone, it is shocking that a senior leader like Katariaji defied the lockdown and went to Jhadol on May 14 for a petty thing like registry. In my knowledge, not a single registry had been done in the past two months in Jhadol and so the former home minister is answerable to the people, what was the urgency to perform the registry now.” He said the permission of movement is granted only for essential work and registry does not fall in this category. He said many people would have come in contact with the MLA at the registry office including the tehsildar, clerks and witnesses who executed the task which could have been avoided until the lockdown had been lifted. “Katariaji went to the rural area from a contaminated zone and hence he and all others who were in his contact should be quarantined,” Meena said. “A staggering number of cases have been registered in the state against common people under IPC Section 188 for disobeying the law. Everyone is equal before law and Katariaji is no exception,” Meena said. Meanwhile, Udaipur collector Anandhi and SP Kailashchandra Bishnoi did not respond on being asked for any action on Meena’s letter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/kataria-defied-lockdown-needs-quarantine-cong/articleshow/75767750.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Trichy||Citing lockdown, shallot farmers delay summer cultivation||TRICHY: Poor cash reserve and challenges like mobilising farmhands and hike in fertiliser prices have forced a majority of shallot farmers in Perambalur district delay summer cultivation. Perambalur, which is the largest shallots producing district in Tamil Nadu, cultivates the produce on 7,000 hectares per year covering Alathur, Veppanthattai and Perambalur blocks. Farmers involve in large-scale cultivation namely summer (May to July) and samba (October to December). Shallots cultivated and harvested in July every year will be used as seeds for the samba cultivation. But with the ongoing lockdown, farmers are hesitant to commence cultivation. “Farmers do not have adequate cash in their hands. Labourers are unable to reach many places in the absence of public transport. Such factors are unfavourable for summer cultivation,” Mahendra M Manivaasan, managing director, WEFSA farmers producers company said. In addition, constraints in logistics and transport, poor groundwater table in places like Settikulam have forced farmers to forego cultivation. With 1,008 farmers in the company, 50% of them have planned to skip the cultivation. “Agriculture workers are still petrified about Covid-19 spread. Such adverse situation will impact the ensuing cultivation cycles since there is a possibility of a shortage of small onion seeds,” A Venkatesan, a farmer from K Pudur said. Farmers said they spend around Rs 40,000 to cultivate shallots in one acre. “Only a limited number of farmers have cultivated shallot crop so far. We expect the acreage to go up in the coming days. Few spells of rainfall may increase the cultivation acreage,” an horticulture department official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/citing-lockdown-shallot-farmers-delay-summer-cultivation/articleshow/75767759.cms||Deepak Karthik
May 16, 2020||Goa||WRD begins razing bandhara in Dhatwada-Usgao||Ponda: Following a demand from locals, the water resources department (WRD) began demolishing the bandhara at Dhatwada-Usgao inside the nullah on Thursday. WRD executive engineer Arun Naik said they started the demolition work of the bandhara on Thursday. The WRD has been laying a 1,000mm pipeline to facilitate augmentation of water from the Ganjem water scheme on the Mhadei to Khandepar river during summer. While the WRD has already laid an underground pipeline up to 2.5km of the 3km-long nullah bed, work on just 500m is pending. But locals have stalled the work since February 1 claiming that the pipeline work would damage underground water resources. During a joint meeting before the Ponda deputy collector and sub divisional officer Kedar Naik in March, held between WRD officials and the Dhatwada-Usgao locals under the banner of Dhatwada Usgao Citizens Forum, they had demanded that the bandhara inside the nullah be demolished by the WRD. With the condition of demolition of the bandhara, the locals had allowed the pipeline under the riverbed of Dhaushirem-Khandepar nullah.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/wrd-begins-razing-bandhara-in-dhatwada-usgao/articleshow/75768364.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Goa||Forgotten on the frontlines: No water, sanitisers for weary cops at Patradevi||Panaji: We laud them as ‘Covid warriors’, but give them no weapons to defend themselves with. Frontline workers manning the Patradevi checkpost lack basic facilities, and are exhausted and overworked, as the busy checkpost is short-staffed. The checkpost witnesses a continuous stream of goods vehicles and people entering the state. A visit to the checkpost revealed that the staff are not even supplied with adequate drinking water, or sanitisers to disinfect their hands. A policeman at the post said the provision for drinking water and other safety precautions were only adequate for the first four days after his duty began.“I have not had water to drink since I began my shift in the morning. Sometimes the mamlatdar on duty provides the drinking water, at other times social workers step in. On some days, we get forgotten”.  Even as the number of vehicles entering through this checkpost bordering Maharashtra have increased, staff numbers have not. Besides around 300 goods vehicles, over 200 four-wheelers ferry stranded people across the border each day. Another official at the checkpost said they could not work expeditiously as they need more personnel. A home guard entrusted to note the names of migrant labourers, remains surrounded by a crowd of workers all day. His only defence against the virus, a cloth mask, does not cover his nose, as he needs to keep pulling it down for a breath of fresh air as he continues to work in the heat. The staff also deals with migrant labourers trying to cross the border illegally, and struggle to enforce social distancing between them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/forgotten-on-the-frontlines-no-water-sanitisers-for-weary-cops-at-patradevi/articleshow/75768522.cms||Bindiya Chari
May 16, 2020||Jaipur||Gujjar leader’s Twitter call for quota||JAIPUR: Gujjar leader Himmat Singh has found new ways of demanding 5% reservation for the most-backward classes (MBC) in government jobs and education. Nowadays, he has been posting tweets on Twitter with hashtag ‘MBC ka arakshan lagu karo’. With over 16,000 tweets, the social media campaign was among the top 10 India trends on Twitter. He also sought to know from chief minister Ashok Gehlot about status of 15 different admissions which are under process. “We are still demanding because MBC reservation has not been implemented properly. We have been demanding that Devnarayan board should be created. Around, 1,252 contractual employees should be regularised. The FIRs registered against all those who participated in the movement for reservation must be revoked,” said Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/gujjar-leaders-twitter-call-for-quota/articleshow/75767753.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Goa||All eight patients doing well: DHS||Panaji: All eight Covid-19 patients admitted to the ESI hospital in Margao were responding well to treatment on Friday, a health official said. Two days after eight cases were registered in the state, 211 persons who returned from outside the state were placed in home quarantine and 381 travellers in facility quarantine. 514 tests conducted on Friday came negative and 57 reports were awaited at the end of the day, stated the DHS bulletin. The official official said they have succeeded in tracing most of the contacts of the Covid patients. They only had difficulty in tracing the contacts of the Gujarat truck driver, he said. The driver was detected positive for the virus two days after he came to Goa ; he was not isolated immediately upon his entry into the state as in the case of the seven other patients. Six suspects were admitted to the isolation wards across GMC, and government hospitals at Chicalim, Ponda and Mapusa.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/all-eight-patients-doing-well-dhs/articleshow/75768523.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Nagpur||11 shelter home inmates among 18 test +ve, offence against +ve person||Nagpur: Eighteen more persons from the city tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday taking the district’s tally to 336. Eleven positive persons are inmates of Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) night shelter situated at Hansapuri in Mominpura containment zone. A Covid-19 positive patient was booked for shifting from Mominpura containment zone to Baba Farid Nagar in Kharbi.As per the NMC officials, Hansapuri night shelter was brought into use for beggars, labourers and people from other states stranded in various parts of the city. Even those who were returning to their home states on foot were brought to these shelter homes. It had capacity to house 70 but only 40 were allowed to maintain Covid distancing between beds. A few of the inmates returned to Mandal district in MP and Jharkhand after the resumption of train and bus services.One of the inmates was tested positive at Mandal district on May 13. After that, 39 inmates were quarantined at Wathoda on May 14. Total 11 of them tested positive and reports of remaining are yet to be known.An NMC official said, “Among these 11, some might be beggars. We will have to check the admission register. Two caretakers of the NMC were also quarantined after 11 tested positive on Friday. The shelter home has been closed after fumigation and records are kept in it,” he said.Before this, no case of a beggar being tested positive was registered in the district. The inmate who was tested positive on Thursday was also staying at Hansapuri night shelter. He was taken to a shelter home at Ravi Nagar on May 12 as his bus for Jharkhand was supposed to leave from there. He was feeling unwell and was admitted at GMCH.A 22-year-old from Golibar Square, also in Mominpura containment zone, was admitted at IGGMCH on Thursday after he complained of high fever. He too tested positive. Golibar Square area is on north-west side of the containment zone from where no cases were registered earlier.Four family members of a positive woman who was admitted at a trust-run hospital in Sitabuldi too tested positive. The family is from Hansapuri in Mominpura containment zone. Total 36 doctors and staff from this hospital were also quarantined and tested. Their reports are not known.The Mominpura count for the day was 16, taking the tally of this locality to 179.A 65-year-old comorbidity patient from Khalasi Line, Gaddigodam, was admitted at GMCH on Wednesday and tested positive on Friday. He is reportedly on ventilator.The NMC official said that the patient was taken to Jaripatka’s hospital before being admitted at GMCH. The hospital had to shut on temporary basis for fumigation and doctors, staff quarantined when a paralytic patient from the area was admitted there and later tested positive at GMCH.The 20-year-old who tested positive is from Satranjipura.A 65-year-old person from Baba Farid Nagar, Kharbi, was admitted at GMCH after people lodged complaint with police for having fled the contamination zone. He was tested positive on Thursday. He is a resident of Mominpura and also has a house in Kharbi where he was shifted by his son on May 9.Wathoda police on Friday registered an offence against the patient. Earlier, similar cases were reported from the city’s two hotspots — Mominpura and Satranjipura. Some positive persons were also booked earlier for hiding their family members in other areas, giving misleading information and violation of home quarantine guidelines.A 60-year-old person from Pardi died at GMCH. His samples were tested negative. Four more persons were admitted at SARI Ward in GMCH and reports are expected on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/11-shelter-home-inmates-among-18-test-ve-offence-against-ve-person/articleshow/75766950.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
May 16, 2020||Agra||Over 150 booked for taking part in religious event in Aligarh||AGRA: Two days after a real estate developer died of Covid-19 after attending a religious function on 13th day of his mother’s death, police in Aligarh have now booked his close kin and over 150 people for organising and taking part in the ceremony. The event was attended by over 150 people on May 10, in violation to ongoing lockdown. The businessman succumbed to the disease two days later on May 12. Two sons and three brothers of the businessman and 150 unidentified people were booked under section 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), section 271 (disobedience to quarantine rule) and section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of IPC along with Section 3 of the Epidemic Diseases Act of 1897 at Sasni gate police station. Police said that a large gathering was spotted at the residence of the businessman after his mother’s demise on May 10. According to chief development officer Anunay Jha, the businessman died due to Covid-19 on May 12 and three of his family members from Lucknow have also tested positive for the disease. Report of 17 members of his family is still awaited and a list of people who participated in the rituals has also been prepared and their samples are being collected. Meanwhile, the district administration has directed drug inspectors across the district to prepare a list of people, with their mobile numbers, who are buying medicines for treatment of cold and cough from local chemists and send it to the chief medical officer||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/over-150-booked-for-taking-part-in-religious-event-in-aligarh/articleshow/75765920.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Kanpur||Families of 17 deceased advocates to get Rs 5L financial assistance each||Kanpur: The families of 17 deceased advocates will soon get a financial assistance of Rs 5 lakh each in compliance of the order passed by the Allahabad high court recently.  Ravindra Sharma, advocate and convener of Adhivakta Kalyan Sangharsh Samiti, said that the high court had suo moto heard the PIL on April 20 last and passed the order to this effect. In compliance of the said order, Rajya Vidhik Parishad and Advocates Welfare Trust disposed of around 279 death claims and sanctioned Rs 5 lakh to each family. Sharma said the deceased advocates whose family would get the financial assistance are Anil Kumar Gautam, Neeraj Kumar Mishra, Sanjeev Kumar Shukla, Surendra Kumar Taneja, Awadhesh Kumar Gupta, Arvind Kumar Agrahari, Ajay Kumar Singh, Nitesh Tiwari, Pankaj Kumar Pal, Pravin Kumar Gautam, Santosh Kumar Verma, Manoj Kumar, Yashpal Singh, Ajay Kumar Sonkar, Sunil Sharma, Jaswant Singh and Raj Kumar. Meanwhile, UP law minister Brijesh Pathak on Friday assured advocates that the government would take measures to provide financial assistance to them in the lockdown period. A delegation of advocates, led by Pawan Kumar Tiwari advocate, had recently met the law minister at his residence and requested him to provide financial assistance to advocates during lockdown. The law minister assured the delegation that the government was taking steps to remove legal hurdles in the matter. He asked the Advocates Welfare Trust to dispose of death claims of advocates as soon as possible. Advocates’ dress code: The Supreme Court, through a circular issued on May 13, has fixed a dress code for advocates during hearing in courts. On the medical advice, the Supreme Court has said that, male advocates may wear only plain white shirt and women advocates white shalwar- qameez/ white saree with plain white neckband during hearing in the courts. Advocates have been exempted from wearing coat, gown or robe till further orders in this regard.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/families-of-17-deceased-advocates-to-get-rs-5l-financial-assistance-each/articleshow/75767969.cms||Anant Chandak
May 16, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat cops help MP woman deliver baby||AHMEDABAD: On Wednesday night, a team of Dhandhuka police was on vehicle-checking drive on the Barvala-Dhandhuka road when it spotted a woman among the labourers returning to Madhya Pradesh. The woman was in pain but wanted to continue the journey to reach to Alirajpur. The cops learnt that the woman was pregnant. R V Asari, SP, Ahmedabad rural, told TOI that a team led by inspector Y B Gohil immediately took the woman to a nearby private hospital after assuring her that they would help her. “The woman, identified as Jamna Dhundhara, 25, delivered a healthy baby girl at 2am on Thursday,” said Asari. “In the afternoon, the mother and child were shifted to Khilkhilat van where they will get necessary care. The vehicle dropped them up to the border of Madhya Pradesh in association with Chhota Udepur police.” Dhandhuka police officials said the vehicle was carrying workers from Gariyadhar in Bhavnagar district to Alirajpur in MP. “We also provided them food, clothes and medicines as gift,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/cops-help-mp-woman-deliver-baby/articleshow/75767797.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Kanpur||Two more test positive in Kanpur Dehat||Kanpur: Two more people have tested positive for coronavirus in Kanpur Dehat district, taking the number of cases in the district to six. So far, one person has succumbed to the infection while one other cured after the treatment. “Two more tested positive for the virus in the district. One among the patient is from Amauna village of Rasoolabad tehsil while other hails from Jagammanpur Dhiran in Maitha tehsil of the district. The man hailing from Amauna village had travelled in a truck from Ahmedabad and reached district on May 5. Health team had later shifted them to quarantine centre after taking their sample for testing. On Friday, we received test report of the duo, wherein they tested positive for novel corona virus,” chief medical officer Dr Rajesh Katiyar said. District magistrate Rakesh Singh said the total positive cases in the district is now six. “We have sealed the two villages. Our health team is conducting door-to-door surveys and screening locals for Covid-19 symptoms,” said DM further. “All precautionary measures are being followed. Sanitization of both the villages has been ensured. The movement of villagers has been restricted after sealing the villages. Officials of food supply department have been instructed to ensure delivery of essential goods and commodities to the villagers,” DM added. A health department official said as the man who had returned from Ahmedabad was quarantined with 65 other persons, we fear that the cases will spike in coming days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/two-more-test-positive-in-kanpur-dehat/articleshow/75767973.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Jaipur||Police patrol waterways as migrants enter Rajasthan via rivers||JAIPUR: Police in the border districts of Banswara, Dungarpur and Dholpur have started patrolling in Mahi, Anas, Chain and Chambal rivers after it was found that migrants were using water routes to enter the state from Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh. The unregistered migrants are risking their lives to cover a portion of their journey in fishing boats in order to avoid the tedious registration process at Ratanpur border. Migrants coming from Dahod and Santram Nagar districts in Gujarat are heading to Rajasthan after crossing rivers, dams and jungles. They first cross either Anas and Mahi rivers in small boats and head to Adana Dam in Gujarat bordering Rajasthan. The backwaters of this dam is spread deep inside Banswara and Dungarpur districts making it a route shorter than scaling by foot and also allows them to get away with the registration process,” said Parwat Singh Chundawat, SDM Banswara. The migrants then change their course from the backwaters of Ahana Dam which is spread in Rajasthan and head towards the exit point at Anandpuri in Bagidora tehsil. “Any unregistered and unscreened migrant can jeopardise the fight against Covid-19. Our patrolling parties are not preventing them to visit but it’s our job is ensure who ever is coming has to be registered and screened before they head to their homes in the district,” said Chundawat. The number of people taking such risks is less but officials believe that it will swell in the coming days and weeks. The Dholpur administration has also beefed up patrolling on Chambal river. Dholpur SDM Ashish Kumar said, “The possibility of crossing through the river cannot be ruled out.” The migrants have become a cause of great concern for the state has most of the new cases have been reported among them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/police-patrol-waterways-as-migrants-enter-raj-via-rivers/articleshow/75767767.cms||Shoeb Khan
May 16, 2020||Coimbatore||A surprise b’day party for sanitary worker||Coimbatore: It was her birthday on Friday but that didn’t stop Amsaveni, a sanitary worker, from turning up for work like any other normal day. And little did she know what was in store for her. While she decided to keep it a low-profile affair, members of a non-governmental organization (NGO), police officials and traders at Singanallur market had a different plan - they threw her a surprise party at Singanallur bus stand. S Saravanan alias Kandavelan, founder of NGO Aathma Arakkattalai, said, “When Amsaveni came for work, we saw her colleagues shaking hands with her. It was only then we came to know it was her birthday.” The members of the NGO have been working with police to control the crowd at the bus stand ever since that was tuned into a farmers’ market temporarily. “When we expressed our interest to celebrate her birthday, police officials agreed immediately and joined us. We made all the arrangements silently. When the traders were about to wind up the day’s business, we invited them and other sanitary workers to cut the cake. She was really happy to see her name on the cake,” he said. Pointing out that sanitary workers have been doing a great job along with other frontline workers in the fight against Covid-19, Saravanan said they really deserved a lot of appreciation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/a-surprise-bday-party-for-sanitary-worker/articleshow/75767816.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Hubballi||Mandatory institutional quarantine norms relaxed||Hubballi: The state government had made it mandatory for everyone coming into the state to be in institutionally quarantined for 14 days, however, the government has relaxed some of these norms. There have been protests in Bengaluru by people coming in from Delhi and different states in the country, against going into institutional quarantine, and officials are having a hard time in making them comply. Earlier, everyone, including pregnant women, children, the aged, and people afflicted with chronic diseases had to be institutionally quarantined, if they came into the state. Only 2%-3% of the people coming into the state are willing to be quarantined in hotels at their own cost, said sources. Dr Om Prakash Patil, director, directorate of state health and family welfare services, said that the health and family welfare department has made certain changes pertaining to institutional quarantine norms, and also issued a circular to all the deputy commissioners in this regard, on Thursday. The circular stated that on the arrival of people in the state, who are category II asymptomatic, such as pregnant women, children below 10, those above 80, and terminally ill patients, they are exempted from mandatory institutional quarantine, and they can be home quarantined for 14 days, from their date of arrival. Bagalkot additional deputy commissioner Mahadev Muragi said that as per the new circular, they are institutionally quarantining everyone coming into the state, except those in category II.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/mandatory-institutional-quarantine-norms-relaxed/articleshow/75765973.cms||Basavaraj Kattimani
May 16, 2020||Trichy||Crowding continues at shifted flower market||TRICHY: Even after the flower market located inside the Gandhi Market was relocated to Diamond Jubilee Bazaar behind the World War memorial and reopened on Friday, overcrowding continued to be a concern for the residents. Even as the Trichy Corporation officials, to maintain social distancing and contain Covid-19, had established around 125 stalls at the makeshift market, the preventive measures were not being followed. Stalls were established at a distance of at least 10 feet between each of them. However, flower vendors on Friday were seen overcrowding the market. “We have warned the traders to ensure social distancing or face action,” a corporation official said. The flower market in Gandhi Market was shut since the Covid-19 lockdown was announced citing narrow space inside the market.  As there were representations from the traders to reopen the flower market after 50 days of being shut, the corporation had identified Diamond Bazaar ground for establishing makeshift flower market.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/crowding-continues-at-shifted-flower-mkt/articleshow/75767817.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Coimbatore||Corpn blames defunct website for not uploading resolutions||COIMBATORE: It has been almost three years since the city corporation stopped its decade-old practise of uploading resolutions on its website. During the period, the civic body has passed hundreds of resolutions related to public works, but none of that have been made public till date, despite several requests from activists and public representatives. A couple of days ago, Singanallur MLA N Karthik had issued a statement questioning the city corporation’s apathy in uploading any of the resolutions on its website. Pointing out that numerous smart city, drinking water and road projects have been underway, he said the resolutions that were passed to implement them were yet to be made available on the public domain. Listing out a series of companies, the DMK MLA accused the city corporation of awarding contracts worth crores of rupees to only certain handpicked ones. “This might be the reason for not revealing project details to the public.” City corporation commissioner J Sravan Kumar refuted the allegations and said all the works were being carried out as per the government norms. In a press statement, he said the city corporation’s website was under maintenance and that’s the reason for not uploading project details. “Works like merging the website with urban tree information system and uploading of other information like ward delimitation are going on.” He said Coimbatore Corporation Contractors’ Association had filed a petition before the court, seeking directions not to reveal their personal details. “As the case is still sub judice, resolutions containing personal details of contractors can’t be uploaded on the website.” The city corporation’s clarification doesn’t seem to have satisfied the DMK MLA and activists. Karthik said, “How fair is it for the city corporation to claim its website has been under maintenance for three years? That too when technology has so much advanced. Its counterparts in other cities are uploading resolutions on their websites without any fail.” Based on activist S P Thiyagarajan’s petition, the Tamil Nadu Local Bodies Ombudsman had on August 24, 2018, directed the city corporation to upload all the resolutions on the website. But in February 2019, then corporation commissioner K Vijayakarthikeyan had sought time till the second week of May to upload the same, stating works to upgrade the website had been going on. As the corporation failed to act on ombudsman’s order, the activist had subsequently moved the Madras high court. He said, “The city corporation is neither uploading the resolutions on its website nor revealing them through the Right to Information (RTI) Act. If the resolutions are not made public, how would one know what kind of projects are implemented in the city. The lack of transparency raises many suspicions.” The activist said the resolutions would contain information on scope of project, timeline, project cost, contractor and areas where a project would be executed. “Other than the company name, which was chosen to implement the project, no other details about it would be mentioned in the resolution. How can the case be a deterrent to it?”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/corpn-blames-defunct-website-for-not-uploading-resolutions/articleshow/75767834.cms||Nivedha Selvam
May 16, 2020||Jodhpur||Rajasthan: Kid named after cop who helped woman in delivery||JAIPUR: A family from Barmer has named their newborn daughter after Jodhpur’s DCP (West) Preeti Chandra who had helped the mother deliver the baby in a car on May 4. Humbled with the gesture of the police team which helped the family while the woman was on way to a hospital, the family believes that their daughter too will earn name, fame and glory. TOI on Friday spoke to the mother to know what inspired them to name their infant Preeti Singh. “That day I was in labour pain while my brother was taking me to a hospital in Jodhpur from my maternal home in Barmer. Suddenly the car broke down. We were clueless and I was in deep trouble. Then came Preeti ji with her team having two other policewomen. They arranged for tents to cover our vehicle and I had delivered the baby there,” said Nainu Kanwar. Nainu said amid the lockdown, she was clueless when suddenly the vehicle broke down. “Only thing I remember that my brother Shaitan Singh was screaming for help. Then this woman police officer came and told me not to worry,” she added.  Preeti Chandra said, “What should I say? I feel humbled with this gesture of this family. My blessings are always for the little girl.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/kid-named-after-cop-who-helped-woman-in-delivery/articleshow/75770181.cms||Ashish Mehta
May 16, 2020||Agra||For want of medicines, proper treatment, 145 TB patients died in Agra during lockdown||Agra: A total of 145 tuberculosis patients have died in 54 days – between March 20 and May 12 – in Agra district. Relatives claimed that these patients died due to lack of proper treatment andmedicines during the Covid-19 lockdown. In contrast, only 27 patients had died from January 1 to March 19, the health department data revealed. In 2019, only 99 TB patients had died between March 20 to May 12. During the same period in 2018, the number of deaths of TB patients was 44. Between January 1 and May 12, a total of 5,817 TB patients were registered in the district. Out of these, 172 died – 145 of them during the lockdown. According to the sources, treatment for the first stage of TB failed on 123 patients and their treatment regimen had to be changed. A health department official said, “Majority of the deaths of TB patients during the lockdown were those seeking treatment at private centres. As most of the private hospitals and clinics were not operating, these TB patients had to suffer. The out-patient department at SN Medical College was also not operating. Only the emergency cases were admitted and provided treatment.” Wife of a 35-year-old TB patient who died last month said, “The health of my husband who had been a TB patient for the past six months deteriorated on April 18. He had run out of his medicines. He was taken to the emergency ward of SNMC but was denied treatment. He died on April 20.” District tuberculosis officer UB Singh said, “TB patients have low immunity. All the staff is deployed on Covid-19 duty. Medicines are being supplied to registered patients. However, OPDs in the private and government hospitals are closed, which is causing problems to the patients. Any TB patient not getting treatment or medicine can directly contact my office.” District magistrate Prabhu N Singh said, “I will review the work being done for the treatment of TB patients. The mortality data will also be analysed. Time-bound action will be taken to ensure proper treatment of TB patients and adequate availability of medicines for them.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/for-want-of-medicines-proper-treatment-145-tb-patients-died-in-agra-during-lockdown/articleshow/75765989.cms||Deepak Lavania
May 16, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Kid named after cop who helped woman in delivery||JAIPUR: A family from Barmer has named their newborn daughter after Jodhpur’s DCP (West) Preeti Chandra who had helped the mother deliver the baby in a car on May 4. Humbled with the gesture of the police team which helped the family while the woman was on way to a hospital, the family believes that their daughter too will earn name, fame and glory. TOI on Friday spoke to the mother to know what inspired them to name their infant Preeti Singh. “That day I was in labour pain while my brother was taking me to a hospital in Jodhpur from my maternal home in Barmer. Suddenly the car broke down. We were clueless and I was in deep trouble. Then came Preeti ji with her team having two other policewomen. They arranged for tents to cover our vehicle and I had delivered the baby there,” said Nainu Kanwar. Nainu said amid the lockdown, she was clueless when suddenly the vehicle broke down. “Only thing I remember that my brother Shaitan Singh was screaming for help. Then this woman police officer came and told me not to worry,” she added.  Preeti Chandra said, “What should I say? I feel humbled with this gesture of this family. My blessings are always for the little girl.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/kid-named-after-cop-who-helped-woman-in-delivery/articleshow/75767789.cms||Ashish Mehta
May 16, 2020||Vadodara||Vadodara: Concern over spiritual leader testing Covid +ve||VADODARA: The spiritual leader of a sub-sect of the Bohra community, his two brothers and other members of the community tested positive for Covid-19 leading to concern in the community. In all, 15 more persons tested positive for Covid-19 in the city taking the total number of cases up to 653. According to Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) data, cases of the outbreak are now being reported consistently from areas like Karelibaug and Harni-Warasiya Ring Road where such cases were not reported earlier. Another case was reported from Gorwa area of the city. The youth used to stay and work at the same place form where a housekeeping and catering agency operated. Four members of the agency have already tested positive. The agency has contracts of hospitals and other facilities including the warehouse of an online platform providing grocery, vegetables, fruits, grocery and other essential products in the city. The lesser number of cases reported in the city on Friday were also due to the fact that only 135 tests were conducted since Thursday evening. Most of the new cases are from the old city areas. Eight patients who were discharged on Friday included three from a Covid Care Centre, four from SSG Hospital and one from a private hospital. The death toll due to Covid-19 in the city may have remained at 32, but it has raised several eyebrows. Officials had earlier said that the deaths would be declared only after death audits by experts at SSG Hospital and GMERS, Gotri Hospital. Sources said that despite such audits being submitted for some cases, the deaths were yet to be declared.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/concern-over-spiritual-leader-testing-ve/articleshow/75767664.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘Lockdown providing us chance to hear faintest of Earth’s murmurs’||Ahmedabad: The impact of lockdown can also be felt beneath ground as ‘ears’ of the seismic monitors have become sharper, said Dr M Ravi Kumar, director general of Gandhinagar-based Institute of Seismological Research (ISR). He was talking at a webinar titled ‘Coronavirus lockdown – Effects on Seismic Noise and Seismicity’ organized by Gujarat Council on Science & Technology (GUJCOST) on Thursday. Dr Kumar said that ‘cultural vibrations’ in seismological study are signals caused by human activity. “During daytime, it fell by 50-75% and in night, it went down by 30-84%. It has provided us an opportunity to listen more keenly to what’s happening beneath the surface,” he said. “Lockdown is providing us chance to hear the Earth’s faintest murmurs. It’s equivalent to installing expensive seismometers several meters into the soil.” He added that a scenario like this can help us identify micro-earthquakes which could point towards larger seismic activities. “One of the interesting outcomes of the study during lockdown is drastic reduction in seismicity in Surendranagar – it points towards stopping of quarry blasts,” he said. Dr Narottam Sahoo, advisor to GUJCOST, said that the lecture was part of ongoing webinar series on science communication from May 10 to 16. Primary focus of the initiative, jointly organized with National Council on Science & Technology Communication (NCSTC), was to engage students and researchers during lockdown, he said. “Some of the experts who were part of the series included Dr Manoj Pattairiya, head of NCSTC; Prof Man Singh from Central University of Gujarat; Prof CG Joshi from GBRC; Dr S Kanan, director of CSMCRI, Bhavnagar and Dr BK Tyagi from Vigyan Prasar,” he said, adding that the participants are from across India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/lockdown-providing-us-chance-to-hear-faintest-of-earths-murmurs/articleshow/75767849.cms||Parth Shastri
May 16, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Bihar govt to rescue the 70-year-old stranded migrant||NEW DELHI: A day after the plight of 70-year-old Sushila Devi, a migrant from Chhapra stranded outside New Delhi Railway Station since last Monday, was reported by TOI, Bihar government came to her rescue on Friday. Devi had lost her husband three days ago. She had been pleading with passersby to help her buy a ticket to her hometown so that she could attend the funeral. She and 25 other migrants from different places in Bihar had taken refuge on a footpath near the Paharganj side exit of the railway station. Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar and minister of water resources Sanjay Kumar Jha have asked resident commissioner Vipin Kumar to arrange for her return home. The other stranded migrant labourers staying with Devi will also been given tickets to travel to their native places. “We are in touch with Delhi government additional chief secretary Satya Gopal. We will ensure that the 25 people stuck outside the station can board tomorrow’s train. We got in touch with the migrants after seeing their story in the newspaper,” said Vipin Kumar, who also called TOI to offer thanks on behalf of Bihar government. The septuagenarian and the others were taken to a shelter home in a bus on Friday evening where they were offered food, water, soap, masks and sanitisers. The migrants had been surviving on a meal of rice and daal being served free of cost by a dhaba owner near the station. The labourers will also be tested for Covid-19 at a government hospital as a part of the protocol before they are provided tickets to board the train to Patna. The voice of the government official from Bihar Bhavan who met her on the footpath sounded like an angel’s. “I heard someone calling out my name. At first I got startled. Later, I couldn’t believe my ears when the government official said that he would help us return home. It’s a miracle come true for me. I don’t know how to thank the newspaper. I am praying to God for everyone,” Devi said in a voice choked with emotions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/bihar-govt-to-rescue-70-year-old-stranded-migrant/articleshow/75767037.cms||Somreet Bhattacharya
May 16, 2020||Trichy||Sanitizer dispensers in demand as shops, offices open for business||TRICHY: The demand for hand sanitizer dispensers had shot up after the Covid-19 outbreak and many small-scale entrepreneurs have been cashing in on this demand, even manufacturing automatic and foot-operated hand sanitizer dispensers. As government offices, commercial outlets and industries have been instructed to ensure availability of sanitizers, manufacturers are receiving bulk orders for production of sanitizer dispensers. “Instead of insisting on visitors to visit our washrooms, we have placed the foot-operated sanitizer dispenser at the office entrance. It is quite useful in ensuring that the visitor is disinfected,” said M Subburaman, director of NGO Scope. The 4.5 feet tall foot-operated sanitizer dispenser, costing Rs1,800, has a lever and can be placed on any flat surface. Stepping on the foot pedal will move the lever to apply pressure on the sanitizer bottle’s pump. “We received a lot of calls from government offices and private establishments. From producing 250 devices in a week, we have scaled up the production to 500 devices per week after relaxation in lockdown norms,” said M P Palanisamy, proprietor of KS Groups in Trichy, that manufactures foot-operated dispensers. There is a similar demand for automatic hand sanitizer dispensers fabricated by a Thuvakudi-based Clear Aqua Technologies. The dispenser equipped with a sensor to detect hands and is capable dispensing exactly 2.5 ml of hand sanitizer each time. “The automatic sanitizer dispenser is electric powered and made of wood-plastic composite, which is flame retardant. With a capacity to store 4 litres, the device can pump out the liquid in a matter of 0.2 seconds and is most suitable for large-scale industries, hospitals and ITES offices,” Ganeshwaran Kuppuraj, the developer of the device, told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/sanitizer-dispensers-in-demand-as-shops-offices-open-for-business/articleshow/75767838.cms||Deepak Karthik
May 16, 2020||Erode||Fire breaks out in textile unit godown||ERODE: A major fire broke out in a textile unit godown at Karuvilparai Valasu near Erode on Friday evening. More than Rs 50 lakh worth of material were gutted in the fire. The unit is owned by K Vadivelu, 64, of Rasampalayam. Bed sheets and towels are manufactured at the unit. Around 4.30pm on Friday, locals spotted fire emanating from the godown and alerted fire and rescue services in Erode town. “Twenty-five firefighters struggled for nearly four hours to put out the fire,” a senior police officer from the Erode north police station said. He said six fire tenders were pressed into service. “The reason for the fire accident is yet to be ascertained.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/fire-breaks-out-in-textile-unit-godown/articleshow/75767851.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Agra||State govt should pay 50% salary of half the staff of hotels & restaurants: UP Tourism DG||Agra: UP director general (DG) of tourism, Ravi Kumar NG, has suggested the state government should pay 50% of the salary of at least half of the employees working in hotels, resorts and restaurants, in order to save their jobs that have been hit by the lockdown following the coronavirus pandemic. In a draft proposal for a “bailout package” for the tourism industry to assist in its revival, which was submitted to the state government on Friday, Ravi has also suggested the state government should formulate a comprehensive master plan to ensure preparedness during epidemics or natural disasters in future. He has suggested the existing tourism policy should be modified to give hotel and restaurants 25% discount on electricity bills, 50% relaxation in property tax till March 2021 and tax exemption on bar licenses till December 2020, besides paying compensations to registered tourist guides till December 2020. He has also suggested exemption from road and toll tax for tourism vehicles till December 2020. Confirming this, Ravi said, “The tourism industry has been badly hit by the Covid lockdown across the world. Industry stakeholders have demanded an economic package for its revival, hence a draft proposal has been sent for approval to the principal secretary of tourism.He told TOI there is dire need for issuing post-lockdown standard operating procedures (SOPs) for the tourism industry, which follow Covid protocol. “The focus is on survival and revival of the industry, and how to boost domestic tourism with the Covid protocol,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/state-govt-should-pay-50-salary-of-half-the-staff-of-hotels-restaurants-up-tourism-dg/articleshow/75766044.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Mysuru||Leopard, cubs found dead in fields near Nagarahole||Mysuru: A three-year-old leopard and its three cubs were found dead —two inside her womb and one outside—in Hunsur area near Nagarahole Tiger Reserve on Thursday. The carcass of the leopard and cubs were found in an agriculture land in Jeenahalli village belonging to farmer Jagadish. The villagers immediately informed foresters who rushed to the spot. DCF Poovaiah, ACF Somanna, RFO Sandeep and staff visited the spot along with wildlife veterinarian. Poovaiah told TOI that based on an investigation and postmortem details, it is believed that the female leopard have been chased by another leopard. “The pregnant leopard, in order to escape, tried to climb a coconut tree in the farm and might have fallen to the ground. Due to the fall, the leopard and two cubs inside the womb and one which came out of the body died immediately,” he said. The leopard suffered damages to its ribs and liver due to the fall. “During postmortem, we also found injury marks on its ears and neck suspected to have been inflicted by another leopard. The marks were caused by claws of the another leopard,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/leopard-cubs-found-dead-in-fields-near-nagarahole/articleshow/75766039.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Ban on vegetable sales leads vendor to suicide||AHMEDABAD: A marginalized farmer and vegetable vendor allegedly committed suicide at his home in Sola village on Thursday as the abrupt 7-day ban on vegetable sales in the city completely stopped his earnings which had already reduced due to lockdown, while his debts piled up. The deceased, Ganpat Dantani, 45, resident of Thikariyavas in Sola village was the sole earning member of his family of eight including five daughters and a son, said Dantani’s widow in her statement to police. His widow, Saroj, said that Dantani had rented a small plot of land to farm cucumbers and sell near Satyam Mall. Since the lockdown was imposed his income had reduced considerably, but last week he was unable to earn anything at all due to the abrupt 7-day ban on vegetable sales, and he failed to repay his loans. Inspector J P Jadeja of Sola high court police station said that Saroj had told cops that Dantani had taken a loan to run his house but he could not repay due to the lockdown which led him to commit suicide. According to the report registered with Sola high court police, the family went to sleep at around 11pm on Thursday. At around 2am on Friday, Saroj suddenly woke up from sleep and could not find her husband.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/ban-on-vegetable-sales-leads-vendor-to-suicide/articleshow/75767886.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Erode||‘Special exam centres for Class X students in containment zones’||ERODE: Special exam centres will be set up for Class X students living in containment zones across the state, said school education minister K A Sengottaiyan in Gobichettipalayam on Friday. All classrooms in allotted exam centres are being sprayed with disinfectants. The concerned district collectors will monitor all arrangements, in coordination with the school education department.The minister said he will chair a meeting with education department officials on May 18 in Chennai, and after that hall tickets will be issued. “We will announce the hall ticket issue date after that meeting,” he added. Recently, JACTO-GEO members announced that they will boycott the class 12 exam paper valuation, which will be commenced in June. Minister replied that, it’s their wish to participate in the paper valuation. The minister assured Class X students that the state government will arrange transport facility for all students.In Dharmapuri, higher education minister K P Anbalagan said that his department will be conducting exams for college students after Covid-19 is contained in the state. “Colleges will be opened only after this virus issue is sorted out,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/special-exam-centres-for-class-x-students-in-containment-zones/articleshow/75767868.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Coimbatore||Coimbatore: 48kg food products seized||UDHAGAMANDALAM: After sealing 5 bakeries in Ooty town on Tuesday, food safety department officials continued their inspection drive in other parts of the town on Friday. During their inspection, about 48kg of food products were found without labels, a safety requirement. The seized food products, which were destroyed, were estimated to be worth Rs 10, 000. As per instructions of Nilgiris collector J Innocent Divya, food safety department officials started surprise inspections at all bakeries and shops selling food products and meat stalls across the district. “We held surprise checks at 12 shops in Ooty municipality on Friday. After repeated instructions, most shops have now started following packing and labelling rules”, said Dr J Thangavignesh, district food safety officer. “We found many shops selling expired food products. We seized all unusable products and destroyed them,” said the food safety official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/48kg-food-products-seized/articleshow/75767888.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Coimbatore||215 shops to function on rotational basis in Ooty municipal market||UDHAGAMANDALAM: The Ooty municipal market sprang back to life on Friday when 67 of the 1,600 shops resumed operations on a trial basis after remaining closed for the past 50 days. The municipal authorities have identified a total of 215 shops in the market based on the state government’s list of shops to be permitted to function. Saraswathi, Ooty municipal commissioner, said, “Of the 1,600 shops, we have identified 215 that can resume operations. They are divided into three groups - A, B, and C - for operational purpose. They will function on a rotational basis.” She said they were opening the shops on a trial basis. “The shops have been divided into three groups to ensure that the ones that are located adjacent to each other are not functioning the same day.” On Saturday, 74 shops in the B group will function, while the C group will open the shutters on Sunday. “The market is a congested area. We have to wait and see the impact as it starts functioning with limited shops,” the municipal commissioner said. She said the vegetable, fruit and meat shops would continue to function out of open grounds as usual. The shopkeepers in the Ooty municipal market have been sensitized on the precautionary measures such as social distancing and hand hygiene. Nilgiris collector J Innocent Divya has inspected the municipal market on Friday. Shops in Coonoor and Kotagiri markets will also start functioning on a rotational basis from Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/215-shops-to-function-on-rotational-basis-in-ooty-municipal-market/articleshow/75767927.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Ahmedabad||SC notice in plea against mandatory wage payment||Ahmedabad: A bench of the Supreme Court headed by Justice L Nageswara Rao issued notice to the Centre and Gujarat government on Friday over a petition challenging the governments’ orders to industries to continue to pay salaries to workmen during the lockdown period. The petition filed by Gujarat’s Federation of Industries and Associations have not only challenged the government diktat, but also demanded relief for workers the way the British government has offered package to its workers. According to petitioner’s advocate Purvish Malkan, the petition has cited the United Kingdom’s relief package for workers and sought the SC directions to the governments to subsidize wages of workers to the tune of 70-80% for lockdown period by utilizing funds collected either by the Employees’ State Insurance Corporation (ESIC) or the PM Cares Fund. It explained how the UK government announced the Corona Virus Job Security Scheme before the lockdown to cover 80% of employees’ monthly wage costs, up to 2,500 pounds/month. The federation, a representative of 150 associations of nearly 2 lakh industrial units of Gujarat, has sought to quash the Centre and Gujarat government’s orders and advisories to employers not to resort to lay off and to continue to pay salary to workers during the lockdown period. It has termed the diktat as arbitrary, illegal, irrational, unreasonable and contrary to constitutional provisions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/sc-notice-in-plea-against-mandatory-wage-payment/articleshow/75767906.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Nashik||Lockdown effect: Fewer fatal accidents in city||Nashik: The lockdown owing to Covid-19 pandemic has resulted in a significant drop in fatal road accidents in the first four months of this year compared with last year. As against 63 road fatalities registered between January and April 2019, this year 45 people died in road accidents during the same period. Fatalities on the city roads have thus dropped by 29% this year. Police officials said the 45 deaths are from 149 road accidents, in which 113 people escaped with serious injuries. Officials added that there were hardly any vehicles on the roads in April, which saw only 12 accidents that claimed five lives and left six others seriously injured. Senior police officials of the city traffic branch said that the barricades and heavy police presence on roads had an impact on the speed of vehicles too. On an average, there are 13 to 18 fatal accidents in the city every month, with rash driving being the main cause of them. The police have appealed to motorists not to indulge in rash driving on the empty roads during the evening and night hours for their own safety and safety of others on the road.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/lockdown-effect-fewer-fatal-accidents-in-city/articleshow/75764685.cms||Santosh Sonawane
May 16, 2020||Delhi||With little to no work, struggle in industries||NEW DELHI: As Delhi braces to enter Lockdown 4.0, less than half of the permitted industries have only partially resumed operations. While the authorities took time to clarify relaxation norms, the units are finding it difficult to work with the restriction on number of workers and access control. Rakesh Sachdeva, who heads the industrial association of southwest Delhi’s Naraina Industrial Area Phase-I, said only 15% of the units were running. “The restriction on number of workers is not letting people restart. What will I do with three workers when I need 10 to operate printing machines?” he asked. Some owners are also afraid that they will be harassed if a worker is found corona positive, he added. While visiting industrial areas such as Wazirpur and Naraina and factories in Gandhi Nagar on Friday, TOI found that migration of workers was also a major issue. In Wazirpur, 10-12% of the units were operational with minimum workforce. Most owners said it was also difficult to observe all norms. “Most units don’t have space or facilities to accommodate labourers on sites. At many places, two industries are operating out of the same premises. How will we ensure social distancing?” wondered Rohit Sehgal, an owner. With the market shut, lack of demand is another issue. Unable to get even a single order since the morning, Sumit Garg, who owns a building construction material shop, said, “I am opening my shop just because it was getting difficult to sit at home for so long. We are not calling the staff after corona cases were reported in neighbouring jhuggi clusters where most of them stay, but we have to pay their salaries and rent.” If the government doesn’t find a way out soon, “70% of us won’t survive”, he added. Gandhi Nagar, a hub of unorganised factories, also wore a deserted look. At certain places, some construction work were going on and essential shops were open, but factories were shut. “My roommates have left. I also tried to board buses but could not. But there is no work here and my savings are also over,” said Adil Ahmed, a migrant worker from Bihar. Brijesh Goyal of the AAP traders’ wing said access control was not possible in unplanned industrial areas. While access control should not be made a mandatory condition for an entire industrial area, the restriction on worker numbers should also go, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/with-little-to-no-work-struggle-in-industries/articleshow/75767929.cms||Paras Singh
May 16, 2020||Jaipur||Private schools in Jaipur yet to declare summer vacation||JAIPUR: Private schools in the city are yet to declare summer vacations. Till last year, vacations were declared by the schools by May 15, but this year majority of the schools are continuing with online classes. Parents have alleged that this is due to the pending school fee that schools are waiting for. A private school in Jaipur has issued time-table till May 30 for online classes. Another private school has announced to continue with the online classes till June 15 after which they will start online painting, dance and culinary classes where attendance will be compulsory. When asked about the need of this one-hour extra-curricular activity in summer vacation, the school administration said it will be a summer camp for the students in lockdown to keep them busy. Vikram Sharma, a resident of Jaipur who sends his two daughters in a private school, said, “Usually teachers used to complete only first chapter till summer break, but in lockdown through online classes they are about to finish three chapters. These classes have been going on continuously, but schools should declare holidays as per norms.” Another parent Sakshi Chaudhary, whose son is studying in class 9 in a private school, said she has been receiving calls from schools every day to deposit fees. “Banks have not opened yet so how am I supposed to submit fees. Schools are trying to extend these classes because they somehow want to be in touch with the parents to keep pressurizing them for school fee,” Chaudhary said. President of Rajasthan Abhibhavak Sangh, Sushil Sharma said schools are trying their tactics to get fees out of parents. “Delaying summer vacation is just another way to get the fees. Despite government’s warning, parents have been receiving regular calls for fees. If summer vacations are announced, then their money will get stuck for a month and a half. In Delhi as well private schools have announced vacations, then why not in Jaipur. The government must interfere,” Sharma said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/pvt-schools-in-city-yet-to-declare-summer-vacation/articleshow/75767910.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan to get its own People’s Biodiversity Register soon||JAIPUR: Rajasthan will soon have its own People’s Biodiversity Register (PBR) at every block level. First-of-its-kind in the state, this register is expected to help conserve biodiversity and knowledge of traditional medicines of the state. According to the Biodiversity Act, 2002, there has to be a biodiversity management committee at every grampanchayat level which will later prepare a PBR. This was, however, never implemented due to the complexity and requirement of staff until a case was filed in National Green Tribunal (NGT) in 2016. In the case Chandrapal vs Union of India, 2016, NGT ordered all states to take this seriously and prepare a register. Rajasthan started the process of preparing the Act but it got delayed due to the pandemic. Now, with some relaxations in the lockdown, the process is expected to speed up. Chairman of State Biodiversity Board G V Reddy said preparing a biodiversity register will help to conserve traditional knowledge of the state. “Registration of all the biodiversity in the state will help in future as this has international acceptance. After preparing this register, if some pharmaceutical company takes some resources to prepare medicines using the traditional knowledge and raw materials of a region, the villagers will get a share out of the profit the company is making. This register has value in intellectual property rights as well,” said Reddy. This will also help in keeping a tab on over-exploitation of bio-resources in the state. In Rajasthan, there are around 10,000 gram panchayats and samitis, and to prepare a register there is a need of at least Rs 50,000 to Rs 1 lakh per panchayat i.e. Rs 100 crore for the state. To get enough manpower for preparing this register, Rajasthan State Biodiversity Board has gotten in touch with universities and colleges. In Rajasthan University, associate professor in zoology Vinod Kumari is heading the project and more than 50 villages are under her for the project. Sambhar Government College in Rajasthan has already started preparing the register in a few villages in Nagaur district. An associate professor from the college, Seema Kulshrestha says, “We had hired a few people to start the survey. In Nagaur, panchayat elections were completed and new biodiversity committee was established. So, we started in February but due to the Covid-19 outbreak, we have put everything on hold. After two months, we are expecting to resume work.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/state-to-get-its-own-peoples-biodiversity-register-soon/articleshow/75767934.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan CM raises income cap from Rs 1 lakh to Rs 2.5 lakh for RTE admissions||JAIPUR: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Friday raised the income cap for admissions to private schools under the 25 per cent quota for poor from Rs 1 lakh to Rs 2.5 lakh. The move under the Right to Education Act will benefit lakhs of families who will become eligible with the increase in the income cap. The movie was proposed by education minister Govind Singh Dotasra dueing a meeting with the CM recently. The previous government had set the Rs 1-lakh cap, which had reduced the number of beneficiaries to a level that it became difficult for the state to fill the total number of 2.5 lakh seats in 33,500 private schools under the RTE. “The lower-income cap of Rs 1 lakh had prevented deserving families from seeking admission to the private schools which was against the spirit of the RTE Act,” said a statement from the CMO. The online process for RTE admissions is likely to start in coming weeks. Every beneficiary’s parent with an income limit of Rs 2.5 lakh per annum can apply for admission. Every beneficiary can apply in 10 schools for admission. In case the number of students is higher than the number of seats, it will be followed by an automated lottery.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/gehlot-raises-income-cap-from-rs-1l-to-rs-2-5l-for-rte-admissions/articleshow/75767933.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Goa||Father-daughter intervene, say academic score crucial||Panaji: A father and his daughter, a student, have appraoched the high court and sought dismissal of the plea that challenges holding of SSC examination during the Covid-10 pandemic. The duo has stated that academic score in SSC exam is crucial for gaining admission in eminent institutions. The former advocate general Dattaprasad Lawande and his daughter, a standard X student, have submitted to the court that it would be a very traumatic experience for her if the order to hold the examinations is revoked. A large number of students appearing for SSC exams will be affected if it not held, they submitted to the court. The court was further informed that the student has committed and completely devoted herself and has put in 9-10 hours of dedicated study for the past one and a half year in order to excel in the examination. She has been participating and enrolling in various coaching classes and wants to pursue higher studies in one of the most reputed institutions of the country, for which the academic score is very crucial for admissions, the court was informed. They stated that admissions in higher institutions can be carried out only after certificate of passing which can be given on the basis of the results of the exams. The father and daughter duo have stated that any other form of examination suggested besides a written examination is beyond the scope of the statue and added that the mode of examination prescribed under the act states that it be a written question paper where the candidate is to answer specifically in writing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/father-daughter-intervene-say-academic-score-crucial/articleshow/75767950.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur airport set to welcome 1,600 Indians from May 22||JAIPUR: Jaipur airport authorities are gearing up for May 22 when stranded Indians from abroad will start landing here. At least 13 flights will land at the airport from Manila, London, Toronto and Kazakhstan and other countries via Delhi and Ahmedabad. Airport authorities are in touch with the state government to evolve the SOPs to handle these operations. Authorities said every passenger would have to undergo proper screening by the medical and health department. “Passengers will be sent to quarantine facilities either in the city or to their home districts,” a senior officer at the airport said. Airport director Jaideep Singh Balhara said, “We are expecting arrival of 1,593 passengers by 13 diferent flights from May, 22 onwards. These special flights will come from Philippines, United Kingdom, Kazakhstan, Canada, Ukraine, Tajikistan and Russia.” He added the first flight from Philippines will land with 243 passengers at 12.30 am. “We are in touch with the state government to evolve various SOPs including proper sanitisation, thermal screening and health checkups of passengers,” Balhara added. The non-resident Indians were in touch with the Centre to make efforts for evacuation. Prem Bhandari, USA chairman of Jaipur foot, has been writing to the Centre on stranded Indians. “I have been in touch foreign secretary Harsvardhan Shringla and civil aviation secretary Pradeep Singh Kharola. On behalf of Non-Resident Indians, I express my gratitude to facilitate these flights. Everyday, I am getting calls from stranded Indians from all across the globe including students and professionals,” said Bhandari from New York.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/city-airport-set-to-welcome-1600-indians-from-may-22/articleshow/75767945.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Nagpur||Two young entrepreneurs develop ‘corona glass’||Nagpur: Young entrepreneurs Arshad Musa and Adnan Musa have come up with innovative ‘corona glass guard’ to check the spread of coronavirus. The innovative device can be used in offices and will keep the officials safe. The ‘corona guard’ is a 2x3ft (height-width) self-supporting three-side glass partition. It can be put atop a desk, separates the person sitting inside from the rest, blocks all airborne particles and even spontaneous handshakes which decrease the risk of virus transmission. Speaking to TOI, developer Arshad Musa, said, “The corona guard is simple to install, requires little space on the desk and is easy to clean.” The duo have donated the device to many officers including Kawaduji Uikey (PI Shanti Nagar police station ), Dr Yogendra Savai (chief medical officer, NMC), Dr Sadhana Rayalu (chief scientist, CSIR-Neeri) and Vijay Humane (assistant commissioner, NMC Satranjipura).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/two-young-entrepreneurs-develop-corona-glass/articleshow/75762218.cms||Vinay Pande
May 16, 2020||Goa||Counselling for distressed students||Panaji: Students stressed and anxious about answering their SSC exams scheduled for May 21 can now avail of a counselling facility set up for them by the Goa Education Development Corporation (GEDC). The students who are experiencing psychological stress about the exam can address their queries to gedc.studentdistress@gmail.com. The queries received will be directed to the GEDC counsellor in that area. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/counselling-for-distressed-students/articleshow/75767940.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Jaipur||Man killed over property row in Jaipur, six detained||JAIPUR: A family dispute over property took an ugly turn when a man was mowed down with a tractor here on Friday. Police have detained 6 persons and lodged a case. Babulal Choudhary, who succumbed to injuries at a hospital, was run over by a tractor in Sez police station area around 8am. “Two opposing parties of the same family had been at loggerheads for years over a piece of land. The property is disputed and a case has been going on in a court. In the past too, the two groups had clashed and we had intervened on multiple occasions,” said an officer of Sez police station. According to preliminary information, on Friday morning both the parties had reached the disputed land to begin preparations for new crop season. “When the two groups reached the field, an altercation started which turned violent and both the parties suffered injuries. During this violence, one of the accused used a tractor to run him over. He was rushed to hospital, but could not be saved,” the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/man-killed-over-property-row-in-city-six-detained/articleshow/75767939.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Out of food, money and hope after long walk, migrants have nowhere to go||NEW DELHI: Seven-year-old Abhishek and his grandmother Dukala Bai walked nearly 250km to reach New Delhi Railway Station eight days ago. When they started their journey on foot from a small village in Haryana’s Narnaul on May 1, their only hope was to get back to their village in Chhattisgarh. But their long, arduous walk has only resulted in an endless wait. The 47-year-old woman was working in a brick factory, hundreds of kilometres away from home, to support her ailing husband. Her son also worked there but went home just days before the country came to a grinding halt because of the Covid-19 lockdown. On March 24, Dukala lost her job, and in the next few weeks, spent all her savings to ensure that her grandson had enough to eat. She had no money left when TOI spoke to her on Friday. “We walked for four straight days. We didn’t have food or money left. It would have been better if we had died on the road. How long can we continue like this?” asked Dukala. Abhishek, unaware of the threat of starvation, has made friends with the stray dogs outside the station and believes a train will soon take him home. A quiet kid, he makes sure that he throws some food to the canines when NGOs distribute food among migrant workers staying in the area. Dukala does not stop him, hoping to insulate him from the tragedy. Dukala is not alone in her plight. The pavement outside the station is now home to hundreds of migrants who came to Delhi hoping for a miracle. They initially slept on the pavement, but on Thursday some locals allowed them to sleep in their shops. After the rain lashed parts of the city, sleeping in drenched clothes on the wet pavement was no more an option. But migrants fear that locals’ generosity may run out. They say they have been living in hiding under tents that can be uprooted any time. Although everyone wears masks, social distancing is not possible as dozens of migrants sleep under a few blue tarpaulin sheets. “People who can pay will reach home in AC trains. Why has nothing been done for us?” asked Sanjay De, from West Bengal’s Digha. De, who used to work as a domestic help in Ghaziabad, was fired recently and walked to the station hoping to board a train to Kolkata. “We are living a life in hiding. If police see us sleeping on the pavement, they beat us up and ask us to go elsewhere. But where are we supposed to go? Our homes are hundreds of kilometres away. We will walk to our village if someone assures us that we won’t be beaten up on the way,” De said. Even in his 50km journey from Ghaziabad, policemen stopped and caned him several times, he added. But lack of resources isn’t the only thing stopping the migrants from reaching home. They also don’t know how to register for Shramik Specials being run by the Centre. Chhatrapati Sahu from Odisha, who worked as a daily wager in Rajasthan, walked over 500km to reach Delhi two days ago. Sahu undertook the journey alone, slept as little as possible and managed to reach Delhi in six days. But he does not know what to do now. He says he is living on borrowed time. “Ask anyone over here, and they will tell you that they have been beaten at least once on the road. Is it our fault that we don’t drive cars?” As the migrants fight for survival, they have also become each other’s companions. Some of them met on the road and became familiar with each other’s stories. They now want the government to listen to them, as they have listened to each other.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-out-of-food-money-and-hope-after-long-walk-migrants-have-nowhere-to-go/articleshow/75767070.cms||Anam Ajmal
May 16, 2020||Jaipur||Minor fire breaks out in SMS Hospital||JAIPUR: Sawai Man Singh Hospital (SMS) witnessed chaos when a major fire broke out here on Friday morning. The incident happened at 9am when a faculty room caught fire near 1AB ward. The hospital administration immediately informed the fire department. Two fire tenders rushed to the spot and extinguished the flames. The place where the incident happened is located close to Dhanwantri block where patients get treatment at the outpatient department. “We have controlled fir and prevented it from spreading to other parts,” said an official. The patients rushed to safer places who were admitted to wards near the place where fire took place. The corridor outside the department of medicine was full of dark smoke. SMS Hospital official said that short-circuit could be the reason of fire. “Curtains, wires and chairs have been burnt. It came into notice of the hospital staff when they saw smoke engulfed the area. Later, the fire tenders doused the flames.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/minor-fire-breaks-out-in-sms-hospital/articleshow/75767951.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Jaipur||Inter-district travellers don’t require quarantine: Rajasthan government||JAIPUR: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Friday directed that there is no need for 14 days’ quarantine for those who travel from one district to another. He said only those who have symptoms like cold and cough should be sent to quarantine centres. He also directed that those entrepreneurs and workers from other states who are travelling daily to industrial areas like Bhiwadi, Neemrana need not to be quarantined. The chief minister gave this direction at a review meeting held on Friday. The chief minister said now people are wearing masks as part of their daily routine. This is a good sign as awareness about corona has increased. He said this would help the government slowly embark on more relaxation by saving people from the virus. He also directed the officials to adopt best practices at the quarantine centres. State-level quarantine committee chairperson and ACS PWD Veenu Gupta informed that in most of the quarantine centres in Nagaur home-made food is made available to inmates. In Baran district, about 2,000 migrants have been shifted to home quarantine from institutional quarantine. She said the administration is seeking the help of organisations and individuals to engage people in quarantine to constructive and creative activities. ACS industry Subodh Agarwal said the state government had given its consent to all the states on the return of Rajasthani migrants from other states by train. He said there is no pending NOC on part of the state government. He said there is sufficient number of trains now available. The West Bengal government had also agreed for transportation of migrants from the state and towards the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/no-need-of-quarantine-for-inter-district-travellers-govt/articleshow/75767955.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Vadodara||After 60-day UK exile, now 14 more days 75km off home||VADODARA: Fear of getting infected with coronavirus, staying at the mercy of Good Samaritans, relief of being airlifted home, but the anti-climax of losing luggage. This quite sums up the experience of this woman who flew back to India in the early hours on Thursday. Itishree Pradhan from Godhra reached Ahmedabad by a special flight from London. While she is much relieved to reach her country, the journey has been a choppy one. Also, she will have to spend two weeks around 75km from her residence in quarantine at a hotel. Pradhan was in the UK on a dependent visa with her husband. However, he had come to India, but got stranded in Godhra due to lockdown. Pradhan reached Ahmedabad in the early hours on Thursday. “I was supposed to board a bus from there to Vadodara. I had brought my luggage out of the airport and it was to be loaded in the bus, but this did not happen,” she said. The luggage has been kept at the airport and officials have promised to get it back soon. For Pradhan and a group of around 50 students, uncertainty began when they booked tickets for India after the official announcement that passengers of international flights could not disembark in India after 1.31am on March 23. While this was true, another advisory issued by the Indian High Commission in London had on March 19 stated that the travel of Indian citizens including Indian students in UK would remain restricted till March 31. The group was not allowed to board the flight at the Gatwick airport and they reached the High Commission in London seeking help. They were eventually given accommodation in a hotel by the officials. “But after a week this facility was withdrawn. Someone gave us shelter and the community provided us food during the difficul times,” said Pradhan. Pradhan said that children and those who were aged or pregnant were given priority for travelling to India. “But we requested that we should be also given priority as we were not allowed to go earlier despite having tickets,” said Pradhan. She added that due to this, 62 persons who were not allowed to fly were given priority.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/after-60-day-uk-exile-now-14-more-days-75km-off-home/articleshow/75767695.cms||Sachin Sharma
May 16, 2020||Nashik||Private hospital may lose licence for remaining shut||Nashik: A private hospital in Malegaon is likely to lose its licence for not serving non-Covid patients despite repeated warnings by the authorities concerned. District collector Suraj Mandhare has proposed to the Medical Council of India (MCI) to cancel the registration of the said hospital. “Private hospitals have been asked to open their OPD and IPD facilities for non-Covid patients. However, one hospital in Malegaon faces action because it has failed to comply with the order,” said Mandhare. Private medical practitioners and their staff have are scared to work in Malegaon, which has witnessed a huge rise in cases and a number of deaths due to Covid-19. This has caused great inconvenience to non-Covid patients. “Two-time corporator from the powerloom town, Tanveer Ahmed Usmani (52), died on May 1 because of high fever as none of the private hospitals accepted him for treatment. His swab tested negative on May 4,” Mukhtar Adeel, a social worker, said. The collector said that flying squads were now active in the town to keep a watch on private medical practitioners refusing open clinics or hospitals for general patients. State health minster Rajesh Tope, during his tour of Nashik on April 29, instructed private medical practitioners to cooperate with the administration or face action. “Most of the hospitals are now cooperating, due to which the situation has improved. The sub-district hospital, which was initially loaded with non-Covid patients, is now half empty,” said the collector. Box Malegaon crosses 600-mark A total of 17 people tested positive for Covid-19 in the last 24 hours in Malegaon, taking the total numbers of patients to 602. The total number of cases in Nashik district has touched 770, with 34 deaths (32 Malegaon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/private-hospital-may-lose-licence-for-remaining-shut/articleshow/75764718.cms||Abhilash Botekar
May 16, 2020||Goa||SSC exams turning point in pupils’ lives: Goa Board to HC||Panaji: The Secondary School Certificate (SSC) exams cannot be held during the monsoon as several students may not be able to attend due to floods or blockage of roads and will be susceptible to flu and viral fever, the Goa Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education told the high court of Bombay at Goa. Responding to a petition filed by a father and son challenging conduct of the examination during the Covid-19 pandemic, the board said the SSC exams are a turning point in a student’s life, where their performance determines their future. “The scheme of ‘carry forward’ cannot be implemented for students who have to answer the SSC exam, and therefore they cannot be mindlessly promoted to the next grade,” the board’s chairman stated. The court was told that dates for the exam were announced only after Goa was declared a Green Zone and because there was growing concern among parents and students who prepared diligently over the past year. Uncertainty surrounding the exams has only added to the stress and pressure on the minds of young students, the board stated, adding that the government took a policy decision to hold the exams after considering all these points. The chairman further stated that representations were received from concerned parents and the Goa Headmasters’ Association that suggested measures to be adopted for a safe examination. A representation was also received from the chairman of the Parents’ and Teachers’ Association of St Joseph’s Institute, Vasco, requiring that SSC examinations be conducted as the prolonged delay was causing tremendous mental stress among students. After the petitioners pointed out that there was no scientifically prepared protocol in place to conduct the exams, the board stated that social distancing norms will be followed and precautions are being taken. It said 12 students on an average as opposed to 25 will be placed in each exam hall depending on the size. Students will largely appear at the exam centre which is their own educational institution in order to reduce commute. The board has stated that buses will be provided for students who cannot arrive with their own transportation. Two days prior to the date on which the examination is scheduled, exam centres and buses will be sanitised. Volunteers at the entrance of each examination centre will provide students with hand sanitiser and ensure they are wearing face masks. Anyone who isn’t wearing a mask will be provided, the board stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ssc-exams-turning-point-in-pupils-lives-goa-board-to-hc/articleshow/75767956.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Jaipur||Six trains to take migrants to West Bengal from May 18 to June 3||JAIPUR: Divisional commissioner K C Verma on Friday said the West Bengal government has approved six trains to take its migrants back from Rajasthan. These trains will operate from May 18 to June 3. With this move, most of the migrant workers from West Bengal, living at Painter Colony in Nahari Ka Naaka near Shastri Nagar, will now be able to go home. They had earlier demanded that the state government must arrange for their return immediately. Verma urged the workers from Uttar Pradesh and Bihar to get their registration done at the earliest so that they can be sent to their destinations soon. He informed the first train will leave from Pali on May 18. “After this, on May 20, 28 and 30, three trains will leave for West Bengal from Jaipur. The remaining two trains will leave from Jaipur on June 1 and 3 with migrant workers and other residents of Bengal,” said Verma. He asked the workers from Bengal to get their registration done soon. He said on Friday, 102 workers from Uttar Pradesh have been sent to Hathras on buses via Bharatpur from shelter camps in Mahuwa and Dausa. Similarly, 195 workers from Uttar Pradesh have been sent on five buses from shelter camps in Bassi. On Friday, a train left for Haridwar with more than 1,300 people and another train left for Saharanpur with more than 350 workers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/6-trains-to-take-migrants-to-wb-from-may-18-to-june-3/articleshow/75767957.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Goa||Separate centres for students returning from other states||Panaji: The Goa Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education has made provisions for separate SSC examination centres for students coming in from outside the state borders, as well as for those placed in quarantine. It will also hold supplementary examinations one month after the results are announced, for those displaying Covid-19 symptoms and are unable to answer the exams. Students returning from other states will be accommodated at different examination centres for the SSC examination, said the chairman of the Goa board Ramkrishna Samant. He submitted to the high court of Bombay at Goa that 23 sub-centres have been identified across the state for the purpose. Separate examination centres will also be made available for those who have been placed in home quarantine, facility quarantine or hospital isolation. Students exhibiting symptoms of sneezing or coughing on the day of the examination will also be isolated from other students and be accommodated in a separate block in their own examination centre. Students displaying symptoms of Covid-19, who are unable to attend the SSC examination, will be permitted to answer the supplementary examination. This will be conducted one month after the declaration of results of the primary SSC examination, the board stated. Teachers, students, volunteers or persons involved in the examination process showing any symptoms of Covid-19 must participate in the examination process only after consulting a physician and only after being cleared to continue on duty. The board has already held a programme for conductors of the examination and briefed them about the protocol with regards to social distancing and other safety measures to be taken. The conductors in turn will have to brief their volunteers and teams.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/separate-centres-for-students-returning-from-other-states/articleshow/75767960.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Delhi||Paan shop owners take to selling veggies, fruits||NEW DELHI: Stores selling paan and tobacco products aren’t cashing in on the privilege of being among the limited categories allowed to restart business two weeks ago. Stall owners said lack of supplies, especially of betel leaves, massive drop in customers and a fear of police harassment have affected business, forcing many to take to the alternative of selling fruits and vegetables. Profiteering by suppliers is also a disincentive for them to resume operations. Mahesh Sharma of Sharma Paan Bhandar in northeast Delhi’s ‘Maujpur revealed that supply of paan ingredients like betel leaves, tobacco and guthka was uncertain. “Delhi gets betel leaves from Maharashtra, West Bengal, Bihar and Madhya Pradesh, and these states are badly affected by the novel coronavirus,” he said. “Besides, supply will stabilise only when full-fledged train operations begin. Having suffered losses, we are in no mood to take risks at the moment.” In Lutyens’ Delhi, a paan seller disclosed, “Due to short supply, my agent is giving me a pack of cigarettes costing Rs 230 at Rs 350. I am forced to sell at Rs 400.” That is why consumers TOI spoke to appeared reluctant to spend much on these small luxuries. Ankit Gupta at Lal Quarter in Krishna Nagar, east Delhi, said, “I have cut down on paan masala because what used to cost Rs23-25 is now Rs 40. I think a fake shortage has been created to exploit buyers.” In Moti Bagh, Rajesh Garg too complained that cigarettes were being sold at higher rates than normal. Meanwhile, many vendors claimed to have switched to selling vegetables till things normalised. Kamlesh Singh, who has a tobacco stall in Naraina, said, “I don’t have supply issues, but who will I sell to? My customers have either left Delhi or are too scared to come to market areas.” TOI found one seller in RK Puram wary about police action against gatherings and spitting. “I request people to buy and leave immediately. I just want to sell my existing stock before returning to Bihar,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/paan-shop-owners-take-to-selling-veggies-fruits/articleshow/75768046.cms||Paras Singh
May 16, 2020||Jaipur||Garment exports shrink 90% in April, Rajasthan exporters seek nod to ship masks||JAIPUR: Covid-19 pandemic has taken a heavy toll on the country’s readymade garment exports in April — shrinking 90% to Rs 963 crore compared to Rs 9,786 crore in the same period last year. The sharp drop comes after a 30% decline in exports in the month of March compared to the same period last year. While for the full 2019-20, the garment exports have declined by 3% to Rs 1.09 lakh crore in the country. Rajasthan has a share of about 3% and engages about 3 lakh people directly in the sector having 1,200 units spread across the state. “The industry is in deep trouble, threatening the survival of many exporters. The government needs to address issues like cash flow, ease of doing business and providing financial incentives comprehensively. Many neighbouring states have also brought in labour reformss to help their industry which can be looked at in Rajasthan as well,” said Rajiv Dewan, president of Garment Exporters Association (GEAR). The difficult time has also thrown up some opportunities, but it requires policy change which will help the industry find some relief. GEAR has written to textile minister Smriti Irani requesting her to allow exports of non-surgical masks (decorative fabric mask) to enable the exporters resume their manufacturing and export activities. “We have been getting export inquiries from many parts of the world for supply of non-surgical masks made out of various types of fabrics. The permission to export them as fashion accessories will be of immense support. The permission will help the garment manufacturer to consume their huge stock of fabrics held by them due to cancelled export orders. The mask exports will also open avenues for an alternative income and generate employment,” said Aseem Singla, general secretary of GEAR. Export of masks was banned in February this year as the government thought that India would require vast amount of masks for its public. Singla also drew attention to the exporters not getting the 10% additional credit limit allowed by RBI earlier. He said that only 40% of the exporters could avail the facility as banks denied the additional credit. “The banks said that because some units have the gold expo card facility, they cannot avail the 10% additional credit limit. We are in need of additional funds as working capital to undertake our business operations which have been seriously impacted by lockdown,” added Singla.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/garment-exports-shrink-90-in-april-state-exporters-seek-nod-to-ship-masks/articleshow/75767968.cms||Srikanta Tripathy
May 16, 2020||Nashik||Covid lab gets medical officer||Nashik: District collector Suraj Mandhare has appointed Shivaji Lahade as the medical officer in the Covid-19 laboratory set up at Dr Vasantrao Pawar Medical College Hospital and Research Centre in Nashik. As the nodal officer, Lahade will have to manage the supply of consumables in the laboratory and and monitor sending the throat swab samples to other laboratories in times of emergency||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/covid-lab-gets-medical-officer/articleshow/75764733.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Goa||Cap on loans to SHGs increased by Rs 10L: Sawant||Panaji: Chief minister Pramod Sawant met with the State Level Bankers Committee (SLBC) on Friday to encourage lending to state’s stressed private sector, especially MSMEs. Sawant told banks, both nationalised banks and private banks, to disburse as much as possible under the Centre’s stimulus package to Goa’s tourism sector, industries and rural entrepreneurs. During the meeting, a decision was taken to increase the cap on loans to self-help groups from Rs 10 lakh to Rs 20 lakh. “I took a review and according to the SLBC’s estimates, around 20,000 MSMEs could benefit from the package announced by the Centre. These 20,000 units are eligible but they have to take benefit of the scheme. I appeal to all the MSMEs in Goa to take the benefit. More liquidity infusion will benefit the community,” said Sawant. Apart from bankers, finance department officials were also present for the meeting. Sawant said that MSMEs will be able to access 20% additional working capital without providing any collateral or additional documents. This, said Sawant, would enable MSMEs to meet short-term fund requirements and also tide over the present crisis. “RBI was present and I asked them if someone applies for a loan and if the bank does not give the loan, who will be responsible? If for some reason somebody’s loan is not sanctioned, then they can approach the state government and we can take it up with the SLBC and RBI,” said Sawant. The chief minister also welcomed the Centre’s decision to restrict global tenders for projects valued up to Rs 200 crore. “The move will benefit Indian firms and promote local contractors. The redefinition of MSMEs will also provide great benefit for Goan entrepreneurs,” said Sawant. He has asked all banks to see if the loan repayment moratorium can be extended for six months particularly for the tourism sector. Tourism, said Sawant, will bounce back in six months and banks should not hesitate to lend or support tourism dependant units. “The agriculture sector can also thrive if the schemes are utilised properly. There is a good scope for agriculture,” Sawant said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cap-on-loans-to-shgs-increased-by-rs-10l-sawant/articleshow/75767966.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Delhi||Chaos abates as DTC deploys more buses||NEW DELHI: After two days of chaos and confusion at the New Delhi Railway Station, passengers arriving by special AC trains had a better experience on Friday, as buses deployed by Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) picked them from the station and dropped them close to their homes. The passengers were picked from the railway station in shuttle bus service of DTC, which took them to Shivaji Stadium and Ambedkar Stadium bus terminals, from where they boarded buses destined for different areas of the capital. “Compared with less than 400 passengers on Thursday, total 2,350 passengers travelled by buses to reach their homes on Friday,” said Harendra Kumar Singh, DCP (Railways), Delhi Police, who has been monitoring all arrangements for further travel needs of passengers and also coordinating with DTC. He said total 40 bus trips were conducted from Shivaji Stadium, ferrying 886 passengers and 82 bus trips were carried out from Ambedkar Stadium with 1,453 passengers. Harendra Kumar Singh, DCP (Railways), Delhi Police, said that buses travelled on extended routes on Friday, reaching far flung areas such as Mehrauli, Harsh Vihar, Narela, Kapashera, Rohini etc., apart from dropping passengers destined to Uttar Pradesh and Haryana near state borders. It is likely that inter-state bus service may start in a few days for rail passengers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/chaos-abates-as-dtc-deploys-more-buses/articleshow/75767090.cms||Sidharatha Roy
May 16, 2020||Pune||Migrant workers want drinking water and fuel, not ration: Study||PUNE: A study conducted among 592 migrant workers from April 23 to May 1 in Maharashtra and Gujarat has revealed a mismatch between the needs of workers and the government help that was being provided to them. All these workers were in need of fuel and water, but they were getting excess ration. Brick kiln and sugar cane cutters mainly asked for drinking water, textile workers for cooking fuel and farm labour for PPE kits. The study was conducted by the Centre of Labour Research, Habitat Forum and Mashal, an NGO, and it was coordinated by the sociology department of the Savitribai Phule University. A team was assembled to undertake a rapid survey to assess the needs of workers stranded at their work places with Shruti Tambe from the department of sociology, SPPU, as lead researcher. Key findings were drawn through phone interviews carried out between April 23 and May 1, 2020, with 592 respondents covering migrants, informal and unorganised workers in Gujarat (200), Rajasthan (51) and Maharashtra (341). Tambe said, "So far, support to workers has primarily come in the form of food packets/ration. However, the needs on the ground are now shifting to cooking fuel, water for drinking and household work, and to some extent, PPE." Most help being provided is centred around NGOs and self-help groups (SHG) and, to some extent, labour groups. The government role has varied as per state – much more in Maharashtra and less so in Gujarat, the study revealed. “We have recommended that states can leverage and support the vast networks of on-ground NGOs, labour unions, SHGs to identify and help transport the workers who want to return home. We have also suggested setting up of helplines for them,” said Tambe. Considering the data that indicates half the workers do not have bank accounts, the study suggested that cash relief with an appropriate mechanism of doorstep delivery should be devised. It was also recommended that all travel related to their returning home need to be made free. “This should include last-mile connectivity and long-distance transportation. Also, we have suggested cash relief to all migrant workers returning home in lieu of wages lost,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/workers-want-drinking-water-and-fuel-not-ration-study/articleshow/75767975.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
May 16, 2020||Nashik||50% of Covid-19 patients discharged in Nashik divn||Nashik: Around 50% of the Covid-19 patients in the five districts falling under the jurisdiction of Nashik division have been cured of the viral infection and discharged from the hospitals. As per the new directives issued by the Central and the state governments, if a patient testing positive for Covid-19 does not show any symptoms or shows mild symptoms of the virus, the patient can be discharged after 10 days without having to undergo the two consecutive medical tests. This directive has come as a breather for many Covid care centres, health centres and hospitals. “Of the 1128 patients in Nashik division, 561 patients have recovered and been discharged. The new policy has benefitted 350 more patients. Malegaon has benefitted maximum from the new discharge policy. Of the 600 positive patients in town, only 105 are admitted in the Covid facilities,” said deputy director of health, Nashik, Mallikarjun Pattanshetty. While Ahmednagar district topped the chart of the patients discharged after treatment with 66.66%, Malegaon—which has turned into a hotspot for Covid-19 cases— has discharged 64.5% of the total number of patients. “More than 80% of the patients are asymptomatic. The government policy of discharging patients with asymptomatic or moderate symptoms on the 10th day, if they show no signs of illness, has relieved both the health systems and the patients,” said Pattanshetty. “The new policy has done away with the need for conducting two throat swab tests of the patients. The new guidelines have come as a boon for us. This has led to decongestion of the facilities to a very large extent, thus allowing the medical staff to pay more attention to the critical patients,” said the deputy heath director. Pattanshetty clarified that the occupancy less than 25% did not mean that the number of quarantine and isolation facilities created across the division would not be wound up anytime soon. “The infection is still out there. It will need us and the facility to treat the people. We just cannot be at ease. The system will continue to function as it is,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/50-of-covid-19-patients-discharged-in-nashik-divn/articleshow/75764765.cms||Abhilash Botekar
May 16, 2020||Goa||Oppn calls CM defective, wants guv to take over||Panaji: A day after Goa reported eight novel coronavirus cases, Congress said that chief minister Pramod Sawant’s handling of the entire pandemic is “defective”, and called for governor Satya Pal Malik’s intervention. State Congress president Girish Chodankar said that everything from the thermal guns, rapid testing kits and the management of the disease have turned out defective which is why Goa has once again has active Covid-19 cases. “The responsibility of this new development is completely on Pramod Sawant,” said Chodankar. Chodankar accused the BJP government of “making a fortune” during the pandemic with the cabinet and BJP office bearers indulging in corrupt practices since the lockdown was announced. Independent MLA Rohan Khaunte also justified the call for Malik’s intervention, pointing out that the chief minister often ignores suggestions made by the opposition. Khaunte said that only after meeting the governor do things move forward at the Centre. Goa Forward Party, along with Khaunte, had met Malik a week ago, to highlight certain concerns they had, especially over the repatriation of seafarers. Meanwhile, Congress claims that it is gathering documents and will expose the mass corruption in the procurement of thermal guns, rapid testing kits and other medical equipment that was purchased through the emergency route to tackle the pandemic. “There is also huge corruption in various mobile apps launched by the government. We will soon reveal all details to the people of Goa,” said Chodankar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/oppn-calls-cm-defective-wants-guv-to-take-over/articleshow/75767970.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Jaipur||10% incentive for running cooperative markets||JAIPUR: Cooperatives minister Udailal Anjana said in view of Covid-19 epidemic, 10 per cent incentive will be given to personnel engaged in the operations of 592 village service cooperative societies which have been converted into temporary grain markets to procure rabi crops of farmers. Anjana said chief minister Ashok Gehlot had declared the 592 village service cooperative societies as private secondary markets by relaxing rules to facilitate procurement of rabi produce. He said till date 390 cooperative mandis have started giving facilities to farmers near their villages. The minister informed that the work of private accessory market is a new addition to the work currently being done by the committees. Therefore, to increase market business and to encourage the efforts of the workers, the committee personnel will get 10 per cent market fee income (part of the committee) as an incentive. Principal secretary (agriculture) Naresh Pal Gangwar informed that cooperative societies were benefiting from this step. He added that there are many such committees which have done business of more than Rs 2 crores as private secondary markets. He informed that cooperative societies declared as secondary markets in Ganganagar district are doing good work. The department is also assessing that cooperative societies doing good work will be linked with other schemes of the department on a priority basis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/personnel-running-cooperative-secondary-markets-will-get-10-per-cent-incentive/articleshow/75767977.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Workers head home in trucks||HYDERABAD: Two days after she had left from Coimbatore, Mrinal Devi reached Medchal ORR in Telangana on Friday morning. Walking short distances in between three different truck rides, Devi, who was travelling with her six-year-old daughter, spent the last of her savings of Rs 2,400 to get a place on a truck crowded with at least 70 other migrant workers. Devi is among the thousands of workers who are taking a risky ride in congested and overcrowded trucks to go back to their native places out of desperation. “It was a suffocating and a dangerous ride,” said Devi, recalling how few of them almost fell off the vehicle and suffered a few injuries. While the state government has arranged free travel on trains, the wait to get a ‘movement pass’ after registering their names seems to have put them in a precarious position. As the option of travelling in trains involves a long wait, many say that they do not have a choice but to take the risky ride home. Kamal Singh Adivasi, a father of four children says he waited more than a week after taking the ‘movement pass’ to travel in a Shramik special train.  “We have decided to board the truck because we have no other option. We registered our names for the pass but did not get any confirmation. I have no money or food left. My youngest child is seven months old. I have to hire a truck and go home or my children will starve to death,” Singh rued. Principal secretary of transport department Sunil Sharma said, “We are arranging buses to take them to railway stations in the city. We are not taking them directly to their states as it is a long journey.” When informed about migrants travelling in trucks, he said, “Since trains are already running, arranging buses will be very difficult during lockdown.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/workers-head-home-in-trucks/articleshow/75767130.cms||Moulika.KV
May 16, 2020||Hyderabad||‘Vulnerable’ otter spotted in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: A smooth-coated otter, a mammal listed as vulnerable in the IUCN Red List, was spotted in Himay atsagar by two bird watchers. Srikanth Bhamidipati and Gokul Krishna Addanki, who stopped to observe a flock of birds behind the boulders of the lake, spotted the otter (and clicked the featured picture). Three years ago, an otter was spotted in Kapra lake. Srikanth and Gokul said, “Since this is a species that move in packs, we walked towards the lake and observed multiple tracks. However, we weren’t able to conclude anything.” Smooth-coated otters were commonly found in rivers Godavari and Krishna two decades ago but thanks to fishing activity, their numbers dwindled.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/vulnerable-otter-spotted-in-city/articleshow/75767113.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
May 16, 2020||Pune||Covid-19 patient count surges past 3,000 in PMC limits||PUNE: The case count in the Pune municipal limits breached the 3,000-mark, with 121 people testing positive on Friday, taking the total patient tally to 3,106. In total, 141 people tested positive for the contagion in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) on Friday, besides five deaths, which pushed the case and casualty counts to 3,567 and 186, respectively. Four fresh cases were recorded in Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation area and 16 in the rural parts. With the Friday’s addition, the PMC limits added 1,000 more patients in just nine days after the case load had reached 2,000 on May 6. On an average, PMC has added over 100 cases daily in the last 10 days. Among five deaths, three were reported at YCM hospital, while one each at Sassoon hospital and a private hospital in PMC limits. The deceased included a 39-yearold man from Ghorpade Peth, two women aged 60 and 75 and a 80-year-old man from Yerawada and a 64-year-old man from Hadapsar. Besides, 177 people were cured and discharged in the region on Friday. The PMC’s health department said over 130 patients were in critical stage and undergoing treatment at different hospitals. Over 1,652 samples were collected in the PMC limits on Friday, the department added. Two new areas were sealed in the PCMC limits on Friday. PCMC official said the total number of positive patients in the city had reached 186. Out of these, 60 patients are admitted in PCMC-run hospitals, an official said, adding that 116 positive residing in the city had been discharged till now. As for the quarantined individuals in the PMR, a total of 24,285 people were in quarantine till Friday. Of these, 20,259 were from the PMC limits, while 2,285 from the PCMC areas and 1,741 from the rural parts of the district. Of the total deaths in the region, 164 have occurred in PMC areas and 10 in PCMC limits. When it comes to negative samples, over 18,000 have been recorded in the PMC limits, while 4,077 from the Pimpri Chinchwad areas. No samples are inconclusive in the PMR so far, district health officials said. (With inputs from Siddharth Gaikwad)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/covid-patient-count-surges-past-3000-in-pmc-limits/articleshow/75767981.cms||Sarang Dastane
May 16, 2020||Mysuru||JD(S) MLA S R Mahesh releases audio clips on MyMUL recruitment||TNN/B K Lakshmikantha Mysuru: JD(S) MLA S R Mahesh on Friday released audio clips of a purported conversation between an applicant and an official at Mysuru District Co-operative Milk Producers Societies Union Limited (MyMUL) alleging irregularities in the recruitment process at the diary. In the audio clips released by MLA Mahesh, an applicant named Swathi speaks to a MyMUL official and two other candidates and about the ongoing rates for the positions. In the clip, the official reveals that a forest officer from Vijayanagar paid Rs 40 lakh for a marketing officer position at the society for his son. The official also claims that it was the highest amount paid for a position in MyMUL till date. The MLA also charged chief minister B S Yediyurappa’s nephew and MyMUL’s nominated director S C Ashok and president Mavinahalli S Siddegowda of involvement in the irregularities in the recruitment of various posts. He said the management has fixed rates between Rs 10 lakh and Rs 40 lakh for various positions at the society. “A close relative of dairy president Siddegowda has also been selected for a top post in the company. Around 18,000 candidates had applied for various posts of which 197 candidates were selected. The candidates who have been selected are close to president. I have the details of the candidates who are selected and how they got selected for the posts,” he said. Speaking at press meet on Friday, Mahesh questioned the management on how the interviews were conducted amid the nationwide lockdown. “Government itself has ordered no new recruitments during lockdown. But the management has conducted interviews which clearly indicates an irregularity,” he said. “I have written to the state government to stop the recruitment process immediately and conduct probe into the irregularities. If not, a massive protest will be held on May 19 under the leadership of JD(S) leader and former minister H D Revanna,” he added. However, nominated director S C Ashok on Friday rejected all the allegations made by MLA Mahesh. MuMUL on Friday postponed the recruitment process following directive from the district minister ST Somashekar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/jds-mla-s-r-mahesh-releases-audio-clips-on-mymul-recruitment/articleshow/75764788.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Goa||‘State in need of facilitation centre for migrants’||Panaji: While acknowledging the state’s role in providing assistance to migrants who are returning to their states, Goacan has also asked the government, especially the labour commissioner, to set up a migrant worker facilitation centre to protect and train migrant workers who wish to remain in Goa. Goacan said that just as authorities prepared a database and registration process for workers who want to go home, the department of labour and employment should create a registration process for workers who have stayed behind. “Every sector is in need of migrant labour as they are able to provide service and skills, which local labour may not be able to provide,” said Goacan coordinator Roland Martins in the letter to the labour commissioner. Goacan has also suggested that the migrant worker facilitation centre could be launched on May 30 to mark Goa Statehood Day. Martins said that migrant workers face a lot of exploitation at the hands of illegal contractors and sub-contractors who deny labourers their just wages and social benefits. The labour and employment department can play a pivotal role in mobilising the migrant labour that is still available in the state, he said. Martins said that some of the migrant workers have chosen to stay back as they see their economic future linked to the economic revival of Goa. The facilitation centre could be developed into an employment exchange for job melas in the near future, he added. Goacan wants the facilitation centre to create awareness among workers about their labour rights, health benefits and other social security benefits under the National Food Security Act, banking, insurance and pension schemes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/state-in-need-of-facilitation-centre-for-migrants/articleshow/75767978.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Delhi||Survivors of sexual offences must have say in bail pleas of accused: Delhi HC||NEW DELHI: Survivor of sexual offences have an obligatory say in the hearing of bail pleas of accused, Delhi high court has reminded trial courts. Justice Brijesh Sethi, who conducted the hearing through video conferencing, was informed that trial courts are violating the directions earlier issued by the high court by passing bail orders without adhering to mandatory requirement of issuing notice to the complainant or authorised person on the bail plea of a person accused of sexual offences. The high court then asked the registrar general to once again circulate the practice directions and the court’s earlier orders in this regard. It said the district and sessions judges will bring the directions to the notice of the criminal courts dealing with matters of sexual offences under the Indian Penal Code and the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act. It was hearing a plea by the mother of a minor rape survivor challenging the interim bail granted to the accused by a trial court without giving them a hearing or notice. She submitted that the trial court’s order granting interim bail to the accused on May 5 was passed in a routine manner. The court was informed by the lawyer that the victim and her family live in the vicinity of the accused and enlarging him on interim bail is a threat to their lives, prompting the court to issue notice to police and the accused on the plea challenging his interim bail and listed the matter for further hearing on May 22.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/survivors-of-sexual-offences-must-have-say-in-bail-pleas-of-accused-hc/articleshow/75767116.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Nashik||NMC’s revenue dips by 40% in 2019-20||Nashik: The slowdown in real estate sector during the last financial year 2019-20 has led to 40% drop in NMC’s revenue through 1% local body cess on property deals. The civic body is entitled to get 1% as local body cess on every transaction of property undertaken by the registration and stamp duty department. Apart from the 5% stamp duty, 1% local body cess is levied on every transaction of property that take places in the jurisdiction of the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC). The municipal corporation has received Rs 39 crore as its 1% share during the last fiscal 2019-20 as compared to Rs 63 crore that it garnered during the previous financial year in 2018-19. “The real estate sector in Nashik is facing slowdown since a year or two now. But, the last financial year was comparatively bad for the real estate sector due to slowdown,” said NMC officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nmcs-revenue-dips-by-40-in-2019-20/articleshow/75764797.cms||Tushar Pawar
May 16, 2020||Pune||Pune: Over 14,000 swab samples sent for testing in last 15 days||PUNE: The number of swabs collected for Covid-19 testing has doubled in the Pune Metropolitan Region in the last 15 days, with over 14,000 samples being collected since the beginning of May days as against 13,973 in the 52 days till April 29. This was revealed in the data released by the district health office. It showed that till May 14, as many as 27,981 swab samples were sent for testing in comparison to 13,973 samples that were sent till April 29 after the first two cases of Covid-19 were detected in Pune on March 9. The PMR has so far recorded the second highest number of Covid-19 cases in the state after Mumbai, with Pune municipal limits being the worst-affected, followed by the rural areas. The central teams constituted to monitor the measures taken by the government machinery in PMR had recommended to boost the surveillance, contact tracing, collection of swabs and testing. Officials from PMC’s health department said the increase in swab collection and testing was a vital part of containment plan, besides other steps like rigorous contact tracing and implementation of stricter lockdown measures in the micro-clusters. “The swab collection has increased from the beginning of May and daily average has now reached around 1,000. For instance, 1,414 samples were collected on May 14, 1,205 on May 13 and 989 on May 12 in the PMC limits. All high- and low-risk contacts, symptomatic patients have been under close watch,” a PMC health official said. A few days ago, the divisional commissioner had held a meeting of the health officials, private laboratories and hospitals to discuss steps to increase swab testing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/over-14000-swab-samples-sent-for-testing-in-last-15-days/articleshow/75767992.cms||Sarang Dastane
May 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Leopard headed to Chilkur forest, say Officials||HYDERABAD: Even after using drones, trap cages and CCTV cameras to track an elusive leopard, the big cat has not been located yet. The leopard was first seen on the main road in Katedhan underbrige before disappearing into a private farm in peripheries of Mailardevpally.  Officials say the leopard seems to have escaped from the farm by jumping over the 7-feet high compound wall. “The dog squad was able to track the direction in which the leopard went with the help of the scent from the pug marks found in the farm. From what the pug marks indicate, we know that the leopard went towards the agriculture university and from there into the Chilkur forest range,” Sunita M Bhagwat, chief conservator of forests for Rangareddy district told TOI. “There is no need for panic as the leopard is now not in the city, ” said Bhagwat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/leopard-headed-to-chilkur-forest-officials/articleshow/75767140.cms||Moulika.KV
May 16, 2020||Jaipur||Cess on stamp duty hiked by 10%||JAIPUR: The finance department on Friday increased the cow cess on stamp duty to 20% from 10% and added the funds will also be used for fighting natural or man-made calamities like draught, flood, epidemic and public health exigencies. With this increase the surcharge on stamp duty goes up to 30% including the Swachh cess of 10%. The real estate industry in the state reacted strongly saying that they had expected some relief from the state for the revival of the sector which has been decimated by the lockdown. The increase come after the government had increased stamp duty to 6% from 5% in the February state budget. With the surcharge increase of 10%, the total stamp duty has gone up to 8.8% from 8.2%. “This increase will not benefit anybody including the government. Already the market is in a limbo-like state. Everybody wants the real estate sector to revive, including the government, the industry and the people engaged in the sector. The surcharge increase will only delay any chances of revival,” said Sunil Jain, president of Credai-Rajasthan. He said the fate of over 300 industries depend the sector, which employs a large number of people from various economic backgrounds. “We wanted the government to give the sector some incentives but instead of relief, they have raised taxes,” Jain added. The realty sector has been undergoing a prolonged slowdown in Rajasthan. Covid-19 pandemic has pushed the industry to an edge. There was need to boost the demand and tax incentives were expected. “Some of the people who had booked units may have a relook and this does not bode well for the state. Unless there is transaction, there will be no tax revenue and the government will not benefit. Similarly, if the demand does not increase, unemployment will remain at higher levels. So the logic of maximizing revenue by increasing taxes does not have a strong premise,” added Jain.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cess-on-stamp-duty-hiked-by-10/articleshow/75767991.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Goa||Goa: Plan to reopen wholesale SGPDA market hits roadblock||MARGAO: Moves initiated by the South Goa Planning and Development Authority (SGPDA) to reopen its wholesale fish market at Fatorda seem to have hit a roadblock with hardly any trader registering with it for carrying out fish trading activity in the market. SGPDA had intended to reopen the market with reduced business timings and restricted number of vehicles. The authority has issued a notice in a local daily listing the conditions to be followed by traders for letting them carry out trade in the market. The notice stipulated, among other conditions, that all fish-laden vehicles entering the wholesale fish market will be duly registered with the directorate of fisheries and food and drugs administration (FDA). All fish traders associations and fish trading societies were also required to submit proper valid certificates of registration to the SGPDA before entering the wholesale fish market. Besides, all vehicles are required to submit to the SGPDA the details of the vehicle numbers and other details before entering the market. “No fish trader has registered with SGPDA,” chairman of SGPDA Wilfred D’Sa said. D’Sa, however, is averse to reopening the wholesale fish market as it would lead to people crowding the market thus violating the social distancing norms. “Who will be able to control the crowd if the market is open? Besides, there are hardly a couple of weeks to go before the fishing ban will come into force,” D’Sa said. The Nuvem MLA also met chief minister Pramod Sawant earlier this week over the issue of reopening of the market. “The chief minister was of the view that market be allowed to function only after all the traders register with SGPDA,” D’Sa said. South Goa collector Ajit Roy, in a letter to SGPDA member secretary, had allowed the wholesale fish market to remain open within permissible hours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/plan-to-reopen-wholesale-sgpda-mkt-hits-roadblock/articleshow/75767982.cms||---
May 16, 2020||India||Nepal puts up armed police outpost for 1st time near border||PITHORAGARH: Days after Nepal lodged a protest against India for inaugurating an almost 80-km link-road near Lipulekh Pass, saying it passed through its territory, Kathmandu has set up an armed police force border outpost near Kalapani at Chhangru, on the Nepalese side of the border. Chhangru is the last village before the border. The post has been set up almost 18km from the Lipulekh Pass, a source told TOI on Thursday. The source, who is based in Nepal, added that on Wednesday, 25 armed personnel of Nepal Police reached Chhangru by helicopter to set up the post. "It is for the first time that Nepal armed police force has been deployed at the border. Earlier, there used to be just a regular police post," the source said, adding that the Nepal government has allotted 11 crore Nepalese rupees for setting up the post. Reacting to the development, Pithoragarh district magistrate Vijay Kumar Jogdande said, "I have not received any official communication regarding this as of now. I have asked for a report from the tehsil administration on the matter." Defence minister Rajnath Singh had on May 8 inaugurated the Tawaghat-Lipulekh road, which the minister said would cut travel time to Kailash Mansarovar significantly. The road was constructed by the Border Roads Organisation enabling vehicles to go near Lipulekh Pass, which is marked by the Kalapani river, one of the headwaters of the Kali river in the Kumaon Himalayas at an altitude of 3,600-5,200 meters and is claimed by the Nepalese as their territory. The foreign ministry has reiterated the area lies "well within Indian territory". In a related development, Nepalese authorities have requested the Pithoragarh district administration for permission to be granted to residents of Tinkat and Chhangru villages to use the newly inaugurated road to return to their villages. Residents of these villages are migratory and each year 500 families of these areas come to the lower regions of the valley during winter. This year, though, they were unable to return due to the lockdown. The route to their villages is through the Indian side of the border. Jogdande told TOI that he has forwarded the request to the state government and the Centre for clearance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/after-protest-on-kailash-mansarovar-road-nepal-puts-up-armed-police-outpost-for-1st-time-near-border/articleshow/75768780.cms||Prem Punetha
May 16, 2020||Pune||Citizens to get homeopathy medicine in Pune||PUNE: The civic body has decided to distribute an immunity booster homeopathy medicine in the wake of the Coronavirus outbreak. The Union ministry of ayurveda, yoga and naturopathy, unani, siddha and homeopathy (Ayush) had in January issued a health advisory, recommending homeopathy medicine Arsenicum album 30. The medicine has to be taken in empty stomach twice daily for three days. The ministry had said the medicine could help in reducing the possibility of infection. Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) officials said around 14 lakh vials of the medicines would be available with it. The association of homeopathy doctors and a private firm is helping the civic body with the project. According to the doctors, the medicine helps a person improve the Vitamin C level and immunity. “The medicine is at present being distributed in the containment areas. The PMC is providing kits of essential supplies to the citizens in these areas. The medicines are part of these kits,” municipal commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pune-citizens-to-get-homeopathy-medicine/articleshow/75768000.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Vadodara||MSU decides not to hike fees for all courses this year||Vadodara: M S University has decided not to bring any change in fees charged to students in academic year 2020-21. University’s officiating registrar K M Chudasama has issued a circular informing all the faculties and college authorities stating that there will be no change in online application fees, academic fees and examination fees in all courses including regular and higher payment programmes in the year 2020-21. The university has been increasing fees by 10% annually since the last couple of years after it had taken a policy decision in these regards. Chudasama told TOI that effectively, there will be no hike under any head including hostel fees this year. “In other words, the fees that the students or their parents will be paying will be same as the fee structure in 2019-20,” he said. The detailed fee structure for regular as well as self-financed courses for 2020-21 will be sent to offices of deans, principals, head of departments and director of higher payment programmes by the accounts section. As per state government’s directive, the university is currently observing an extended vacation till June 20. Many a students who were stuck in the hostel campus due to nationwide lockdown have also started returning home. “We are liaisoning with respective state government and district authorities. On Thursday, students from Arunachal Pradesh left for their home state. On Friday, 150 students from Manipur left for their home state through train,” he said, adding that the university is ensuring that the students have enough resources during their journey.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/msu-decides-not-to-hike-fees-for-all-courses-this-year/articleshow/75767679.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Ajmer||Rajasthan: No Covid deaths recorded, new infections at 213||JAIPUR: For the third day in a row, the state tumbled its previous record of reporting the highest Covid-19 cases in a single day. On Friday, the state recorded 213 cases, up from 206 on Thursday and 202 on Wednesday. The total count stands at 4,747. However, the good news was that no deaths were reported due to the virus. The total casualties in the state tood at 125. The districts which reported cases are Kota (48), Udaipur (38), Jodhpur (31), Jaipur (23), Pali (13), Chittorgarh (9), Sikar (7), Jaisalmer (6), Ajmer (5), Jalore (5), Dausa (4), Rajsamand (3), Churu (2), Hanumangarh (2), Nagaur (2), Baran (1), Barmer (1), Bharatpur (1), Bikaner (1), Dungarpur (1), Jhalawar (1), Jhunjhunu (1), Karauli (1), and one case was reported from another district. The positive list also consists of six BSF personnel stationed in Jodhpur. Till date, 49 BSF personnel have tested positive. Out of 213 persons who tested positive, 60 were migrants who reached different districts from various states. So far, 327 migrants have tested positive in the state since May 1. In Jaipur, areas which reported cases were Ramganj (5), Nahari Ka Naka (3), Phagi (2), Jalupura (2), Central Jail (2) while one each case was reported from Transport Nagar, Khatipura, Pratap Nagar, Jhotwara, Chandpole, Hasanpura, Gold Diagnostic opposite SMS Hospital, Khatu Shyam, Jeevan Jyoti and Bhankari. The number of persons being discharged are also constantly rising. A health department official said that 24 people after being cured were discharged. So far, 2,421 patients have been discharged from different parts of the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/no-covid-deaths-recorded-new-infections-at-213/articleshow/75772613.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Pune||PMC mulls 40 per cent cut in civic budget||PUNE: The civic body has formed a committee to explore ways to slash the annual budget by around 40%. The committee will comprise the municipal commissioner, two additional commissioners, city engineer and heads of the stores accounts departments. “Income and expenditure will be studied. Non-essential works will be avoided,” civic chief Shekhar Gaikwad said. The Covid-19 outbreak in the city has severely hit revenue from key sources like property tax and building permissions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmc-mulls-40-cut-in-civic-budget/articleshow/75768006.cms||Prasad Kulkarni
May 16, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Home isolation only for seven days after truenat test||VIJAYAWADA: Following the recent guidelines issued by the Union ministry of health and family welfare, the state health department has decided to discharge asymptomatic individuals within 10 days after Truenat testing. The earlier discharge criteria required two consecutive negative RT-PCR test results (a day apart), clinical clearance and a clear chest X-ray, irrespective of the severity of the case. But the revised guidelines have categorised patients into different subgroups based on severity of symptoms to devise a plan for discharge of patients and hospital management. All mild, very mild or pre-symptomatic cases admitted to a treatment facility will undergo regular temperature and pulse oximetry monitoring. The symptomatic cases will be discharged only after 14 days of hospital admission, which should be preceded by a three-day asymptomatic period. The home isolation period after discharge has been reduced to seven days instead of the earlier 14 days. Even though the MoHFW in its guidelines made it clear there will be no need for testing prior to discharge in the mild or pre-symptomatic cases, the state government will subject them to Truenat testing as a precautionary measure, including asymptomatic ones. As per the state government’s guidelines, severe Covid-19 cases will only be discharged after complete clinical recovery and resolution of the symptoms and also undergo RT-PCR testing. Only those tested negative in the RT-PCR will be declared cured and sent home. Moderate cases will be constantly monitored for blood oxygen saturation levels and body temperatures and be discharged in 14 days (only 10 days as per MoHFW). But the patient needs to meet a pre-set criteria, including resolution of fever within three days and saturation level above 95% for the next four days without oxygen support. The absence of fever without medications, resolution of breathlessness and no oxygen requirement are the other requirements. But if the symptoms are not resolved and the patient needs external oxygen support, he/she would be discharged only after complete resolution of the symptoms after attaining the ability to maintain satisfactory oxygen saturation levels for three consecutive days. Even the moderate cases will be subjected to Truenat testing while the MoHFW said there is no need for testing prior to discharge.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/home-isolation-only-for-7-days-after-truenat-test/articleshow/75766231.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
May 16, 2020||Udaipur||Rajasthan: No Covid deaths recorded, new infections at 213||JAIPUR: For the third day in a row, the state tumbled its previous record of reporting the highest Covid-19 cases in a single day. On Friday, the state recorded 213 cases, up from 206 on Thursday and 202 on Wednesday. The total count stands at 4,747. However, the good news was that no deaths were reported due to the virus. The total casualties in the state tood at 125. The districts which reported cases are Kota (48), Udaipur (38), Jodhpur (31), Jaipur (23), Pali (13), Chittorgarh (9), Sikar (7), Jaisalmer (6), Ajmer (5), Jalore (5), Dausa (4), Rajsamand (3), Churu (2), Hanumangarh (2), Nagaur (2), Baran (1), Barmer (1), Bharatpur (1), Bikaner (1), Dungarpur (1), Jhalawar (1), Jhunjhunu (1), Karauli (1), and one case was reported from another district. The positive list also consists of six BSF personnel stationed in Jodhpur. Till date, 49 BSF personnel have tested positive. Out of 213 persons who tested positive, 60 were migrants who reached different districts from various states. So far, 327 migrants have tested positive in the state since May 1. In Jaipur, areas which reported cases were Ramganj (5), Nahari Ka Naka (3), Phagi (2), Jalupura (2), Central Jail (2) while one each case was reported from Transport Nagar, Khatipura, Pratap Nagar, Jhotwara, Chandpole, Hasanpura, Gold Diagnostic opposite SMS Hospital, Khatu Shyam, Jeevan Jyoti and Bhankari. The number of persons being discharged are also constantly rising. A health department official said that 24 people after being cured were discharged. So far, 2,421 patients have been discharged from different parts of the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/no-covid-deaths-recorded-new-infections-at-213/articleshow/75772610.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: No Covid deaths recorded, new infections at 213||JAIPUR: For the third day in a row, the state tumbled its previous record of reporting the highest Covid-19 cases in a single day. On Friday, the state recorded 213 cases, up from 206 on Thursday and 202 on Wednesday. The total count stands at 4,747. However, the good news was that no deaths were reported due to the virus. The total casualties in the state tood at 125. The districts which reported cases are Kota (48), Udaipur (38), Jodhpur (31), Jaipur (23), Pali (13), Chittorgarh (9), Sikar (7), Jaisalmer (6), Ajmer (5), Jalore (5), Dausa (4), Rajsamand (3), Churu (2), Hanumangarh (2), Nagaur (2), Baran (1), Barmer (1), Bharatpur (1), Bikaner (1), Dungarpur (1), Jhalawar (1), Jhunjhunu (1), Karauli (1), and one case was reported from another district. The positive list also consists of six BSF personnel stationed in Jodhpur. Till date, 49 BSF personnel have tested positive. Out of 213 persons who tested positive, 60 were migrants who reached different districts from various states. So far, 327 migrants have tested positive in the state since May 1. In Jaipur, areas which reported cases were Ramganj (5), Nahari Ka Naka (3), Phagi (2), Jalupura (2), Central Jail (2) while one each case was reported from Transport Nagar, Khatipura, Pratap Nagar, Jhotwara, Chandpole, Hasanpura, Gold Diagnostic opposite SMS Hospital, Khatu Shyam, Jeevan Jyoti and Bhankari. The number of persons being discharged are also constantly rising. A health department official said that 24 people after being cured were discharged. So far, 2,421 patients have been discharged from different parts of the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/no-covid-deaths-recorded-new-infections-at-213/articleshow/75768001.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Jodhpur||Rajasthan: No Covid deaths recorded, new infections at 213||JAIPUR: For the third day in a row, the state tumbled its previous record of reporting the highest Covid-19 cases in a single day. On Friday, the state recorded 213 cases, up from 206 on Thursday and 202 on Wednesday. The total count stands at 4,747. However, the good news was that no deaths were reported due to the virus. The total casualties in the state tood at 125. The districts which reported cases are Kota (48), Udaipur (38), Jodhpur (31), Jaipur (23), Pali (13), Chittorgarh (9), Sikar (7), Jaisalmer (6), Ajmer (5), Jalore (5), Dausa (4), Rajsamand (3), Churu (2), Hanumangarh (2), Nagaur (2), Baran (1), Barmer (1), Bharatpur (1), Bikaner (1), Dungarpur (1), Jhalawar (1), Jhunjhunu (1), Karauli (1), and one case was reported from another district. The positive list also consists of six BSF personnel stationed in Jodhpur. Till date, 49 BSF personnel have tested positive. Out of 213 persons who tested positive, 60 were migrants who reached different districts from various states. So far, 327 migrants have tested positive in the state since May 1. In Jaipur, areas which reported cases were Ramganj (5), Nahari Ka Naka (3), Phagi (2), Jalupura (2), Central Jail (2) while one each case was reported from Transport Nagar, Khatipura, Pratap Nagar, Jhotwara, Chandpole, Hasanpura, Gold Diagnostic opposite SMS Hospital, Khatu Shyam, Jeevan Jyoti and Bhankari. The number of persons being discharged are also constantly rising. A health department official said that 24 people after being cured were discharged. So far, 2,421 patients have been discharged from different parts of the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/no-covid-deaths-recorded-new-infections-at-213/articleshow/75772611.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Nashik||Nashik liquor shops not to opt for home delivery||NASHIK: The Nashik liquor shop owners will not be doing home delivering due to financial burden and need for more manpower. The liquor shops were shut within a day of opening in May 5 after all social distancing norms went for a toss. The Nashik police then made it mandatory for the shops to give implement a token system for buying liquor. For the first five-six days after the shops reopened on May 8, around 400 customers came in daily, but the footfall has now reduced to around 250. “We are not opting for home delivery of liquor due to various reasons and it will require additional manpower. There are also payment issues on home delivery,” said a senior member of the Nashik liquor shop owners association There are around 450 liquor shops across the district, including 150 in the limit of Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC). Moreover, the business of liquor has dropped by 40% as compared initial business.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-liquor-shops-not-to-opt-for-home-delivery/articleshow/75764815.cms||Tushar Pawar
May 16, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Folk artistes demand regular incentive from government||JAIPUR: Folk artistes across the state have put forth a demand for a regular income, incentive or any other remuneration to run their families. They have, though, started receiving the one-time assistance of Rs 2,500 by the state government through ‘Mukhyamantri Lok Kalakar Protsahan Yojana’. Yusuf Khan Mewati, a Bhapang player and writer of many songs who recently composed a song ‘Yeh Corona Beemari ko Buro Hai Matter’, said folk artistes must be given some kind of job to earn their livelihood. “The labourers are getting wages through NREGA, however, we as artistes who depend on our bookings in the country and outside the country as well would be literally jobless due to the outbreak of Covid-19 across the world. I don’t think we would be invited for live performances for the next two years,” Mewati, who has performed in countries like Belgium, Switzerland and Poland, told TOI on Friday. He added that there are folk artistes in every region of Rajasthan who are dependent on their performances in hotels and private functions. “There can be video performances where we can sing and perform live on video for audiences sitting somewhere else and thus we can earn. Though the state government has started giving the one-time assistance, but many artistes are yet to get it,” he added. Similar opinion was echoed by Anwar Khan Manganiar, who was awarded Padma Shri. “While the governments across the world are focusing on social distancing, we cannot go out to perform. Thus, we request the state government to think of some plan for more than 20,000 Langas and Manganiars in the state, especially in western Rajasthan,” Anwar Khan said. These artistes said people in their villages are helping them in this tough time, but the state government must make some plan to ensure they continue earning something. “We have been earning glory for the state across the globe. Thus we request the state government and the Government of India to think and make some plan for the artistes,” Khan added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/folk-artistes-demand-regular-incentive-from-govt/articleshow/75768019.cms||Ashish Mehta
May 16, 2020||Pune||PCB seeks Rs 50 crore for salaries||PUNE: The cash-strapped Pune Cantonment Board (PCB) has sought Rs 50 crore financial aid from the director-general of defence estates (DGDE) in New Delhi for meeting its monthly recurring expenditure, including payment of salaries to 743 permanent employees. The DGDE controls all the 62 cantonments across the country. "We won’t be able to foot the salary bill from June onwards if we don’t get funds," PCB chief executive officer Amit Kumar told TOI. A senior DGDE official, however, told TOI over phone, "Allocating funds is a difficult proposition as 58 out of 62 cantonments are in financial trouble."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pcb-seeks-rs-50-crore-from-centre/articleshow/75768010.cms||Sandip Dighe
May 16, 2020||Mumbai||10 more BEST staffers Covid +ve, cases cross 100||MUMBAI: With 10 new cases, the total number of Covid-positive BEST staffers crossed 100 on Friday. Four of the 108 staffers are currently on oxygen support. This is the second time in two days that 10 staffers tested positive. On Wednesday, too, a similar number were found to be infected. The cases have prompted BEST Workers’ Union to ask employees to “lock down” themselves from Monday. BEST though said it will take stringent measures to ensure all workers report for essential transport services. Shiv Sena union is with the management to avert shortage.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/10-more-best-staffers-ve-cases-cross-100/articleshow/75767155.cms||Somit Sen
May 16, 2020||Trichy||Kin of VAO to get Rs 50 lakh solatium, govt job||TRICHY: Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami on Friday announced Rs 50 lakh solatium to the family of the village administrative officer (VAO) who was killed in a road accident while returning home from Covid-19 duty in Trichy. In a statement issued on Friday, the chief minister said that he was devastated at the news of the demise of S Kumar, 46 of Ragavendrapuram in Trichy. Expressing his condolence, Palaniswami said that he ordered Rs 50 lakh solatium to the kin of the deceased VAO from the chief minister’s public relief fund and also awarding a government job to one of his family members based on qualification. Official sources said that the process for handing over the government job order to Kumar’s daughter has already commenced as per instructions from Trichy collector S Sivarasu. Kumar, who was the VAO of Sirugamani East village in Karur district, was deputed at the government engineering college in Sethurapatti to take care of 117 Malaysia returned passengers who were quarantined since May 9. He met with the tragedy when he was returning home on a two-wheeler on Wednesday night.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/kin-of-vao-to-get-rs-50l-solatium-govt-job/articleshow/75768014.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Big cat kills 2 calves||Hyderabad: A leopard attacked and killed two buffalo calves in Kothapally village of Amangal Mandal on Friday. The officials found the pug marks near the carcasses of the animals. “Two trap cages with baits have been set up in the area,” forest divisional officer M Janakiram told TOI. Officials do not suspect this to be the same leopard that is on prowl in Yacharam mandal.tNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/big-cat-kills-2-calves/articleshow/75767156.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Economic activities may pick up pace, curbs eased in lockdown 4.0||Bhubaneswar: The state government is seriously considering allowing more economic activities and easing restrictions in Odisha during the fourth phase of the lockdown. Discussions for the same have been going on at different levels. Though Covid-19 has spread to 21 of the state’s 30 districts, especially in the past two weeks following the return of migrants from hotspot areas, the state government is planning to fast-track the economic activities in places other than the containment zones soon. “Chief secretary Asit Tripathy and top officials have been holding consultations with a group of secretaries to resume economic activities. No concrete decision has been taken yet as we are waiting for the lockdown guidelines to be issued by the ministry of home affairs (MHA). It is expected to be announced by Saturday. Let us see what the MHA recommends. We will come up with our strategy after that,” a senior government official said. During his recent address to the nation, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had also said lockdown 4.0 would be enforced with a new set of rules. Emphasising the need to move forward while fighting the pandemic, the official said the state government has been laying stress both on securing lives and livelihoods of people. While agricultural and industrial activities have been exempted from the lockdown restrictions, the state government has been emphasising on helping the micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) to get back on track. The official said more relaxations are likely to be given for the opening of commercial establishments and resumption of transport services by adhering to social distancing norms. Focus has also been laid on free movement of workers to cater to the workforce need in various industries and workshops. As far as the classification of areas into different zones is concerned, the state government is mulling a different strategy like putting restrictions on a smaller area with higher incidence of cases instead of restricting activities in the entire district. The district collectors and municipal commissioners are likely to get more power in this aspect and also on taking a call to resume economic activities. Chief minister Naveen Patnaik had also raised the issue during a video conference with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on May 11. During the third phase of the lockdown, the state government had allowed the inter-district operation of bus services in green zones with some restrictions on the number of passengers to be carried. The movement of individuals was also allowed in green zones and for permitted activities in orange and red zones from 7am to 7pm. All standalone and neighbourhood shops and shops in residential complexes were also allowed to remain open during the third phase of the lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/economic-activities-may-pick-up-pace-curbs-eased-in-lockdown-4-0/articleshow/75766274.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Vijayawada||Ensure shelter, food for migrants: CS||Amaravati: Chief secretary Nilam Sawhney on Friday directed the joint collectors of Krishna and Guntur districts to accommodate migrant labourers walking on the National Highway in relief camps. She asked officials to provide them with food and shelter before providing them transport facility. The chief secretary noticed scores of migrant workers walking on the National Highway near Tadepalle while returning from the chief minister’s camp office on Friday. On interacting with them, the workers told the CS that they were heading towards Bihar from Chennai as they were without work and food for the past two months. Sawhney assured them that food and shelter would be provided. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ensure-shelter-food-for-migrants-cs/articleshow/75766276.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Nashik||Jewellers in Nashik to provide home delivery of gold ornaments||NASHIK: Jewellery business is set to have new protocol of sale in Nashik from Saturday -- appointments to visit the store and home delivery of ornaments. Around 1,200 of total 5,000 jewellery shops in the district are located in the limits of Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC). There are 350 shops at the major jewellery market of the city known as Saraf Bazaar. These shops visited by residents of the entire north Maharashtra region as well as people from Gujarat. Around 40% of the jewellery shops sanitized their premises on Friday and majority will start their business from Saturday. Jewellers have decided to deliver ornaments to the homes of buyers to reduce store visits. Regular and registered customers will be sent photos of jewellery designs on mobile networking apps and delivered the ornaments after online payment. Apart from those buying jewellery, a large number of farmers sell their gold and belonging to raise money for the kharif season. Those interested in visiting the stores will have to take prior appointments and be given time slots to avoid crowding. “We decided to start business after a meeting with the police. In a bid to maintain social distancing, we have decided to make customers take appointments. Moreover, home delivery is to be made to customers if they place order on phone,” said Chetan Rajapurkar, president, Nashik Jewellers’ Association. Cloth stories also opened in Nashik with staff wearing masks and customers being given sanitisers. “Customers also have to wear masks and we have provided sanitizers at the entrance of the shops,” said Digvijay Kapadiya, president, Nashik retail cloth merchants association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/jewellers-to-provide-home-delivery-of-gold-ornaments/articleshow/75764838.cms||Tushar Pawar
May 16, 2020||Chennai||Hospitals crowded, patients, Tamil Nadu government consider home isolation||CHENNAI: On May 3, when M S Muthusamy, deputy commissioner of police, developed fever and body pain, he suspected he may have just joined the long list of Covid-19 patients. The Koyambedu market and bus terminus come under his jurisdiction. On May 4, the officer got himself tested. The result confirmed he was now part of the blossoming Koyambedu cluster. After three days of hospitalization at the Omandurar GH, the IPS officer took a decision to shift to home care for isolation. The Indian Council of Medical Research had rolled out a new protocol for allowing Covid patients with very mild and pre-symptomatic conditions to be isolated at home. The Union health ministry’s decision — implemented by TN on May 4 — could take the load off hospitals in the coming days when community transmission will test the public healthcare system. “I have a room to myself. The corporation’s health team checks on me and doctors visit me periodically,” said Muthusamy, who takes multi-vitamins to boost immunity. His two daughters take turns to place food at his door, while he passed his time listening to music and talking to friends. The officer will take a second test on May 18 that will end his isolation. With the queue for home care bound to get longer, the big challenge for health authorities is to keep a check on positive cases and ensure they don’t violate home-isolation norms. It would also require well-ventilated homes with isolation facilities for the patient. “Most important, the public needs to stop stigmatization and policing,” said health secretary Beela Rajesh. But, the new system is yet to kick in that would ensure perfect synchronization among the various arms of the healthcare system. Two days ago, a patient called infectious diseases expert Dr V Ramasubramanian, a member of the state government’s expert committee panel, to say that all his three family members had tested positive, though asymptomatic. He advised them to stay at home. By the following evening, however, the patient made panic calls to say that corporation officials were at his doorstep asking them to get admitted to a private hospital. “Even if they wanted him to consult a doctor, it could have waited till the next morning. What we need now is co-ordination among public health officials, doctors, civic department and the public,” said Ramasubramanian. With the reverse migration of Tamils within the country and from outside expected to trigger rapid community transmission, creating awareness about protocols in home care is the big challenge, say health experts. “Community transmission is rampant and we are expecting more cases in the coming days,” said reputed virologist Dr T Jacob John. “I have been recommending home isolation for healthy patients to prevent clutter at hospitals. But this must be done with precaution,” he said. People being sent for domiciliary care should, however, fit the clinical criteria and be brought under surveillance of the doctor. Private hospitals too are pitching in by enhancing home care devices  for remote monitoring. A Chennai hospital, for instance, asks its asymptomatic Covid-19 patients to take a bluetooth-enabled pulse-oxymeter and thermometer probe while they are in home isolation. The device helps the doctor to monitor the patient’s condition from home.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/hospitals-crowded-patients-govt-consider-home-isolation/articleshow/75767162.cms||Jaya Menon
May 16, 2020||Pune||Renowned sexologist Samak passes away||Pune: Renowned dermatologist and clinical sexologist Shashank Samak (65) died of a heart attack at his residence on Paud Road on Friday. He was known for popular Marathi stage show ‘Chalishi Nantarche Kaamjeevan’, through which he educated the masses and busted misconceptions about sex. He is survived by his wife, son, daughter and grandchildren. Samak had been complaining of chest discomfort and uneasiness from Thursday evening. “He also visited a doctor at a nearby hospital. He was planning to visit another doctor on Friday afternoon with his wife. They were planning to step out to go to the doctor when he suffered a heart attack and he collapsed. He was declared brought dead at the hospital,” a family friend said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/renowned-sexologist-samak-passes-away/articleshow/75768021.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Pune||Southwest monsoon over Kerala likely to be delayed||PUNE:The onset of southwest monsoon over Kerala this year was likely to be slightly delayed than the usual date of June 1, India Meteorological Department (IMD) stated on Friday. The monsoon onset over Kerala this year is likely to be on June 5, with a model error of + or — four days, it stated. In India’s monsoon region, the initial monsoon rains are experienced over south Andaman Sea and the monsoon winds then advance north-westwards across the Bay of Bengal. D S Pai, scientist and head, Climate Research and Services, IMD, Pune told TOI, “The mid latitude westerly regime is south of its normal location indicated by above normal westerly activity over north India in recent times, which is not allowing monsoon circulation to establish over North Indian Ocean and is likely to delay monsoon onset over Kerala. However, the low pressure system that has formed over the South Bay of Bengal will help monsoon winds reach the Andaman Sea, indicating its advent over the Andaman Sea on May 22.” The IMD stated that as per the new normal dates of monsoon onset/progress, the southwest monsoon would advance over the Andaman Sea around May 22. The earlier or old normal monsoon onset date over the Andaman Sea was May 20. Conditions were very likely to become favourable for advance of monsoon into some parts of southeast Bay of Bengal, Andaman Sea and the Andamans and Nicobar islands in the next 48 hours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/southwest-monsoon-over-kerala-likely-to-be-delayed/articleshow/75768027.cms||Neha Madaan
May 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Bereaved, Telangana man seeks help to return||HYDERABAD: A worker from Telangana on Friday sought permission to return home immediately from Dubai following the death of his wife, daughter and a relative in a road accident at Mandamarri in Mancherial district. Potharajulu Srinivas has been working in Dubai as a cleaner in a private firm for the last two years. His wife Potharajulu Sujatha (38), daughter Kavya (19) and relative Bhogam Komaraiah (48) died when their bike was hit by an unidentified vehicle near Mandamarri on Thursday. They were returning to their Luxettipet home when they were hit. Due to the lockdown situation, no flights are operating and the only special flight that will operate from Dubai to Hyderabad is on May 22.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bereaved-t-man-seeks-help-to-return/articleshow/75767161.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Trichy||BDU students stranded in hostels seek help to return||TRICHY: As few students from other states, who are studying in Bharatidasan University, have been stranded in their private hostels outside the university in Trichy for 50 days now, they have sought help from concerned officials to travel to their respective natives. A final year post-graduate student from West Bengal studying at Bharatidasan University is stuck in a private hostel opposite the university. His parents, who had come to Trichy to meet him in March, are also with him at the hostel. They got stuck here as their tickets to return home were cancelled due to lockdown. There are a total 17 students of BDU, who are stranded in private hostels outside the university campus since the lockdown. While they are in contact with some of the faculty members and have access to essentials from nearby shops, all their attempts to return to their state have been futile. Another female research scholar from New Delhi in a girl’s hostel opposite to university said that she even tried to book biweekly trains to Delhi from Chennai but was unsuccessful over huge rush.  “We have been giving our details to officials in our native state and in Trichy based on the directions from our university staff. But we haven’t got any positive response,” said the student. Speaking to TOI, G Gopinath, registrar, BDU, said that the university administration is in constant touch with the students and they have sent the list of students to officials in Chennai to take steps for their safe return to the respective state. “We can expect positive response in a couple of days,” said the registrar based on his conversation with the officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/bdu-students-stranded-in-hostels-seek-help-to-return/articleshow/75768025.cms||Sampath Kumar
May 16, 2020||Nashik||Nashik: Six colleges to declare FYJC results||NASHIK: City-based Gokhale Education Society, which has six colleges affiliated to them, will be declaring First Year Junior College (FYJC) results on Monday. Approximately 5,000 FYJC students will receive their results. According to the officials, the results will be displayed on their website and the hard copy can be collected when the lockdown is over. “The students can take the mark list later on when the college resumes. We appeal all the students to log on https://gesociety.in/ and check their results,” said a college official. The students of Arts, Commerce, Science, Home Science, and Vocational Courses will receive their results the same day on the website. “The results are prepared on the basis of internal examinations. We had conducted two unit tests of 25 marks each and a term-end examination of 50 marks. Since we could not take the final examination of 80 marks and orals of 20 marks, we have made the result out of 100 marks,” said the authority.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/six-colleges-to-declare-fyjc-results/articleshow/75764854.cms||pragya jain
May 16, 2020||Agra||Lockdown takes the scent off Bijnor flowers||BIJNOR: Floriculturists in the district are facing a tough time as there are no takers for their flowers due to the lockdown. In the absence of any demand, flower growers have been forced to throw away the blooms, while at same time, continue to spend money to look after the flowering plants. According to officials, a section of farmers took up flower cultivation, hoping to reap high profits. With government subsidy, they set up poly houses to grow flowers all year round. But when the flower season was at its peak, the country was put under lockdown following coronavirus outbreak. Since then, all flower mandis have closed. All social events have been cancelled. The recent unseasonal storms have added to their problems, damaging the poly houses. Talking with TOI, a flower grower of Agri village, 6km from district headquarters, Akhilesh Chaudhary said, "I have four poly houses in which I grow gerbera, carnation and daisies. Carnations bloom only once a year. But there are no buyers due to the lockdown. I have suffered a loss of Rs 30 lakh since March. I could not even recover input costs. Then, the recent storms, uprooted and ripped apart my poly house." Another floriculturist of Nangal area, Himansu Tyagi, said, "The lockdown has crushed my dreams. My poly houses are blooming with roses. I have to virtually burn a hole in my pocket to look after the plants." Tyagi urged government to take steps to help flower growers from complete ruin. Confirming that floriculturists had suffered heavy losses, Narpal Malik, district horticulture officer, said, "We will look into the demand of growers about insurance of their poly houses."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/lockdown-takes-the-scent-off-bijnor-flowers/articleshow/75766301.cms||Harveer Dabas
May 16, 2020||Bareilly||Bareilly makes plans for 50,000 MGNREGA man-days for returning workers||BAREILLY: The district administration has made plans to generate up to 50,000 man-days of employment for at least next two months under Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Generation Act (MGNREGA), to provide jobs to migrant workers returning home from other parts of the country. District magistrate Nitish Kumar said employment would be provided in various projects to around 20,000 migrant labourers, who have arrived in Bareilly over the past week. “We are the first district in the state to generate 50,000 man-days under MNREGA. There is a lot of work to be done under this scheme. As of now, we can provide jobs to the returning labourers for the next 2-3 months,” the DM said. Kumar told TOI they had set a target to clean up around 100km of irrigation canals passing through the district and de-silting of water bodies, which would generate mass scale employment. Huge plantation work is also planned under MGNREGA, he said. “Besides, we are going to link women labourers with National Rural Livelihood Mission (NRLM),” he said, adding that this scheme enables poor women to increase household income through sustainable livelihood enhancements.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/bareilly-makes-plans-for-50000-mgnrega-man-days-for-returning-workers/articleshow/75766285.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Undercounting Covid-19 deaths can harm public health, hamper policy||For years, many states, including Tamil Nadu, have been under-reporting deaths and details in death registers are not as per national standards of death reporting laid down by the Office of Registrar General of India (ORGI) under its Civil Registration System (CRS). This has to change at least in the time of pandemic, ICMR-National Centre for Disease Informatics and Research director Dr Prashant Mathur tells Pushpa Narayan.Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) issued new guidelines for reporting of Covid-19 deaths. Why?The new guideline details how Covid-19 deaths should be declared along with example scenarios. This is done to ensure deaths related to the novel virus get registered correctly. We need robust data from every district and state to measure the public health impact, plan for timely health interventions and protect communities. At the same time, other health conditions affecting populations need to be also monitored so that the health system is prepared for responding to the needs of the population. What are the most important features of the new guidelines?The guidelines ask doctors to declare Covid deaths and probable Covid deaths along with a list of comorbidities. Like in every other death declaration sheets, forms 4 and 4a will ask doctors to write down the underlying cause, contributing factors and immediate cause. WHO has provided codes for Covid-19 deaths -- U07.1 for all Covid deaths and U07.2 for probable Covid deaths. In the second case, Covid-19 virus is not identified through test, but doctors have clinically or epidemiologically diagnosed and suspected the virus. Do you think Covid deaths are being under-reported in Tamil Nadu and other parts of the country?Under-counting Covid-19 deaths can cause serious harm to public health and disease profiling. TN has high registration of deaths. Inaccurate death recording hampers disease profiling. Accurate death recording will strengthen policy and programme development. On most occasions the treating doctor in India records cardio-respiratory arrest as cause of death. A reason why, for years together death registers are incomplete and inaccurate. Every one dies when the heart stops, but it is not a cause of death. It is the mode of death. If a person is admitted because he or she has Covid-19, then the viral infection is the underlying cause of death. Co-morobities such as cancer or diabetes is contributing factor and respiratory distress is the immediate cause of death. Why is there confusion when deaths are being recorded by doctors? Is this not taught to them in medical schools?It is a part of the medical syllabus, implementation needs strengthening. Close monitoring can help bridge this gap. We are now attempting to change this. We are co-ordinating with various state governments and public health departments so we can train more doctors into recording deaths correctly. Has Tamil Nadu responded to this training?We have been working with Tamil Nadu directorate of public health. They have agreed to use our e-Mortality (e-Mor) software for recording cause of death. Doctors will be trained but it has not taken off yet. The software application aids in recording and reporting cause of deaths as per national standards. Any hospital can use it and it can prevent errors in cause of death and guide doctors in recording the sequence of death events and underlying cause of death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/undercounting-covid-19-deaths-can-harm-public-health-hamper-policy/articleshow/75767164.cms||Pushpa Narayan
May 16, 2020||Lucknow||Four more Covid +ve cases in Nazarbagh||Lucknow: Four more Covid-19 cases surfaced in Nazarbagh on Friday, taking the tally in city’s most active hotspot area to 35. Fresh cases include a 13-year-old girl, a woman (36) and two men, aged 36 and 35. They all had come in contact with two vegetable vendors and a shopkeeper who tested positive on May 3. All patients are asymptomatic and have been admitted to Lokbandhu hospital. With this, the number of patients tested positive in Kaiserbagh area, which also includes Nazarbagh, has reached 60 and 286 in the city. Sadar has reported 107 patients but the rate of infection has dropped significantly. “Those tested positive on Friday were among 300 people whose samples were taken in our ongoing contact tracing drive on Wednesday”, said CMO Dr Narendra Agarwal. “There is no need to panic as patients are being identified early, reducing chances of spreading infection,” he added. He denied that situation in Nazarbagh has reached the stage of community transmission. Meanwhile, samples of 205 residents were collected in the city on Friday. They included 20 neighbours of Gomtinagar family, which was tested positive on Thursday, and 50 from Nazarbagh during contact tracing. Six patients were discharged from SGPGI and Lokbandhu Hospital. All discharged were tested negative twice. Total 224 patients have been discharged after recovery so far, while died during treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/four-more-covid-ve-cases-in-nazarbagh/articleshow/75768193.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana Inc: Agri reforms will liberate farmers||HYDERABAD: The slew of agricultural reforms announced by Centre on Friday will finally unshackle Indian agriculture and the farmers, said Telangana Inc. “The agricultural reforms are pathbreaking. The farmers and industry have been requesting for amending Essential Commodities Act and to facilitate interstate sales of agricultural produce for some time now. We are happy it is happening. This will make the market competitive and improve price discovery for the farmer," said Ram Kaundinya, a member of FICCI Telangana State Executive Committee. Sresta Natural Bioproducts Pvt Ltd MD Rajashekar Reddy Seelam, said: “The scheme will result in better prices for farmers, lower transaction costs and an efficient agri supply chain.” He hoped that state governments would would accelerate these reforms as agriculture is a concurrent subject. However, FTCCI vice president K Bhasker Reddy feels the announcements were not sufficient. “The measures announced will provide relief to farmers but for the end users, they are of no help. The working capital limit of Rs 6,700 crore for state entities and providing Rs 4,200 crore for rural infrastructure is not sufficient,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-inc-agri-reforms-will-liberate-farmers/articleshow/75767168.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Nashik||Nashik: Allows us to start classes, says PCDA||NASHIK: The Private Coaching classes Directors Association (PCDA), Nashik, has approached the district administration requesting permission to begin classes with only five to 10 students in each class. President of the association Jayant Muley said that the tutors are facing various issues as they are out of work since the last two months. “There are 450 members of the association and over 2,000 big and small coaching classes in the district. Many of them conduct classes because they face financial crisis. Since there is lockdown situation and the classes are not operating, they are facing financial issues,” he said. Home tutors say that they are facing difficult times and it would be useful if the administration would allow them to operate with minimum students. “We have asked the administration to let us have five to 10 students in our classes. We will maintain social distancing by making them sit on alternate benches. We will also provide them with masks and sanitisers to avoid any chance of contracting the infection,” he added. According to Muley, parents are also willing to send their children to classes as they have to catch up with the syllabus. The parents have trust in the tutors as they take care of the students like their own children. “The parents are requesting us to start classes of Class X and Class XII, specially Mathematics and Science. We have asked them to wait for the lockdown to be lifted. But, looking at the current scenario, if the lockdown is again extended, we want the administration to permit us to conduct classes,” Muley told TOI. He said that the tutors have to pay rent, EMIs and cater to other financial obligations. Many tutors claim that the parents have not paid the last instalment of the tuition fee which was due at the end of March. This is one of the reasons for them to approach the district administration. The association has sent the letter to the state chief minister’s office and to the education minister as well but have not received any response yet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/allows-us-to-start-classes-pcda/articleshow/75764889.cms||pragya jain
May 16, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: Decision on Palkhi after May 30||PUNE: Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar on Friday said the government would take the final decision on Ashadi Ekadashi and Palkhi processions of Sant Dnayneshwar Maharaj and Tukaram Maharaj only after May 30. “Based on the situation, we shall again discuss this matter with all the trustees and the administration before taking a final call on it,” he said, after a meeting at the district collector’s office.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/decision-on-palkhi-after-may-30/articleshow/75768038.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Pune||Pune: Residents oppose Covid-19 care centre||PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: Residents of housing societies located close to Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation’s (PCMC) Covid-19 care centre at Balewadi sports complex have started a petition to move the facility elsewhere. However, the civic administration has dismissed the fears of the Mhalunge residents as baseless and unscientific. Chandrakant Marathe, chairman of Kirti Elegant committee, said, “There are four to five housing societies sharing a common boundary with the Balewadi sports complex, where a hostel has been turned into PCMC’s institutional quarantine facility. We have seen an increase in the movement of people and vehicles on the road connecting to the complex. We demand that the gate near our housing societies be closed and the one located on the highway be used to access the quarantine facility.” Municipal commissioner Shravan Hardikar in a text message told TOI, “We are taking all necessary precautions to make sure that the patients, who have tested positive, are contained within the building. The area will be cordoned off and disinfection process will be ensured on regular basis.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/residents-oppose-ncov-care-centre/articleshow/75768041.cms||Siddharth Gaikwad
May 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Villages strive to prevent Covid-19 spread||HYDERABAD: Even as migrant workers make their way back, gram panchayats are ensuring that the returning workers, along with their family members, adhere to a compulsory 14-day quarantine in the villages so that there is no possible transmission of Covid-19. The National Institute of Rural Development and Panchayati Raj (NIRDPR), which is assisting the people with crisis management amid Covid-19 outbreak, said that in case the workers do not have a house of their own to self-quarantine or their house is too small for the same, the gram panchayat (GP) will have to make necessary arrangements by converting anganwadis or schools into quarantine centres or by establishing a makeshift quarantine space. NIRDPR, in a release, revealed how sarpanches are dealing with the migrant workers’ exodus to villages amid the crisis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/villages-strive-to-prevent-covid-spread/articleshow/75767166.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Amaravati||Andhra Pradesh government sets aside over Rs 16,000 crore to revamp healthcare||AMARAVATI: The government is readying a comprehensive blueprint to revamp healthcare infrastructure in the state, right from the village level to super-specialty hospitals in the cities. A budget of Rs 16,200 crore has been earmarked to strengthen healthcare infrastructure, under which YSR clinics would be set up in all villages with 24x7 medical aid facility. Chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy, during Friday’s review meeting, directed officials to complete the identification of land for the setting up of the village clinics by June. “All 10,000 village clinics should be readied by March 2021,” he said. Jagan, who examined the designs of 15 proposed medical colleges in the state, suggested amendments in some areas. “A nursing college should be attached to all new government medical colleges in the state. There should be no compromise on quality and facilities in terms of patient care. Complete land identification process for the medical colleges at the earliest,” he said. He said the government will spend Rs 12,270 crore on the new medical and nursing colleges and super-specialty hospitals. Kadapa, the CM’s home town, will get a medical college, cancer hospital and nursing college. While Rs 2,026 crore would be spent on the new village clinics and strengthening of 1,086 health sub-centres in different villages, Rs 257 crore would be spent on building 149 new primary health centres (PHCs). Another Rs 413 crore would be spent on the renovation of 989 existing PHCs. Similarly, Rs 695 crore would be spent on renovation of 52 area hospitals under Naadu-Nedu programme, while another Rs 541 crore has been earmarked for the revamp of 169 community health centres. For the agriculture sector, the CM promised minimum support prices (MSP) for crops cultivated in the state. “The construction of YSR rythu bazaars will be completed by the end of next year. Farmers can then sell their stock locally. We have also asked banks not to adjust financial assistance extended through rythu bharosa towards other dues of the farmers,” he said. Jagan interacted with farmers via video link after releasing the YSR rythu bharosa-PM kisan grant on Friday, under which the farmers got Rs 5,500 each. The government released Rs 2,800 crore under the scheme which will benefit 49 lakh farmers in the state. “We wanted to release the entire amount of Rs 7,500 in May, but had granted an advance of Rs 2,000 last month due to Covid-19. Another Rs 2,000 will be granted during Sankranti in January,” he said, adding that 10,641 rythu bharosa kendras would be launched in the state on May 30. The CM said cold sto rage and food processing units would be built in the villages to help farmers stock their produce. “Food grain production touched a record 172 lakh metric tonnes due to the government’s pro-farmer policies. Uninterrupted power supply would be provided to all agriculture pumpsets during day time by next Rabi season.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/govt-sets-aside-over-rs-16k-cr-to-revamp-healthcare/articleshow/75766309.cms||Samdani MN
May 16, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Firemen on duty as Odisha govt readies plan to open up more spaces||BHUBANESWAR: The Odisha fire service has sanitized at least 22,450 places, mostly government buildings and quarantine centres, across different districts in the past 45 days to prevent any further spread of coronavirus. The workload of the fire personnel is likely to increase after lockdown 3.0 is lifted on May 17 as the government is expected to open up more spaces for the convenience of the people. “We have been receiving requisitions about disinfection from district collectors, SPs, municipal authorities and other agencies of the government. We started our cleaning drive from Bhubaneswar on March 31. Fire services personnel have sanitized 22,450 places across the state,” inspector general of police (fire service) Asheet Panigrahi said. Over 5,000 personnel from all 338 fire stations in the state have been engaged in the battle against Covid-19. “We have supplied personal protective equipment (PPEs) and other gear to our personnel so that they can wear it when disinfecting (sodium hypochlorite) public places and government offices. They have been given portable hand-held spray gun machines to clean every corner of all buildings and offices,” Panigrahi added. Sources said the personnel were likely to disinfect schools, colleges and multi-storey commercial units in the coming days. “We are expecting to get more requisitions from the districts following the arrival of stranded migrant workers from other states. The railway stations and bus stands are being sanitized at regular intervals,” Panigrahi said. Senior officers have been entrusted with the responsibility of supervising the sanitisation work in central, northern and southern ranges of the Odisha fire service. A control room has been functioning from Cuttack to co-ordinate with the fire stations in the state. Fire services personnel have so far sanitised 1,904 places in Keonjhar, 1,255 in Bhubaneswar and 1,244 in Cuttack. The fire service directorate has also chalked out a standard operating procedure (SOP) for their personnel engaged in the Covid duty in the containment zones and quarantine centres. “We have not deployed people above 50 years on Covid-19 duty. All personnel on duty are covered under the government’s Rs 50 lakh life insurance scheme. So far, not a single employee of the Odisha fire service has tested positive,” a fire service official said. The fire service department apprehends that their disinfection drive may be stalled for some time in view of an impending cyclone — Amphan. Since the state fire service personnel are specially trained in carrying out rescue operations in the wake of natural disasters, the state government on Friday asked them to be on alert.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/firemen-on-duty-as-govt-readies-plan-to-open-up-more-spaces/articleshow/75766315.cms||Debabrata Mohapatra
May 16, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: Shirur MP stresses on exit plan||PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: Shirur MP and actor Amol Kolhe stressed the Centre should have prepared a lockdown exit plan to handle the likely increase in Covid-19 cases after relaxation in norms. Kolhe met PCMC commissioner Shravan Hardikar to discuss the Covid-19 preventive measures the civic body had taken.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/mp-stresses-on-exit-plan/articleshow/75768044.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Nashik||Maharashtra: Onion auction at Lasalgaon begins after 8-day break||NASHIK: Auction of onions began at the the Lasalgaon APMC on Friday, following an eight-day closure due to a number of cases of Covid-19 in the town. The Maharashtra state agriculture marketing board (MSAMB) had directed all the agricultural produce market committees (APMCs) in Nashik district to start onion auction in the interest of farmers. “We have resumed auction after a week, following instructions from the MSAMB,” said officials from the APMC. “Now, the onion auction is to be held in the morning session, between 8.30 am and 12.30 pm daily, except Sunday. The auction of up to 500 vehicles will to be held every day,” said the officials. Meanwhile, the average wholesale onion price of onions at Lasalgoan was recorded at Rs 620 per quintal on Friday. It was Rs 630 per quintal on the last working day on May 6. The minimum and maximum wholesale onion prices were recorded at Rs 400 and Rs 842 per quintal, respectively, on Friday. Around 11,268 quintal of onions were auctioned at the APMC The National Agricultural Co-operative Marketing Federation of India Ltd (Nafed) also resumed procurement of onions from Lasalgaon on Friday and procured over 750 quintals, at an average wholesale price of Rs 735 per quintal. Presently, onions arriving in the market are of summer variety harvested in March and April. Unlike kharif and late kharif, summer onions have a shelf life of around six months and farmers prefer storing them in the hope of getting better prices. They, however, sell them as per their requirement for cash.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/onion-auction-at-lasalgaon-begins-after-8-day-break/articleshow/75764909.cms||Tushar Pawar
May 16, 2020||Bhubaneswar||KVs letter on school fees collection send shock waves||BHUBANESWAR: At a time when the state government is appealing the private school authorities to consider waiving off the school fees owing to the ongoing coronavirus crisis situation, a letter issued by the Kendriya Vidyalaya Sangathan for collection of school fees from the students, has shocked many. In a letter, the Sangathans Assistant Commissioner, AK Srivastava, has asked the school principals to start the fee collection for the first quarter of the session for April 2020 to June 2020. Srivastava has stated that the collection of the fees for the first quarter will commence from May 22 and will continue till June 21 without late payment fee. The process of verification in respect of all students (except Class X and XII) should be completed by May 18 for the second quarter. It will be relevant to inform you that since the data for the first quarter cannot be verified as of now, the data for the second quarter will be used for fee collection of the first quarter, Srivastava maintained. As the matter came to light, the Odisha Abhibhavak Mahasangh here has swung into action and has filed grievances with the Chief Minister of Odisha and the Prime Minister of India seeking their intervention to withdraw the order issued by the Kendriya Vidyalaya for greater interest of the students. It is absolutely irrelevant of the Kendriya Vidyalaya to ask for the school fees now. It is trying time for everyone. The parents are already suffering when it comes to the payment of school fees and purchasing of books. Several schools are already harassing us with the mails and messages and we are going through all of it, Mahasangha chairman Basudev Bhatta said. He said that the Odisha government has made an appeal to waive off school fees and some of the schools are already following it. At such a moment, the letter of KV for the school fee has come as a shocker. KV is a central government institution and instead of taking the lead in waiver of the fees, it is asking for it, Bhatta added. The parent body said that they have filed a grievance in this regard with the CMO and the PMO requesting them to intervene into the matter. We demand the withdrawal of this illegal and unethical order. We demand that the KV issue another order to waive all the fees for this quarter, the members said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/kvs-letter-on-school-fees-collection-send-shock-waves/articleshow/75766341.cms||Sandip Mishra
May 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Godavari water: Telangana CM K Chandrasekhar Rao to hold special meet||HYDERABAD: Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao will chair a special meeting on Sunday to prepare an action plan on utilisation of Godavari water. The CM will discuss with ministers and senior officials the quantum of water to be released from Godavari this monsoon, how much water to be diverted to Sriram Sagar Project and Lower Manair Dam, when should water be released to the reservoirs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/godavari-water-cm-to-hold-spl-meet/articleshow/75767181.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Mysuru||Govt proposes amendments to zonal regulations of master plan||Mysuru: The state government has proposed to make amendments to the Zonal Regulations of Master Plan of the Local Planning Area of Mysuru – Nanjangud. The government under Section 13-E of the Karnataka Town and Country Planning (Amendment) Act 2004, had propose to make amendments to Zonal Regulations of Master Plan of the Local Planning Area of Mysuru – Nanjangud as approved in 2016. It has sought objections or suggestions from the public on this amendment within thirty days of the publication. According the draft regulations – the regulations called the Zoning Regulations of the approved Master Plan 2031 (R-2) of Mysuru – Nanjangud (Amendment) Regulations 2020 shall come into force from the date of their publication in the official Gazette. According to the draft, the amendment to table 7-1 regarding the parking requirement for various uses as per zoning regulations, for single family dwelling unit, one car parking of 2.5mX5.5m each shall be provided for every dwelling unit measuring 100 to 200 sq mts and 100 sq mts and part thereof beyond 200 sq mts. Similarly, for multi-dwelling units, two dwelling units if the dwelling unit is measuring 75 sq mts of less, dwelling unit measuring over 75 sq mts upto 200 sq mts and 100 sq mts and part there of beyond 200 sq mts. If any building having single dwelling unit and has side setback equal to or more than 3mts, then car parking can be allowed one behind the other limiting to maximum of two cars. Meanwhile, amendment for basement has also been proposed where basement floor may be permitted for sites measuring more than 200 sq mts where the depth or width of site is more than 18 mts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/govt-proposes-amendments-to-zonal-regulations-of-master-plan/articleshow/75766339.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Lucknow||Three localities off the list, Lucknow hotspots come down to eight||LUCKNOW: More than 1,600 people got relief on Friday after three localities were removed from the list of Covid-19 hotspots. With this, the city now has only eight hotspots. The decision was taken by the district administration after no fresh cases were reported from these areas in last 22 days. A statement issued by the district administration said, “Barricades will be removed and residents will be allowed to move in these areas. However, they will have to follow restrictions currently enforced in other green zones of the city.” These include Ram Das Ka Hata under Cantonment police station where about 40 families live. Last case from this area was reported on April 18. Similarly, in Malviya Nagar locality of Moti Jheel, where around 149 families reside, the last case was reported on April 21. In Birhana under Naka police station, where 40 familes live, last case was reported on April 24.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/3-localities-off-the-list-city-hotspots-come-down-to-8/articleshow/75768061.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Nagpur||City police start screening cops on duty in risky zones||Nagpur: With the launch of ‘Fever Clinic’ programme on Friday, the city police have started thermal screening and testing oxygen level in blood of the cops who are deployed in high-risk containment zones.Apart from screening, the cops will also be counselled and motivated by a team of doctors from Nagpur police hospital.The initiative was adopted against the backdrop of high incidence of Covid-19 infection among police personnel, leading to a few deaths. In Mumbai, Thane and Pune, the number of police personnel having tested positive for Covid has crossed 1,000 and a few deaths too triggering an alarm. On the first day, screening had taken place at Ajni and Sakkardara police stations in East Nagpur where the Covid-19 outbreak has taken many by surprise as no cases were detected from these places earlier. Ajni police have three containment zones — Parvati Nagar, Kashi Nagar and Jaibheem Nagar, while their counterparts at Sakkardara have two in Tajbagh locality to break the corona chain.After a police constable’s kin fell victim to Covid-19 in the city, entire staffers of Beltarodi police station were screened. Around 13 cops from Beltarodi and Ajni police stations were also quarantined. City police chief BK Upadhyay, whose strategy now revolves around tightening security around containment zones, has also focused on health of the personnel deployed at sensitive locations with high number of Covid-19 incidences.Dr Sandeep Shinde, chief medical officer of Nagpur police hospital, said the concept of ‘Fever Clinic’ is not restricted to only screening and testing, but there is more to it. “We are also creating awareness and boosting the morale of the cops with our medical knowledge about Covid-19 so that they are mentally fit,” he said. “We have already distributed immunity booster doses of both allopathy and homeopathy along with sanitizers, faceshields and masks,” said Dr Shinde.“We have also kept a 16-bedded isolation ward at police hospital ready and also roped in four private hospitals with ventilator facility. Indian Medical Association (IMA) is also supporting us,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/city-police-start-screening-cops-on-duty-in-risky-zones/articleshow/75764942.cms||Soumitra Bose
May 16, 2020||Kolhapur||Satara: Man held for killing friend||Kolhapur: A waiter has been arrested by Satara police for allegedly killing his friend in an inebriated condition after liquor shops opened in the district. According to police, the accused, Deepak Vishwanath Dahiya, works at a dhaba on the Pune-Bengaluru highway. Dahiya and the deceased, Surajkumar Nigde, decided to have a party after the sale of alcohol began in the district.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/satara-man-held-for-killing-friend/articleshow/75764932.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Bareilly||Nepalese migrants sent across border on buses, which will bring back Indian migrants||Bareilly: The district administration on Friday sent back 472 migrant workers from Nepal on buses. They were stranded in Lakhimpur Kheri since the lockdown began. Indian migrant workers, most of who work at brick kilns and have been stuck in Nepal, will return to India in the same buses in the night. The decision was taken after home ministries of both countries gave their nod to it. All migrants returning to India will be medically examined and quarantined, after which those who do not display Covid symptoms will be put under home quarantine. Once India made the sudden lockdown announcement, Nepalese workers started gathering at the border crossing, but were not allowed entry by theNepal government. District administration then had to quarantine them at various shelter homes in Palia and Dhaurahra tehsil. Palia SDM Pooja Yadav told TOI, “Nepalese migrants have been sent back to Nepal in buses after the home department issued instructions to the effect and the Gaurifanta border was opened for the purpose. The buses will return with migrants from Lakhimpur Kheri who have been stuck in Nepal. All returnees will be quarantined and their medical examination carried out, before they are sent home.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/nepalese-migrants-sent-across-border-on-buses-which-will-bring-back-indian-migrants/articleshow/75767184.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
May 16, 2020||Kolhapur||Maharashtra: Sangli couple held for killing daughter||KOLHAPUR: A couple has been arrested by Sangli police for allegedly killing their 13-year-old daughter at Shramik Nagar in Walva town on Wednesday. According to police, the accused — Khawajasahedb Ismail Momin and his wife Asma — severely thrashed their daughter and banged her body on the floor, leading to her death. The incident came to light on Thursday morning after the neighbours got suspicious about the movement of the couple. The neighbours immediately alerted the police following which the couple was arrested and the girl’s body was sent for autopsy. Police inspector Bhanudas Nimbhore said the deceased, Suhana, was the daughter of Momin’s first wife who died a few years ago. Later, Momim got married to Asma and according to the neighbours, the couple always treated their daughter badly. “The neighbours claim that Suhana was forced to do all the domestic work by her parents and was never given food. She used to collect scrap across the town and also worked as domestic help in few houses,” the officer said, adding that Suhana’s body had injury marks and bruises.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/sangli-couple-held-for-killing-daughter/articleshow/75764957.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Vijayawada||With 57 new cases, Andhra Pradesh tally rises to 2,157||VIJAYAWADA: Andhra Pradesh on Friday registered 57 new Covid-19 cases, taking the state’s total to 2,157. Out of the total cases, 45 are migrant workers, who arrived from Maharashtra and Rajasthan. As many as 28 cases are related to Chennai’s Koyambedu market. Chittoor and Nellore registered 14 cases each, Krishna 9, Kurnool eight, Anantapur four, Vizianagaram three, Kadapa and Visakhapatnam two each and East Godavari one. Meanwhile, based on the recent guidelines of the central government, the state health department has decided to discharge mild Covid-19 cases within 10 days of isolation. The home isolation period after discharge is now reduced to seven days instead of the earlier 14 days. However, severe cases will be discharged only after complete clinical recovery. While mild and moderate cases will be subjected to Truenat test before discharge, the severe Covid-19 cases will undergo RT-PCR test.  The state, which took nearly 48 days to conduct the first one lakh tests, carried out the second one lakh tests in just 12 days. The positivity rate stood at 1.42% for the first one lakh tests, while it decreased to 1.06% by the time the state crossed the 2 lakh testing milestone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/with-57-new-cases-ap-tally-rises-to-2157/articleshow/75767190.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Bareilly||160 madrassa students from North East states sent home||Bareilly: Days after 19 Kashmiri traders and workers, who were stranded in UP's Moradabad, were sent back home ahead of Eid Al-Fitr, now at least 160 madrassa students from the North Eaststudying in Rampur-based educational institutions were sent to their home states. Local administration said that 600 students from different districts of UP, Bihar and North East states such as Meghalaya, Assam and Manipur were studying in various madrassas in Rampur.Sub-divisional magistrate of Tanda in Rampur, Gaurav Kumar, said that 600 students enrolled in madrassas were still stuck in the city and they were desperate to return to their respective places since no classes were going on. And Eid was approaching.District's minority welfare officer Mohammad Khalid told TOI that of 321 madrassas running in Rampur, nearly 10,000 students, mostly from North East, are enrolled here. Apart from 600, all others have already left for their home state.“After the second week of March, there was a sense that the Covid-19 outbreak will spread and upset people's plans. Madrassas' management then began sending their students back to their respective home states. So, most of the students -except for 600 - had left for home by March 24,” DMO Khalid said.The officer further said that the local administration helped the madrassas’ management in getting the nod from North East states. Students underwent medical examination to ensure no one was infected with the virus. In the next few days, the remaining students will also be sent home, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/160-madrassa-students-from-north-east-states-sent-home/articleshow/75767192.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: Doctors suspect ‘happy hypoxia’for deaths of young patients||JAIPUR: When a 25-year-old youth from Pali was brought dead to a hospital on May 10, the doctors shook their heads in disbeilief. Similarly, in Jaipur, a 24-year-old man, a resident of Bhatta Basti, was brought dead to Kanwatia Hospital, which is hardly 10 minutes away from his residence. He too, tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday. A 17-year-old girl was also brought dead to JLN Hospital from a hotel at Delhi Gate, where she was residing recently. All these patients were rushed to hospitals after they complained of sudden tightness of the chest and difficulty in breathing. Doctors now suspect a condition called 'happy hypoxia' to be the cause of the deaths of some young Covid-19 patients in the state. "These were Wuhan-like deaths which we have read about. The patient dies suddenly without getting any medical attention. The death of the 25-year-old man in Pali is suspected to be a case of happy hypoxia where a patient does not realise that he is sick and dies due to low level of oxygen concentration at about 60% which causes hypoxia,” said Dr H M Chaudhary of Pali district hospital. Dr L Harshwardhan, superintendent of Kanwatia Hospital in Shastri Nagar, too expressed his disbelief as after the 24-year-old patient was brought dead and was found to be infected with Covid-19. “His neighbours brought him to the hospital but the patient was already dead,” he said. The doctors claimed that the patient suffered cardiac arrest due to lower level of blood oxygen. But many doctors are not much aware of the distressing trend emerging in the state. A similar incident had happened at Arwad village near Khetri town in Ajmer district when a 13-year-old girl, who looked healthy, died suddenly on Thursday. The health department’s team, without taking her samples, declared her non-Covid-19 and allowed the family to cremate the body, despite the family members urging them to conduct the virus test. Similar cases have also been reported from SMS Hospital, where more than 15 persons were brought dead and tested positive for the virus later. “We have made it a protocol to conduct tests on persons brought dead. Before Covid-19, all sudden deaths were considered as medico-legal cases such as poisoning. But these sudden deaths are happening with Covid-19 infections too,” said Dr Ajit Singh, additional superintendent and member of the core group for treatment of Covid-19 cases at SMS Hospital. “In some coronavirus cases, the ventilation mechanism of lungs get compromised. Patients suffer from acute respiratory distress syndrome and their condition deteriorates rapidly causing sudden death in some cases,” he said. Health department officials claimed that they were continuously checking the health of people, measuring blood oxygen levels of patients, especially in high-risk groups and living in hotspots. This is also being done while conducting door-to-door surveys in hotspot areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/docs-suspect-happy-hypoxiafor-deaths-of-young-patients/articleshow/75768084.cms||Syed Intishab Ali
May 16, 2020||Pune||Pune: Cap on strength worries firms looking to reopen||PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: Industries in Pimpri Chinchwad municipal limits getting the nod to resume operations — with 33% staff strength — has presented micro and small businesses with a fresh headache. Many Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) employ 10 people or fewer, and say they will not be able to function effectively at a third of their strength. “We have eight employees. How can we start with fewer than three employees?,” asked a small industrial unit owner. Not only this, companies must also declare whom among their employees will come to work, something many said was “inflexible” and impractical”. Other reasons that have manufacturing units worried are the insistence on a prohibition of four-wheelers and a bar on the entry of employees from Pune municipal limits, among others. PCMC commissioner Shravan Hardikar reasoned that the guidelines were in place to ensure that the industrial units come out of this ‘chakravyuh’ (maze) safely. “We understand that these guidelines are very restrictive, but we want to be careful because, should the number of cases increase, there is a possibility that the industries will be shut down again,” Hardikar said during a webinar organized by Mahratta Chamber of Commerce, Industries and Agriculture (MCCIA), attended by over 750 industry representatives. Urging the industries to implement all the laid-down guidelines, Hardikar said the extent of the shutdown in case there is a positive case will depend on the measures taken by industrial units in their respective areas. Representatives, meanwhile, said not allowing people from Pune to come to work meant that senior staff of many company would not be able to report to work, impairing operations. To this, Hardikar said such executives can consider moving to PCMC limits, where they can be put up in a hotel or temporary accommodation till the situation improves. This prompted some representatives to wonder out loud: “Who will foot the bill?” Further, those present said arranging a company bus for five to six people was neither practical nor cost-effective. But the municipal commissioner was firm on this. “Two-wheelers are not allowed,” Hardikar said. “Riders can move anywhere and so we are taking this precaution and not allowing two-wheeler movement in the civic limits,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cap-on-strength-worries-firms-looking-to-reopen/articleshow/75768078.cms||Satyanarayan Iyer
May 16, 2020||Mangaluru||Kudla entrepreneur moots idea ‘less gives more’ to PM Modi||Mangaluru: While Rs 20 lakh crore mega financial package announcement by Prime Minister Narendra Modi for a self-reliant India enthused many, there were a few like Sumith Rao, city-based entrepreneur, who declined to avail its benefits. Calling himself a proud employer, Sumith instead urged the government to pare what the SMEs owe to the government. By doing so industries will keep running and help the government earn more In a open letter to PM, Sumith said, “While I appreciate your thoughtfulness to provide large scale relief, even if a bit late, I regret to inform you that I am not at all enthused by your gesture. I ‘am a proud employer. I will not take any such handouts. If the government really want small industrialists to survive, please reduce what we must give the government. By doing so you will keep industries running and earn more. The idea is ‘less gives more’,” he said. The seeming bravado in face of adversity before the economy, Sumith also came up with a set of 13 ‘prescriptions’ of his own. These include rebate of 5% in GST for an year. “Then prices of finished products will come down and more purchases will be made,” he said urging for uniform tariff rate for electricity for a year instead of higher rates for more units consumed. This will help increase production and earn more revenue, he added. Reduce interest rates to an uniform 5% or all SME’s for 1 year. This will enable SMEs to pay interest and run businesses. This will ensure less NPAs, less one-time settlements and people will not let their industries to die resulting in banks earning more. He urged for simplification of labour laws, taxation laws (both GST and income tax) and have more simplified procedures for filing of PF and ESI with single form which will save time for all. Giving eight other suggestions, Sumith said with these, the Prime Minister could help small industrialists help the nation grow. Reiterating small industrialists do not want government dole, he reaffirmed that the SMEs are asking for financial support relaxations for only one year. “We just want you to be a partner in our progress and let exchequer earn enough money to put the nation on a firm footing by adhering to credo less is more, Sumith added. EOM/May 14, 2020||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/kudla-entrepreneur-moots-idea-less-gives-more-to-pm-modi/articleshow/75766391.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Tossed between hospitals, Covid-19 patient loses life||AHMEDABAD: Aijaz Saiyad, a resident of Gomtipur, was teary-eyed on Friday while narrating the two-day ordeal he and his father, Hasnuddin, 67, had to go through for two days. Hasnuddin died while in an ambulance on Thursday evening while being ferried from Civil Hospital to Tapan Hospital in Anandnagar. Saiyad said that they regularly went to Narayana Hospital in Rakhial for his father’s dialysis. On May 12, they went to the hospital for the procedure when the temperature scanner detected his father’s mild fever. “Being a Covid-19 designated hospital, I said that they can treat him as a suspected patient and start treatment, but the hospital authorities said that they cannot and asked us to get a test done. Surprisingly, the doctors did not agree to give us the test and we had to get it done by another GP,” he said. On second day, they managed to get the test results after much of an ordeal and again approached the hospital. “My father had tested positive. The hospital told us that they were full and could not admit my father,” said Saiyed. Abhijit CP, facility director at Narayana Hospital, told TOI that they could not admit Saiyed as he was not a Covid-19 patient according to protocol. “When they came the next day, it’s possible that all of our 27 beds may have been occupied,” he added. In need of dialysis, the father-son duo went to GCS near Chamunda Bridge where they were told that if the person is Covid-19 positive, he would be treated for that only. They then went to Sola Civil Hospital. As the complications worsened, they were referred to Civil Hospital on May 14. The experience at the biggest Covid-19 treatment centre was far from satisfactory as they were allegedly asked to wait, and told that the dialysis could start only after intervention of a doctor at the Civil Hospital campus known to them. The experience prompted the family again to find an alternative in private sector. They talked to Tapan Hospital after which they agreed to admit him and look after his dialysis complications. “I don’t know whether Covid-19, his already deteriorating health conditions or the sheer apathy from multiple fronts killed my father. I just wish no positive patient has to undergo what we have been through,” said Saiyed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/tossed-between-hospitals-covid-19-patient-loses-life/articleshow/75767345.cms||Parth Shastri
May 16, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: Aarogya app, mask must for metro ride||LUCKNOW: It will be mandatory for commuters to download Aarogya Setu app in their mobile phones and wear masks for travelling in Lucknow metro as and when it starts running after lifting of the lockdown. Metro officials finalised guideliens for Metro travel on Thursday and announced that UP Metro Rail Corporation (UPMRC) is ready to resume services on 23 km North-South metro corridor if the state government decides to ease restrictions from May18. Lockdown 3.0 is ending on May 17. According to the UPMRC guidelines, it will be mandatory for passengers to wear mask and have Aarogya Setu app installed on their mobile phones. All entry points will have hand sanitisers and commuters will be allowed entry only after santizing hands. Thermal scanning of all passengers will be done and those with flu-like symptoms will not be allowed to travel. All trains and platforms will be sanitized regularly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/aarogya-app-mask-must-for-metro-ride/articleshow/75768083.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: Property registration opens in hotspots from Monday||PUNE: All 519 property registration offices in the state, irrespective of the Covid-19 zones they fall in, will be operational from Monday, state revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat said on Friday. Thorat told TOI that the offices will operate in such a manner so as to avoid a rush. They will issue a token and people will visit these offices once they receive a computer-generated slip which can also be used as travel passes for commuting to these places, he said. “We have to start the property registration, especially in the red zone areas of Pune, Mumbai and Thane that register the maximum properties with caution as the state is into heavy losses,” the minister said. They had considered online registration, but security issues forced them to decide on the token system. On Friday, Pune district collector Naval Kishore Ram declared that 21 property registration offices in the rural areas will operate from Monday. Orders for 28 registration offices in Pune city are awaited. State Inspector General of Registration and Stamps Omprakash Deshmukh said some rural offices in the orange and green Covid-19 zones were open but hardly any registration was happening. After dialogues with the respective collectors, they operated offices in 33 districts.  The remaining offices will start after we get orders from the state government and the collectors from each district, he said. “We have received orders to re-start the registration offices in Pune rural areas as of now. We can start the offices in the city areas of Pune, Mumbai and Thane once we get the orders,” Deshmukh said. In the green and orange zones that opened on Thursday, 1,700 documents were registered in a day with the department mopping up Rs 7.90 crore. Some confusion prevailed over allowing people from containment areas to move around to reach registration offices outside them and whether inter-district travel will be allowed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/property-registration-opens-in-hotspots-from-monday/articleshow/75768067.cms||Nisha Nambiar
May 16, 2020||Aurangabad||500 beds of MGM hospital for Covid-19||AURANGABAD: Civic chief and city administrator Astik Kumar Pandey on Friday said that as many as 500 beds of Mahatma Gandhi Mission (MGM) hospital has been dedicated for treatment of Covid-19 patients. “The hospital will be provided with personal protection equipment (PPE) kits and face masks by the Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC),” he said, adding that there is no shortage of beds for treatment of Covid-19 cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/500-beds-of-mgm-hosp-for-covid-19/articleshow/75764963.cms||Arpita Sharad
May 16, 2020||Delhi||Lock, stock and barren: Most shops shuttered, few open have scant biz||New Delhi: While Delhi government wants permission from the central government for shops in markets to operate on odd-even basis and for a third of stores in malls to also resume business, there has been a sluggish response to the reopening of specified commercial establishments after the Covid-19 lockdown was extended. TOI visited some markets in Vasant Kunj, RK Puram, Kamla Nagar, Laxmi Nagar, GTB Nagar, Naraina, and Gandhi Nagar, among others, and found 70% of standalone shops permitted to resume operations lying closed. Traders cleaning their premises or idling with shutters half open expressed their view that the markets wouldn’t pick up for another three months for lack of customers, paucity of supplies and labour and the lingering fear of infection. In Naraina, almost a quarter of the standalone establishments were open on Friday. Shoe seller Deepak Goyal in Naraina Vihar said, however, that all his workers had left and he had no one to service the customers. There’s also an undertone of fear in the locality, evident in rope barriers at all open shops and buyers and sellers transacting business from either side of a six-feet gap. Usually crammed with people and vehicles, Kamla Nagar wore a deserted look on Friday. A tailor shop owner Mahesh Rathore instantly responded, “Yes, on Monday”, when asked if the shops would reopen at the end of the lockdown phase ending on Sunday, May 17. “The shops selling non-essential items are cleaning stocks left unattended after the sudden lockdown two months ago,” Rathore said. His friend, a garments businessman, optimistically explained, “Right now only essential items are permitted to be sold, so customers come with the minimum requirements. But when non-essential items begin selling, the footfall will increase. Even if the market gets a tenth of normal clientele in the first three weeks, shops will be able to earn at least enough pay employee salaries,” he said. But his enthusiasm wasn’t shared by businesses already open. Eateries, for instance, are doing poorly. A manager of a restaurant in GTB Nagar reported, “Despite advertising our takeaway offers, orders have gone down by half. People don’t feel comfortable buying food from outside. Also, due to the cash crisis, they spending less on services like ours.” Standalone stores too are mostly shut. Mahmud, owner of Upkar Tailors on Outer Ring Road, did open shop a week ago, but realised there was little to do. “What can customers down when cloth markets are shut and buses are not plying? Only when everything is open will work pick up,” he reasoned. Despite the growing heat, fans and desert coolers don’t have too many takers either. On Delhi Cantt Road, cooler seller Shiv Narayan felt people were still wary of leaving their homes. “By this time, I would have sold 100 coolers at least. This year, I have sold less than 10 units. It will take me two years to recover my losses,” he said. Things appeared better in places like Vasant Vihar, RK Puram Sector 1 and Munirka. Dev Narayan, head of security at Ansal Chambers at Bhikaji Cama Place, said, “Around 10% of the offices have opened. Things will return to normal.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/lock-stock-and-barren-most-shops-shuttered-few-open-have-scant-biz/articleshow/75768102.cms||Vibha Sharma
May 16, 2020||Bareilly||After covering 440km in 3 days, group of migrants goes straight to hospital for check up||Bareilly: Covering a distance of 440km, mostly on foot and rest by hitch-hiking, a group of over 25 people reached Bareilly from Jaipur in three days and straightaway went to a government hospital to get themselves examined on Friday. Carrying their luggage on their heads, the group of workers, along with their wife and children, “did not want to risk the lives of others”. Mohammad Faryam, a native of Singhai Moraban village of Bareilly said, “Before starting our journey, we had decided that we will enter the village only after our health check-up is done. We do not want to risk the lives of other villagers.” Faryam who travelled to Bareilly along with his wife and four children said, “My wife and I were working as a zari (hand embroidery) artisan in Jaipur and would earn Rs 500 per day. Following the lockdown, we were jobless and struggled to arrange food for the children. Hence, we decided to walk to Bareilly.” Tahir Hussain, who too was accompanied by his wife and children, said, “We have heard that villagers are becoming suspicious of people returning from other states. As we do not want to cause any inconvenience to anyone back home, we decided to get ourselves examined first so that there will be no doubt among locals.” Talking about his journey, Hussain said, “We started three days ago from Jaipur. Though we mostly walked, we would get free rides on trucks and other vehicles for 20 to 30 kilometres. However, many people on the way gave us food.” Another migrant worker, Sandeep Kumar, a resident of Fatehganj East said, “We started my journey from Gurgaon where I used to work in a factory but met other migrants from Jaipur on way. I moved to Gurgaon a week before lockdown and faced hardship after the factory was shut down.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/after-covering-440km-in-3-days-group-of-migrants-goes-straight-to-hospital-for-check-up/articleshow/75767204.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
May 16, 2020||Kolkata||Dhakuria free market for transgenders||Like any other member of the unorganized sector, a large number of transgender people have been living a life of struggle for the past two months. While some have been lucky to collect free ration from camps organized by police and NGOs, the others have been trying to make ends meet with whatever help they can get from people they know. In a bid to lessen their plight to some extent, a group of Dhakuria residents, under the banner of a social service group, called Dhakuria Tarun Mahal, invited more than 200 transgender people to a free market on Maharaja Tagore Road on Friday. The idea was to help them with essentials. Some of the Dhakuria residents knew two trasgender persons from Baghajatin and Jadavpur, whom they asked to spread the word among their acquaintances and bring them to the free market. Members of the community, who usually eke out a living by begging on trains on the Sealdah South section were contacted; they in turn called their other friends. “We called the initiative Utsarga. We kept groceries, fruits and vegetables at different counters and asked the transgender people to take their pick,” said Srikumar Ghosh, spokesperson for the initiative. To ensure there was no crowding at the fair, councillor Madhuchanda Deb, along with cops from the Lake police station, helped everyone maintain social distancing. “We are calling it physical distancing but social solidarity,” said Krishnendu Ganguly, another resident. Ever since the lockdown started, the group has been serving food to more than 200 homeless people at Dhakuria station every day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/dhakuria-free-market-for-transgenders/articleshow/75767216.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
May 16, 2020||Hyderabad||T records 40 fresh cases, total at 1,454||Hyderabad: Telangana on Friday reported 40 new Covid-19 cases, taking the overall tally to 1,454. Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) continued to report high number of cases with 33 cases, including seven cases involving migrant workers. The number of recoveries is inching towards the 1,000 mark, with 13 more people getting discharged on Friday. So far, 959 people have been discharged and gone home. While the number of deaths stands at 34, the number of active cases are 461. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-records-40-fresh-cases-total-at-1454/articleshow/75767206.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Rajkot||21 more recover from Covid-19 infection in Aravalli||Palanpur: Twenty-one people who recovered from Covid-19 infection were discharged from Vatrak Covid hospital in Aravalli district on Friday. In all, 62 people have recovered from the coronavirus infection in the district, said district health officer (DHO) Dr. Ashish Nayak.Vipul Patel of Dhokrol village in Modasa taluka, who was among the 21 discharged said, “One should not be frightened of the disease but cooperate with the doctors and staffers.”Meanwhile, in Palanpur, eight people including four women who hail from Vasni Palanpur taluka, Gadh and Deesa were discharged on Friday. Dr Jawahar Chandani, the executive officer of Banas Medical College said, the tally of Covid patients discharged was now 49 in Banaskantha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/21-more-recover-from-covid-19-infection-in-aravalli/articleshow/75767200.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Pune||Plans to resume bus services between green and orange zone districts: Anil Parab||PUNE: The Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) is planning to resume passenger bus services between green and orange zone districts soon, state transport minister Anil Parab has said. “We are planning to resume movement of buses between one green zone district and another, from one orange zone district to another or between green and orange zone districts. However, the CM’s decision is awaited in this regard,” Parab said, adding, “Once we are through with the prevailing focus on transporting people stranded in different districts, we shall extend the services to general passengers.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/plans-to-resume-bus-services-between-green-and-orange-zone-districts-parab/articleshow/75768088.cms||Joy Sengupta
May 16, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: 90 stranded madrassa students leave for home||LUCKNOW: As many as 90 students of a Lucknow madrassa were sent to their homes in other states in buses on Friday. The students, aged 8-16 years, were stranded since the lockdown began on March 25. While 84 students belonged to Bihar, three each were from West Bengal and Jharkhand. All these students were studying at Arabia Khadmul Uloom in Akbarnagar locality of Mahanagar. As the relived children walked out of the madrassa hostel with heavy bags, people showered rose petals on them on Akbarpur Road. While the children were overjoyed after weeks of isolation, they forgot to follow social distancing norms while celebrations peaked. For eight-year-old Salman Alam of Buxar, it was ‘kheer’ prepared by his mother Ruksana which he missed the most during the lockdown. “Whenever I cried, the caretaker used to dial my mother. She would tell me she was preparing kheer and that I would get home soon if I stopped crying,” he said. For Inzamam (14) of Katihar, long walks with his father were most cherished. “My father Waqar and I walked and played chess. He has a small shop while I was sent here to study Quran and become a ‘hafiz’,” he said. Imam Maulana Jahangir said three local guardians of the children had also been sent on the buses. DCP (north) Shalini said all students were screened and tested before being sent to their states. “We have arranged for lunch and refreshments for the children for their journey,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/90-stranded-madrassa-students-leave-for-home/articleshow/75768096.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat changes testing norms, hope for procedures in limbo||AHMEDABAD: A day after TOI published a report on how hundreds of medical procedures in Gujarat are in limbo due to the lack of timely Covid-19 testing, the state government on Friday issued a notification, identifying 10 major categories for testing. The government however remained adamant on the clause that there would be no testing in private labs without the permission of CDHO. The notification issued by Dr Dinkar Raval, additional director of Gujarat Medical Services Corporation Ltd (GMSCL), on Friday says that about 1 lakh procedures taking place every month in Gujarat require testing. So far, 12 private labs in Gujarat have been given permission by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). “To ensure that there is no lacunae in treatment of patients at government, private and corporate hospitals, samples of those for operation, child delivery, dialysis, invasive procedure, etc. would be able to be tested keeping in mind current scenario and ICMR guidelines,’ mentioned the notification. The notification added that for test in private labs, the patients would have to seek permission of CDHO in respective districts. For Ahmedabad district, the deciding authority is the superintendent of GMERS Medical College at Sola. “We welcome the move by the state government. But we hope that the permissions will be timely,” said a city-based surgeon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/state-changes-testing-norms-hope-for-procedures-in-limbo/articleshow/75767341.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Bhopal||Pragya Singh Thakur hits out at Congress for labelling her ‘missing’||BHOPAL: BJP Lok Sabha member from Bhopal, Pragya Singh Thakur on Friday hit out at the Congress for declaring her ‘missing' and raising questions on her presence amid Covid-19 crisis in the state. Pragya said Congress has turned insensitive and insulting against her even if she is unwell. "I am unwell. I am still bearing the brunt of atrocities committed by the Congress. The Congress' insensitive statement about me is reflective of their cheap mentality. The Congress has always insulted women Sanyasis (saints) and patriots. MLA Rameshwar Sharma has given a befitting reply to the Congress," tweeted Pragya, on Friday. The Sadhvi's remarks came in view of the attack by Congress state spokesperson Ravi Saxena who had announced that the BJP MP was ‘missing' and declared a reward of Rs 5,000 to whosoever finds Pragya. Saxana said that when the entire country is reeling under Covid outbreak, the absence of Pragya Singh Thakur from MP and Bhopal is questionable. "Bhopal has been battling the Carona epidemic for the last three months. Several victims have died. Hundreds infected people are struggling with life and death. In such an uneven crisis, Bhopal MP Pragya Thakur is missing," said Saxena. Reacting on Congress leader's comments, BJP MLA from Huzur assembly seat, Rameshwar Sharma said that Sadhvi Pragay is suffering serious ailments due to atrocities committed on her during Congress rule. She is keeping an eye on the activities from New Delhi, he clarified. "Sadhvi ji is suffering the pain of injustice done by Digvijaya Singh who committed injustice to prove his false story of Hindu and saffron terrorism during the then Manmohan Singh government," Sharma reacted sharply. He further asked, "The Congress leaders who are accusing Sadhvi ji should tell where is former chief minister Kamal Nath? Where was he last seen?," said Sharma.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/pragya-hits-out-at-cong-for-labelling-her-missing/articleshow/75767201.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Pune||Pune doctors take on challenge with liver transplant in lockdown||PUNE: Under extreme infection control measures, a team of doctors carried out a cadaver liver transplant at Sahyadri Hospital on May 15, the first vital organ transplant during the lockdown. A 49-year-old farmer from Ahmednagar met with an accident and was moved to Ruby Hall Clinic on May 12 where he was declared brain dead. His family donated his liver which was transplanted into a 62-year-old Pune woman with end-stage liver disease at Sahyadri Hospital "At a time when the organ transplantation programme has come to a halt because of rising Covid-19 cases, the liver transplant is hope for patients suffering from chronic illnesses owing to organ failure," transplant coordinator Aarti Gokhle of Zonal Transplant Coordination Committee (ZTCC) told TOI. Infection-related rules are stringent during this time. A donor should not have any infection. Also, it is not easy to get the recipient, because many are not willing to undergo surgery during active virus transmission. “When we were sure that we can undertake organ donation and transplant, we approached the family of the brain dead patient for their consent,” neurosugeon Kapil Zirpe of Ruby Hall Clinic said. Sahyadri hospital's transplant surgeon Bipin Vibhute said the surgery took longer since movement took time because of the PPE kit. “We tried to keep minimum staff in the operation room. The patient is stable and doing well," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/docs-take-on-challenge-with-liver-transplant-in-lockdown/articleshow/75768106.cms||Umesh Isalkar
May 16, 2020||Kolhapur||Most Covid-19 cases now coming from rural areas of Kolhapur||KOLHAPUR: The rural areas of Kolhapur and adjoining districts, which had barely reported a handful of cases till now, are suddenly registering more cases now. Easy access to rural areas during lockdown for people returning home was the main reason for the cases in these districts. Data from the health departments revealed that around 37 of the 43 Covid-19 cases in Sangli are from rural areas, while in Satara too, most of the over 100 cases area from the rural parts. The story for Kolhapur is no different when it comes to the rural area being affected, out of its around 26 total positive cases around 13 or more are from the rural areas of the district. The common link with all the three districts is the travel history of the ‘index patient’. Sangli district health officer Bhupal Girigosavi said the spread of the contagion started from those with travel history. “The administration has set up check posts and fortunately we have been able to intercept these patients. The current lot of people arriving from red zone areas will be quite challenging for the health department. Agreeing with Girigosavi, Satara district health officer Aniruddha Athalye told TOI it was challenging at first to handle the increase in cases but containment zone is easier to set up in rural areas. “If citizens cooperate, it can be restrained with much less efforts,” he said. Kolhapur district recorded two more positive cases on Friday. A 30-year-old man from Jambhalewadi village and a 23-year-old from Ichalkaranji tested positive for Covid-19. With this, the total number of positive patients in Kolhapur, according to the district information office’s 5.30 pm data, reached to 28. Meanwhile, Solapur district has recorded two more Covid-19 deaths on Friday, taking the tally of the total deaths to 24. The district also witnessed 13 fresh cases on the same day, taking the total number of positive patients to 343.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/most-covid-19-cases-now-coming-from-rural-areas-of-kolhapur/articleshow/75764988.cms||Piyush Bhusari
May 16, 2020||Aurangabad||Three held after high court directive||AURANGABAD: After the Aurangabad bench of Bombay high court admitted a suo motu PIL in an incident where the house of a nurse, working at regional Covid care centre, was attacked, the city police have not only registered a cognizable offence, but have also arrested three accused in the case. The accused, fearing that the nurse may spread Covid-19 infection in their locality, had on Monday pelted stones at the house, asking the nurse to leave the locality. The incident took place at Mali Galli, behind Savita Banquet Hall in Chikalthana After the nurse and her husband approached police, the MIDC Cidco police had registered a non-cognizable offence and released the accused with a warning. However, after the incident was reported in newspapers, the high court admitted a suo motu PIL in this regard and asked the authorities to initiate appropriate action against those attacking corona warriors. Following this commissioner of police Chiranjeev Prasad issued directives for registering of an offence against the accused — Karbhari Hiwale, Suresh Kale and Yogesh Jagannath Kale.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/3-held-after-high-court-directive/articleshow/75764976.cms||Mohammed Akhef
May 16, 2020||Jaipur||Up to Rs 3 lakh loans for Rajasthan farmers at 3% against produce||JAIPUR: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Friday announced loans for farmers against their produce at subsidised interest rates to prevent distress sale. As per the announcement, farmers will get loans at 3% interest, with the loan amount capped at Rs 1.5 lakh for small and marginal farmers and Rs 3 lakh for big farmers. The government will allocate Rs 50 crore from the Kisan Kalyan Yojna to provide the interest rate subsidy of 7% on the loans. During the harvest season, when the supply is more, farmers are forced to sell their produce at cheaper rates to meet their immediate financial obligation. If they wait for better rates, they have to take loans at higher rates from middlemen. “Now, the farmers will not need to go to middlemen for loans who charge more. They can avail loans at 3% interest rate and wait or bargain for better rates for their produce,” the chief minister said in a release. These loans need to be paid back within 90 days or 180 days in extraordinary circumstances for availing the interest rate subsidy. Farmers who are members of village cooperative societies that are audited and do not have NPAs of more than 10% will be eligible for these loans. Similarly, the state government also exempted private warehouses operating as mandis from paying fees of Rs 15 lakh. “The government believes that more mandis will offer better opportunities to farmers to get a fair price for their produce. That’s why the land size criteria has also been removed for warehouses which want to operate as mandis,” the release said. The chief minister also announced that outlets for selling seeds will be opened in 200 mandis in the state. He said that already 97 places have been identified and land will be allocated for another 103.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/up-to-3-lakh-loans-for-state-farmers-at-3-against-produce/articleshow/75768113.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Rajkot||Scam of issuing bogus intercity passes busted in Rajkot||Rajkot: Seventeen people were arrested for making and possessing duplicate passes of district collector in Rajkot on Thursday night. Amit Motwani (29), who made the duplicate passes, and touts — Anil Mangwani (35) and Paresh Punjabi (36) — were among those arrested. “Mangwani had a pass issued by district collector. Mangwani approached Motwani with the pass. Motwani copied the district collector’s stamp from the official website and subsequently made a stamp with which he stamped it on 20 people’s photographs on duplicate passes,” said J H Sarvaiya, assistant commissioner of police, Rajkot crime branch. “Motwani asked Mangwani and Punjabi to look for people in need of passes. Punjabi, an electrician, got fellow electricians to buy the passes from them,” said Sarvaiya. “Mangwani and Punjabi would charge Rs1,000 for a pass, from which they would give Rs300 to Motwani as his share. Motwani, who owns a photography studio, had fabricated the duplicate passes there,” said H M Gadhvi, inspector with Rajkot crime branch. So far, 17 passes have been recovered from the accused who told cops that they had issued 20 until now. The pass allowed a holder to move freely in Rajkot city, which is under lockdown to contain the spread of Covid-19. The crime branch received a tip off about the racket on Thursday. The cops first rounded up Motwani and then arrested 16 others, including Mangwani and Punjabi. The others arrested were electricians from Railnagar, Junction Plot, Gayakvadi and Popatpara localities of Rajkot. The accused have been booked several Indian Penal Code sections and The Epidemic Diseases Act. “The accused have been made to undergo test for Covid-19,” Gadhvi added. They would be seen produced in the court soon, sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/scam-of-issuing-bogus-intercity-passes-busted/articleshow/75767212.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: Lockdown leads to lowest pollution level in 4 years||LUCKNOW: If you want to see the perfect amalgamation of Nawabi, colonial and modern era architecture of the city in one frame, literally, your time is now. Go to the rooftop of a tall building in the city and you can easily catch a glimpse of the city’s diverse grandeur, thanks to the clean air and visibility of up to 8 km because of low pollution. TOI lensman, who set up a drone camera above Rumi Darwaza, captured colonial ‘Council House’, which is now Vidhan Bhawan, which is 5km away from the spot and on the other side, the modern architecture of Jai Prakash Narayan International Centre in Gomtinagar, at a distance of 8km from Rumi Darwaza. The splendid view has been possible because the city has recorded low pollution levels for the past 50 days since the lockdown began. For 31 of these days, the city’s Air Quality Index (AQI) was ‘satisfactory’. According to an analysis of Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) air pollution data available since 2016, pollution level from March 25 till May 14 (50 days) was lowest in four years. Reduction in vehicular load and halting of commercial and industrial activities during the lockdown period have led to this. Satisfactory air means means exposure to air which leads to only minor breathing discomfort to sensitive people only. On 19 days, AQI was ‘moderate’, which means breathing discomfort to people with respiratory issues. From 2016 till 2019, during the same period, more than 50% of days recorded poor or ‘very poor’ air quality, while remaining days saw a moderate air quality. There was not a single day of ‘satisfactory’ air quality in the last four days during this period. According to environmentalist Venkatesh Dutta, “The fall in pollution level is due to the closure of construction activities, suspension of all modes of transportation and no emission of air pollutants from industries and dust suspension from broken roads.” He said the city wakes up to clear blue sky and sleeps under glittering stars visible through naked eyes due to low pollution levels.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lockdown-leads-to-lowest-pollution-level-in-4-yrs/articleshow/75768118.cms||Mohita Tewari
May 16, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh deployed 10,000 buses to ferry migrant labrourers||BHOPAL: Madhya Pradesh government has deployed about 10,000 buses to ferry its migrant workers to their home districts and those from other states entering the state borders on way to their native states. MP is the only state in the country to have provided free transport facility and food to the migrants workers passing through. About Rs 29 crore have been spent on food and transport of these workers, said an official statement. These migrant workers headed for other states entering MP are bused to MP borders, said an official statement. So far, 3.39 lakh labourers of MP have been brought back. About 35,000 labourers of other states who reached MP borders on foot or by any other means have been bused to the bordering states in the last 3 days. Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan had issued instructions to ensure arrangements for free buses and food along the border of the state for the workers of other states. MP being located at the centre of the country, labourers going to Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand from states like Maharashtra, Gujarat and Rajasthan are passing through the state. There is pressure of labourer influx from Maharashtra on the Sendhwa border. The government is continually increasing the number of buses there, the released said. Chouhan assured the migrant workers that all will be sent safely to their destinations. There is no need for any labourer to starve, remain thirsty and travel on foot in the state. He said that they should remain patient under all circumstances. More than 25,000 labourers have been sent to their home states in 615 buses from Badi Bijasan of Sendhwa from May 12 to May 15. While 4,200 labourers were sent in 104 buses on May 12, 4,400 labourers in 110 buses on May 13, 6,400 labourers in 160 buses on May 14 and 10,478 workers in 241 buses on May 15 from Dewas to the border of their states. Buses are also ferrying labourers reaching the other borders of the state like Jhabua, Alirajpur, Neemuch Sheopur, Morena and Seoni. Food, drinking water and other arrangements have been ensured for the labourers reaching these places. As many as 96,000 labourers from the state stranded in other states have been brought to MP through trains. Buses have also been provided from stations to reach their destinations. So far, 77 trains have arrived carrying labourers, on Friday one train reached from Haryana, 4 from Maharashtra and 2 from Gujarat. On Saturday, 8 trains will take labourers to various districts of MP. Altogether 2.43 lakh labourers of the state have been brought by road. So far, 1.72 lakh workers have been brought back from Gujarat, 52,000 from Rajasthan and 78,000 from Maharashtra. Apart from this, labourers have also been brought from Goa, Punjab, Delhi, Haryana, Kerala, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/mp-deployed-10000-buses-to-ferry-migrant-labrourers/articleshow/75767214.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Pune||Pune: Association awaits government orders, shops raise shutters||PUNE: Hundreds of stores selling non-essential items are opening across the city in a bid to make up for the heavy loss they incurred since the lockdown began from the weekend beginning March 15. Despite repeated appeals made by the Federation of Trade Associations of Pune (FTAP) to keep the shops closed until the Covid-19 curve flattened a bit in the city, most traders said going back to work was the need of the hour. “We have not taken any new decision regarding opening of stores during the lockdown 4.0 starting from May 18 as we are waiting for the directions of the state and the Union governments. We have had a discussion with the PMC commissioner, who said new directives from the government are likely to come by Saturday,” said Mahendra Pitaliya, secretary of FTAP. A trader from Karve Road said, “The lockdown was officially announced until April 15. But it’s already the middle of May and there’s no signs of any improvement in the city. We, however, cannot keep the shutters down indefinitely.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/association-awaits-govt-orders-shops-raise-shutters/articleshow/75768111.cms||Rujuta Parekh
May 16, 2020||Kolhapur||Sharad Pawar demands bail package for ailing sugar industry in Maharashtra||KOLHAPUR: NCP chief Sharad Pawar on Friday took up the issue of the ailing sugar industry in Maharashtra and asked for increasing the minimum statutory price (MSP) of sugar by Rs 3 per kg. In a letter sent to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Pawar has attached a letter from Maharashtra State Cooperative Sugar Factories Ltd (MSCFL) — an apex body of cooperative sugar mills in the state — and sought urgent intervention for bailing out the sugar industry that is facing crisis due to the national lockdown. The MSCSFL and sugar mills have been demanding an increase in MSP of sugar for the past three years to meet the manufacturing cost and other expenses. Highlighting that the sale of sugar has declined in both domestic and international market, the MSCFL has demanded that the MSP of the sugar should be increased. Pawar has suggested that the union government should provide funds to clear all export incentives that have been pending for the past two years. “The pending bills for buffer stock should also be made immediately,” Pawar has said, adding that it would help the industry to clear bank outstanding payment along with other expenses. The NCP supremo has also asked for a one-time grant of Rs 650 per tonne sugar cane crushed during the past two consecutive years. The amount will be around Rs 19,500 crore and it will help the mills in making the payments to the farmers and salaries of the employees. Pawar has insisted that government should take a policy decision on treating sugar mill distilleries as strategic business units and banking finance should be provided to ethanol projects, started by the sugar mills. Welcoming the Rs 20 lakh crore package announced by the PM, Pawar said that the sugar industry should also benefit from it. Meanwhile, the ongoing lockdown has severely affected the operations of sugar mills as most of them had completed their crushing season for 2019-2020. Out of 141 sugar factories, which were granted licenses for crushing sugar cane, 70 mills have made full FRP payment to the farmers while 71 had made partial payments. Sugar commissioner office has calculated the total FRP payment to the farmers to the tune of Rs 9,344 crore, and the mills are yet to pay Rs 1,169 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/pawar-demands-bail-package-for-ailing-sugar-industry/articleshow/75764986.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Patna||Woman gives birth after 900km journey on foot, truck||Patna: A 28-year-old heavily pregnant woman covered 900kms all the way from Noida, partly on foot and rest on a truck, with her husband and three minor daughters to reach Gopalganj on UP-Bihar border on Thursday afternoon. Hungry, exhausted and in labour pain, Rekha Devi collapsed at the checkpoint. Her husband 35-year-old Sandip Yadav was frantically seeking help while trying to hold on to the youngest of their three daughters. Finally help arrived, as the authorities rushed her in an ambulance to the Gopalganj sadar hospital where she delivered a girl late on Thursday. While the mother is healthy, the infant is on a ventilator. While the mother is hale and hearty now, the infant is on ventilator at the government sadar hospital in Gopalganj. And the family still has to cover another 300-km to reach their home in Supaul district. The trouble for Sandip and Rekha, like thousands of other migrant workers like them, started after the lockdown was announced on the night of March 24. Sandip, who sells vegetables in Noida, decided to set out for his home district as he had already exhausted his savings during one and a half-months lockdown. The couple along with their three minor daughters, including a three-year-old one, started journey on foot last Monday. After walking for hours, a truck driver took pity on the nine-month pregnant woman and dropped the family about 10km away from Balthari checkpost in Uttar Pradesh. Finding no way out, the family again started their journey on foot and somehow reached Gopalganj where their names and address were registered at the counter. “My wife started crying for help after covering the crucial last 10-km on foot in scorching sun,” said Sandip. The ordeal for the family didn’t end here. The doctors at the government hospital first refused to admit Rekha suspecting her to be infected with deadly coronavirus. “My wife was wreathing in pain. But nobody showed sympathy for her. My pleas to provide her immediate treatment went on deaf ears. I kept on running from one place to another. But nobody was ready to help us,” Sandip told TOI over phone on Friday. Finally, he decided to call the official mobile number of Gopalganj DM Arshad Aziz, who directed the hospital authorities to admit the pregnant woman and start her treatment as she was in labour pain. “The man (Sandip) didn’t inform the local authority at the inter-state check post about his wife’s advance pregnancy,” the DM said. Gopalganj SP Manoj Kumar Tiwari said the woman was provided an ambulance to transport her within minutes after the matter came to the knowledge of senior officials. “We will arrange a vehicle to send the migrant’s family to Supaul once the doctors attending to the woman declared her fit for travel,” the SP told TOI over phone. Sandip has now heaved a sigh of relief. “I have no grudge against anybody now,” he said. The couple has decided to name their newborn ‘Shristi’. She is the fifth girl children in the family.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/woman-gives-birth-after-900km-journey-on-foot-truck/articleshow/75767228.cms||Ramashankar
May 16, 2020||Kolhapur||One more tests positive in Satara prison||KOLHAPUR: Another inmate from the Satara district prison tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday, said Amod Gadikar, the district civil surgeon. With this, the number of Covid-19 cases rose to 10 in Satara district jail Earlier this month, of the 45 inmates transferred from Pune’s Yerwada Jail nine inmates had tested positive. TheYerwada jail has been locked down.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/1-more-tests-ve-in-satara-prison/articleshow/75764998.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Home schooling is the new buzzword in parenting circles||BENGALURU: Amid growing uncertainties around the lockdown and its impact on academics, there’s a new buzzword in town: home schooling. Parents’ groups on social media, dedicated to discussing home schooling, are seeing a record increase in queries. According to a survey done among 12,000 parents by ParentCircle, an online platform, there’s a 15% rise in interest in home schooling nationally. The survey, released earlier this week, pointed out that around 92% parents are unwilling to send their children to school as soon as it reopens. In Bengaluru, 56% want to monitor for a month after schools reopen before sending their kids back to class. Another 21% will avoid return to school for at least six months. Bengaluru showed a 12% increase in interest in home schooling. While some parents are considering home schooling only for this academic year, for those who were in two minds about mainstream schools and home schooling, the lockdown seems to have given the ultimate push. Veterans in home schooling, however, point out that there is a difference between home schooling and school at home, which many parents tend to confuse. “The number of families considering home schooling now is definitely on the rise. However, their reasons for doing so aren’t the same as those parents who have chosen to home school for life. These parents are making a choice to home school till lockdown eases and schools reopen or till a vaccine is found and they can safely step out,” said Sandhya Viswan, a senior home schooler, who recently conducted a webinar on the topic as the number of queries increased. In some other cases, the lockdown experience has given people a feel of what home schooling is like. “Home schooling as a trend was growing. The lockdown will only accelerate it as it has become the default option now,” said Ratnesh Mathur, a trust member of Aarohi Life Education. For instance Nikita (name changed), a parent of a five-year-old girl, was already inclined towards home schooling. “I did not believe completely in the system of traditional schooling with the morning rush, strict timetables, children being forced to do things they don’t like and even the lack of one-to-one attention. We are now anyway homes schooling, so I would like to continue this for a year and see how it goes,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/home-schooling-is-the-new-buzzword-in-parenting-circles/articleshow/75766849.cms||Sruthy Susan Ullas
May 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Residents irked as internal roads in Secunderabad remain shut||HYDERABAD: Irked by the closure of several internal roads leading to Sainikpuri and Vayupuri, members of Federation of North Eastern Colonies of Secunderabad (FNECS) have approached the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) and Rachakonda police seeking action. Ever since the lockdown was declared, all Sainikpuri roads except 1st Avenue and 3rd Avenue are closed. Similarly, all Vayupuri roads except 2nd Avenue are closed. “These roads are main access to the arterial ECIL-Trimulgherry road for residents of tens of colonies located from Vayupuri to Kapra lake and beyond...continued closure of these roads is causing daily inconvenience and delays for commuters,” reads a letter issued by FNECS. Residents claim that there was no order, proceedings from the state government, police or GHMC notification under any applicable Act declaring closure of the roads. “During medical emergencies, these road closures affect many people who want to reach nearby hospitals. Vayupuri and Sainikpuri has a large population of retired senior citizens who are most affected by this,” said Chandrasekhar, secretary of FNECS. Not just this, residents also raised complaint regarding the closure of Wellington road, Allahabad Gate, Pirusingh Marg Bison dwar, roads near RSI club, Harmony Chowk among others. Following residents’ representation to the GHMC, T Dasharath, deputy commissioner of Malkajgiri circle, said that they will inspect the closed roads and take necessary action.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/residents-irked-as-internal-roads-in-secbad-remain-shut/articleshow/75767177.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Four held in Hyderabad for auto driver’s murder||HYDERABAD: Five days after an auto driver was killed, Jagathgirigutta police on Friday arrested four persons for the murder. Police said that the accused — Y Prashant Reddy, A Naresh, K Sai Kumar and A Shiva — were nabbed near Fox Sagar tank and had allegedly admitted to killing Mohammed Fayaz Khan. During investigation, police came to know that Prashant and the victim were friends but had been at loggerheads in the last few months. Fayaz suspected that Prashant had tipped off Raidurgam police and that led to his arrest in a murder case. Since then Fayaz bore a grudge against Prashant. On Monday, they met to settle their disputes but it led to an argument and Prashant attacked the victim with a knife. Fayaz was chased by Prashant and his three other associates, before he was killed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/four-held-for-auto-drivers-murder/articleshow/75767246.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: 20% of fresh Covid cases recorded in 16-30 age group||AHMEDABAD: Of the 258 fresh cases reported in Ahmedabad city on Friday, there were 60 in the 1-30 years age group. Of these 60, 10 were kids younger than 10 years of age and two cases were between 10-15 years. Thus about 23% of fresh cases cases on Friday were youngsters below 30 years, with those in the 16-30 years age group making up about a fifth of all fresh cases. The western part of the city reported 40 fresh cases, with five being reported from Thaltej area. Of these five, two were from Ajanta Elora Society, and one each from Vaibhav Bungalows, Thakor Vaas and near the Bahuchar Mata temple. Two cases were reported from Soham Apartment in Vastrapur and Narmada Awas in Sindhubhavan area. There were two cases in the last few days in the Narmada Awas as well. Officials said their worry was the one case reported at Gopalnagar near Valinath chowk in Memnagar area. Gopalnagar is a congested locality and many vendors and scrap collectors live there. The western part of the city now has 771 active cases with 462 cases in the Stadium, Naranpura, Ghatlodia, Paldi and Vasna areas. The North West and South West Zones of the AMC have while 127 and 182 cases, respectively. Of the 14 deaths in the city due to Covid-19 on Friday, two were at SVP Hospital, nine at Civil Hospital and three at private hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/20-of-fresh-cases-recorded-in-16-30-age-group/articleshow/75767334.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Rajkot||Bride’s dad faces cops’ music for flouting lockdown rules in Rajkot||RAJKOT: The happiness of this bride’s father was shortlived as soon after the band, bajaa and baraat of his daughter, the man had to face cops’ music for not adhering to the lockdown rules. The wedding which took place in Bhujodi village of Bhuj taluka on Thursday night was earlier notified by Kishor Bhambhar (55), the father of the bride, as a lowkey affair seeking permission for 50 guests only. The wedding took place in Bhujodi village of Bhuj on Thursday night.However, according to the police, when they reached the venue, they found 76 guests instead of the permitted number. “Nobody was wearing mask, nor were the invitees maintaining social distancing. Hence, we booked Bhambhar under the Epidemic Act,” said A N Bhatt, sub-inspector with Bhuj A division police station. On the other hand, the wedding of Narendrasinh Zala’s son Harshvardhan with Rishirajsinh Chudasma’s daughter Ishwar in Jamnagar was perfect to a tee. With only about 20 people including state minister, Dharmendrasinh Jadeja, participated in the event, all rules were maintained including social distancing, masks et al. What’s more, even the bridegroom and the priest too didn’t let their masks down for rituals, said an official from Jamnagar district administration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/brides-dad-faces-cops-music-for-flouting-lockdown-rules/articleshow/75767238.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Human skull and bones found on University of Hyderabad premises||HYDERABAD: Skeletal remains of an unknown person were found in University of Hyderabad (UoH) campus on Friday afternoon. According to Gachibowli police, university security personnel stumbled upon the skeletal remains while scouring the campus to locate an injured deer. A team has collected the evidence and shifted it to Osmania General Hospital. “We do not know whether the deceased was a man or a woman. A worn-out jeans was found at some distance near the skull. Either the person died here several months ago and parts were taken away by dogs or someone dumped the skull and bones here. After post-mortem, we will send the bones to FSL,” said a Cyberabad police official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/human-skull-bones-found-on-uoh-premises/articleshow/75767207.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Kolhapur||Kolhapur couple donates wedding expenses to fight Covid-19||Kolhapur: A newly-wed couple from Kolhapur set an example for couples planning to tie knots amid Covid-19 crisis by donating their saved wedding expenses to the state government’s relief fund. The couple handed over Rs 51,000 cheque to district guardian minister Satej Patil. Aditya and Rasika, who tied the knot on Thursday, held a private function with no guests invited. Only their close family members were present for the rituals. Aditya, the only son of Krushnaji, works as an auditor. A grand wedding was planned earlier, however, the Covid-19 crisis and lockdown rules forced us to rework on out wedding plan and hold the rituals in private with only a few people present, said the couple. The lockdown rules does not permit attendance of more than 50 people for a wedding ceremony. The families of the bride and the groom, therefore, thought that only close family members should be present. “It is our duty to serve the society. I did not imagine that such a moment would come in my life. We have done our part and hope others follow suit. We had earlier booked a huge hall and had even chalked out the guest list. We had even fixed the menu for dinner. However, the time is such that we have to hold ourselves back. Such times brings out the good in you,” said Aditya. Aditya and Rasika both said that they missed their close friends at the wedding. “ I missed my friends at the wedding. I had to convince them a lot for this. Finally, they too agreed and supported our decision,” said Aditya. Prathamesh Rajopadhye, one of Aaditya’s close friends, said, “I am proud of him. We all should be responsible like him. I missed his wedding, but I am sure he will compensate it by throwing a grand party after the lockdown ends.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/kolhapur-couple-donates-wedding-expenses-to-fight-covid-19/articleshow/75765000.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Telugu mind behind quickfix ventilator||HYDERABAD: A Telugu researcher at the Georgia Institute of Technology in Atlanta has played a pivotal role in the creation of a makeshift ventilator that can be mass produced anywhere across the world. The project was completed in less than a month in view of the rising need for ventilators during the current pandemic. “We started thinking about the ventilator at a time when the pandemic peaked in the US but had not yet fully impacted the Indian subcontinent and Africa. The idea was to help other countries before the situation worsens,” said Gokul Pathikonda, who is from Chittoor in Andhra Pradesh, the technical lead for the project which led to the creation of Open-AirVentGT. Bihar’s Devesh Ranjan led the team which had around seven core members. The ventilator has already garnered attention with vendors from India. The design was presented by Ranjan at the World Economic Forum’s Global Lighthouse Network meeting.“The cost, about $300, factors ensure the ventilator is affordable and at the same time is not bare-bone one. Thereby meeting the standards of safety that doctors prescribe,” said Pathikonda, a graduate from NIT Warangal. Among the key features of the ventilator, is the on-board computer which monitors the tidal volume, the amount of air a person inhales per breath. “ The ventilator helps monitor these levels, crucial for a coronavirus patient suffering from stiffness of the lungs,” said Pathikonda. Another unique feature is the patient assist mode which allows patient to breathe naturally. “Ventilators are increasingly being used in this pandemic on patients who are awake. The assist mode ensures that patients breathe when they want to,” said Pathikonda, adding that if ever the pressure on the patient’s lungs is too high, the machine shuts off sending an alarm for immediate attention to be given by a doctor. All the parts of the Open-AirVentGT can be easily replaced with indigenous items, for instance ambu-bag and tubes are easily available at any hospital. The ventilator has met all criteria for FDA approval, and is awaiting certification.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/telugu-mind-behind-quickfix-ventilator/articleshow/75767233.cms||Uttara Varma
May 16, 2020||Pune||Single-point entry, exit at Pune railway station||PUNE: The railway authorities have chalked out a single-point entry and exit system for the Pune station once it resumes regular operations. “Once the trains begin to ply, people will be allowed to enter the station from the main entrance and exit from the second entrance located along platform number 6, exiting towards the Raja Bahadur Mills (RBM) Road,” an official told TOI. “Special trains to select locations from New Delhi, apart from Shramik trains, have begun plying. Similar arrangements could be made from Pune as well. Limited number of trains will run in the early stages with a small crowd. The single point entry and exit system will be enough during the initial phase,” a railway source told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/single-point-entry-exit-at-rly-station/articleshow/75768120.cms||Joy Sengupta
May 16, 2020||Pune||Pune: FTII kicks off online course||PUNE: The Film and Television Institute (FTII) of India inaugurated its first-ever online course on Friday. The three-day course on the introduction to film production had 25 participants. The session was conducted through video-conferencing platforms by using videos and presentations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/ftii-kicks-off-online-course/articleshow/75768125.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Bareilly||UP: Unidentified woman booked for ‘kidnapping’ newborn from CHC||BAREILLY: An FIR has been lodged against an unidentified woman for allegedly kidnapping a newborn from a community health centre (CHC) at Banda in Shahjahanpur district on Friday. It all happened when Sanju Devi with labour pangs was admitted to the CHC in Banda on Thursday night. She later gave birth to a baby girl. Devi was shifted from labour room to a ward where two other women were present who had delivered a baby boy and girl, each. In the ward, Devi was accompanied by her husband and mother in-law. Devi’s husband Nem Chand said, “An unknown woman entered the ward around 1.30 am and claimed that she was pregnant and was shifted here. She befriended us and played with our newborn. She later took the child to the ward’s door - where she was playing with the baby till around 4.45 am. We were inside the room when the woman suddenly fled with our child.” The newborn was the couple's fourth child. According to sources, CCTV cameras installed on the premises has reportedly caught the image of a woman holding a baby and coming out of the CHC at 4.55 am. Dr Manoj Mishra, medical officer incharge at CHC, said, “After the family informed us that a woman took away their newborn, we immediately called the police." Banda police station SHO Rajen Bahadur Singh said, “On the basis of family's complaint, we have lodged an FIR against an unidentified woman under section 363 (kidnapping) of IPC. We are investigating the matter.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/unidentified-woman-booked-for-kidnapping-newborn-from-chc/articleshow/75767229.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Hyderabad||4, including baby, die in 2 accidents||Hyderabad: Death continues to stalk the migrant workers as they make their way homeward. A 10-month-old baby was the latest to be killed in a mishap even as her parents escaped with injures when their two-wheeler met with an accident on NH-65 at Choutuppal on Thursday. In another incident, a private security guard and two of his relatives were killed when their bike was hit by an unknown vehicle at Mandamarri town in Mancherial district. According to police, at around 1 am the moped, on which the victims were travelling, rammed into cement bollards. K Peddiraju, 30, a migrant worker from Metlavari Thota village in Ramavaram mandal of West Godavari district was driving while his wife Laxmi was pillion riding with their 10-month-old daughter Yagna Sri. “Peddiraju sells soda in the city. We suspect that he might have dozed off and the two-wheeler crashed into left side cement bollards which indicate the edge of the road. The bollards have reflective painting and reflective road safety signage was also there at the spot. The moped brushed past two bollards and crashed into the third, slightly uprooting it,” Choutuppal inspector P Venkateshwarulu said. Peddiraju and Laxmi escaped with injuries but their daughter, who suffered a head injury, was declared brought dead at a hospital. “Laxmi suffered a head injury and her condition is stable. Peddiraju suffered minor injuries and is out of danger. A case was registered against him under sections 304-A and 337 of IPC,” the inspector said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/4-including-baby-die-in-2-accidents/articleshow/75767255.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Pune||Pune: Shutdown in Tingrenagar, Vidyanagar||PUNE: Residents of Tingrenagar and Vidyanagar on Friday decided to observe complete shutdown in their areas for the next three days following the detection of Covid-19 positive cases. All shops, excluding those selling milk, and vegetable markets are likely to remain closed till Sunday. Residents have recommended milk supply between 7am and 9am. Medical shops, hospitals and other emergency services will continue to function. Messages about the shutdown were exchanged in social media groups of residents. A social worker said, “The latest detection spurred residents to call for a complete shutdown for three days.” In Wadgaonsheri, the Chandannagar police blocked another set of major and minor roads as well as alleys linking it with Kharadi and Chandannagar to stop the spread of Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/shutdown-in-tingrenagar-vidyanagar/articleshow/75768130.cms||Sarang Dastane
May 16, 2020||Kolhapur||Kolhapur trekkers provide ration to residents of hamlets||Kolhapur: The trekkers from the city have provided ration kits to the people residing in inaccessible hamlets located along the Western Ghats. Chikewadi is one such hamlet of seven families which falls on the way to Rangana fort, a jungle trek.The residents of such inaccessible hamlets are mostly shepherds, who have to walk several km to get the essentials. Though they are living in safer places compared to the cities and towns where Covid-19 cases are reported daily, they too are affected by the lockdown. Prasad Adnaik, one of the trekkers said, “They have to walk several km to get the bus to reach the nearby towns. Since there in no mode of transport, they have no essentials with them since the last few days. We halt at such hamlets every time we go on treks. Few days ago, we received a call from a person from Chikewadi seeking help. In just few hours we managed to get 600 ration kits to them. We have formed batches of trekkers and started delivering the kits to the people.”So far, the trekkers have been able to reach out to four such hamlets from Bhudargad tehsil. Many are willing to volunteer and provide any sort of help required by the residents of these hamlets. The district disaster department officials provide the list of such hamlets and number of people residing there. The trekkers have been supplying masks, sanitisers and informing the residents about the precautions to be taken to avoid contracting coronavirus.An official of district administration said that a team of doctors will be sent to these hamlets to screen the residents for Covid-19 symptoms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/kolhapur-trekkers-provide-ration-to-residents-of-hamlets/articleshow/75765018.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Ahmedabad||Heavy rush but no chaos as grocery, vegetable sales resume||Ahmedabad: In a major relief to Amdavadis, the supply of groceries and vegetables resumed after an eight-day suspension. After closing all stores except those selling milk and medicines, civic authorities have screened vegetable vendors and staff of groceries and have issued licences to resume operations to about 32,000 persons. As shops reopened, serpentine queues were seen outside stores. But there was no chaos. All shops selling groceries and vegetables, and flour mills, drew a heavy rush from early in the morning. Some people consciously refrained from venturing out, anticipating rush and chaos. “I don’t have enough supply of vegetables but if I have managed without it for eight days, two more days won’t do any harm,” said Ashish Kumar, an Ambawadi resident. “There will be a rush and there is no point in waiting for long.” However, others who were struggling without supplies rushed early in the morning to buy essentials. “Apart from vegetable shortage, we had to deal with a limited supply of food for our pets,” said Rashmi Bhatt, a resident of Nava Vadaj. “We managed through the week but as soon as we got a message that the nearby store had reopened, we went to restock supplies. I couldn’t find any vegetables except onions and potatoes.” In several parts of the city, supply of vegetables, especially greens, was a concern. For instance, the stock of vegetables across most major stores in Juhapura, Vejalpur, and even Satellite was exhausted a couple of hours after shops opened. “All vegetables were sold out by 10am,” said Shaista Shaikh, a Juhapura resident. “We waited for another two hours; more stock arrived at noon.” The owner of a vegetable store in Vejalpur said: “We haven’t received mint, coriander, ginger or lemons.” He went on to say: “Since it was the first day after the suspension of sales, we decided to offer the delivery-only option, expecting unprecedented rush.” In places such as Maninagar and Bodakdev, the supply of fruits was a concern. At grocery stores, several items were in short supply. “I stood in the queue for an hour and a half to get bread, eggs, and other supplies,” said Jayanti Sen, a resident of Satellite. “The shop ran out of many essentials as people bought double the usual stock.” Since many vendors did not get licences, their stores remained closed on Friday. The main vegetable market outside Maninagar railway station remained shut. Shopkeepers who did not obtain permission from the AMC and reopened their stores faced police action.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/heavy-rush-but-no-chaos-as-grocery-vegetable-sales-resume/articleshow/75767333.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Pune||Pune: Day after suicide, man tests negative for coronavirus||PUNE: The swab test report of the 25-year-old man, who committed suicide on Thursday jumping from the third-floor of a hospital after he was admitted to its quarantine facility, revealed that he did not suffer from coronavirus infection. Senior inspector B J Misal of the Khadki police said, “He tested negative for the virus. We received the report on Friday afternoon.” The man, a resident of Khadki, was shifted to the quarantine facility of the hospital on Thursday morning and his swab was collected for test. His brother and sister were also admitted to the facility. Their swabs, too, were collected. Police said the Khadki man was under tremendous stress and panicked when he was taken to the quarantine facility of the hospital. On Thursday night, he left his hospital bed stating that he wanted to go to the washroom. Instead of going to the toilet, he went to the third floor of the hospital. He then jumped off from the open corridor around 9pm. Misal said it was a case of suicide. The police have registered an accidental death case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/day-after-suicide-man-tests-negative-for-virus/articleshow/75768128.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Lucknow||Special CBI court for online Babri trial||LUCKNOW: The special CBI Court, Lucknow, hearing the Babri mosque demolition case, on Friday decided to continue trial through video-conferencing as the coronavirus-triggered lockdown was hampering proceedings. On May 8, Supreme Court set a deadline of August 31 to complete the trial after the April 20 date was missed due to closure of courts following the pandemic. As earlier reported, Kaiserbagh where the CBI court is located remains a virus hotspot. Some of the key accused in the case against whom charges have been framed include former UP chief minister Kalyan Singh, former deputy PM Lal Krishna Advani, BJP leader Uma Bharati, former Union minister MM Joshi, Ram Janambhoomi Temple Trust president Nritya Gopal Das and Trust secretary Champat Rai. The special CBI court will now record statements under Section 313 CrPC of 32 accused, against whom charges were framed 13 years ago, after letting them know the evidence against them. Statements of prosecution witnesses have already been recorded. However, the defence counsel filed an application on Friday to summon three prosecution witnesses for cross-examination as they were not examined when statements were recorded in 2016-17. Taking up the application, special judge S K Yadav asked the defence lawyer to furnish the questionnaire for cross-examination of prosecution witnesses. The court will hear the matter on May 18. The Babri Masjid demolition case was registered as crime number 197 and 198 at Ram Janmabhoomi police station in Ayodhya in 1992.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/spl-cbi-court-for-online-babri-trial/articleshow/75768129.cms||Ravi Singh Sisodiya
May 16, 2020||Nashik||SPPU helpline numbers a hit among pupils||NASHIK: Two city-based colleges have been assigned by Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) the task to address the queries of students studying in colleges affiliated to the university across Nashik. Accordingly, the university has released the district-wise helpline numbers and email ids for the students in Pune,x Nashik and Ahmednagar so that they can contact the officials and get their queries resolved. City-based KTHM college is addressing the queries of students related to Arts, Commerce and Science courses, while KK Wagh Engineering College is addressing the queries of engineering students. Prashant Tope, district coordinator of SPPU, said “Students in the district have lot of queries and the same can be resolved by contacting the helpline number or sending an email.” According to Ajinkya Joshi, registrar of K K Wagh Engineering College, the varsity has asked them to answer the queries of the professional courses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/sppu-helpline-numbers-a-hit-among-pupils/articleshow/75746005.cms||pragya jain
May 16, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Here is what’s keeping your power bill down this month||NEW DELHI: May this year is already cooler than usual. Last year, temperatures had touched the 44-degree Celsius mark on May 1, however, Delhi is yet to touch even 41 degree Celsius this season, with only two days recorded so far where the temperature was 40-degrees Celsius or higher. While one of these days was in April, which overall was nearly 1-degree Celsius cooler than the normal monthly temperature, May so far has presented a similar story, recording only one day where the temperature was 40-degrees or higher when it touched 40.9 degrees on Saturday. Monthly data however shows so far the average monthly temperature is 1.5 degrees below normal. Historical data shows Delhi has touched the 44-degree mark each time since 2011, going as high as 46 degrees in both May 2015 and May 2013. This however seems unlikely this year. Met officials said that the reason for the low temperature has been a quick succession of western disturbances, not only bringing rain but gusty winds and even hail, like it was witnessed on Thursday in parts of north and west Delhi. Kuldeep Srivastava, scientist at IMD, said that May averages around four western disturbances, however, Delhi has already recorded four so far. “We are halfway through the month and we have already seen four WDs impact the region, leading to a drop in temperature. WDs tend to cause gusty winds, leading to temperature not spiking too much,” said Srivastava. Delhi has also recorded four ‘rainy’ days this month and could see a few more ahead, with the IMD forecasting the possibility of a spell of rain on Sunday. A Met official however, said that once this clears up, forecasts show clear skies ahead, which may lead to a spike in the temperature. “We expect temperatures to rise by May 20-21,” said a Met official. The seven day forecast by the regional meteorological office for Delhi shows the possibility of the maximum touching 41 degrees on May 20, while it may touch 42 degrees by May 21.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/here-is-whats-keeping-your-power-bill-down-this-month/articleshow/75767303.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
May 16, 2020||Business||Biocon Q4 net profit declines 42% to Rs 123cr||Bengaluru: Biocon’s net profit fell 42% in its fourth quarter to Rs 123 crore, compared to a year earlier, hurt by a slowdown in its biologics business and higher R&D spends. Total revenue was up 6% to Rs 1,644 crore, helped by small molecules business, which rose 15% to Rs 541 crore. That was more than offset by the biologics segment, whose revenue was down 21% to Rs 357 crore. Chairperson Kiran Mazumdar-Shaw said there were operational challenges in the quarter, including one-time Covid-19 related impact on the biologics business. “We believe that the biologics business will recover in Q1FY21 and fully normalise from Q2FY21,” she said. Revenue for the full year was Rs 6,529 crore, up 15% from Rs 5,659 in 2018-19. Total profit was down 17% to Rs 748 crore. Revenue from the biologics business was Rs 1,951 crore, up 29%. Biologics, which the company hopes will generate revenue of $1 billion in the next two years, was impacted in Q4 due to “less than expected contribution from our partners.” But it is expected to recover following the US launch of Insulin Glargine in the middle of this year. Biosimilars or biologics are drugs made from complex molecules manufactured using living microorganisms, plants, or animal cells. Though there are no differences in terms of safety and effectiveness from the main product, they are not considered duplicates, like generics, as it is impossible to manufacture exact copies of biotech drugs. The small molecules business, ingredients supplied to global drug manufacturers, improved due to steady API sales and strong growth in generic formulations. While the API business faced challenges in Latin America, it continued to do well in India and crossed total revenue of Rs 2,000 crore in the year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/biocon-q4-net-profit-declines-42-to-rs-123cr/articleshow/75767248.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Hyderabad||KRMB seeks report on water drawal by Andhra Pradesh||HYDERABAD: Following a complaint by Telangana on the Rayalaseema lift irrigation project and other schemes proposed to draw an additional 3 tmcft from Srisailam reservoir, the Krishna River Management Board (KRMB) on Friday sought AP government’s views in the form of a detailed project report on the schemes proposed by it. It also warned both states against taking up any new projects without seeking the apex council’s approval. KRMB member Harikesh Meena wrote a letter to AP on Friday, enclosing Telangana principal secretary (irrigation) Rajat Kumar complaint on behalf of Telangana government. The board said it had sent two letters — on Feb 5 and May 13 — but there has been no response from AP till date. It asked the AP government to immediately furnish information. Telangana had earlier alleged that AP was trying to enhance the total drawal capacity of water up to 8 tmcft a day from Srisailam which would adversely impact the inhabitants of the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/krmb-seeks-report-on-water-drawal-by-ap/articleshow/75767272.cms||Koride Mahesh
May 16, 2020||India||Bengal govt, Centre in war of words over return of citizens||KOLKATA: A full-scale Twitter war erupted on Friday between the Bengal government and the Centre over bringing back people from the state stuck abroad and the return of migrants stranded in other states. State education minister Partha Chatterjee accused the Centre of leaving Bengal out of in-bound international flights to states, even as railway minister Piyush Goyal expressed dismay over the Bengal government requisitioning 105 trains till June; that number of trains can carry 1.5 to 2 lakh workers out of the nearly 30 lakh stranded. The state home secretary also responded to a tweet from the ministry of external affairs claiming that it was waiting for the state’s nod to repatriate 3,700 international passengers to Bengal. The state uploaded a letter to the Centre dated May 11 wherein the Bengal government had detailed the arrangements necessary to receive returnees from abroad. The state government’s letter also elaborated the quarantine arrangements, including reserving 738 rooms in plush hotels. While Kolkata was given the miss by 84 fights that were scheduled to be operated by May 17 in phase one of the Vande Bharat mission to evacuate Indians stranded across the world, the city does not figure among the arrival airports for the 216 flights lined up for the next phase. Even smaller airports like Gaya, Srinagar, Vijaywada, Kannur, Tirupati, Lucknow, Trivandrum and Visakhapatnam figure on the list. The uncharacteristic Twitter exchange between the MEA and the Bengal home department came after Chatterjee questioned the rationale behind the Vande Bharat Mission. The Trinamool Congress secretary-general wrote: "Is the MEA asking us to believe that there are enough people to come from Georgia to Gujarat but none to Kolkata? Also, there are enough people to come back to Bihar from Kyrgyzstan but not enough to bring back to Bengal? Stop this injustice!" Chatterjee’s tweet had the flight schedule of the second phase of Vande Bharat. Kolkata does not figure in it. MEA spokesperson Anurag Srivastava responded — also on Twitter — claiming, "MEA does not discriminate between states. GOI’s Vande Bharat Mission is for all stranded Indians, including those from West Bengal. Over 3,700 of them have registered for repatriation from different parts of the world. Will gladly facilitate flights to Kolkata if state government will confirm arrangements to receive and quarantine. Will also help in return of WB residents through land borders with neighbours. We hope to receive an early response on the matter." The state home department responded saying: "GOWB keen to welcome back our people stranded in different countries and has long back communicated its agreement as well as quarantine arrangements details etc to GOI for special international inbound journeys. Letters attached. Bengal awaits flights." On Friday, Goyal took a dig over Bengal requisitioning 105 trains to bring back stranded migrant workers. "Each of the trains can carry 1,200 passengers. A total 105 trains, scheduled for the entire month, can facilitate the return of 1.5 to 2 lakh passengers when a total 30 to 50 lakh migrants from Bengal are stuck in other states. The majority will have to wait, catch a truck or start walking home," he said. Trinamool Rajya Sabha leader Derek O’Brien blamed the Centre, saying: "Pictures never lie. The picture of a child on a trolley bag. They have been left to fend for themselves while the minister was presiding over the Indian Railways with its daily ferrying capacity of 23 million people. These people could have been moved in a matter of days. But no."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/bengal-govt-centre-in-war-of-words-over-return-of-citizens/articleshow/75768869.cms||Debasis Konar
May 16, 2020||Aurangabad||Register FIR for water theft: Councillors||Aurangabad: After an illegal valve was found on the main supply pipeline for diverting water, the elected representatives have written to the chief officer of Paithan Municipal Council Somnath Jadhav to register a criminal offence in the incident. According to Paithan Municipal Council vice-president Suchitra Mahesh Joshi, the pipeline laid to pump water to the elevated storage reservoirs (ESRs) from the water purification plant has been fixed with a valve through which water is being diverted. According to Joshi and councillors Shobha Lolge and Bhushan Kavsankar, the fixing of the valve is illegal. “We demand that the diversion be removed immediately and the supply be reinstated as before,” Joshi said. When asked, Jadhav said that the diversion has been removed and the issue is sorted. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/register-fir-for-water-theft-councillors/articleshow/75765024.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Bareilly||Around 2,000 migrants arrive on 3 trains from Gujarat, Delhi & Punjab||Bareilly: Nearly 2,000 migrant labourers from Gujarat, Delhi and Punjab arrived at Bareilly junction in three special trains on Friday. Following protocol, some of them were quarantined after thermal screening, as they exhibited symptoms of Covid-19. The remaining migrants were sent to their home districts on buses after being provided food packets and water bottles. Heavy police force with health and police officials were deployed at the railway station to ensure that no migrant could leave without thermal screening. Cops also restricted the movement of public near the station and sanitised the area after the departure of the migrants. The first train to arrive early in the morning, with 1,016 passengers, was from Palanpur in Gujarat. Thermal screening identified five of them with high fever. They were shifted to a quarantine centre, and their swab samples collected for Covid-19 testing. The second train arrived in the afternoon with 332 migrants from Delhi, and the third [WHEN?] from Punjab with 669 migrants. Station superintendent Satyaveer Singh said, “One shramik special train each from Delhi, Punjab and Gujarat arrived in Bareilly on Friday. All guidelines were followed after arrival of the migrant workers.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/around-2000-migrants-arrive-on-3-trains-from-gujarat-delhi-punjab/articleshow/75767262.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
May 16, 2020||Pune||Pune: Stringent checks in KCB civil areas||PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: The Khadki Cantonment Board’s (KCB) chief executive officer Pramod Kumar Singh has issued orders to create a micro-containment zone in and around the civil area till May 26. “Covid-19 patients have mostly been found in civil areas, so the restrictions were made stringent in order to prevent its spread. We have relaxed the restrictions in the defence areas that do not have patients,” office superintendent Suja James said. She said the entire civil area including Darga Vasahat, Indiranagar Vasahat and the nearby defence quarters 6/1, 6/2, 8/1, 8/2 and 8/3 on the junction of Arjun Road and Duncan Road fell under the micro-containment zone. The KCB issued an order stating grocery shops, milk, mutton, chicken and fish shops and bakeries were allowed to open from 10am to 2pm. Dispensaries, clinics, medical shops, banks, ATMs and petrol pumps will function as per previous orders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/stringent-checks-in-kcb-civil-areas/articleshow/75768132.cms||Siddharth Gaikwad
May 16, 2020||Business||Card payments in March fall 24% in 2 months||Bengaluru: Value of debit and credit card usage dropped 24% in March 2020 to Rs 1.15 lakh crore from the Rs 1.5 lakh crore registered just two months earlier in January. The number of card swipes also fell 20% to 53.5 crore this March from 66.5 crore in January. The numbers seem to indicate that consumer activity came to a standstill during the last week of March, which saw the lockdown begin. Debit card usage at point-of-sales (PoS) machines fell 30% to Rs 27,238 crore in March, compared to Rs 38,907 crore in January, showing Indians are using their cards less often at stores. Credit card usage at PoS machines declined 26% to Rs 26,656 crore in March, compared to Rs 35,124 crore in January. Debit card usage for e-commerce and online payments fell 17% to Rs 38,065 crore in March over the same period, while credit card usage online dealined 24% to Rs 23,918 crore. Compared to last year, the fall in card payments is 71% to Rs 1.15 lakh crore this March. According to bankers, e-commerce transactions — other than utility bill payments and purchase of essentials — did not take place in March due to the lockdown, resulting in the drop in online usage. March ATM withdrawals also fell 13% year-over-year to Rs 2.5 lakh crore. In terms of volume of transactions, decline has been sharper at 62% to 54.7 crore this March from Rs 89 crore last year. The average ticket size of withdrawal rose to Rs 4,587 this March compared to Rs 3,235 last year. Since the RBI started publishing micro-ATM withdrawals only this February, last year’s comparable figure is not available. So, month-on-month, cash withdrawals at micro-ATMs fell 11% to Rs 11,201 crore in March, compared to February. In terms of volumes also, there was a 12% decline to 3.4 crore and banks said this is indicative of a slump in rural areas as micro-ATMs are primarily used by banking correspondents to cater to rural customers. The National Automated Clearing House (NACH) — which handles e-mandates like insurance payments, advance tax, EMI for loans, etc — saw a 24% year-on year fall to Rs 1.31 lakh crore from Rs 1.63 lakh crore. Banks said this could be due to a number of reasons, such as deferment or non-payment of premiums, EMIs, tax and no-new takers for loans and insurance. ECS — which is slightly similar to NACH in facilitating electronic clearing and auto-debits — did not have comparable year-over-year numbers. But for March, ECS transactions fell 11% to Rs 7,951 crore from Rs 8,889 crore in February. And in terms of volume, ECS dipped to 12.9 crore from 14 crore month-on-month. E-wallets saw a 22% decline year-on-year to Rs 14,461 crore this March. TOI earlier reported the economic impact of the lockdown is being reflected in a sharp drop in retail interbank transfers under the Immediate Payment System (IMPS) and UPI for the month of April. IMPS transactions halved to 12.2 crore in April from 24.7 crore in February and UPI transactions dropped to 100 crore from 132 crore for the same period.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/card-payments-in-march-fall-24-in-2-months/articleshow/75767296.cms||Rachel Chitra
May 16, 2020||Bhopal||2 of 3 districts in Madhya Pradesh reported a case on Friday||BHOPAL: With 169 fresh infections on Friday, the total corona count in the state reached 4,595 These new positive cases were scattered over 34 of the 52 districts of Madhya Pradesh — which means at least one case was reported from 65% districts of the state. This roughly means that two of every three districts in Madhya Pradesh reported a positive patient on Friday. In addition, two deaths were also reported in Indore district, taking the Covid-19 toll to 239. Meanwhile, 112 patients were discharged from various hospitals in the state. With this, the total number of recovered patients in the state is 2,283 — almost 50% of the total people tested positive in the state so far. As per the state health bulletin, there are a total of 2,073 active patients in the state. At present, the number of people who have recovered from the disease is more than the number of active Covid-19 patients . There are three districts — Betul, Sheopur and Alirajpur — where no new patient has been reported in 21 days. Damoh and Datia got their first Covid patients on Friday, becoming the 43rd and 44th districtsto be corona-hit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/2-of-3-dists-in-mp-reported-a-case-on-friday/articleshow/75767278.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Delhi||On highway to hell, first-class fare for torture trip||A slice of Indian life: A vehicle rolls up and someone within shouts, "Aiye, aiye! Lucknow, Kanpur, Bareilly, Gorakhpur!" A waiting group swarms forward, eager to get the best seats inside. Only, this scene on the highway at Lalkuan on the outskirts of Ghaziabad on Thursday isn’t quite the regular rush for bus seats. It is a container truck, its driver shouting "paach sau", "saat sau", "hazaar rupaiya" to queries about fares. Shamim, who lives in Ghaziabad, is crestfallen. He wants to go to Gorakhpur in UP, but all he has in his wallet is Rs 460. The driver scans his face and quickly decides he can hitch a ride for Rs 400. The grateful migrant worker finds himself quickly pulled into the stuffed truck, its interiors uncomfortably hot due to its covered metal body. Some migrant workers take rest inside construction-pipeNeed and poverty are quickly exploited in India. Daily-wage earners, having lost their jobs and livelihoods due to the Covid-19 lockdown, are desperate to reach their villages, to the comfort of familiar surroundings. And there are those who are willing to take the last paisa from these people to make that wish materialise. So lorries, mini trucks, milk vans, even the hot container vans, are charging inflated fares from migrant workers, many of whom are braving the sun and distance on foot. Like those trudging hundreds of kilometres to their villages, Moeen, Basheer and Tullu Ram also left Kanjhawala in northwest Delhi for their home in Bareilly, UP. A mini truck slowed down near them and after some negotiation, the three paid Rs700 each to clamber in, money they can ill-afford to spend. A little distance away, Nilesh, Pawan and Umesh, daily-wage earners in Sadar Bazar, shade themselves from the 35-degree Celsius sun in huge construction pipes. Why aren’t they making a run for the truck? Umesh looks up morosely and says, "Woh log amir hai jo truck mein hazaar rupaiya deke ja sakte hain, hum to gareeb hai, paise khatam ho gaye (Only the rich can afford the truck fare, we are poor)." Evidently, the lockdown has created economic classes even among the poor. Adil, his wife Rezwana and five-year-old daughter Nazneen too are resting in the pipe. They have been walking since Wednesday, trying to get home to Bulandshahr, over 100km away. They too don’t have money and can only look dully at those climbing into the vehicles. There are the Shramik special trains, of course. Dilip wanted to return to Rewari in Haryana and gave a person Rs 600 for tickets on the trains meant to take migrant workers to their home states. The man disappeared. They are walking home, and Dilip, his wife and little Muskaan will resume the trek after a short rest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/on-highway-to-hell-first-class-fare-for-torture-trip/articleshow/75768136.cms||Anindya Chattopadhyay
May 16, 2020||Lucknow||Businessman tweets bribe plaint, CM Yogi Adityanath suspends UPPCB officer||LUCKNOW: A regional officer of the UP Pollution Control Board was suspended hours after a complaint of corruption against him was made by a Gujarat businessman on Twitter. A government spokesperson said industrialist Manoj Dedia had accused Anil Kumar Chaudhary, a UPPCB officer in Rae Bareli, of demanding money for issuing an NOC and permission to operate an industry. Dedia contacted officials in Udyog Bandhu and the pollution control board and managed to procure an audio clip which made it clear that Chaudhary demanded money from Dedia. “Dedia tweeted this on Friday and chief minister Yogi Adityanath took immediate cognisance of it. He has ordered an inquiry and has suspended Chaudhary,” said the spokesperson. Dedia took to Twitter to express his gratitude to the CM, saying that because of action taken on his complaint within 30 minutes, he had even more respect for the CM.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/bizman-tweets-bribe-plaint-cm-suspends-uppcb-officer/articleshow/75768133.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Ahmedabad||DGP: Safe distance at shops must||Ahmedabad: Gujarat DGP Shivanand Jha said that on the first day of reopening of vegetables and grocery shops after eight days, police teams made it mandatory for the shopkeepers as well as the buyers to maintain social distancing. Jha said special vigil was maintained in containment zones and people were not allowed to come out. “They were allowed to buy essential items in the same area,” he added. Referring to migrant workers, Jha said trains are being run on daily basis to transport migrant workers to their native places. “Those who have been registered, arrangements are being made to send them soon,” he said. Jha said that any attempt to disturb communal harmony will not be tolerated. “On May 7, a man in Bhuj entered a mosque at night and tried to disturb peace by making provocative statements on the mike used for “azan”. He was detained under PASA and sent to Surat jail,” Jha said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/dgp-safe-distance-at-shops-must/articleshow/75767329.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Kolkata||Presi alumni distribute masks, soaps||Lending a hand to the state government in its fight against Covid-19, the Presidency alumni association has been distributing masks for some time now. On Tuesday, the association sent 1,000 masks to be distributed among 250 families at Kumirmari in the Sunderbans. Each of the families was also given two bars of soap. The alumni association, along with an NGO, called Nature Environment and Wildlife Society, will continue this initiative for three months. Now that a large number of migrant workers have started returning to their homes in villages, the alumni association decided to distribute masks and soaps in rural areas, which had so far remained largely left out, when it came to face covers and hygiene products. “We have given washable four-ply masks made of cotton that will last long,” said secretary of the association Bivas Chaudhuri. On Thursday, the members of the association also visited the Howrah Municipal Corporation and handed over 1,000 masks to commissioner Dhaval Jain, on hearing that infection in Howrah slums had reached scary proportions. “People in slums cannot afford to buy masks and might be forced to step out unguarded. So, we stepped in after being alerted by alumnus, Kaushik Saha, the district’s Covid advisor at the moment,” Chaudhuri said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/presi-alumni-distribute-masks-soaps/articleshow/75767364.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
May 16, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Navy espionage case: Key conspirator held in Mumbai||VISAKHAPATNAM: The National Investigation Agency (NIA) arrested the key conspirator in the espionage case involving Indian Navy personnel on Friday. Mohammed Haroon Haji Abdul Rehman Lakdawala (49) was held in Mumbai. NIA officials also seized a number of digital devices and incriminating documents during the searches conducted at Haroon’s house. Haroon, who was produced in a Mumbai court for transit remand, would be later produced at the NIA special court in Vijayawada. A middle-level business operator from Mumbai, Haroon runs a small cloth business, apart from dealing in property and operating a small travel firm. He has close relatives in Karachi and was a regular visitor to Pakistan. It was during these visits that he was trapped by ISI and used as a money conduit to pay Indian recruits in lieu of classified information that they shared. The state intelligence department, in close coordination with naval and central intelligence agencies, had arrested the Navy personnel from Visakhapatnam, Karwar and Mumbai on Dec 20 last year for allegedly passing on classified and sensitive information about movement of naval ships, submarines and defence establishments to Pakistan-based agencies and persons. Fourteen people have been arrested in connection with the case so far, including 11 Navy personnel and one Shaista Qaiser, a Pakistan-born Indian national. The Navy sailors came in contact with Pakistani nationals through social media and were allegedly involved in sharing classified information in lieu of monetary gains. The money was deposited into their bank accounts through Indian associates having business interests in Pakistan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/navy-espionage-case-key-conspirator-held-in-mum/articleshow/75767315.cms||Siva G
May 16, 2020||Bareilly||Youth who returned from Mumbai tests positive in Shahjahanpur||BAREILLY: A 25-year-old man has been tested positive for Covid-19 in Nigohi area of Shahjahanpur district on Friday, taking the tally to three, with two active cases. The man had returned from Mumbai on Wednesday and was quarantined at home after thermal screening and collecting swab samples. Health department has quarantined all his family members. The man has been sent to Bareilly for treatment. His brother, who returned from Delhi, was found negative. Earlier, another migrant worker, also a Mumbai returnee, had tested Covid positive in Shahjahanpur. The 21-year-old youth had come in a truck. CMO Dr Rajeev Kumar said, “The recent case is from Lohargava village of Nigohi block. The man had returned to his village on May 13 with his brother and locals did not allow them to enter without medical examination. He is asymptomatic and was referred to Bareilly for treatment.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/youth-who-returned-from-mumbai-tests-ve-in-shahjahanpur/articleshow/75767306.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
May 16, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat suggests relaxations in lockdown||Gandhinagar: The Gujarat government, in a detailed note sent to the government of India, has suggested resumption of almost all economic activities in the fourth phase of the lockdown that will come into force from May 18. In its representation, the state government has also recommended resumption of some activities in areas marked as red zones as well. Providing its input for guidelines during lockdown 4.0, the state government has suggested several relaxations in the cities of Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara and Rajkot. A key source in the government said that keeping in mind the looming economic crisis in the state because of the Covid-19 pandemic and subsequent lockdown, the Gujarat government has requested the Centre to allow normal economic activities with stringent safety guidelines. “The state government has opined that even in cities like Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara and Rajkot, only some wards should be notified as red zones, while regular economic activity can commence in orange and green zones of these cities,” the source said. Top officials said that according to the proposals sent to GOI, all religious social and political gatherings will not be permitted during lockdown 4.0. “While multiplexes will remain shut, shops located within malls will be allowed to resume with reduced staff and stringent safety guidelines,” said officials. The state government has proposed that small shops and establishments be allowed to remain open even in red zones for a limited time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gujarat-suggests-relaxations/articleshow/75767318.cms||Kapil Dave
May 16, 2020||Rajkot||She cancels her baby shower to ensure moms-to-be stay safe||RAJKOT: A baby shower is the highlight of pregnancy for every mother-to-be. It is also an event for which the whole family waits eagerly. However, it was not so for this nurse with Visipara primary health centre in Morbi, Poonam Joshi, who put duty before personal life and cancelled the ceremony for the greater good. Even being in her seventh month of pregnancy, this Covid warrior’s dedication for work prevailed over the enthusiasm for the event. “There are 10 other health officials who are pregnant like me. At a time of such crisis, it is our duty that is more bigger an event than any ritual. If we continue to work dedicatedly, only then will our babies be delivered in a safe world,” said Joshi, whose dedication to duty also earned her accolades from CM Vijay Rupani who personally called the nursing staff on May 12. “I was pleasantly surprised when Vijaybhai found time to interact with the nursing staff through video conferencing on International Nursing Day,” she added. Joshi works in timely registration of pregnant women, administering vaccines and maintaining ‘Mamta card’ .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/she-cancels-her-baby-shower-to-ensure-moms-to-be-stay-safe/articleshow/75767295.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad: Crime branch seizes gutka worth Rs 90 lakh||AURANGABAD: The local crime branch (LCB) of Aurangabad rural police on Thursday intercepted a truck with “essential services” tag and seized gutka worth Rs 90 lakh. The truck, according to police, was from neighbouring Karnataka state and was heading to Jalna district via Solapur-Ahmednagar highway for delivering the consignment. Acting on a specific tip-off, a team led by inspector Bhagwat Phunde intercepted the truck at Jhalta phata and found 300 bags of gutka hidden under crates of fruits and vegetables. Driver of the truck, Syed Aqil Syed Ayub (34), and cleaner Rafiq Qadir Shaikh have been arrested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/crime-branch-seizes-gutka-worth-rs-90-lakh/articleshow/75765041.cms||Mohammed Akhef
May 16, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad sees 93 more cases, tally at 823; three die||AURANGABAD: With as many as 93 more people testing positive for Covid-19 on Friday, the district’s tally inflated to 823. Three people also succumbed to the respiratory disease in the city taking the total number of deaths to 23. Of the three deaths, a 75-year-old man died while undergoing treatment on Thursday, while the remaining two deaths were reported on Friday. All three were admitted to the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH). The 75-year-old man, a resident of Juna Bazar, was referred to the GMCH from a private hospital on May 9 as confirmed Covid-19 case. Arvind Gaikwad, nodal officer for media interaction at GMCH, said the man died while undergoing treatment due to bilateral pneumonitis with acute respiratory distress syndrome. Another 74-year-old man from New Hanuman Nagar was referred to the GMCH from the district civil hospital on Friday. “The patient came in at 2pm following which we started the intensive care treatment. But at 3.45 pm, he died due to bilateral pneumonitis — a known case of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease with hypertension,” Gaikwad said. The third victim, a 70-year-old resident of Baijipura, was admitted to the GMCH on May 10. He had tested positive for coronavirus and subsequently treatment according to protocol was initiated. “However, at 3pm on Friday, he died due to bilateral pneumonia with acute respiratory distress syndrome with multi-organ dysfunction with hypertension and ischemic heart disease,” Gaikwad said. So far, as many as 8,001 throat swab samples have been collected and tested across Aurangabad district of which a total of 6,778 have tested negative.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/aurangabad-sees-93-more-cases-tally-at-823-3-die/articleshow/75765032.cms||Arpita Sharad
May 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Odisha workers spend Rs Rs 3,000 and 24 hours to board bus home||HYDERABAD: With no special trains leaving the city to Odisha, migrant workers have dug into their savings and hired a private bus to reach their homes. Each of them had to spend 3,000 for a seat. However, the bus arrived 24 hours late and the workers were forced to wait on the road. The police intervened to resolve the issue and they finally left the city on Thursday evening. On Wednesday evening, 46 migrant workers, including some women and children, arrived at Mother Teresa statue near Secunderabad Railway Station and waited for the bus. “The bus was supposed to pick us up at 6pm but it did not arrive. At 8pm, we were told that the bus will not arrive on Wednesday as it was stopped by Andhra Pradesh police. So all of us walked back to our shelters,” said Abu Bashar, a cook. Abu, along with others from his state, got enrolled with police hoping a special train will be arranged for them . “But, so far no trains left for Odisha. People from our state are either walking back or paying from their own pocket to travel in private vehicles. So all of us hired a bus by paying 30,000 advance,” Bashar said. The workers had to wait till Thursday evening to finally get into the vehicle. “The bus booked by the migrant workers, with our permission, has been stopped on AP border. I spoke to the travels management and they assured to arrange a bus. The workers were provided food by volunteers and our people,” Gopalapuram inspector B Sai Eshwar Goud said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/odisha-workers-spend-rs-3k-24-hrs-to-board-bus-home/articleshow/75767365.cms||Mahesh Buddi
May 16, 2020||Bareilly||Man tests positive for Covid-19 in Bareilly||BAREILLY: A 32-year-old man, who returned from Mumbai to Bareilly by car, was tested positive for Covid-19 in Bareilly on Friday. The man is a native of Biharipur locality of Bareilly. District surveillance officer Dr Ranjan Gautam said, “Two brothers returned to Bareilly on Wednesday and they were quarantined at the 300-bed government hospital. One brother was tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday while the other was found negative. The man is asymptomatic and will be shifted to Covid-19 level one hospital.” With this, the district tally of Covid-19 reached 13 in Bareilly. These included 10 discharged cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/man-tests-ve-for-covid-19-in-bareilly/articleshow/75767349.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Dehradun||3 die, 2 injured as car falls into gorge in Pithoragarh||Pithoragarh: Three persons, including the driver, were killed when their car fell into a 150-meter-deep gorge at Sukhidang, on Tanakpur-Pithoragarh highway on Friday. Two other persons in the car were injured and admitted at a hospital at Tanakpur. According to police, the group of five men, all workers at a hotel in Faridabad, left Delhi for their home in Pithoragarh on Friday. They had been stuck in Delhi for more than a month due to the lockdown. “The driver lost control of the wheel near Sukhidhang, plunging the car in the gorge. A worker of the all-weather road noticed the vehicle in the gorge and informed police, who then started rescue work,” said Vipin Pant, circle officer of Tanakpur. “While two persons, 28-year-old Girish Ram from Garud Bageswar and 21-year-old Suraj Singh from Pithoragarh, died on the spot, driver Arun Kumar (36) from Faridabad died at the hospital. Deepak singh and Santosh Ram are currently undergoing treatment,” Pant added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/3-die-2-injured-as-car-falls-into-gorge-in-pithoragarh/articleshow/75765048.cms||Prem Punetha
May 16, 2020||Lucknow||8 lakh street vendors in UP to get easy loans||LUCKNOW: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Friday announced that UP government will bring out a policy to provide easy loans to street vendors. This would be done to ensure that the PM’s economic package for the poor reaches the right people, he said. Currently, the state government has a list of over 8.41 lakh such vendors to whom it has been providing a sustenance allowance of Rs 1,000 and free foodgrain since the lockdown. On Thursday, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman had spelt out the details of the 20 lakh crore financial package which would help street vendors. The Centre had declared a Rs 5,000 crore special credit facility for them to help tide over the financial crisis resulted by the lockdown. Under this, up to Rs 10,000 will be provided as working capital to the vendors. “We are carrying out regular surveys to identify such persons and help them financially and with food. The sustenance allowance is being transferred directly into their accounts. Because of this, the government now has a proper list of how many people are involved in street vending and what they do. With the help of this data, the government will now provide them with loan,” said an official. Earlier, soon after the lockdown had been imposed, the CM had issued directions that a list of street vendors be prepared, along with daily wagers and ration cards issued to those who did not have access to the public distribution system. For those who did not have bank accounts, directions were also issued to help them open accounts for direct bank transfer of the Rs 1,000.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/8l-street-vendors-in-up-to-get-easy-loans/articleshow/75768141.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Ahmedabad||Demand pushes veggie prices up in Ahmedabad; dip likely from today||AHMEDABAD: If waiting for eight days and queuing up in the scorching sun to buy vegetables was not enough of a price to pay, people of Ahmedabad also had to shell out more, with the vegetables sold on Friday costing them dearer. Potatoes, which cost around Rs 30 a kilo last week, now cost Rs 60. The price of onions rose from Rs 25 a kg last week to Rs 50. According to traders, there was confusion among retailers on availability of stock on Thursday, vis-à-vis the anticipated surge in demand on Friday and retail prices thus shot up. The Agriculture Produce Market Committee (APMC) Ahmedabad had shifted the wholesale market from Jetalpur APMC to three different locations in Ahmedabad to enable ease of access. However, as the information did not reach traders in time, procurement was not smooth again causing prices to go up. “I was under the impression that I was supposed to procure vegetables from Jetalpur APMC and thus paid Rs 3,000 as transport cost. There was limited stock available there and therefore I had no choice but to sell at a higher rate,” said Ghanshyam Bharwad, a vendor. Consumers were also irked by the excessively high price for vegetables. “This is fleecing of customers. Traders knew people will come out in large numbers to buy vegetables. How can prices shoot up in a week, and that too when supply was closed,” said Shital Dataniya, a resident of Sindhu Bhavan Road.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/demand-pushes-veggie-prices-up-dip-likely-from-today/articleshow/75767351.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
May 16, 2020||Aurangabad||Osmanabad to lose green zone tag||Aurangabad: With a total of four people, including a revenue department employee testing positive for Covid-19 in Osmanabad, the district is all set to lose its prestigious tag of green zone. After successfully recovering from the first three cases detected in the district about a month back, Osmanabad remained the sole district from among the eight districts of Marathwada region to have the green zone tag. A driver of Paranda tehsil of the district with a travel history of Mumbai tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday. This was followed by three people from Kalamb tehsil testing positive for the contagion in the reports that reached the administration on late Thursday night. They include a couple that recently returned from Mumbai and a Class IV employee of the revenue department. When contacted, Osmanabad district collector Deepa Mudhol-Munde confirmed that four new Covid-19 cases were reported from the district. “Out of the four positives, the Class IV revenue staffer does not have a travel history and we are carrying out contact tracing to find the source of infection,” she said. She also said that following the fresh cases, complete lockdown, except for essential services, has been imposed in the two tehsils of Paranda and Kalamb. “Our entire district, except for two tehsils, is functioning normally and we are confident of overcoming this situation,” said Mudhol-Munde.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/osmanabad-to-lose-green-zone-tag/articleshow/75765051.cms||Mohammed Akhef
May 16, 2020||Business||B’luru sees most growth in fire, health insurance||Bengaluru: Insurance companies say Bengaluru is one of the few metros that bucked the trend in April 2020 and saw good growth in categories like fire, marine and health insurance. New India Assurance Co said it saw 60% growth in the city. “We have a range of clients in the city - corporates, mid-caps and SMEs. In fact, we have an additional office in Peenya Industrial Estate. And it’s not just Bengaluru, but industrial clusters in Mysuru and Mangaluru that have done well,” said a New India official. New India also said it has seen some growth in health. “This might not necessarily be linked to the pandemic. Year-on-year, health insurance has been growing on average at 8-10% and it followed the same trend this year too,” said the official. For ICICI Lombard, Bengaluru was the best performing metro. “I’d say it’s the presence of large corporates, particularly the IT sector, that’s contributed. After Bengaluru, the next best cities in terms of sales for us were Mumbai and then Delhi.” B C Prabhakar, president, Karnataka Employers Association (KEA), said the increase might have been because audit requirements have gone up. “There are a lot of component manufacturers for defence, aerospace (HAL) and ISRO in Bengaluru. Earlier, only they were being audited. Now, their raw material suppliers are also coming in for audit. They may be buying more fire insurance than earlier,” he said. Brokers in the city said that insurance purchases by SMEs and MSMEs might have also gone up because of higher compliance requirement. The former Karnataka labour secretary Capt P Manivannan, before his recent transfer, had come down hard on industrial units that were not providing health insurance cover. Another CEO of a private insurer, which has gone into the silent period on account of the upcoming Q1 results, said, “Bengaluru commercial office space had gone up in fiscal 2020; and proportionally, large builders took more fire insurance. But the coming year will be challenging.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/bluru-sees-most-growth-in-fire-health-insurance/articleshow/75767374.cms||Rachel Chitra
May 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Tweet helps 1,100 starving students||HYDERABAD: Food packets and water were provided to 1,100 hungry students — 350 from Telangana and 750 from neighbouring AP — travelling by train for over 30 hours after one of them tweeted to Telangana IT minister KT Rama Rao, describing their ordeal. V Tharun, a student of Lovely Professional University in Jalandhar, who was travelling to Vijayawada in the special train from Jalandhar in Punjab wrote, “We did not get food today. So please provide us some food in Warangal station. We are starving.” KTR’s office called him back with a promise to provide food. “We literally starved the entire day (May 14). It was a nightmare,” Tharun told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/tweet-helps-1100-starving-students/articleshow/75767356.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
May 16, 2020||Dehradun||Inform if rapid tests can be done for migrants at borders: HC to ICMR||Nainital: After more than two lakh migrants registered with the state government expressing their desire to return to Uttarakhand, Uttarakhand high court (HC) has asked the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) to inform the court if rapid testing can be done at the borders. The bench of Justice Sudhanshu Dhulia and Justice Ravindra Maithani directed the Assistant Solicitor General (ASG) – counsel for the ICMR – to inform the court that since rapid testing is already being carried out in Pauri district, if this can also be done at the borders for migrants. The bench has said that since almost 80% of Covid-19 cases are asymptomatic, thermal screening being done at the borders may be effective. "We have been informed that ICMR has not granted final approval to these rapid tests. We are only anxious to know, considering the special condition of Uttarakhand, which is facing a huge problem of persons who want to come back to Uttarakhand, whether rapid testing can be performed on such persons at the borders, as it appears to be a more effective way of determination than the thermal screening which is presently going on," the court order read. The HC also reiterated its earlier stance that it is the right of the migrants to return to their home state but in there is a concern that some of them may be infected with the virus and "therefore reasonable checks at the border is necessary". The court, meanwhile, has also requested the chief secretary, to give directions to the district magistrates to cooperate with the volunteers of the District Legal Services Authority in implementation of schemes. The ASG has been given time till Monday to inform the court and by the same day, the state government has also been directed the present the details of the quarantine/rehabilitation centres established for migrants.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/inform-if-rapid-tests-can-be-done-for-migrants-at-borders-hc-to-icmr/articleshow/75765056.cms||Prashant Jha
May 16, 2020||Aurangabad||Kin perform last rites after assurance||Aurangabad: The family of the three people, who were lynched over a land dispute on late Wednesday night, refused to accept the bodies and demanded that the key accused be arrested and a fresh in-camera autopsy be conducted. After the autopsy was carried out at the sub-district hospital on Thursday, senior police officers somehow convinced the family, following which they accepted the bodies and performed the last rites at Kalamb in Osmanabad district on Friday morning.Police informed that about a dozen accused in the case have already been arrested. Beed superintendent of police Harssh Poddar told TOI, “Eight more accused have been identified and they are likely to be arrested by late tonight (Friday).”Poddar added the family accepted the bodies only after they were given the assurance none of the guilty would be spared. Three members of a tribal family were chased and lynched by their rivals from the upper caste over a land dispute in Mangvadgaon village of Kej tehsil in Beed district. The deceased have been identified as Babu Pawar, his sons Sanjay and Prakash—all residents of Ambejogai tehsil of Beed district. The accused have been booked on the charges of murder and also been slapped with relevant sections of The Scheduled Castes and Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989. Initially, 17 people were rounded up of which 12 were arrested after their direct involvement in the murder wasestablished After paying a spot visit, superintendent of police Deepali Dhate-Ghadge told TOI she has collected the data for sending a detailed report to the DGP office. “We are monitoring developments in the case and keeping a close tab on the investigation.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/kin-perform-last-rites-after-assurance/articleshow/75765061.cms||Mohammed Akhef
May 16, 2020||Aurangabad||Maharashtra: Umbrella, raincoat included in essentials||AURANGABAD: Considering the upcoming monsoon season, the state government has temporarily included umbrella, rain coats and plastic sheets in the list of essential items. This is for the first time that these articles have made it to the list of essential commodities in the state. Aurangabad revenue divisional commissioner has confirmed of receiving the orders from the state. According to the senior official, a communication in this regard has been issued by state chief secretary Ajoy Mehta who is also the chairman of the sate executive committee. “It is a temporary arrangement made till September 30 so that the people requiring these articles get them during the lockdown,” said an official. The government as well as various district administrations of the state have already included grocery, milk, vegetables, pharmacy stores, poultry and meat in essential services. “In view of the ensuing monsoon season…umbrella, raincoats and plastic sheets/covers will be treated as essential goods till September 30, 2020,” the communication reads. However, it is not yet clear if the traders dealing in these articles will get exemption along with other essential services or there will be a fixed time for them to operate. “The orders will be released by respective collectors in accordance with their respective schedule and arrangements made while considering gravity of Covid-19 crisis in their respective district,” said a collector.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/umbrella-raincoat-included-in-essentials/articleshow/75765079.cms||Mohammed Akhef
May 16, 2020||Lucknow||Reverse migration to hit UP’s demographic profile||LUCKNOW: Massive influx of migrants into Uttar Pradesh following the lockdown has brought the spotlight on a paradigm shift from 2011 census figures, which suggest India’s most populous state was one of the biggest contributors to migration. A decade later, reverse migration is dramatically changing the state’s demographic profile even as a fresh census operation is likely to be rolled out in UP next year, say experts. According to 2011 census, Uttar Pradesh and Bihar accounted for a maximum of 37% of the country’s interstate migration. Now, UP stares at a possibility of 20-25 lakh people returning home over the next few days while the state government hammers out a plan to provide employment. Hindi heartland states, including Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh accounted for 50% of India’s total inter-state migrants, according to 2011 census. While UP remained the biggest source of out-migrants, Maharashtra bore the brunt of the influx. The gender component in the migration graph throws up an interesting trend with two-third women forced to migrate post-marriage and the gender-gap widening with distance of migration, primarily for economic purpose. Director of Allahabad-based GB Pant Institute of Social Sciences, Prof Badri Narayan, said migrants may not move out of Uttar Pradesh for at least two years, given the hardships they bore during the pandemic-triggered lockdown. “This reverse migration will definitely show up in the census exercise next year,” he said. Narayan said, migrants would seek a better value for labour and more hygienic conditions back home. Former director of Giri Institute of Developmental Studies, Prof AK Singh, said, reverse migration has thrown up a fresh challenge to the state government, which needs to provide job opportunities to migrants to help them sustain in their home state,” he said. Singh said the government’s plan to generate jobs in MSMEs may not be easy as most units comprise micro or cottage units which do not depend on hired labour. Thus, generating employment in micro industries is an uphill task, he said adding the government pins hopes on Mahatma Gandhi Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MNREGS) for generating income for unskilled workers. In fact, profiling of migrants according to their skills has already begun.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/reverse-migration-to-hit-ups-demographic-profile/articleshow/75768149.cms||Pankaj Shah
May 16, 2020||Rajkot||Bihar workers hold rally in Botad||Around 400 labourers from Bihar held a rally in Botad town on Friday, demanding immediate arrangements for them to travel back to their natives. Before situation could get out of hand, the police stopped them at a market and convinced them to wait for confirmation of travel arrangements from the authorities. “After we persuaded them to return to their labour colonies with the promise to send them back to their state after the government there grants the permission, the labourers went back,” said an official from Botad police station. The labourers wanted to go to the collectorate to make a representation. However, they dispersed after the police intervened. Officials said that migrants are stuck because approvals for sending them back are pending from the Bihar government since May 10. "The medical check-up of these migrants has been done and buses to ferry them to the railway station are also ready,” said an official. "There is a delay because the Bihar government has not given approvals for trains," he said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/bihar-workers-hold-rally-in-botad/articleshow/75767359.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Dehradun||Four new Covid-19 cases surface in Uttarakhand, state tally now 82||Dehradun: With four more Covid-19 positive patients found in Uttarakhand on Friday, the total count of cases has now shot up to 82 in the state. All the new patients had come to the state from Gurugram. Among the new cases, two have been reported from Nainital and one each from Dehradun and Bironkhal block of Pauri Garhwal district. In past seven days, 17 Covid-19 positive patients have been found in the state and all of them are those stranded locals who were brought to the state. The new patients include a 29-year-old man whose mother had earlier tested positive for Covid-19. The woman, who had come to the state from Gurugram, is currently admitted to AIIMS Rishikesh and her son was kept in isolation at Seema Dental College in Rishikesh. He has now been moved to the Covid-19 ward of AIIMS Rishikesh. People arriving from other states being tested for the coronavirus at Asharodi check post, before they enter UttarakhandThe two other positive cases from Nainital are of an 11-year-old girl and a 24-year-old man. Both of them had returned from Gurugram and were kept in isolation in Betalghat area. Their samples were sent to VRDL Lab in Haldwani. And the fourth case is of a 23-year-old migrant worker from Kotdwar (Pauri). He had also returned to the state from Gurugram recently. Meanwhile, one more patient recovered fully and was discharged on Friday. With this, the total number of active cases in the Himalayan state has now become 30. Till Friday, Uttarakhand had sent 10,605 samples for test. Among these, 10,523 cases tested negative. At present, the state has nine containment zones and five among them are in Dehradun. These Covid-19 hotspots include — Azad Nagar, Bees Bigha Colony, Chama Vihar and Ward Number 25, VB Marg (Rishikesh), and Shiva Enclave (Rishikesh) in Dehradun district; Nagla Emarti (Roorkee) and Khata Kheri (Bhagwanpur) in Haridwar district; and one each at Nainital (Banphulpura) and Udham Singh Nagar (Ward number 13, Rajiv Nagar) districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/four-new-covid-19-cases-surface-in-ukhand-state-tally-now-82/articleshow/75765065.cms||Shivani Azad
May 16, 2020||Dehradun||Badrinath portals open, first prayer on behalf of PM Modi||Dehradun: The portals of the revered Badrinath shrine situated in Chamoli district of Garhwal Himalayas were opened at 4.30am on Friday. Officials said that social distancing was maintained and only 11 people, including the priests, were permitted for the ceremony. Like the three other dhams, the first prayer here was also performed on behalf of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. To recall, the portals of Gangotri and Yamunotri were opened on April 26 and doors of Kedarnath were opened on April 29. Earlier, the portals of Badrinath dham were to open on April 30 but the date was revised and fixed for May 15 by the Tehri royal family, custodians of the shrine. Speaking about the opening of the Char Dham shrines amid the ongoing lockdown, tourism minister Satpal Maharaj said, “Presently, only the religious rituals are being performed at the Char Dham shrines and it is not open for the devotees. However, we have requested the Centre to open the yatra for people living in green zone districts of Uttarakhand.” Chamoli district magistrate Swati S Bhadauria said, “Strict social distancing will be followed at the temple and everyone must wear a mask. Instructions have been issued that during the lockdown, priests arriving at the dham will not be allowed to go anywhere else apart from Badrinath without the permission of the administration.” Last year, the yatra saw a record turnout of pilgrims and there was a significant rise in numbers in comparison to 2018. In all, the Char Dham Yatra saw a devotee footfall of around 32 lakh in 2019. Badrinath had maximum devotee turnout with 11.74 lakh, Kedarnath witnessed 10.02 lakh pilgrims; 5.30 lakh paid obeisance at Gangotri while 4.65 lakh visited Yamunotri.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/badrinath-portals-open-first-prayer-on-behalf-of-pm-modi/articleshow/75765057.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Mysuru||Last patients discharged, Mysuru walks into covid-free zone||Mysuru: In its fight against Covid-19 pandemic, Mysuru has scripted a rare achievement—all the 90 people who tested positive for the virus till date in the district have been successfully treated and discharged. The last two patients were discharged on Friday, making Mysuru district free from active cases. Mysuru, which got into red zone owing to Karnataka’s only cluster case at Nanjangud, has achieved the rare distinction of zero mortality of covid patients. The cluster case produced 74 cases and had endangered the public health, forcing the district administration to take a series of measures that have earned it accolades. District incharge minister ST Somashekar attributed the success to the corona warriors, mainly the health workers. Deputy commissioner Abhiram G Sankar said they have come to zero with regard to covid positive cases but have to take precautions. “We have a lot of challenges but are prepared to tackle any emergency situation. People must cooperate with the district administration,” he said. The first positive case was identified on March 20 and 56 days later, the district now stands free of any patients. However, this does not mean there won’t be any positive cases in future. Random tests are being carried out including in containment zones besides there are over 600 who came from different states undergoing institutional quarantine. “With norms being relaxed in the district, everyone must be cautious and ensure that social distancing is maintained in public places. People should keep their hands clean and avoid touching face with bare hands. Care must be taken to protect vulnerable groups – senior citizens, pregnant, children, TB, HIV patients and people living with life–threatening diseases,” said the DC. Institutional quarantine is a must for those coming from other states and countries. “As of now, we have only inter-state residents, nearly 600, and they’re lodged at government and paid quarantine facilities. There may be a positive case among those quarantined,” he said. Inter-state passengers can’t pass through Nanjangud Traffic restrictions at Nanjangud will continue though there are no positive cases in the area as of now. DC Abhiram Sankar said there are nearly a dozen containment zones but lockdown norms have been relaxed and essential services are allowed. Construction activities have been allowed and shops can remain open from 7 am to 5 pm but people must follow the norms. Inter-state travellers will not be allowed to pass through Nanjangud till further orders as a precaution. This restriction will not apply to essential services. All passenger vehicles have to take detour via T Narasipura, as currently it has been, to reach Mysuru from Gundlupet. They will have to travel 35 km extra, the DC stated. Dispose masks, gloves separately MCC commissioner Gurudutta Hegde on Friday appealed to the public to dispose of mask they wear in separate cover and hand it over to garbage collectors. This is to ensure that masks are disposed off scientifically. Meanwhile, shop owners must ensure that shoppers maintain social distance near their shops. Mysuru a model district: Minister Medical education minister K Sudhakar said on Friday that Mysuru has become a model district in fight against Covid-19 in the country with all 90 positive patients being cured and discharged. Efforts of district authorities led by incharge minister ST Somashekar is commendable and has kindled a ray of hope in the fight, the minister said in Bengaluru.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/last-patients-discharged-mysuru-walks-into-covid-free-zone/articleshow/75765059.cms||Lawrence Milton
May 16, 2020||Madurai||Woman, 71, moves HC for protection from daughter||Madurai: The Madras high court has directed the authorities to pass appropriate orders on a plea moved by a 71-year-old woman seeking to protect her and her property from her younger daughter, who is harassing her. The petitioner Pappa from Ramanathapuram district stated she has a son and two daughters. Her son and elder daughter were married and living separately. After her husband’s death, her younger daughter P Elamurugu, had been continuously harassing her and preventing her from enjoying her dwelling house peacefully and has been trying to dispossess her. Seeking protection under the Tamil Nadu Maintenance and Welfare of Parents and Senior Citizens Act 2007 and Tamil Nadu Maintenance and Welfare of Parents and Senior Citizens Rules 2009, the petitioner submitted a representation on March 7 to the Ramanathapuram district collector and Paramakudi revenue divisional officer (RDO). Since, no action was taken, the petitioner moved the high court Madurai bench seeking protection from her daughter.The special government pleader submitted that the authorities do not have the copy of the petitioner’s representation. Taking note of the submissions, justice C V Karthikeyan said the petitioner’s counsel should take steps to submit an additional representation to the authorities before May 30. The judge directed that on receipt of the representation, the RDO should examine the representation and pass appropriate orders within July 30. Citing that an extended period is given due to the pandemic situation, the judge said that it would be appreciable, if the RDO disposes the representation on a much earlier date.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/woman-71-moves-hc-for-protection-from-daughter/articleshow/75767362.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Agra||Uttar Pradesh: Mainpuri reports second Covid-19 death||AGRA: A 17-year-old Mainpuri girl, who died at Safai hospital on Thursday night, was confirmed to be Novel coronavirus (Covid-19) positive in her test report that was received by the doctors on Friday. According to health officials, the girl was unwell and admitted to Mainpuri district hospital from where she was referred to Safai on May 12 after her condition started deteriorating. Two days later, she died in the hospital. Around 16 health staff members, including two doctors, have been quarantined after the confirmation of the deceased’s Covid-19 status. Meanwhile, police registered an FIR against a local chemist for allegedly prescribing drugs to the unwell girl when she was staying at home, according to DM Mahendra Bahadur Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/mainpuri-reports-second-covid-death/articleshow/75767363.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Bhopal||61% cure count in Bhopal adds josh to Covid fight||BHOPAL: Twenty-eight new positive patients were found in state capital, taking the tally of patients in Bhopal to 939, on Friday, said chief medical and health officer, Dr Prabhakar Tiwari. But the positive aspect is that 31 persons recovered from the disease and were discharged from Chirayu Hospital on the same day, taking the total numbers of people who have recovered from the disease in state capital, to 580. This is 61 per cent of the total patients, who have tested positive so far, said sources. Apart from the people who were tested positive, 35 casualties have been reported from the city till now. Sources said that 31 more patients who have recovered from the disease will be discharged from Chirayu hospital on Saturday. District administration has earmarked more than 214 containment areas in the city, which are scattered across Jehangirabad, Mangalwara, Ashoka Garden, Talaiya, Chhola Mandir, Kamla Nagar, Gautam Nagar, Piplani and Misrod localities of the city. District administration has set up a three-layer security cover around Jehangirabad, Mangalwara and Aishabagh areas. High security, strict monitoring is being ensured in these areas using drone cameras, CCTV surveillance, police patrolling on motorcycles etc. District collector Tarun Pithode has instructed police and administration to ensure strict implementation of lockdown rules, especially in these areas and take appropriate action against anyone who is found violating the norms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/61-cure-count-in-city-adds-josh-to-covid-fight/articleshow/75767367.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Labs club 25 swabs in pool sample||LUCKNOW: A month after the launch of pool testing for Covid-19, the state government on Friday announced raising the pool sample size from 5 to 10. The move comes a day after state chief minister directed health officials to double daily testing from 5,000 to 10,000. “Different labs in the state have decided to increase number of swabs in a single pool sample from 5 to 10,” said principal secretary, health and family welfare, Amit Mohan Prasad. He also said, the state obtained permission from Indian Council of Medical Research to club up to 25 swabs in a pool sample. Last month, more than 2,000 pools have been tested. Pool sample testing involves mixing several samples to create a super sample and putting them up for test in one go, instead of testing each sample at a time. If the result is negative, the entire group is declared safe from infection. But if the sample tests positive, individual samples in the batch are tested separately. The technique is a cost-effective way to ramp up tests and has been validated for a super sample of up to 60 swabs by researchers in Israel. Germany too has adopted this model. Initially, tests began from non-affected districts with the purpose of creating and validating local data before replicating the model in hot spots. The initiative was launched by KGMU.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/labs-club-25-swabs-in-pool-sample/articleshow/75768154.cms||Shailvee Sharda
May 16, 2020||Lucknow||Officials have failed to solve migrants’ woes: Akhilesh Yadav||LUCKNOW: The UP government is clueless how to deal with its officials who have failed in solving the migrants’ problems, said Akhilesh Yadav, national president of the Samajwadi Party, condemning an Agra incident where a poor man on way to his native place was seen dragging his child on a suitcase. “What is more shocking are contemptuous remarks of district magistrate of Agra who tried to trivialise pains of the man and his son,” Akhilesh said while talking to TOI. Recalling an incident, Akhilesh said that when he was chief minister of the state a sub-inspector had kicked an aged typist in Hazratganj. “I was not in Lucknow at that time, but I saw the incident on TV news. I immediately directed officers to give him compensation of Rs 2 lakh and a new typewriter. I had also asked then district magistrate and superintendent of police to go to his house and tender an apology on my behalf,” he added. The SP chief said that the DM of Agra has made mockery of the man’s poverty and chief minister Yogi Adityanath has not initiated any step against him. “This is not acceptable,” he lamented. The former CM said that the way lakhs of migrants are covering thousands of miles on foot or on bicycles is a clear indication that the Yogi government has left them on their fate. “What the government has achieved by imposing the lockdown. The death numbers have escalated, patients swelled and the medical infrastructure is crumbing,” observed Akhilesh saying the CM should explain whether the lockdown has met its purpose. When the Central government has announced the home quarantine policy why the Yogi government is keeping people into shelter homes where there is no food or water for them? the SP chief questioned. When asked why the SP is not raising all these issues in an effective manner, Akhilesh remarked that his party does not want to  add to chaos and confusion. “We will strike while the iron is hot and expose the BJP government’s failure in responding to the biggest humanitarian crisis,” he said Akhilesh stated that a deep resentment is brewing among MLAs of the BJP against their government. Their workers are feeling neglected by the state machinery and they can revolt anytime, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/officials-have-failed-to-solve-migrants-woes/articleshow/75768159.cms||Subhash Mishra
May 16, 2020||Nagpur||Warud woman among 4 +ve; Amravati district count 94||Amravati: The city is fast reaching the century mark as four new Covid-19 positive cases on Friday took the district’s count to 94. A 42-year-old woman health worker at Panjabrao Deshmukh Medical College and Hospital (PDMCH) and a 55-year-old man, under treatment for Severe Acute Respiratory Illness (SARI) at Covid Hospital here, are among the four who tested positive on Friday. The rest two include a 37-year-old contact of a Warud woman who tested positive in Nagpur earlier this month and a 60-year-old woman from Ravidas Bhavan area in Sweepers Colony in Masanganj ward of the city. The health worker from PDMCH is a resident of Uttam Nagar and has been in isolation since a patient she treated at the isolation ward a week ago tested positive a few days later. She is one of the six hospital staffers quarantined at Prabodhini here. She has now been moved to Covid ward. The woman is the third health worker to test positive after two males from Covid Hospital (residents of Ambika Nagar and Belpura) tested positive a day before. Uttam Nagar is now a new locality giving a positive patient. The new patient’s contacts are being traced and isolated. Collector Shailesh Naval stated that the district has 74 SARI patients and five of them have tested Covid positive. A few hours after this, the sixth SARI patient in the form of a 55-year-old man tested positive in the evening. He belongs to Lalkhadi area which has earlier given one positive case. Naval said door-to-door survey in 12 containment zones in the city and three in rural parts is on in a bid to trace patients and control the spread of the virus. Naval said a 350-bed permanent Covid Hospital laced with all modern facilities is being set up on the premises of Ayurved Mahavidyalaya in Mozari and 100-bed Covid hospitals on the premises of Trauma Care Centre in Achalpur and Rural Hospital in Chandur Bazar. While Mozari falls in the constituency of guardian minister Yashomati Thakur, Achalpur and Chandur Bazar are in the constituency of state minister Bachchu Kadu. Meanwhile, two companies of Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) with 120 jawans have reached the city on Friday evening. Put up at Rajni Mangal Karyalaya on Walgaon Road, the jawans will be deployed in urban and rural containment zones in the district, it is learnt. Meanwhile, Naval has acquired seven government, semi-government and private institution buildings and hostels in the city for quarantining contacts of Covid positive cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/warud-woman-among-4-ve-amravati-district-count-94/articleshow/75767399.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Bhopal||Duo who escaped to Vidisha brought back after +ve test||BHOPAL: Three people including a woman and her son, who had escaped from Mangalwara containment area to their native village in Vidisha, tested Corona positive on Friday.  After they tested positive, when health officials looked out for them they found their house locked. Later, Mangalwara police tracked them and contacted local Vidisha police after which health teams brought them to Bhopal and hospitalised them. SHO Mangalwara Sandeep Pawar said the three patients including a man, his wife and son reside in Ahirpura area of Mangalwara which has been declared a containment area. Their screening and sampling was conducted on May 12 after which they were instructed to remain in quarantine. Despite this, the accused family fled to their native village in Vidisha. On Friday, when their reports were received and the mother-son duo were found Corona positive, the health department team reached their house and found it was locked. The father, who works as a cook, tested negative in the report. Police were informed after which it was revealed that the family was in Vidisha. Police contacted local Vidisha police and they were brought to Bhopal. A case has been registered against the accused for violating lockdown order. They were sent to Khushilal Ayurvedic hospital for treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/duo-who-escaped-to-vidisha-brought-back-after-ve-test/articleshow/75767383.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Odisha govt move to ease pain of migrants travelling on foot||BHUBANESWAR/BERHAMPUR: As disturbing pictures of migrants walking along with their children and elderly on roads kept coming from different places during the lockdown, the state government has mobilised buses in districts to transport the pedestrians. While Odisha-bound migrant walkers are being taken to quarantine centres, others, who are travelling to other states via Odisha, are being dropped at interstate border checkpoints. The office of special relief commissioner is working with police and district collectors to mitigate the problem of the movement of migrant workers in the state. All migrants walking through Odisha are being sent to Odisha borders in government-arranged transport. “Idea is no migrant labourer should walk painfully on our roads,” special relief commissioner and additional chief secretary to government (disaster management) Pradeep Jena tweeted on Friday. The government said Odisha police and district collectors have been coordinating with neighbouring states to facilitate smooth movement of migrant workers in vehicles. An official source said the state police and district collectors have been placing requisitions near the regional transport officers (RTOs) for buses to ferry pedestrians. “We have given at least 37 buses to Malkangiri district that has been witnessing more pedestrians (migrant workers),” state transport commissioner Sanjeeb Panda said. Police said they have been arranging food, drinking water and other basic requirements for the migrant workers, trekking long distances on feet. In the last two days, the police have facilitated transport of around 4,000 migrant workers, who were spotted walking in different districts. “We arranged transport for 135 migrant workers from Bhadrak district to Laxmannath border in Balasore district and Jamsola border in Mayurbhanj district. We also found a kind-hearted bus driver, who transported 37 pedestrians to West Bengal free of cost,” Bhadrak superintendent of police Rajesh Pandit said. India Cares, an online voluntary initiative by a group of persons in Odisha, too has extended helping hand to the migrant workers. “The visual of an exhausted child asleep on a luggage bag that was being dragged by his mother was a heartbroken sight. Thousands of poor migrants undergo untold misery. We appeal to people to provide them food, transport, shelter and medicines. We also urge people to inform India Cares for immediate intervention,” senior IPS officer Arun Bothra, who is part of the India Cares initiative, said. Meanwhile, the Ganjam district administration has made transport arrangements to ferry them. “The main aim of the initiative is to ensure that the migrant workers should not resort to walking through the Ganjam district,” said project director, district rural development agency (DRDA), Sidharth Shankar Swain. Migrants from other states are ferried to nearest districts bordering Ganjam. For migrants from other districts, the respective district administrations are contacted and the administrations are arranging buses to take them back. Migrants of Ganjam are kept in different quarantine centres in the district. The initiative called Sugam has been launched by the district administration to ferry them. The district administration has provided at least two buses to carry the migrant workers from Girishola (Odisha-Andhra Pradesh border) to Keshapur (Ganjam-Khurda border). At least three NGOs have been entrusted with the work to register them, distribute food among them and facilitate their smooth travel. On the launching day of the initiative on Thursday, at least 22 Assam-bound migrant workers, who were walking on the roads, were ferried from Girishola to Keshapur, 60-km apart, said Lokanath Mishra of Aruna, one of the organizations carrying out the initiative. “Besides transporting them, we are also providing them cooked and dry food and drinking water,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/govt-move-to-ease-pain-of-migrants-travelling-on-foot/articleshow/75765113.cms||Hrusikesh Mohanty
May 16, 2020||Madurai||Advance bail for three in cheating case||Madurai: The Madras high court has granted anticipatory bail to three people who are facing charges for their involvement in a cheating case. The petitioners - K P Dashilin Jeno, K Vasanthakumari and K P Devaraj - apprehended arrest in the case registered by the Kanyakumari district crime branch police. Hearing the plea, justice G Jayachandran said that a complaint was filed by K Ramakrishnan on August 13, 2014, alleging that the three had forged documents and usurped his property. The petitioners in 2015 has approached the high court for anticipatory bail, but the same was dismissed. The judge observed that nearly after five years, police is approaching the petitioners to cooperate with the investigation by giving their fingerprints for comparison. The additional government pleader submitted that the petitioners had failed to cooperate with the investigation and for want of fingerprint for comparison, the investigation got delayed. Taking into consideration the facts, the judge granted anticipatory bail to the petitioners with several conditions including that they should appear before the police and give their fingerprints for comparison and also cooperate for further investigation. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/advance-bail-for-three-in-cheating-case/articleshow/75767393.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Dehradun||Take action against schools forcing parents for fees: Education secy tells DMs||Dehradun: The state education secretary has asked district magistrates of all 13 districts in Uttarakhand to ensure that the private schools in their respective jurisdictions aren’t charging any fees other than tuition fees from parents. According to state government order, parents cannot be forced to pay even the tuition fees during the lockdown. The secretary has maintained that it is up to parents whether they want to pay fees during the lockdown or not and the school has no right to forbid a child from attending online classes if his/her fees is due. Also, the secretary has said that only those schools are permitted to ask for tuition fees which are providing online classes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/take-action-against-schools-forcing-parents-for-fees-education-secy-tells-dms/articleshow/75765122.cms||Mohammad Anab
May 16, 2020||Bhopal||Curbs may be eased in six zones in Bhopal after May 17||BHOPAL: Lockdown 4.0, starting from May 18, will not come with major relaxations in the state capital. As per the suggestions sent by district-level crisis management committee to the state government, six zones of Bhopal, including Kolar, Hoshangabad road, Ratibadh, Govindpura industrial area, BHEL and Bairagarh may get some relaxation during lockdown. Government offices situated in these six zones will be allowed to run with 33 per cent attendance, but employees who are living in containment zones will not be allowed to come out of their zones, said sources. Infrastructure and construction related works in these zones can be permitted, but workers should stay at construction sites and work. Garment shops and other outlets, where there are chances of crowd gathering, will not be allowed. Other shops may be allowed in local markets but there could be provision, where one shop after every three shops can be allowed to remain open. Hotels and restaurants owners may be allowed to do home delivery, people working in these six zones should also be the residents of those areas. They will have to carry their address proof and produce the same if required by law-enforcement agencies, said sources. People living in hot spots and containment areas will not be allowed to go to other areas and people from other areas will also be not allowed to go to containment zones, added sources. Sources also said, these are all suggestions sent to the government and final call will be taken by the state government on this issue, and as far as opening of liquor shops is concerned, state government will decide on it and not the district administration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/relaxation-on-the-cards-in-6-zones-after-may-17/articleshow/75767411.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Dehradun||Education dept appoints nodal officers in Doon||Dehradun: The chief education officer of Dehradun has appointed six nodal officers throughout the district to come up with a report of the schools that have resorted to "malpractices" and are violating state government order. The report must submitted by these officials by May 20, 2020. The move comes after Uttarakhand high court ordered the state education department to take strict action against the private schools which are forcing parents to submit their ward’s fees during the lockdown in violation of the state government order. The contact numbers of the newly-appointed nodal officers have been shared by the education department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/education-dept-appoints-nodal-officers-in-doon/articleshow/75765117.cms||Mohammad Anab
May 16, 2020||Madurai||Police file case in death of infant girl||Madurai: The district police have registered a case in connection with the death of a four-day-old infant at Sholavandan on Friday. According to sources,the child was born to Thavamani and Chitra, residents of Poomettu Street at Sholavandan in the district. Thavamani working as a clerk in a lorry shed in Madurai and the couple already has three girl children. On May 10, Chitra gave birth to the female infant at the Melakkal primary health centre. The child died after she was discharged and brought home, allegedly due to ill health on Thursday afternoon. The couple thought that their child died due to natural causes and informed their relatives about the incident. They buried the child in a land behind the old police quarters on Thursday night without intimating officials. When Sholavandan village administrative officer Samayan received information about the incident, he alerted police officials. Based on his complaint, Sholavandan police registered a case under CrPC section 174 on Friday and are investigating the incident. A revenue official said that following this incident, a requisition was sent to the medical team to exhume the body of the child to perform postmortem and is expected to be carried out on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/police-file-case-in-death-of-infant-girl/articleshow/75767412.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Rajkot||Admission begins for RMC schools||RAJKOT: Rajkot Municipal Corporation (RMC) has started the online admission process for standard ninth to standard 12th of its six schools. According to the state government’s regulations, the annual fees for different classes include Rs 90 for standard ninth, Rs 75 for 10th standard, Rs 540 for 11th commerce and Rs 520 for 12th commerce, while the education for girls has been made free. “The decision to collect fee online has been taken, keeping in view the Covid-19 crisis when the students and their parents are unable to visit the schools,” said a senior RMC official. “All our schools provide teaching through Bhaskaracharya Institute for Space Applications and Geoinformatic (BISAG) system. There are state-of-the-art classrooms, audio-video rooms, computer labs, physics and chemistry labs and large playgrounds in our schools. In Sarojini Naidu Girls’ High School there is a facility of smart boards in the classrooms,” said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/admission-begins-for-rmc-schools/articleshow/75767417.cms||---
May 16, 2020||India||Govt targets increase in horticultural produce, to promote cultivation of herbal plants||NEW DELHI: In a push intended to produce a big jump in horticultural produce, the Centre on Friday said it was increasing the ambit of ‘Operation Greens’ from priority crops ‘TOP’ (tomato, onion and potato), to ‘Total’ (all fruits and vegetables) and also announced measures for beekeeping and promotion of herbal cultivation on 10 lakh hectares that include a corridor for medicinal plants along the Ganga. Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said the government had allocated Rs 4,000 crore for promoting cultivation of herbal plants and there would be a network of regional ‘mandis’ for medicinal plants in the country. This plan (with a new target) will be implemented by the National Medicinal Plants Board (NMPB) which has already supported 2.25 lakh hectares under cultivation of medicinal plants. The shift from ‘TOP to Total’ will widen the government’s ongoing ‘Operation Greens’ and is aimed at helping farmers who are the mercy of the weather and markets and often have to opt for distress sale of their perishable fruits and vegetables. With an allocation of Rs 500 crore, the government will launch a six-month pilot to expand this support from TOP to all horticultural produce through subsidy on transportation and storage, including cold chains. “This will lead to Rs 5,000 crore income generation for farmers,” minister of state for finance Anurag Thakur said, and referred to renewed interests of researchers on medicinal plants in their efforts to find solutions to deal with Covid-19. “The move will help in better price realisation to farmers, reduced wastage and ensure affordability of horticultural produce for consumers,” Thakur added. Under a Rs 500 crore scheme to promote beekeeping, the government will focus on infrastructure development related to integrated beekeeping development centres and post-harvest facilities. “This will lead to increase in income for 2 lakh beekeepers and ensure quality honey to consumers,” Thakur said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/govt-targets-increase-in-horticultural-produce-to-promote-cultivation-of-herbal-plants/articleshow/75768879.cms||Vishwa Mohan
May 16, 2020||Delhi||Different course: CBSE to focus on activities||NEW DELHI: The novel coronavirus pandemic has forced Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) to rethink the learning methods in schools. Now, schools affiliated to the board have been asked to shift from reliance on textbooks to activity-based learning. From this year, schools have been asked to ensure that students of classes IX and X take at least one “art-integrated project”. The activity-based learning that students from classes I to X will have to follow has been termed Competency Based Education (CBE) with a focus on learning outcomes. A circular issued to the schools stated: “NCERT has shown the way by coming out with four weeks of activity- based alternate academic calendars for grades I to X. The week-wise plan consists of interesting activities and challenges, with reference to chapter/theme from textbooks.” “Most importantly, the plan maps the themes with learning outcomes. Its purpose is to facilitate teachers/parents to assess the progress in students’ learning. However, it is reiterated that the focus should be on learning, rather than testing for scores,” the CBSE circular added. The schools have also been asked to follow the learning outcomes approach in teaching and learning. The art-integrated project is being introduced to make teaching and learning competency-based and joyful. It is also aimed at making students aware of the vast and diverse cultural heritage of the country. All students of classes IX and X will have to take up at least one art-integrated project in each subject from the academic session 2020-21. Students of classes I to VIII will also be encouraged to take at least one such project of trans-disciplinary nature. “The project work can be considered for internal assessment in the subjects concerned,” the circular said. It will be mandatory to integrate an art form of the paired state or Union territory in minimum one project work of students from classes I to X as defined under the “Ek Bharat, Shrestha Bharat” programme of the government. Further, it has been suggested that when schools re-open, they could consider having flexible seating arrangements in classrooms to facilitate experiential learning activities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/different-course-cbse-to-focus-on-activities/articleshow/75767434.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Rajkot||Con woman siphons off Rs 1 crore in Rajkot||RAJKOT: A woman has allegedly decamped after siphoning off more than Rs 1 crore from the accounts of the members of a credit society in Bajarangvadi area of Rajkot. Police said the accused, identified as Karishma Bumbia, used to work as an agent in KDR Credit Society. “Bumbia would collect money as part of daily saving scheme from small time vendors and businessmen. She has been booked on the complaint of Imran Sorathia, a fruit vendor. She collected passbooks from 40-odd members of the credit society after telling them that she would clear their payments after going through their accounts,” said an official from Gandhigram police station. “As the month of Ramzan is nearing its end, the credit society members started calling Bumbia, who kept her cellphone switched off. When the victims went to her house, they found that she had sold off her house to her sister-in-law and had fled along with her husband,” added the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/con-woman-siphons-off-rs-1-crore/articleshow/75767422.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Stress-busting sessions at quarantine centres||Bhubaneswar: The state government has started holding counselling sessions for migrant workers and stranded people, who are staying in quarantine centres after returning from other states. Pradipta Kumar Mohapatra, additional chief secretary and in-charge of health department, said his department staff and counsellors are visiting the quarantine centres and holding counselling sessions for the inmates of the quarantine centres.  “We are also conducting several stress busting activities including yoga, motivational talks and physical exercises so that the people stay calm and relaxed,” he added. A health department officer said migrant workers faced harrowing time while returning to Odisha. “They were under tremendous pressure to come out of their workplace due to lack of jobs and money. The uncertainty and fear of infection had made them desperate to return home. That’s why we need to keep their spirits high with motivational talks and proper counselling,” he added. He said the stranded people and migrant workers are getting irritated over small things because of stress. After counselling, they feel relaxed and follow rules of the temporary medical centre (TMC). “People are actively participating in morning exercises and yoga classes without any complain,” he added. Like these people, many more migrant workers and stranded Odia people are returning home in buses and Shramik Special trains. So far 49 trains carrying around 58,000 people reached Odisha between May 3 and May 15.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/stress-busting-sessions-at-quarantine-centres/articleshow/75765144.cms||Hemanta Pradhan
May 16, 2020||Nagpur||Ytl Covid +ve woman delivers baby via C-section||Yavatmal: In a first for the city, a Covid positive woman gave birth to a healthy baby via cesarean section on Thursday night.The woman, a resident of Indira Nagar containment zone, was initially admitted to institutional quarantine and her swab samples were sent to Nagpur for tests. After the test reports termed her Covid positive, the woman was shifted to isolation ward.As the delivery was expected soon, the GMCH authorities had set up special operation theatre in the maternity ward of as the woman was Covid positive.“Both the mother and the baby are safe and healthy,” said HoD of gynecology department of GMCH Dr Rohidas Chauhan. He said swab samples of the newborn have been sent to Nagpur lab and the report is awaited.Husband and father-in-law of the positive woman are also in the isolation ward after they had tested Covid positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/ytl-covid-ve-woman-delivers-baby-via-c-section/articleshow/75765150.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Nagpur||2 Chanda Cong netas tussle over funds for Covid battle||Chandrapur: Two Congress stalwarts — disaster management, relief and rehabilitation minister Vijay Wadettiwar and former MP Naresh Puglia — are at loggerheads over issuance of funds for the district to combat the novel coronavirus (Covid-19). Wadettiwar, who is also district guardian minister, had recently claimed to have made provision of over Rs38 crore, highest for any district in Vidarbha, to curb the Covid-19 spread in Chandrapur. He claimed that the funds have been roped in through disaster management, mining royalty fund and district planning and development committee. A sum of over Rs24 crore has been distributed among health agencies to strengthen facilities to fight the coronavirus pandemic so far, he had said. Former MP Puglia has, however, termed the minister’s claims as eyewash and charged that so far only Rs2.50 crore grant has been received in the district to tackle the pandemic. “If the administration had such a large fund at its disposal as claimed by the minister, then what was the need for the district collector to plead with divisional commissioner for additional funds of Rs4 crore,” said Puglia. He also charged Wadettiwar with deceiving people and has dashed off a letter to revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat urging him to intervene and make sure necessary grant is released for Chandrapur through mining royalty and other funds. Rebuffing Puglia’s charge, Wadettiwar camp said the minister’s claims are substantiated by documentary evidence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/2-chanda-cong-netas-tussle-over-funds-for-covid-battle/articleshow/75767444.cms||Mazhar Ali
May 16, 2020||Nagpur||Amid Covid scare, NMC eyes Rs261cr property tax||Nagpur: Facing poor recovery amid the lockdown, Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) will start distributing property tax invoices to citizens from May-end.Assistant municipal commissioner Milind Meshram told TOI that printing of 7.31 lakh tax invoices for financial year 2020-21 is already on. All 10 zones will start distribution of invoices from May-end. To encourage early tax payment, 4% incentive is given for payment of property tax for the entire year before May 31.The NMC has pegged the current year’s tax demand to Rs261.60 crore from 7,31,421 property owners. Meshram said due to coronavirus scare, printing of tax invoices got delayed by a month this year. So, the civic body has decided not to impose penalty on the taxpayers till December 31. “This year, the NMC will not levy any interest for delay in payment of tax in this calendar year,” he said, adding for payment after December 31, a simple interest of 2% will be levied.According to the officer, those who pay half-yearly tax after receiving invoices before December 31 will get 2% rebate and those clearing the annual tax at a single go will be entitled to get 4% discount in their general tax amount.The NMC’s property tax collection in the last financial year was Rs245 crore. Last year, the NMC had delayed distribution of tax invoices because of non-focus works like Swachh Bharat mission, Lok Sabha and assembly elections. The coronavirus scare is all set to further hit the recovery due to poor financial condition of the taxpayers too.Standing committee chairman Vijay Zalke admitted to poor tax recovery by the NMC. “Once the city overcomes the Covid scare, I will ensure that NMC starts focusing on property tax collection and all 10 assistant municipal commissioners will be taken to task,” said Zalke.The property tax department has calculated Rs112 crore as current year’s demand from 6.60 lakh property owners, Rs57.19 crore from 65,238 residents, Rs12.12 crore from 3,488 citizens.TOI had already highlighted poor recovery due to absence of any punitive action by the NMC. Even in last fiscal, the NMC had managed to recover only Rs123.28 crore of the Rs233.73 crore current demand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/amid-covid-scare-nmc-eyes-rs261cr-property-tax/articleshow/75765183.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
May 16, 2020||Lucknow||Yogi Adityanath orders special drive for migrants’ safe return||LUCKNOW: As hundreds of migrants continue to head their homes on foot, cycles or trucks, chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Friday directed officials to launch a special drive to locate such people, ensure their check-up and ferry them to their villages or quarantine shelters through government vehicles. Additional chief secretary (home) Awanish Awasthi said, “The CM has appealed to people to keep patience and wait for the government to bring them back home. The government’s first priority is to ensure safe return of people.” “To help those who are walking, cycling or travelling through unauthorised modes, the CM has asked all DMs to launch drives at local level. ‘11,964 UPSRTC buses deployed to ferry migrants’Officials have been asked to help those who are arriving at state’s borders on their own and to welcome them with respect,” he said. Even as 70 trains are being operated every day, many migrants are still walking hundreds of kilometres to their homes. Now, people travelling by foot, two-wheelers or trucks will be stopped, taken to quarantine centres and screened. If they do not show symptoms of coronavirus infection, they will be given food packets and sent for home-quarantine. Special teams are being constituted at each police station which will carry out patrolling and help people reaching the state. Awasthi said 11,964 UPSRTC buses had been deployed to ferry migrants from other states and also within the state. “The CM has said that all districts should hire private buses and jeeps so that there is no shortage of vehicles,” Awasthi said. Besides buses, the government has also started trains from Jhansi and Saharanpur to take people arriving at western and southern borders to their homes. Since the imposition of lockdown, about 13.50 lakh people have returned to UP, out of whom more than 6.5 lakh came back till April 30. So far, around 380 trains carrying 4.70 lakh people have reached UP. At least 70,000 have returned by bus while another 1.5 lakh have come by their own vehicles. About 201 trains have come from Gujarat, 72 from Maharashtra, 67 from Punjab, 13 from Karnataka, five each from Kerala and Telangana. With 48 stations now operational in UP, 70 trains reached the state on Friday while permission has been granted to another 246. Meanwhile, Delhi has started four trains every day for Varanasi and Gorakhpur to send back about 1 lakh people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/yogi-orders-special-drive-for-migrants-safe-return/articleshow/75768172.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Government to train construction workers from Telangana||HYDERABAD: To reduce dependence on migrant workers, the government will train construction workers from the state. Over 9 lakh labourers are officially registered under Building and Other Construction Workers Act, 1996. Out of these 80,000 to one lakh labourers hail from Hyderabad, Rangareddy and other districts. “Over 90% of skilled migrant labourers come from Rajasthan, Bihar, and Odisha. Workers from Telangana are only involved in mason works ,” a labour department official said. Sources said an announcement will be made soon by the government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/govt-to-train-construction-workers-from-t/articleshow/75767431.cms||Sunil Mungara
May 16, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Emotions run high as train from Delhi reaches Bhubaneswar||BHUBANESWAR: Some could not check their emotions while others tried to hide the joy. But all were relieved to get back home. Passengers were on cloud nine after alighting from the first AC special train which came from New Delhi to Bhubaneswar on Friday evening. The train had started it’s journey from New Delhi at 5.05pm on Thursday. Rajeev Lochan Pradhan from Nayagarh heaved a sigh of relief as he reached his own state. “I was staying in Uttar Pradesh for a business purpose. I had tried to return to my native place before the lockdown began, but it could not be worked out due to short notice. Somehow I managed to reach Delhi and boarded the train for Bhubaneswar,” he added. He said people are facing difficulties as they cannot return to their homes. “I cannot express my happiness in words as I reached my state. Not staying with family members during difficult times creates desperation,” he added. Jajpur’s Rakesh Kumar Mallick, who was stranded in Delhi, also got down from the special train. “I was worried for my family members back home. I tried many times to reach home, but could not due to lack of transport facilities. Thankfully, the railways started operations,” he added. As many as 496 passengers reached Bhubaneswar railway station by the special train. As the persons came from high-risk state like Delhi, the state government followed all precautions till they left for quarantine facilities. The passengers came one by one by following social distancing norms. Health teams conducted thermal screening on the passengers. Officials of Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation (BMC) were keeping a close eye on the developments. After the health team stamped them for being returnees they were allowed to stay in home quarantine, paid or institutional quarantine. All the passengers came out of the station from Platform 1 side. There was a barricade in front of the station and circles were earmarked to keep social distancing between the passengers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/emotions-run-high-as-train-from-delhi-reaches-city/articleshow/75765201.cms||Hemanta Pradhan
May 16, 2020||Nagpur||Home quarantined will be booked if they violate order: CP||Nagpur: City police chief BK Upadhyay said on Friday that no leniency would be shown to any one, irrespective of their medical status including the discharged ones, if they breach the norms of home quarantine.Police role had come under scanner for slack enforcement, particularly in the third phase of lockdown which came with more exemptions. In last couple of days, however, police seem to have shown some firmness in dealing with violators.A number of people have been discharged from hospitals and quarantine centres over the last couple of days. Upadhyay has asked zonal DCPs to increase surveillance.On Friday, 16 offences were registered, including one against a positive patient and his son for having fled the containment zone and putting others’ life at risk. Another 24 offences were registered for breach of lockdown norms. On Thursday, 14 offences were registered for risking others life and 62 for breach of lockdown norms.Upadhyay said the containment zones have been fortified with additional security. “We will take action against anyone who tries to break the lockdown norms especially if one has been told to remain in home quarantine. Actions have been already initiated and more would follow,” he said.The top cop added that he will take the help of community leaders for counselling the patients. “Their involvement will help us convince people to remain at home. Only if they don’t listen to this, police will take action,” said Upadhyay.Apart from the state reserve police force (SRPF), Upadhyay has also deputed the specially trained riot control police commandos (RCP) at the entry and exit points of the containment zones.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/home-quarantined-will-be-booked-if-they-violate-order-cp/articleshow/75765198.cms||Soumitra Bose
May 16, 2020||Bhopal||In lockdown 4.0, Madhya Pradesh government wants ease of businesses in orange-green zones||BHOPAL: The Shivraj Singh Chouhan government has suggested big relaxations in orange and green zones – including opening up private offices, limited public transport and most businesses – in lockdown 4.0, but wants tight restrictions to remain in red zones. The Madhya Pradesh government has sent its suggestions to the Centre after PM Narendra Modi invited advice from all CMs for strategy for the next phase of lockdown. Significantly, the government has proposed that it would like to keep only Indore, Bhopal and Ujjain in the red zone, since 80% of active Coronavirus cases are limited to these three districts. Nine districts, with up to 20 active cases, will be in orange and those with less than 20 cases will be in green zone, according to the state’s suggestion. All major economic activities would be allowed in orange and green districts, but mass gatherings will be banned. The state wants to continue with its 7pm-7am curfew. The roadmap, as sent to the Centre, is for the period till May 31. Red-zone districts will not have much relaxations inside city limits, but in areas outside municipal corporation, all activities allowed in orange and green zones districts will be allowed, if they are Corona-free, the state proposes. While few shops will be allowed to open in red-zone city areas, markets can open beyond municipal limits and public transport may also resume with 50% capacity. Construction activities will also be allowed in those areas. In green and orange zones, government and private offices will open with 100% capacity and inter-district public transport buses will ply at 50% capacity, in addition to resumption of public transport -- like city buses, taxis and autos -- inside cities, the government has suggested. Except for red-zone districts, hotels and restaurants will also open but only for takeaway services. Malls, cinemas, schools, colleges and all kinds of socio-religious and political activities will remain banned. The relaxations given in red-zone areas may continue and it’s likely a few more will be added if the district crisis management group decides.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/in-lockdown-4-0-mp-govt-wants-ease-of-biz-in-orange-green-zones/articleshow/75767439.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Mangaluru||Gulf, Mumbai returnees feel stigmatised||Mangaluru: The stigma attached to Covid-19 is worse than the infection itself, feel many people who are being ostracised in society. The latest to face this are those returning from Mumbai and the Gulf. With 20 people who came by the Air India Express flight under the Vande Bharat Mission to Mangaluru from Dubai testing positive, the fear towards Gulf returnees is expected to worsen. “The current scenario for the returnees is unfortunate, as they are going to bear the brunt of mass hysteria and widespread apprehension, especially from their neighbours, who are going to view them with suspicion. This virus is seen as a foreign disease, and many residents here are very suspicious of people who have come back from abroad as well as from Mumbai. Neighbours are the new friends turned foes, as residents are reporting the movements of returnees, to the authorities,” said Abdullah A Rehman, founder chief, APD Foundation, who is currently in Dubai. Mohan Y from Puttur, whose cousin is waiting to return here from Dubai, said, “Our neighbours are asking us about when my cousin is expected to return. Even after being institutionally quarantined, things are not going to be easy for him. Many relatives have suggested that he should return only after things get back to normal. Many have forgotten that the coastal city’s economy, to an extent, has depended heavily on NRIs, especially those working in the Gulf. Not just the Gulf, but even those who have returned from Mumbai are looked upon with suspicion,” he said. Dakshina Kannada district has received the maximum number of applications for people wanting to return from Maharashtra. Short film highlights plight of returnees Director, writer and actor Sandeep Baradi has released a short Tulu film ‘Nammakkul’ highlighting the plight of Gulf returnees. Sandeep said, “The film has been inspired by a real life incident. A friend who had returned from Mumbai was treated like an untouchable by the society around him. The theme for this 6 minute 40 second movie is about how relationships have changed because of the novel coronavirus. Gulf returnees were earlier asked for gifts or to sponsor events, but are now neglected by their own families. Our aim is to spread a positive message,” he said, adding that the film produced by Sindhura Kalavidaru, Karkala, has had more than 3 lakh views in less than a week, and several NRIs have sent him personal messages, sharing similar experiences.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/gulf-mumbai-returnees-feel-stigmatised/articleshow/75765172.cms||Deepthi Sanjiv
May 16, 2020||Nagpur||Revised discharge policy could be double-edged sword||Nagpur: The revised discharge policy for Covid-19 patients could prove to be a doubled-edged sword, at least in Nagpur. Being a central government policy, the local authorities are bound to implement it in city. However, in Nagpur, the patients going home are from densely populated localities like Mominpura and Satranjipura.With the big festival of Ramzan Eid round the corner, if these patients fail to follow seven-day home isolation as per rules, they could be asymptomatic carriers of the virus. Such patients may infect many vulnerable people around them. Elderly people and those having comorbidities may land in trouble.Doctors treating patients at GMCH and IGGMCH accepted this is a possibility but no one was ready to comment on the record. Doctors told TOI privately that patients were very eager to go home, and some of them had been creating problems daily for health workers by throwing tantrums.Earlier this week, nurses and sanitary staffers were about to submit a written complaint to the dean against some patients at GMCH. The embarrassment was avoided by the timely intervention of senior health officials and Muslim clerics. Officials said they have taken written undertakings from every patient being discharged as per the revised policy. Patients need to follow seven-day home isolation. The million dollar questions is, is it possible to follow isolation in densely populated areas.Though, an infectious disease specialist also said most of the discharged patients are cured and have negligible chances of spreading the infection. A senior academician and former dean of a GMCH in Vidarbha told TOI that policies are framed on national and state level but can be altered or their implementation can be delayed as per local conditions. In Nagpur too, authorities took three days more than other districts to ponder the issue. Finally, it was decided on May 14 to implement the revised discharge policy.On the other hand, some experts are of the view that the new policy will have a positive impact in hotspots. According to a senior doctor, if patients successfully follow home isolation and avoid further spread of the infection, it would bring a very good positive message for entire Nagpur city.“Patients have signed undertaking that they will follow home isolation. Government has already placed SRPF bandobast in these areas. So it’s difficult to break isolation rules. If they ensure no further spread of the infection, it will bring positive views for the hot spots, which are being blamed for spreading infection otherwise,” he said.WHAT’S NEEDED FOR HOME ISOLATIONShould have requisite facility at their residence for self-isolation Must have separate quarantining facility for family contactsA care giver should be available to provide care on 24 x7 basis A communication link between caregiver and hospital is prerequisite for entire duration of home isolationMust download Aarogya Setu app on mobile and should remain online all the timeRULES FOR HOME ISOLATIONPatient should at all times use triple layer medical maskDiscard mask after 8 hours of use or earlier if they become wet or visibly soiledPatient must stay in identified room and away from other people in home, especially elderlyPatient must take rest and drink lot of fluids to maintain adequate hydrationHands must be washed often with soap and water for at least 40 secondsDon’t share personal items with other people.Clean surfaces in the room that are touched often (tabletops, door knobs, handles etc) Patient will self-monitor his/her health with daily temperature recordWHEN TO SEEK MEDICAL ATTENTIONDifficulty in breathingPersistent pain/pressure in the chestMental confusion or inability to arouseDeveloping bluish discolorations of lips/faceWHEN TO DISCONTINUE HOME ISOLATIONPatients under home isolation will end home isolation if symptoms are clinically resolvedIf symptoms develop within seven days, surveillance medical officer will conduct laboratory testing before certifying him free of infection||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/revised-discharge-policy-could-be-double-edged-sword/articleshow/75765210.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
May 16, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Bhubaneswar turns to community leaders to keep virus at bay||BHUBANESWAR: While interior Odisha is busy tackling the rush of migrant workers and keeping the virus at bay, the state capital is keeping one wary eye on those returning from abroad. With two more flights set to bring in stranded people from Chicago and Kuala Lumpur later this month, the city authorities, including police, have sought greater community cooperation to tackle the situation. On Friday, Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation commissioner (BMC) Prem Chandra Chaudhury, twin city police commissioner Sudhansu Sarangi and city DCP Anup Sahu interacted with community leaders at Jayadev Vihar and Sailashree Vihar. Around 25 representatives from Jayadev Vihar Sanskrutik Unnayan Parishad, N5 Development Council, Rameswar Barishta Nagarika Sangha and Jagannath Barishta Nagarika Sangha participated in the interactive session with the city’s top officials. The city, despite being a red zone, has only three active Covid-19 cases, and the authorities intend to keep it that way. The cases were reported more than a week back, on May 7, from three different locations. The BMC hasn’t created a containment zone in those areas. On Thursday night 151 people returned from Dubai, of which 23 are from Bhubaneswar. They have been advised 28 days of home quarantine. “All those who have returned from Dubai will have to stay home for 28 days, starting from the day they landed here. The quarantine posters have been put up at their homes so that others in the community are kept informed. People are responsible enough and they won’t allow any violation of quarantine,” Chaudhury said. “We went to the community leaders because those foreign returnees, who will be staying in home quarantine, need support of the community and particularly the neighbours. The community leaders must understand the situation and help keep away feeling of social stigma. They should also be vigilant to ensure that those in quarantine don’t violate the norms,” said Sarangi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/capital-turns-to-community-leaders-to-keep-virus-at-bay/articleshow/75765220.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Nagpur||Coronavirus was predicted 17 years ago, says EJF report||Nagpur: A 2003 report by the UK-based Environmental Justice Foundation (EJF) had predicted the Covid-19 pandemic 17 years ago. The report was commissioned after the outbreak of Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS) to review zoonotic viruses, which transmit from animals to humans.Executive director of EJF Steve Trent told TOI, “We are at last beginning to understand that wildlife trade and rampant exploitation of the natural world is not just a danger to the overall ecological security of the planet but to human health — to ourselves.”Trent said, “It’s the intermixing of multiple species that occurs in the wildlife trade — species that don’t normally mix closely in the wild — that likely forms the pool for virus transmission, possibly with mutations from one species to another.”He adds, “Ebola, Bird Flu, Swine Flu, Middle East Respiratory Syndrome (MERS), Rift Valley Fever (RVF), SARS, West Nile Virus (WNV) and Zika Virus, all these made the jump from animals to humans, and it was almost always human behaviour that caused the leap.”The NGO has re-published the report commissioned in 2003 in the wake of Covid-19, to highlight the warnings that were missed and has called on world leaders to ban sale of wildlife in markets.The report had warned that China was the most likely candidate for the next novel zoonotic virus and called for a reduction in consumption of wildlife, along with strengthening of China’s animal protection laws.The report, authored by Dr Lynn Dicks of the University of Cambridge, identified 76 viruses that have transmitted directly between animals and humans without an arthropod vector, such as ticks. It found that 52 represented serious public health concerns and 36 were found in Asia.Reviewing the factors that contribute to the likelihood of a new virus emerging, the report found that China was especially at risk. Key reasons for this included widespread consumption of wildlife and rapid ecological degradation such as deforestation.“The risk of another previously unknown viral disease emerging in China as a result of direct contact between people and wildlife species is substantial,” the report said.The report was reviewed by well-known experts Robin Weiss (professor of viral oncology, University College London), Wolfgang Preiser (professor of medical virology, University of Stellenbosch) and Malcolm Bennett (professor of veterinary pathology, University of Liverpool).Dr Dicks and these experts said in a statement, “It is important to note that the report was written 17 years ago. We publish it now only to highlight that we had all the knowledge we needed to curb dangerous practices and lower the risks of tragic pandemics such as the one we are living through in 2020, but we didn’t. Now we are scrambling to sequence the virus, develop tests, drugs and conduct trials within a few weeks.”They said, “Translation of knowledge into policies is seriously lacking. We are not even prepared when it comes to the very basics of protective equipment for front-line medical staff. Nor did we heed the lessons of SARS in 2003. Instead ‘business as usual’ continued.”“We’re not expecting another coronavirus to develop in the next few months or even year. But we should expect it in decades to come, unless bans on the wildlife trade are put in place in China and other consuming countries. And it’s crucial that those bans be enforced,” he said.Trent added, “The wildlife trade plays a key role in the transmission of these diseases. It brings multiple species, many of which may not interact in the wild, into close contact with each other, so that diseases may jump between species and furthermore, into direct contact with humans so that these diseases may be transmitted to us.”“Not only is this trade, as we now clearly know, a damning threat to human health and our global economy, it is also emptying our natural spaces of the wildlife that sustain them,” Trent says“We knew enough 17 years ago to take action – millions of lives are being lost because we failed to heed that warning. We cannot let this happen again. Now is the time to close the wildlife markets and end this trade for good,” the report says.KEY RECOMMENDATIONS* Reduce hunting and consumption of wildlife, particularly primates, wild pigs and rodents* Post health warnings in restaurants and wildlife markets, warning consumers and traders about the risk of contracting novel diseases from wild animals and their raw meat* Encourage research to survey potentially zoonotic viruses in mammals * Encourage long-term research to monitor wild rodent populations and the link with predator populations, to establish whether excessive hunting is causing an indirect risk of disease transfer by leading to high rodent densities||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/coronavirus-was-predicted-17-years-ago-says-ejf-report/articleshow/75765224.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
May 16, 2020||Delhi||SDM asks JNU to grant entry to stranded students||NEW DELHI: Ankita, a student at School of Social Sciences, shifted to a friend’s room on March 19 after the JNU administration issued a notice asking students to vacate the hostels. But little did she know that the lockdown would be extended till May. While her friend left for her hometown, Ankita was stuck with no money to survive. She appealed to the varsity to be allowed to return to the hostel, but to no avail. Even JNU Students’ Union wrote to the administration, but didn’t get any response. Finally, Ankita and others like her wrote to Mehrauli SDM Sonalika Jiwani, who took cognisance of the pleas and asked the JNU administration to allow students back on the campus after proper medical screening for Covid-19. JNUSU in its letter said that many stranded students were staying with friends or acquaintances. It suggested that students be allowed to return to the campus and, as a precautionary step, be prescribed self quarantine for the requisite number of days. Naveen Kumar, president of Kaveri hostel, left for a friend’s place after the March 19 notice. “I didn’t think returning to the campus would be a problem as I felt that the lockdown would last just 21 days,” he said. “I’ve been writing regularly to vice-chancellor M Jagadesh Kumar since April 20. I told him that as the head of the university, he was also the guardian of students. We are ready to abide by all rules and should be allowed entry after medical screening. But we failed to get a response ,” Kumar added. The SDM, in her letter to JNU, said several students had sent mails about being denied entry to the campus. Many had exhausted their funds and wanted to return to their hostel rooms. The JNU administration has been asked to approach district surveillance officer Anuja Vasudeva for medical screening of the students willing to return to the campus. Despite attempts made by TOI through calls and text messages, JNU registrar Pramod Kumar didn’t respond to the queries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/sdm-asks-jnu-to-grant-entry-to-stranded-students/articleshow/75767451.cms||Mohammad Ibrar
May 16, 2020||Goa||HC grants bail to rape accused||Panaji: The high court of Bombay at Goa granted conditional bail to a 43-year-old accused of allegedly raping a 58-year-old British national while giving her a massage near a shack at Calangute. The court directed that Somappa Ramappa Rathod be released on bail on an amount of Rs 50,000. Counsel Salil Saudagar representing Rathod sought bail as the British national had already left the state, and that there was no possibility of threat to her by the accused. The accused was arrested on January 16 following a complaint by the British national. The woman had stated that on January 15, at 2pm near a shack, the accused committed rape while giving her a body massage. During the hearing of the case, the court was informed that the statement of an eyewitness has been recorded and chargesheet was filed before JMFC, Mapusa on March 9. The sessions court judge in February had declined bail to Rathod on grounds that investigating agencies were yet to record the statement of an eyewitness to the incident and that the applicant’s address at Bijapur was yet to be verified.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/hc-grants-bail-to-rape-accused/articleshow/75768202.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Livelihood programme launched in Berhampur||Berhampur: To provide livelihood to lockdown-hit people in the city, Berhampur Municipal Corporation (BeMC) on Friday handed over work orders of Rs 2 crore to contractors, mostly women self help groups (SHGs), to resume labour-intensive work. “The works include construction of water-harvesting structures, city beautification and making of percolation pits under the state government’s recently-launched urban wage employment initiative,” said BeMC commissioner Chakravarti Singh Rathore. All the works would be completed in a month before the onset of monsoon, he said. Chief minister Naveen Patnaik launched the programme last month. It aims to provide livelihood to the lockdown-hit and livelihood-deprived poor people in the urban areas. The chief minister had announced Rs 100 crore under the initiative for all the urban local bodies across the state, of the amount, Rs 5 crore was sanctioned to the BeMC. Besides providing employment opportunities, the percolation pits will also help reduce waterlogging and urban flooding during the monsoon, said the commissioner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/livelihood-programme-launched-in-berhampur/articleshow/75765252.cms||Hrusikesh Mohanty
May 16, 2020||Bhopal||Hot food & warmth to defuse migrant stir on Madhya Pradesh-Uttar Pradesh border||BHOPAL: Over 150 migrant labourers, who had walked down from Maharashtra and other parts of the country, blocked the national highway at Rewa on Friday after being stopped from entering Uttar Pradesh. Coming on the heels of Thursday night’s stone pelting by another group of migrants in Sendhwa on the Maharashtra border, officials at Rewa moved quickly to defuse the volatile situation. After an hour of negotiation, hot food and promise of buses, the migrants agreed to lift the blockade. “There were around 150 migrant labourers, who gathered one by one near Rathera bypass on NH44. They had come from different parts of the country and were headed for Uttar Pradesh,” Rewa subdivisional magistrate Farheen Khan told TOI, adding that the truck drivers had promised to drop them on the border but left them 25-30km short. “Some of them are from Prayagraj. Around 11am, they blocked the national highway demanding that they should be dropped by MP administration till the border,” she said. The administration was already transporting labourers, who had arrived in Rewa by Shramik Specials, by bus. “So, arrangements were made to transport the UP migrants, too. We gave them food, too,” she said. Sources said such disputes are growing in Rewa, which shares its border with UP. Earlier, the Uttar Pradesh government had written to MP that it should not give passage to UP’s labourers passing through the state without its permission. Sources in the government said 2,000-3,000 workers are seen every day at the Rewa border. “All we do is take them till the border, and then they manage on their own. If anyone stays he or she is kept in camps,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/hot-food-warmth-to-defuse-migrant-stir-on-mp-up-border/articleshow/75767460.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Dehradun||Two youths drown while fishing in US Nagar||Rudrapur: Two men, both in their early twenties, drowned while they were fishing in a pond near Bandiya village under Kichha city of Udham Singh Nagar. The deceased have been identified as Jay Verma (21) and Anuj Verma (22), both residents of Bandiya village. According to the police, Jay and Anuj had gone for fishing near Kichha reservoir on Friday evening. However, Jay slipped and fell into the pond while fishing. Soon after, Anuj jumped into the water to save Jay but he too drowned. They were taken to the hospital but were pronounced “brought dead” by the doctors. The police are investigating the deaths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/two-youths-drown-while-fishing-in-us-nagar/articleshow/75765242.cms||Aakash Ahuja
May 16, 2020||Hubballi||Karnataka: Girl, father test coronavirus positive in Chitradurga||DAVANAGERE: A father-daughter pair tested positive for novel coronavirus in Chitradurga district, according to the bulletin released by the government. A 39-year-old man and his three-year-old daughter in Kodihalli in Challakere taluk were confirmed infected, and were admitted to the designated Covid-19 hospital on Friday. The man was residing in Chennai, along with his family, for the past 18 years. His wife recently gave birth to a second child in Chennai. Owing to the lack of people to take care of the mother and child, they decided to take a private vehicle from Chennai, and arrived at Kodihalli on May 5. However, on May 11, the throat swabs of the man, his wife and his daughter were sent for tests, and the results came out on Friday, confirming that the father and his daughter were infected. However, his wife has tested negative for the novel coronavirus, said Chitradurga deputy commissioner Vinoth Priya R. The 20-day-old infant, along with its mother, is currently at the Chitradurga district hospital, Vinoth Priya added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/girl-father-test-ve-in-chitradurga/articleshow/75765259.cms||SA Gangaraju
May 16, 2020||Dehradun||SHO, clerk suspended; SI sent to police lines for dereliction of duty||Rudrapur: The station house officer of Bazpur police station NB Bhatt and clerk Balwant Singh were suspended while the Banna Khera police outpost in-charge Ashok Kandpal was sent to police lines for dereliction of duty by Udham Singh Nagar’s senior superintendent of police Barinderjit Singh on Friday. The move comes after a complaint was filed with Director General of Police (law and order) Ashok Kumar by a Bazpur local who stated that his daughter was kidnapped but the police refused to lodge a complaint regarding the crime. Notably, the girl was rescued on May 13 and the three kidnappers were arrested. Meanwhile, inspector Sanjay Kumar has been given the charge of Bazpur police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/sho-clerk-suspended-si-sent-to-police-lines-for-dereliction-of-duty/articleshow/75765249.cms||Aakash Ahuja
May 16, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Stricter clampdown planned after markets emerge as a cause of worry||KOLKATA: News of over 2,700 Covid cases in Chennai being traced to its popular wholesale market Koyambedu has rattled traders in Kolkata’s wholesale hubs. But early action by both police and civic officials, who had recognised the potential of these crowded pockets turning into a super-spreader, ensured that cases did not shoot up to the levels they did in Chennai. While the fish wholesale market at Patipukur near Lake Town was shut down after authorities failed to curb crowding and the flower market was regulated after complaints surfaced, important retail markets like Gariahat and Chhatubabu Bazar were either regulated or shifted. Talks of shifting a section of operations in wholesale markets like Mechhua and Posta are also under way. In Posta, almost 28 people tested Covid positive. Though the move to relocate the market has been stalled by traders, KMC said the Tamil Nadu example has provided them with an opportunity to drill in more sense and discipline. “The Natun Bazar wholesale vegetable market at Posta along with a wholesale milk market located in the same neighbourhood led to a coronavirus outbreak in Burrabazar-Posta area. But we could not seal the market as people of at least five KMC wards come to Natun Bazar for buying essentials,” said Ellora Saha, the ward coordinator. After cops imposed restrictions on unloading trucks on Monday, the crowding has thinned. But cops from Friday took further steps. “We have asked the Posta markets to shut by 5pm. We are allowing unloading from 7pm. We are not allowing more than five trucks at a time. We are carrying out a disinfection drive at 6pm everyday. Both the markets are operating with 50% stalls and half the labour. Only two entry and exit gates are remaining open instead of 12,” said a police official. The Rani Rashmoni Market at Beliaghata has been linked with multiple cases. It has been shifted but locals say that its present spot too is thickly populated. “There is a need to regulate this market further,” claimed Anubrata Lal Mitra, a local resident. Similarly, the civic officials and cops are keeping a special watch on Karunamoyee-Siriti and Kudghat markets after emergence of four positive cases from these areas. Firhad Hakim, the chairman of KMC board of administrators, has asked police to keep close vigil on markets in Behala-Siriti-Kudghat areas. “We have to maintain a close vigil on activities of traders as well as customers in markets located in densely populated areas and fall under containment areas. There could be no relaxations in norms,” Hakim said. Some of the bigger markets like Gariahat and Patipukur fish market have already led by example in this regard. While the Gariahat market has allowed restricted entry along with police, it has now made it mandatory for buyers to sanitize their hands before entry. At New Alipore, police have continued with delivery-at-home. At Chhatubabu Bazar, no one can enter without gloves and masks. Operations at the Paikpara fish market has been restricted to two hours. “We are closing all the bigger markets and large gathering zones within 8km of ESI Hospital in Joka. We have already closed the Rail line bazaar market and Lohapole market in Thakurpukur. Next we will close the Kadamtala bazaar. The largest market in our area is Thakurpukur Bazaar, but since it’s a KMC market, we have allowed only two out of its seven gates to remain operational,” said Indrajit Bhattacharya, the councillor of ward 143 and the Borough 16 chairman. According to a KMC market department official, the civic body had already asked superintendents of all major municipal markets across Kolkata to ensure that no temporary stalls were allowed on the common passages inside the market. “The virus threat has entered a very crucial stage in Kolkata where we need not only to sanitize every large market but strictly follow social distancing norms,” the civic official conceded.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/stricter-clampdown-planned-after-markets-emerge-as-a-cause-of-worry/articleshow/75766586.cms||Saikat Ray
May 16, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Operators seek 200% hike in auto fares from next week||KOLKATA: Hopping into and out of autos for a quick commute may burn a hole in the pocket from next week. Though the state government hasn’t given its nod, sources said autos are likely to hike the fare by 100%-200% or even more to make up for the loss of revenue owing to social distancing norms. Transport department officials said autos could begin plying from either Monday or Tuesday with fare that is twice or three times the current rate. Under the lockdown regime, an auto is allowed to ferry only two passengers at a time.  Nearly 7 lakh people are dependent on the trade. Lockdown has caused serious economic distress among auto drivers, who belong to daily-wage earner category. As more offices open with 25% workforce, the transport department feels autos will be crucial in handling the surge and reducing pressure on buses. The ubiquitous three-wheeler is the second biggest carrier of daily commuters in the city. Auto operators on Friday met to decide on the fare. But the meeting remained inconclusive with different routes demanding different fare structure with some even demanding three-four times the current fare. “Since social distancing is the new normal, we cannot allow more than two passengers in an auto. The driver cannot take any passenger on the front seat. There has to be a transparent plastic cover between the front and rear seat,” said a transport department official. Since commuter numbers are currently low, the autos in a route will ply in turns: a third will operate on Monday, another one-third on Tuesday and the remaining one-third on Wednesday. This sequence will then be repeated. If that leads to confusion, odd-even rotation can come into effect. The state transport department will distribute PPE, gloves, masks, hand sanitizers and vehicle disinfectants among auto operators. The autos need to spray disinfectants inside the autos after every trip. Police will take action if auto operators charge more than the lockdown fare and truncate the route. Transport department has prepared a guideline — essential dos and don’ts — for distribution among auto operators.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/operators-seek-200-hike-in-auto-fares-from-next-wk/articleshow/75766618.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
May 16, 2020||Kolkata||Hair-razing tales sweep Kolkata homes||KOLKATA: Aritra De, a techie, had let his locks loose amid the lockdown when he had to attend an interview over a video conference. De, a resident of Ultadanga, who is working from home, had to quickly order a hair trimmer online as he did not want to look unkempt and tousled while appearing before his prospective employer. The techie is among the scores of men and women, who, in the absence of salon and spa services, have resorted to visiting e-tail outlets for self-grooming at home. Electronic trimmers, as a result, have become one of the most sought-after ‘non-essential’ products over the past month, with lakhs of city residents forced to snip and shape their hair and beard while stuck in self isolation. Amazon India said it has seen a sudden spurt in demand for self-grooming products over the last 30 days. A spokesperson for the e-market giant told TOI: “Initially, these products were not a part of the essential category, but as people started looking up for it, we tried to include them in our list of deliverables.” The company has been experiencing a tremendous pull for head shavers, hair clippers, trimmers and other hair-removal products. The demand for hair care products during pre-pandemic days was mostly restricted to the non-metros, said a Snapdeal spokesperson, adding that clamour for the items has grown among customers in metros of late. The reason why most people were scurrying to buy the grooming products was the urge to look prim and proper during video calls on Zoom, Google Duo and Whatsapp with friends, office colleagues and relatives. “It is almost same as hanging out with friends at a café or meeting my boss at the boardroom. Lockdown doesn’t mean you can be too casual about your virtual presence,” said Aparajita Majumder, a teacher in a central Kolkata school. Snapdeal has witnessed a 12-fold jump in orders for grooming products since mid-March. “Personal hair care products are among the top-selling items on Snapdeal. The most popular ones are beard trimmers, multi-look hair trimmers and epilators for dry and wet use. Razors for men and women, hair removal creams, facial hair removers, wax strips, cold wax and beard oils are the other fast-moving products,” a spokesperson of the e-tail player said. Navneel Shukla of Tollygunge, who had ignored a haircut challenge on social media during the first month of lockdown, was called out for his scruffy stubble by friends and colleagues. “I had exhausted all my disposable razors, so it had to be bought online. All known brands, however, were unavailable. I had to make do with a product that had received average reviews,” he said. Flipkart, too, had been experiencing an increase in searches for consumer electronic products, especially in the orange and green zones. “In the past fortnight, trimmers continue to be one of the top-10 most-searched products on our platform. Across self-care, grooming and personal care products, we are witnessing an increased search for soaps, sanitary napkins, shaving razors, face wash, toothpaste and shampoo,” a Flipkart spokesperson said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/hair-razing-tales-sweep-kolkata-homes/articleshow/75766609.cms||Sovon Manna
May 16, 2020||Kolkata||Lockdown bus fare table sent for state approval||Kolkata: The proposed special lockdown fare table for pvt buses was sent to the transport department for approval on Friday. Earlier, chief minister Mamata Banerjee had left the issue of fixing fare during the lockdown on the bus operators. Accordingly, transport minister Suvendu Adhikary asked the operators to get it approved from the government. “We have decided the fare after much deliberation and calculation over the operating cost. Since it is a difficult time, we, the bus operators, are not thinking of any profit. We just want the recovery of the operating cost. We hope the government will understand our compulsion and approve the fare,” said Joint Council of Bus Syndicate secretary Tapan Bandyopadhyay. While the proposed fare for the first 4km is Rs 20 for normal buses, it is Rs 25 for mini buses and Rs 50 for AC buses. The buses, plying according to the new fares are expected to hit the roads from Monday. During the lockdown, buses are allowed to carry only 20 passengers at a time. The police will keep an eye on whether the lockdown norms are being violated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/lockdown-bus-fare-table-sent-for-state-approval/articleshow/75766633.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: They hit the road with leftovers||HYDERABAD: Workers from Chhattisgarh and Maharashtra who are stranded in different locations across the city are picking up leftover food from the donations by residents and planning to hit the streets now. “A lot of people came here to feed us. We are planning to carry grocery products like rice, dal, fruits and even raw items like atta and pulses with us because we have no idea when we will be getting food again. Even in our village, we don’t know how the situation is,” Devas Bhoi, a construction site worker from Besoli village in Bastar district told TOI. “We had applied for passes for travelling to Chhattisgarh almost 11 days ago. We recently heard that a train left for Bilaspur from Hyderabad but are not sure when the next train will depart,” he added. With fewer trains running to Chhattisgarh as compared to Bihar and Jharkhand, and none to Maharashtra, most workers who had registered to get travel passes said they haven’t received a timely response from state and railway helplines, and they will be walk to Secunderabad and Lingampally railway station in hope of catching a train.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/they-hit-the-road-with-leftovers/articleshow/75767467.cms||Arya Sharan
May 16, 2020||Bhubaneswar||As sales dry up, Kotpad weavers look to govt for financial relief||Koraput: Thousands of weavers from the Mirigan community living in Koraput’s Kotpad block are in distress with no takers for the famous Kotpad fabric and garments during the lockdown. “Our business has comes to a standstill. Though in the initial days we somehow managed, now it is unbearable. Thousands of people directly or indirectly depending on the profession are suffering without any business,” said Prahalad Mahanto, president of Kotpad Weavers’ Cooperative Society. (KWCS). According to Mahanto, most of their products are exported to big cities like Chennai, Bengaluru, New Delhi, Mumbai and Bhubaneswar. Now the lockdown has completely paralysed their economy. “Besides, we are facing difficulty in getting dyes that are mostly found in forests due to restriction on individual movement and public transport,” said Mahanto. The weavers prepare the dyes from naturally available items like castor oil, iron dust, ash, cow dung and the root of Aal plant. Usually colours like coffee, black and maroon are derived. “We do not use artificial dyes available in the market. Our natural dyes are long-lasting and do not run or fade after several washes,” said Gobardhan Panika, a weaver of the community and a Padma Shri awardee. Apart from exporting the products, the community depends on local fairs organised by district administrations. “The state government should take steps to ensure marketing of our products and announce a financial package for us,” said Mahanto.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/as-sales-dry-up-kotpad-weavers-look-to-govt-for-financial-relief/articleshow/75765288.cms||Satyanarayan Pattnaik
May 16, 2020||Dehradun||Life is slowly returning towards normal, but we are prepared and alert: CM||Chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat in a wide ranging interview with TOI’s Kautilya Singh, spoke on the state’s preparedness to tackle the influx of people returning from other areas, plans to boost the economy, allowing pilgrims on the Char Dham Yatra, and whether the Maha Kumbh 2021 in Haridwar will be a toned-down affair in view of the Covid-19 threat. Excerpts: With over 2 lakh people returning to Uttarakhand from other states, what are the preparations done to ensure that they are properly screened and do not infect other persons, if they are positive? Already, we have seen a spike in the number of cases among the returnees. For the safe return of people to the state, we have arranged trains and buses – for which the state government is bearing all the expenses. Thousands have already been brought back and we are taking all the precautions required for the process. Complete screening and health check-ups are being done of all the returnees. Those who do not have any symptoms are being asked to opt for home quarantine, whereas suspected cases are being taken for institutional quarantine. Further, we are monitoring the people who are under home quarantine, for which village heads and district teams have been mandated. Many believe that Covid-19 cases may peak in June-July. How prepared is the state government to cope up with the situation? We have been successful in keeping the situation under control for the last two months. We did not have a single sample testing lab earlier but now we have four. Additional arrangements of 73 ICUs, 46 ventilators, and 21 BiPAP machines have been made in eight districts of the state and Doon Medical College. Life is slowly returning towards normal in the state but we are prepared, alert and careful on all issues. With hotels and restaurants closed and tourism activities suspended, the state’s economy which is tourism-dependent to a large extent, is going to be badly hit. What is the government’s plan to revive the economy? Also, how are small businesses going to be helped? It is true that the economy of Uttarakhand is mainly based on tourism and the closure of tourism activities is affecting our economy and the livelihood of the people. We are requesting the Centre to allow a limited amount of tourism in the green zone districts. For the convenience of entrepreneurs in the state, a single window has been arranged to facilitate operations. In SIDCUL industrial areas, the last date for payment of lease rent has been extended from April 30 to June 30. The package announced by the Centre for MSMEs will also prove beneficial. Is there any new income-generation plan in the pipeline for the state government? The state is already in heavy debt. Will more loans be taken to get over this crisis? A committee led by former IAS officer Indu Kumar Pandey which was constituted by us to suggest the ways for revival of economy has presented its interim report. We are preparing a sector-wise plan to bring back on track the state’s economy, revenue resources, and economic and industrial activities. For agri and allied sectors, a cabinet sub-committee headed by agriculture minister Subodh Uniyal is expected to give its report soon. Work on national highways has been started. Mining in the state has been started, considering the need for construction works. Also, 5,000 industries – which provide employment to over 1.75 lakh people – have been permitted to operate. With all this, our economy will gradually pick up pace. In view of the present circumstances, it has been requested to increase the loan limit from 3 percent to 4 percent of GSDP to facilitate the raising of financial resources. Wherever needed, loans can be taken as per the requirement of the state. In view of the heavy debt facing the government, how feasible is the concept to provide grants to those who have returned to their villages during the present crisis? Will only giving grants help if basic infrastructure facilities like education and healthcare facilities are not taken care of? We have always backed reverse migration in the state and made sincere efforts in this direction. In the wake of Covid-19, a large number of people have returned to the hills and we are sensing it as an opportunity to populate our mountainous regions through positive thinking. We have started CM Swarozagar Yojana – under which such people can avail loans in service and construction sectors. This will provide job opportunities to them and also provide employment to others. In the long run, it will be an economically viable move for us. As far as improvement in the health and education sectors is concerned, steady progress has been made. After the Covid-19 scare broke out, health facilities have been further strengthened. Recently, 401 physicians have been appointed. An ordinance of 467 more physician posts is also being sent to the Selection Commission. Char Dham Yatra is one of the biggest income generators for the hills, said to create revenues of Rs 2000 crore every season. With the Yatra looking as if it might be truncated this year, how will the losses be covered? Crores of people from India and abroad have faith in Char Dham Yatra. The pandemic has definitely affected the yatra this year. All the four shrines however fall in green zones and we have requested the Centre for tourism activities in the green zones. We are awaiting guidelines in this regard. In view of the Covid-19 threat and the need for social distancing norms in the foreseeable future, how feasible do you think it would be to organise a mega religious festival like the Maha Kumbh in Haridwar in January next year which will draw crores of pilgrims and where social distancing will be hard to implement? The Maha Kumbh is still some time away. We have successfully initiated the process of opening the doors of the Char Dhams while adhering to all the standards and guidelines. For the Maha Kumbh, we still have time on our hands to make the preparations. The decision will be taken in accordance to the situation at the time and after consultation with our religious leaders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/life-is-slowly-returning-towards-normal-but-we-are-prepared-and-alert-cm/articleshow/75765278.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Madurai||59 new cases in south Tamil Nadu, 5 in central region||MADURAI/ TRICHY: There was a spike in Covid-19 cases in the southern districts on Friday which reported as many as 59 cases taking the region’s tally to 700 while the central region had only five more cases. Out of the 59, as many as 44 were those who returned from other states and countries. Madurai district saw six local cases and five of whom had returned from Maharashtra. The total cases in the district now stands at 143, the highest in the region. The six local cases were close contacts of patients, including the wife and 13-year-old son of an ambulance driver who worked in Chennai. Theni also reported six local cases, while Tirunelveli reported the most number of cases on Friday with 22 cases. The 22 cases, including seven children below the age of 14, were those who had returned from Maharashtra. Tuticorin saw 10 cases and Kanyakumari four. In the central region, Perambalur recorded two more positive cases, 25-year-old and 53-year-old men who returned from Koyambedu vegetable market. Perambalur’s tally surged to 139 while Thanjavur district also recorded a positive case in a 55-year-old Koyambedu returnee. A 24-year-old man from Kulathur of Pudukkottai who returned from Maldives has also tested positive. In Ariyalur, the government hospital discharged 22 patients and four quarantine facilities discharged 15 people after they tested negative. With Trichy recording no new case after May 12, MGMGH discharged one more patient. The district which had a total of 67 cases including Tablighi Jamaat delegates and Koyambedu returnees had treated 60 patients already. A 21-year-old woman from Dindigul was discharged from Karur medical college hospital on Friday after treatment. On Friday, a total of 11 people from the district who tested positive for the disease were undergoing treatment at the medical college hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/59-new-cases-in-south-tn-5-in-central-region/articleshow/75767470.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Madurai||Evaluating CBSE board papers at home is challenging: Examiners||Madurai: The evaluation of CBSE board exam papers is underway across the country with the new system this year, which involves answer sheets being corrected at the home by evaluators, due to the lockdown and Covid-19 crisis. Examiners, however, are finding the new system quite challenging.According to sources from CBSE schools, as per protocol, evaluation centres receive the bundles of answer sheets first after which it is dispatched to evaluators’ homes. “The evaluators get time of around seven days for completing a bundle after which the bundles would be taken back to the centres. Later, the papers would be checked again and marks are to be uploaded accordingly,” said a highly-placed source. In Madurai district, there are currently two CBSE evaluation centres.As per the new procedure followed, only examiners, who live within 10 km radius of the respective evaluation centre, are carrying out the evaluation. Examiners from containment zones and those who used to come in from other districts are not participating this year. “There is a lot of burden on evaluators because there is less number of evaluators this year and limited time to complete the work ,” said a CBSE school teacher on condition of anonymity.Further, examiners were able to focus better when checking was being done at evaluation centres. “When dealing with different types of answer sheets based on the question paper type, the process was easier at evaluation centres for sorting and using the appropriate answer keys. The papers are the sole responsibility of the examiner and he/she would be the one to face the consequences in case of any paper going missing or getting damaged,” added the teacher.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/evaluating-cbse-board-papers-at-home-is-challenging-examiners/articleshow/75767473.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
May 16, 2020||Kolkata||Bengal: Buses increased; cops keep eye on passenger count||KOLKATA: Within two days of scaling up the skeletal service of the state transport undertaking, West Bengal Transport Corporation has augmented the operations further on Friday after facing heightened demand. After assessing the real-time travel demand, WBTC increased the frequency along eight of 15 routes. From Monday, there will be further augmentation of these routes and introduction of new routes. The demand surge has led to a few cases of violation of social distancing norms when stranded passengers stopped some buses to board forcibly. In two cases, the conductor was manhandled when he refused to allow people on board. “We analyzed the ground report and real-time data. On the basis of the study, we have strengthened the fleet size of eight routes,” said a WBTC official. The enhancement yielded immediate result. On Friday, there was no report of violation of the guideline. Meanwhile, from Friday, traffic cops in Bidhannagar started allowing a maximum of 10 persons on buses as they left the termini at Karunamoyee, New Town and Airport. “For the past two days, we had received complaints that people couldn’t board buses at bus stands since they were already carrying 20 passengers. Hence, we are ensuring only 10 persons board a bus from the point of origin,” said Dhritiman Sarkar, DC (traffic), Bidhannagar City Police. Sarkar added they have also posted cops at all major bus stops in the commissionerate to ensure none of the buses carry more passengers than allowed. Traffic cops in Kolkata are also in talks with the transport department as they plan to deploy officers in plain clothes on government buses to keep tabs on the passenger count. “As of now, conductors have been given the task of keeping count of passengers and they will alert us in case of any trouble,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/buses-increased-cops-keep-eye-on-passenger-count/articleshow/75766647.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
May 16, 2020||Patna||With 34 new cases, Bihar Covid tally surges to 1,033||Patna: Bihar reported 34 new Covid-19 cases on Friday, taking the total number of cases in the state to 1,033. So far, 440 people have recovered and seven have died and active cases stand at 586. The total number of cases in Patna reached the 100 mark on Friday after a 26-year-old woman from Digha tested positive for the virus. As per information shared by state health department principal secretary Sanjay Kumar, the maximum number of cases on Friday were reported from Madhepura (7) followed by five each in Khagaria and Siwan and three in Saharsa. Two other cases were reported from Vaishali, Kishanganj, Jamui, Supaul and Madhubani and one case each was reported from Sirdala in Nawada, Digha in Patna, Mohadinagar in Lakhisarai and Ara in Bhojpur district. Sources said over 95% of the positive cases are that of migrants who have recently returned. According to Sanjay, a strategy is being worked out to tackle the increase in the number of positive Covid-19 cases with the inflow of migrants to Bihar. Seeing the large inflow of migrants and many of them testing positive, Patna DM Kumar Ravi said additional quarantine centres will be set up at block level. “We will also be making quarantine centres at panchayat and village level,” he added. He further said, “Those coming from red zones like Delhi and Maharashtra will be kept at block level quarantine centres, while those coming from places having less Covid-19 cases will be in panchayat-level centres and those coming from green zone will be kept in village quarantine.” He added that the woman from Digha, who tested on Friday, has a comorbidity and is admitted at the Patna Medical College and Hospital (PMCH) for treatment. Altogether 44 Covid-19 positive have recovered in Patna and two have died so far. Also among those who have tested positive in Patna, 28 are migrants. Ravi further said those stuck in different parts of state could give information on district help line number 0612-2219090.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/with-34-new-cases-bihar-covid-tally-surges-to-1033/articleshow/75765888.cms||Sheezan Nezami
May 16, 2020||Bhubaneswar||5 institutes join hands to conduct virus test||CUTTACK: With the number of Covid-19 patients increasing rapidly in the state, four central institutes and a state-run university have come together to test samples in an advanced lab from Saturday. The facilities are National Rice Research Institute (NRRI), Cuttack, Bhubaneswar regional centre of Central Avian Research Institute (Cari), Bareilly, UP, Central Institute of Freshwater Aquaculture (Cifa), Bhubaneswar, Odisha University of Agriculture and Technology (OUAT), Bhubaneswar, and ICAR-ICFMD (International Centre for Foot & Mouth Disease), Khurda. “All the institutes have labs and expertise in handling hazardous virus tests for years,” said Prabhudutt Agarwal, nodal officer, Covid testing for central institutes of Odisha. A lab has been set up in the ICFMD, Khurda. The lab recently got approval from the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) for Covid test. All arrangements have been made for tests with commissioning of equipment and workers at the lab, added Agarwal. “Initially the lab will test 200 samples a day. The number will increase gradually,” said Agarwal. “We have selected virologists from the institutes and training has been imparted to 20 personnel chosen from all the five institutes to conduct the tests,” he added. Experts from RMRC, Bhubaneswar, has imparted training to the lab assistants to conduct the tests. Tests will be conducted according to WHO guidelines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/5-institutes-join-hands-to-conduct-virus-test/articleshow/75765310.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Cuttack||5 institutes join hands to conduct virus test||CUTTACK: With the number of Covid-19 patients increasing rapidly in the state, four central institutes and a state-run university have come together to test samples in an advanced lab from Saturday. The facilities are National Rice Research Institute (NRRI), Cuttack, Bhubaneswar regional centre of Central Avian Research Institute (Cari), Bareilly, UP, Central Institute of Freshwater Aquaculture (Cifa), Bhubaneswar, Odisha University of Agriculture and Technology (OUAT), Bhubaneswar, and ICAR-ICFMD (International Centre for Foot & Mouth Disease), Khurda. “All the institutes have labs and expertise in handling hazardous virus tests for years,” said Prabhudutt Agarwal, nodal officer, Covid testing for central institutes of Odisha. A lab has been set up in the ICFMD, Khurda. The lab recently got approval from the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) for Covid test. All arrangements have been made for tests with commissioning of equipment and workers at the lab, added Agarwal. “Initially the lab will test 200 samples a day. The number will increase gradually,” said Agarwal. “We have selected virologists from the institutes and training has been imparted to 20 personnel chosen from all the five institutes to conduct the tests,” he added. Experts from RMRC, Bhubaneswar, has imparted training to the lab assistants to conduct the tests. Tests will be conducted according to WHO guidelines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/cuttack/5-institutes-join-hands-to-conduct-virus-test/articleshow/75772560.cms||---
May 16, 2020||India||Idea is to empower beneficiaries, not offer entitlements: FM||NEW DELHI: The government on Friday hit out at the opposition and its critics saying it had not included tax refunds in the Rs 20 lakh crore stimulus package and said it was not alone in combining liquidity enhancement measures along with fiscal steps which account for 10% of GDP. FM Nirmala Sitharaman also said the government has been reviewing the pending payments to MSME units and asked government departments and public sector companies to release funds and the dues did not add up to Rs 5 lakh crore. Expenditure secretary TV Somanathan said at the end of March, pending dues of such units from central government departments such as defence and railways and top central PSUs was under Rs 10,000 crore. Many analysts and opposition leaders have criticised the government’s package for offering little through budgetary allocation and instead using guarantees to push bank loans and similar steps. “Packages of most countries are a combination of actual fiscal outgo and liquidity provision… One country that gave out what is called a 15% (of GDP) package which a lot of people talk about. Please look at it, 14.9% of it was liquidity. So, it is not as if only one part of a package is counted,” Somanathan told reporters, adding that every country is counting it this way. “Some have counted something, left out something, but it is not as if it is only we who are counting this way. This is in fact the way most of the countries are counting it,” he added. Sitharaman said the idea of the packages was to empower the beneficiaries, and not offer entitlements – a key philosophy of the Narendra Modi government. “The underlying principle is to empower the people, give them resources so that they can produce for themselves and have livelihoods for themselves rather than going for entitlements. Wherever entitlements are due, yes, they will be given. But largely our focus is to make sure India stands up on its own, generates its own jobs. You will see a lot more of empowering people through creating skills and logistics.” She said the government had not included tax refunds as part of the package.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/fm-dismisses-critics-of-package-says-idea-is-to-empower-beneficiaries-not-offer-entitlements/articleshow/75768892.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Nagpur||Liquor shops do roaring business after 58 dry days||NAGPUR: Liquor shops in the city did roaring business on the first day of home delivery, with most owners unable to meet the high demand. Out of over 100 liquor shops in the city, only 33 wine shops and 5 beer shops were open. Nagpurians were able to sip their favourite tipple after a gap of 58 days. Most liquor shop owners had switched off their mobile phones by afternoon, as there were too many orders and they were short of men to deliver the goods. A liquor shop owner said he had received about 750 orders on his mobile through WhatsApp by 1pm. “I switched off my mobile after that. I catered only to customers whose homes were nearby. I have only three staffers, and it was not possible to handle so many orders. Even then, I was able to supply around 200 customers. I will supply the rest on Saturday and Sunday,” he added. Another owner switched off his mobile after receiving 500 orders. He was also able to supply only around 200 customers. A wine shop owner had created a Google drive to register orders. He had forgotten to bring his mobile charger to his shop, and it got discharged by 12.30pm. He too had received around 500 orders by then. Shop owners said all customers indulged in panic buying. “Normally customers buy one big bottle of hard drink. However, today most of them purchased minimum three bottles. Some ordered as many as six bottles,” said an owner. Many shop owners mostly sold liquor to their regular customers. “I avoided new ones as I feared that a few may not pay full amount to my staffer after receiving the delivery. Who is going to run after such customers?” said another owner. Many shop owners sold liquor to customers without permit as they were regulars. “I know it is against the rules, but I can’t turn down people who have been buying liquor from my shop for over 20 years,” said a wine merchant. Home delivery was ordered to ensure there is no crowding in front of shops. However, a large number of people gathered in front of Ankur Wines, Dharampeth, to note down the mobile number of the owner and ask him the process for buying liquor. Cops resorted to mild lathi charge to disperse them. There is no record with excise department about how much liquor was sold on Friday. As distilleries were functioning, the department collected duty worth Rs88 lakh in the lockdown period. In addition, it got Rs4.90 lakh from issuance of new liquor permits. Excise department did not take action against anyone buying liquor without a permit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/liquor-shops-do-roaring-business-after-58-dry-days/articleshow/75767493.cms||Ashish Roy
May 16, 2020||Vijayawada||9 new +ves spoil Krishna’s calm, Guntur enjoys rare zero-case day||Vijayawada: Krishna district which saw a declining trend till Thursday, saw a spike with nine Covid-19 cases. The total number of active cases is 140 and the cases reported so far in the district are 360 while the death toll is 14. The district which has been declared a red zone had seen a respite on Wednesday with 25 people recovering and three new cases. Only three persons were discharged, increasing the total number of recovered to 206. According to district medical health officials, the new cases have sprung up mostly in Vijayawada and adjoining areas. In Krishna district, six people contracted the virus from their family members while being under quarantine. On the other hand, Guntur district, the second most affected district in the state, reported no new case on Thursday. On Wednesday, Guntur saw 12 new cases and on Thursday, with five cases, the number crossed the 400-mark. Out of the 404 cases, reported in the district, 139 of them are still active and 257 of them have been discharged. Eight persons have died due to the disease in the district so far. In terms of recoveries too there has been an increasing trend with 11 persons discharged after testing negative. Prior to that, the district saw 21 people being discharged. The overall recovered rate in Krishna and Guntur district stands at 57% and 63% respectively. Predominantly, both the districts have shown a fluctuating frequency of new Covid-19 cases. District medical heath officials explained that this trend is likely to continue as they have begun random testing process for the past few weeks along with the usual process of tracing primary and secondary contacts of existing Covid-19 patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/9-new-ves-spoil-krishnas-calm-guntur-enjoys-rare-zero-case-day/articleshow/75765326.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: 50 Patients Discharged In Kurnool||TIRUPATI: Kurnool district, which emerged as a Covid-19 hotspot in the state, is slowly recovering from the global pandemic, with the district registering a higher number of discharges and a lower number of fresh cases over the past few days. On Friday alone, 50 patients were discharged from various Covid hospitals in Kurnool. District collector G Veerapandian told reporters that of the total 599 Covid-19 cases reported in the district so far, 393 patients had recovered completely and had been discharged from the hospitals. The collector appreciated the efforts of the doctors and paramedic staff, police personnel, officials of the district administration and sanitation workers in handling the pandemic. Meanwhile, 38 patients were discharged from the RDT hospital at Bathalapalle and the Savera hospital in Anantapur on Friday. While 122 Covid-19 cases have been reported in Anantapur district so far, 92 patients have been treated successfully and subsequently discharged. With 14 new Covid-19 cases reported in the last 24 hours, the overall number of cases has crossed the 150 mark in Chittoor district. This includes 11 of the 77 returnees from Ajmer in Rajasthan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/50-patients-discharged-in-kurnool/articleshow/75765345.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
May 16, 2020||Hyderabad||From food to footwear: 100 teachers in Telangana join forces for those walking the highway||NIZAMABAD: Thousands of migrant workers, including children, who are walking hundreds of kilometres to their hometowns or hitch-hiking atop trucks on National Highway 44, have been thronging the Perkit junction near Nizamabad for the past few days. A team of 100 teachers led by the mandal education officer (MEO) Battu Rajeshwar have come together to provide food to workers passing the junction every day. Speaking to TOI, Rajeshwar said, “We started with an aim to distribute food to about 700 migrants each day but now the number has increased to 3,000.” “We have employed cooks. We have been spending nearly Rs 20,000 per day from the teachers’ contributions,” said Rajeshwar. The team also distributes footwear to migrants. The team is now falling short of resources. “Nearly 2,000 migrants had to go back hungry in the last couple of days as they were falling short of food packets,” said A Ganga Reddy, a film writer documenting the plight of migrants.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/from-food-to-footwear-100-teachers-join-forces-for-those-walking-the-highway/articleshow/75767483.cms||Moulika.KV
May 16, 2020||Mangaluru||More than 3,000 return to Udupi from Maharashtra||Mangaluru: An elderly citizen residing in a remote village in Hebri taluk in Udupi district was uneasy for the past six weeks ever since the lockdown was enforced across the country, worrying about his daughter and her family, stranded in Mumbai, and with no means to return. However, he is now a relieved man when his daughter returned home. He was expansive in expressing his gratitude to Udupi deputy commissioner G Jagadeesha and other officials in the district administration, and those working at Nippani in Belagavi district, which is where all residents of Karnataka are entering the state from various cities in Maharashtra. Officials in the Udupi district administration said that most people were coming back either from Mumbai or Pune. As on Friday, as many as 3,200 people have returned to Udupi, and the number is expected to rise in the coming days, said an official. What is more, the district administration’s decision to set up a special camp for Udupi residents in Nippani has helped them return home sooner. Headed by Jagadeesha, the district administration’s team that is overseeing the return of stranded migrants back to Udupi comprises Roshan Kumar Shetty, Arun Kumar, Kashinath, two sub-inspectors and four constables from the Udupi and Karkala division. Shetty, assistant director of the department of youth empowerment and sports, said that most of the stranded Udupi residents who were keen on returning were either employed at restaurants or owned eateries and bakeries. “There were a few pregnant women, children and elderly people among those who have returned. What compelled them to return was that they knew that the lockdown would be in force in Mumbai for more than three months, and many of them lived in areas that have been designated ‘containment zones’,” Shetty told TOI. He said that their team was working 12 hours a day, with nearly 600 to 800 returning residents being screened every day at Nippani. “At camps set up by other districts, not more than 20 to 25 people are being received. Before we set up our camp, Udupi residents had to wait for more than six hours at Nippani, but they do not have wait for longer than 30 minutes now,” Shetty added. Most people are returning home by their vehicle, while in the past two days, a few have also opted for buses. Meanwhile, several posts that have gone viral on social media have lauded the efforts of the Udupi district administration for the way facilities have been arranged at the institutions where the returning residents are being quarantined.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/more-than-3000-return-to-udupi-from-maharashtra/articleshow/75765342.cms||Kevin Mendonsa
May 16, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Amid Covid pandemic, Odisha begins to prepare for possible cyclone||BHUBANESWAR: In the middle of Covid-19 pandemic and efforts to contain it, the state government has a new task in hand, that of protecting its people from a possible cyclone developing in the Bay of Bengal. Even as the India Meteorological Department (IMD) keeps a close watch on the situation, the state government has started preparations in case the cyclone strikes. On Friday, the government asked collectors of 12 coastal and northern Odisha districts to arrange for concrete shelters to evacuate people if such a situation arises. Odisha has around 900 cyclone shelters but most of these are currently being used as quarantine centres for people returning from other states. A special bulletin of the IMD said a well-marked low pressure area over southeast Bay of Bengal is very likely to intensify into a cyclonic storm over central parts of south Bay of Bengal by Saturday evening. After moving north-westward on May 17, the cyclone may re-curve north north-west during May 18-20. If the cyclone strikes, it will be the second time in two consecutive years that a cyclone will hit the state in the month of May, the previous one being Fani last year. While chief secretary Asit Tripathy reviewed preparations for the impending cyclone, special relief commissioner (SRC) Pradeep Jena said though the speed, possible path and probable place of landfall is still not known, the preliminary IMD assessment reveals it will have an impact in northern Odisha. “Keeping in mind the need for possible evacuation of people, the coastal districts have been asked to identify alterative concrete structures which can be used as cyclone shelters since the existing ones are being used as quarantine facilities,” Jena said. Similarly, cyclone shelters where very few people have been kept for quarantine may be made available in case of cyclone. “The health department will test quarantined people in cyclone shelters in northern districts on priority basis so that those testing negative can shift to home quarantine and those places can hold cyclone evacuees depending on how the situation evolves,” Jena added. Amid fear that social distancing could be compromised in the cyclone shelters, Jena said the government would be readying enough centres to ensure social distancing among evacuees. Jena said personnel of National Disaster Response Force (NDRF), Odisha Disaster Rapid Action Force (ODRAF) and fire service personnel have been asked to be ready for pre-positioning in areas likely to be affected. Currently, many government employees are not coming to work to ensure social distancing during the lockdown. However, all employees in the coastal districts have been asked to report to work in view of the cyclone, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/amid-covid-state-begins-to-prepare-for-possible-cyclone/articleshow/75765358.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Madurai||MKU modifies sem exam pattern||MADURAI: Madurai Kamaraj University (MKU) is likely to conduct the April 2020 final semester examinations by July while modifying the examination pattern to facilitate smooth conduct and cope with any loss in classes due to the lockdown. A meeting has been convened with all principals of affiliated colleges on May 20 to finalise the plans. “As per UGC guidelines, individual universities are allowed to decide on how and when to hold the final semester examinations. We had formed a special committee at MKU to discuss the examinations and have come up with a tentative plan,” said MKU Registrar (in-charge) Dr Sankar Natesan. The time of the examinations is set to be reduced from three hours to two. Though the total marks would remain 75, the exam pattern will be modified. “We have changed the pattern such that students would have more options to choose from. For example, we increased the marks of multiple choice questions from one mark to three marks while allowing students to choose five out of ten questions instead,” said Dr Sankar. The registrar added that the modifications were because of the reduced time and because chapters have not been completed uniformly for all students in the university and affiliated colleges. The modification in pattern would let students have the choice of skipping a question if it is from a unit that was yet to be taught for them without missing out on marks. Plans for the conduct of the exams, including ensuring maintaining social distancing in the university and affiliated colleges, are also being discussed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/mku-modifies-sem-exam-pattern/articleshow/75767489.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Goa||Boat owners on tenterhooks over return of migrant crew||Panaji: With nearly two weeks to go for the fishing ban, fishermen in the state are making best use of the labour force to catch and provide fish to consumers. However, with their crew members all set to leave for their native places once the two-month fishing ban begins from June 1, boat owners are worried that their manpower will not be able to return from their hometowns. “We cannot revive the fishing business without the migrant labour in Goa. The trawlers and purse seine fishing operations will be paralysed without them,” said Jose Philip D’Souza, president, Goa Fishing Boat Owners’ Association. “Once they leave Goa, they will not be able to return easily, and this will pose a massive problem for the fishing industry in the state,” he said. D’Souza said that most of the migrants working aboard fishing vessels in Goa have expressed the need to engage in agrarianism in their native place to make ends meet. “The fishing season is anyway looking very bleak. If the migrant workers do not return after the fishing ban ends, it will be the end for the fishing industry in Goa,” said president of the Cutbona Boat Owners’ Association, Savio D’Silva. D’Silva said that most of them are showing patience and are willing to wait until the fishing ban, to leave Goa and return to their hometown. But completely convincing them to stay back for the off-season is nearly impossible, he added.  Francis D’Souza, chairman of the Mandovi Fisheries Cooperative Society said that fishermen in the state will have to stare at a grim season in the coming months owing to lack of manpower. “We will be forced to keep our boats non-operational for months if the migrant labour do not return. People from Goa do not want to work on the boats so we are completely dependent on them,” he said. Shawn Rodrigues of Vasco Fishing Boat Owners’ Marketing Cooperative Society said that keeping them back is not economically viable either. “If there is no improvement in Covid-19 cases by the end of the fishing ban, boat owners will have to make individual arrangements for the arrival of their workers to Goa,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/boat-owners-on-tenterhooks-over-return-of-migrant-crew/articleshow/75768240.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Robotic cleaners get popular in Telugu states as people follow social distancing||VISAKHAPATNAM: Amid apprehensions that the coronavirus (Covid-19) may not be eradicated soon, demand for robotic cleaners have increased in the Telugu states as people are not keen on employing domestic helps. A number of individual households and corporate offices in Hyderabad, Visakhapatnam and Vijayawada have shown interest in buying robotic cleaners for their daily chores. Ramakrishna Nookala, a central government employee living with his wife in Pandurangapuram in the city, recently bought a robotic cleaner for Rs 24,000. “We leave home at 9am everyday and return late in the evening. Instead of employing a domestic help, we decided to invest in a robotic cleaner. It’s just like a vacuum cleaner that works without human interference. Just switch it on and it would perform its duties all by own,” Ramakrishna told TOI. At Basantnagar near Madhapur in Hyderabad, Servani Nagabhyrava bought a robotic cleaner for a little over Rs 70,000. She says that it’s a one stop solution for daily cleaning of her individual house. “I bought it in February and I must admit it was purchased at the right time. Since the lockdown began, domestic helps stopped coming to all the houses in my neighbourhood. But I did not face any problem. Now, with social distancing becoming important, such equipment is ideal for houses and offices,” said Nagabhyrava, who is an engineer by profession. Meanwhile, manufacturers say robot cleaners made or assembled in India cost less and are gradually becoming popular across the country following the outbreak of Covid-19. Apart from individuals, there is great demand in corporate establishment, especially hospitals, pathologies and hotels. “Many reputed companies, hospitals and hotels have bought robotic cleaners from us. We have a few big clients like Hyatt, Dr Reddy’s, and ITC. Soon after the Covid-19 outbreak, new enquires began pouring in almost every days and from varied sectors like airports, museums and even public swimming pools,” Rajeev Karwal, founder and CEO of Milagrow Humantech, told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/robotic-cleaners-get-popular-as-people-follow-social-distancing/articleshow/75765394.cms||Arpit Basu
May 16, 2020||Madurai||Covid-19 claims comorbid 34-year-old man||TUTICORIN: A 34-year-old Covid-19 positive man, who was under intensive care at the Thoothukudi Government Medical College Hospital succumbed to the disease in the early hours of Friday. Tuticorin collector Sandeep Nanduri told TOI that the man, who had returned from Chennai, was suffering from Guillain-Barre syndrome (GBS) – a serious neurological disorder – due to which saving him became impossible. “He worked in a prawn company in Tuticorin and was stranded in Chennai. He travelled illegally in a truck to Tuticorin without obtaining the pass on May 12,” the collector said. The man was initially admitted to a private hospital and then at the government hospital after his condition worsened. “His body was disinfected, wrapped in a plastic cover and the burial was done as per standard protocol,” Nanduri said. Tuticorin Corporation sanitary workers equipped with PPE handled the body and buried it in a 15-feet-deep pit in Chidambara Nagar. Samples were collected from 50 people including the doctors and staff of the private hospital and from a few of his relatives. “Results of 40 samples are negative including doctors and staff of the private hospital. They have been kept under quarantine. The ward he was admitted is closed for disinfection,” the collector added. A senior neurologist said GBS is a very rare autoimmune disorder in which the antigen antibody cross reaction damages the nerve cells. It could result in weakening limbs, breathing difficulty and even variations in the heart beat. This is the second Covid-19 death in Tuticorin district after the death of a 72-year-old woman with respiratory illness on April 10.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/covid-19-claims-comorbid-34-year-old-man/articleshow/75767510.cms||M K Ananth
May 16, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Darshinis opt for paper cups, wary of passing cost on to customers||BENGALURU: Darshinis, Bengaluru’s famed self-serve eateries, seem to be readying to live with Covid-19. Many of these food joints have switched from reusable glasses to disposable paper cups. The shift is dictated by fear of the virus spreading, in case the reusable glasses and cups aren’t washed properly, say many. Shyam Balikere, owner of Shiv Sagar Express on 80 Feet Road, New BEL Road, said, “Yes, we have now shifted to paper cups and this has increased the cost for us. As of now, we are prioritising hygiene and probably in a month or so, we will start sterilising the cutlery and bring back the reusable types. Disposables also increase the garbage load. If people still want to use paper cups, we will be charging them extra.” As of now, none of the darshinis have increased the cost of tea, coffee or badam milk despite serving them in paper cups. However, they are are unsure about the way forward.  “We are making sure everything is clean, but then people will still fear contracting the disease and they have reasons to think that way. We spend close to 47 paise on each paper cup,” said the owner of Ganesh Food Joint in Malleswaram. Pradeep N Naik, the owner of Udupi Upachar in Malleswaram, said they haven’t yet changed the prices of beverages. “We do not know how we want to take this forward. It completely depends on the rules for the next round of the lockdown,” he added. Restaurants won’t be allowed to use plastic and those in the business are aware of it. Jaganath Kamat, owner of Rajesh Food Joint near Bhashyam Circle, said, “I have been spending more on paper cups but I do not intend to increase prices. As it is, I’m seeing very less customer footfall due to Covid-19. By increasing prices, I will only be worsening my situation. There are four darshinis on this road and only mine is open. Yet I have less than 50% of my usual business.” Many auto drivers and security guards prefer to get their own flasks filled with a beverage of their choice at darshinis. Randeep D, special commissioner (SWM) said, “When restaurants start using disposable paper cups instead of reusable cutlery it will increase the solid waste load significantly, but these are exceptional times. I suggest restaurants eventually return to using steel and glass cutlery, while ensuring maximum hygiene.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/darshinis-opt-for-paper-cups-wary-of-passing-cost-on-to-customers/articleshow/75766699.cms||Mrinalini Bhat
May 16, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Lockdown may leave car batteries dead in Visakhapatnam||VISAKHAPATNAM: As parts of the city prepares to get back to work after nearly two months of lockdown, albeit in a graded manner, many of the parked vehicles in garages and underground parking spaces are likely to not spring back to life at the touch of ignition. The first casualty of such prolonged non-use is the battery. Most city dealerships are preparing to stock up on spare batteries as they feel there will be a deluge of calls complaining of dead batteries or partially discharged batteries. “We will send a spare battery to our customers and bring the dead battery back for recharging. Or, we can also send jumper cables to start the car,” said Ravi Roy, proprietor of Sai Car Care near Venkojipalem. Explaining what causes the battery to die due to prolonged non-use, Roy said, “A fully-charged battery has lead plates suspended in a solution of water and sulphuric acid. As the battery discharges, sulphur is drawn out of the battery acid and the lead plates become coated in lead sulfate.” “So you may find that a battery that has been jump-started or charged from dead more than a handful of times needs replacement,” he added. For hybrid cars, which have two batteries — auxiliary and hybrid — it is the auxiliary one which starts the engine, and it can drain out if not in use for a long time, said V Janardhan Rao, service engineer at Sai Car Care. The other issue with cars that have not been in use will be the wheels. Jammed wheels are a common problem with stalled cars. However, jammed wheels can be fixed by sudden release of clutch and driving the car with force. “If that doesn’t help, the workshop needs to be alerted,” said S Sekhar, who works as senior service engineer at Skoda India at Marripalem. “We are keeping a team ready to attend to such service calls from customers. We are going to provide on-site service. Even if the lockdown is lifted, we may not be able to operate the workshop in full because of norms of social distancing,” said Roy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/lockdown-may-leave-car-batteries-dead/articleshow/75765389.cms||Reshma Jain
May 16, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Man bitten by snake in quarantine centre in Mayurbhanj||BHUBANESWAR: A migrant worker staying in a quarantine centre in Balangir district was bitten by a snake while another committed suicide in a facility in Mayurbhanj district, highlighting the need for closer watch at such centres. In Balangir district’s Sindhekela village, a person was bitten by a snake while he was sleeping in a quarantine home on Thursday night. He was admitted to Titlagarh sub-divisional hospital and is said to be out of danger. “It is peak summer and many villages are adjacent to forest areas,” said Titlagarh sub-collector Sudhakar Nayak, adding the snake could have come from the forest. He said the man’s condition is stable. Balangir district has so far recorded two Covid-19 cases and both from Gudvela block. In a separate incident, a migrant who had returned from Andhra Pradesh and was quarantined at Dambarudhar village under Anla panchayat in Mayurbhanj district committed suicide on Thursday night. His wife, who had returned from Puttaparthi in Tamil Nadu, was staying in the same facility but in a separate hall. Police said the man was under stress ever since he came to the quarantine centre. He was found hanging from a tree close to the quarantine centre. “It is being investigated how he came out of the centre. The body has been sent for post-mortem,” said SP (Mayurbhanj) Smith Parmar. The deceased was working in a factory in Andhra Pradesh. Mayurbhanj has so far recorded nine Covid-19 cases. Meanwhile, Aska MP Pramila Bisoyi has demanded more security for migrants apprehending possible law and order problem. “There is possibility of law and order breakdown. There should be adequate deployment of security personnel at all quarantine centres. The quarantine centres don’t have sufficient carrying capacity. So, more such centres should be created. Besides enhancing security and safety of the quarantined people, basic amenities should also be ensured. Toilet and cleanliness facilities are not adequate,” wrote Bisoyi in her letter to Ganjam collector Vijay Kulange. Ganjam tops the list of positive cases with 264 and most of them are returnees from Surat. EoM||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/man-bitten-by-snake-in-quarantine-centre/articleshow/75765399.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh: Broiler chicken price surges to Rs 300 per kg||VISAKHAPATNAM: Due to a supply shortage, increased demand and issues in transportation, the price of broiler chicken and country chicken (natu kodi in local parlance) has shot up across the state, including in Vizag and Vijayawada. On Friday, broiler chicken cost anywhere between Rs 280 and Rs 300 per kg, while country chicken was priced at a whopping Rs 800 a kg in retail. “I was a bit surprised when I went to buy chicken. A kilogram of broiler chicken is selling for Rs 280 a kg, while it was Rs 240 on Thursday and Rs 230 on Wednesday. Country chicken was priced at Rs 600 a kg a week ago, and on Friday it cost Rs 700 a kg,” said K Sumit, a local. Speaking to TOI, T Adinarayana, president of broiler chicken farmers association, north Andhra Pradesh, said: “In March, when Covid-19 spread few places in the country, rumours circulated that the virus spread through the consumption of chicken. This resulted in a fall in demand. At that time chicken cost Rs 80 to Rs 100 a kg. As a result, some farmers stopped production and the impact is being felt now.” The average demand of the broiler chicken meat is 8 lakh kgs per day in Andhra Pradesh. In March, the demand dropped by around 50 per cent due to the coronaviurs scare. Now, the demand has increased to around 7 lakh kgs, with many suggesting chicken would improve the immunity. But production has declined due to hot and humid weather conditions. Though the production of the bird began in mid-April, birds weigh less (below 1.2 kg). “The prices of chicken will stabilise in the last week of May,” said K Prabhakar, of the broiler chicken industry. Similarly, mutton prices rose to Rs 800 to Rs 900 a kg depending on the quality. This rise in price has been attributed to logistical issues in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/broiler-chicken-price-surges-to-rs-300-per-kg/articleshow/75765427.cms||Nalla.Babu
May 16, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Forced to pay loan EMIs despite RBI breather, say truck owners||CHENNAI: When S Panchalai, a 78-year-old diabetic at Chennai’s Vanagaram in Chennai, last week saw her blood sugar level soar to 380mg/dl, almost three times the normal, her son S Yuvaraj, a truck operator, raised the money for her hospitalization by making a health insurance claim. The next morning, Yuvaraj, whose earnings had dropped drastically since the lockdown began on March 24, was shocked to his find just Rs 106 in his account. His bank had auto-debited Rs 65,000 — the Equated Monthly Instalment (EMI) for his current vehicle loan — without his consent. This was against the circular of the Reserve Bank of India, allowing all borrowers to skip monthly instalments, which are due, from March 1 to May 31. The bank could not be reached for comment. “I have not skipped a single EMI payment till date. But the bank had debited the amount in this difficult phase, that too almost 15 days before the due date,” said Yuvaraj, who four years ago had taken a vehicle loan of Rs 26 lakh from a private bank. This is not an isolated case. Truck owners across the state are getting calls from private banks and non-banking financial companies, demanding payment of EMIs for vehicle loans. “Recovery agents of finance companies and banks are nagging us to pay EMIs by making frequent calls. Given the financial crisis we are facing, such calls are increasing our stress levels,” said R Panneerselvam, president, Tamil Nadu Sand Lorry Owners Co-ordinate Welfare Federation. I K S Narayanan, a truck owner from Kancheepuram, said his bank got him to submit in writing that he was willing to skip three EMIs and was asked to be ready to be penalized if he didn’t submit it. The government had announced no penalties and truckers want action against such private banks and NBFCs. “Already, sand truck owners are facing huge losses because of drop in bookings and increase in toll fee. So a waiver in road tax for three months will help us,” Panneerselvam added. A transport department official in response said they have extended deadline to pay road tax. Vehicle owners can pay this amount till June 30 without any penalties, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/forced-to-pay-loan-emis-despite-rbi-breather-say-truck-owners/articleshow/75767566.cms||Ram Sundaram
May 16, 2020||Nagpur||Liquor shops closed in areas adjoining city||Nagpur: District collector Ravindra Thakre has closed down liquor shops in areas adjoining the city including Koradi, Kamptee, Wadi, Hingna, Besa, etc. Only home delivery will be permitted in these areas. However, country liquor shops will remain open here and its home delivery will not be permitted. An excise official said that the decision was taken as people from Nagpur city were thronging the shops in adjoining areas for buying liquor. This had led to unmanageable queues and social distancing had gone for a toss. These areas fall under the jurisdiction of Nagpur police commissionerate. Liquor shops will remain open in areas outside the commissionerate. Home delivery will also be permitted there except country liquor. Sources in excise department said that police department had informed Thakre that social distancing was not being followed in liquor shops in the area under its jurisdiction. The collector therefore issued this order late on Friday evening. Nagpurians were thronging liquor shops in areas outside the city as they were not getting their stuff through home delivery. Out of the 89 liquor shops in the city only 38 were doing home delivery. All the owners had received so many orders that they were unable to cater to them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/liquor-shops-closed-in-areas-adjoining-city/articleshow/75776414.cms||Ashish Roy
May 16, 2020||Vijayawada||HC suspends CRDA’s notice for public hearing||Vijayawada: The AP high court on Friday suspended the notification issued by Capital Region Development Authority (CRDA) to conduct public hearing in the capital region for inclusion of R-5 zone in the capital city master plan. The HC bench consisting Justice DVSS Somayajulu and Justice K Lalita directed the government not to take up any activity till June 17 and suspended the notification until further orders. The state government had issued an order directing CRDA to create R-5 zone in the capital region by making changes to the master plan and identify land for house sites to landless poor from other areas. The government had issued a GO to allot land to the landless poor from Vijayawada, Mangalagiri, Tadepalli and other areas in capital city. However, it was challenged by the farmers who gave away their lands for the construction of capital city. The HC after hearing the petition suspended the GO stating that it was in violation of provisions of the CRDA Act. It said that the state government cannot give house sites to the people from other areas as the land was taken from the farmers. The court also observed that such allocation was in violation of zonal regulations of the notified master plan. Later, the state government issued a GO to include one additional zone R-5 in the capital city master plan following which CRDA issued a notification to conduct public hearing in the issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/hc-suspends-crdas-notice-for-public-hearing/articleshow/75765449.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Mysuru||Workers from West Bengal stranded in Shivamogga||Shivamogga: Hundreds of workers from West Bengal, who are stranded here, are upset with West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee. They have applied on the Seva Sindhu portal to go back home, but their applications have not been approved yet. They blamed the West Bengal government for their plight. A stranded worker from West Bengal, Ashish, said, “We are from the Howrah district in West Bengal. I design saris. Nearly a hundred of us are living here for the past six to seven years. We do not have any work or shelter. We applied for passes on May 3 and 4, but they haven’t been approved yet. We approached the deputy commissioner of Shivamogga to help us. Our chief minister Mamata Banerjee is not interested in us going back to our state. The West Bengal government is responsible for the chaotic situation we are in.” Shivamogga deputy commissioner K B Sivakumar said, “I do not have any information on this issue, but I will talk to the workers.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/workers-from-west-bengal-stranded-in-shivamogga/articleshow/75765433.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Nagpur||With new policy, recovery rate jumps to 57% in 2 days||NAGPUR: Finally, both Covid hospitals in Nagpur have adopted revised discharge policy on May 14 and 15. As soon as the new policy was adopted, the recovery rate has jumped from 35.55% to 57.44% in two days. While the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) discharged 21 patients on Thursday as per the new policy, 53 patients were discharged from Indira Gandhi Government Medical College & Hospital (IGGMCH) on Friday. The number of patients recovered and discharged has now gone up to 193 on May 15 from 112 on May 13. TOI had reported on May 12 that more than 90% of the total patients admitted in Covid hospitals can go home if the district adopts revised discharge policy. More than 75% of the patients admitted in both Covid hospitals in the city are either asymptomatic or showing very mild symptoms. In next three days, many more patients are set to be released. However, the same revised discharge policy has clear mention that patients discharged as per this policy need to follow home isolation for seven days. Home isolation rules are quite stricter than home quarantine or institutional quarantine rules. For example, a patient must stay in the identified room and away from other people in the home, especially elderlies, during the seven-day home isolation period. It would be interesting to see how many of the 74 patients discharged based on the new policy could follow the home isolation rules. Those who fail to follow these rules will land in trouble as police may register FIR against them for spreading the virus. Just to avoid this, as many as 24 patients in Akola decided not to go home on Friday. In Akola, those having no separate arrangements were sent to Covid Care Centre (CCC). “We released 28 patients as per the new policy today. As 24 of them mentioned that they don’t have separate rooms/toilets at their homes, the district administration made their arrangement at the CCC in Akola,” said deputy director of health services, Akola division, Dr Riyaz Faruqui. In Nagpur, all patients discharged on Thursday have given written undertaking that they have all necessary facilities at home and would follow the isolation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/with-new-policy-recovery-rate-jumps-to-57-in-2-days/articleshow/75767606.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
May 16, 2020||Vijayawada||Finance minister Buggana Rajendranath allays fears on power tariff||VIJAYAWADA: Finance minister Buggana Rajendranath on Friday allayed fears on power tariff and the increased power bills during the lockdown season. He dispelled the campaign unleashed by the opposition that the government had increased power tariff and blamed TDP for misleading people on the issue of electricity bills. Speaking to the media on Friday, the minister said that the electricity staff could not take meter readings during March and April due to the lockdown. They took the average consumption of every consumer and raised the bills. “People are at home due to the lockdown and thus the power consumption is on the higher side, which is reflected in the bills,” the minister said. He said that the government had changed the power tariff mode from the static to dynamic from April, which is also reflected in the new power bills. “The static mode allows the power distribution companies to take the higher side of consumption of power,” the minister said. The minister said that the present government has introduced the dynamic method where the power bills are calculated based on actual consumption, which keeps changing. “If more power is consumed this month, the tariff changes as per the consumption and it changes again if the consumption is less. It won’t remain static, where the higher side of consumption is taken for billing,” the minister said. Rajendranath said that the tariff had changed for the C category consumers, whose consumption is more than 500 units per month and it had come into effect from April this year following the recommendations of the APERC. The minister alleged that the TDP government had left dues to be paid to power generation companies to the tune of Rs 20,000 crore, of which the YSRC government had paid Rs 5,000 crore in the first six months of governance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/fin-min-buggana-allays-fears-on-power-tariff/articleshow/75765456.cms||Gopi Dara
May 16, 2020||Madurai||TN woman urges govt to bring her, hubby’s body from UAE||TUTICORIN: A woman from Tamil Nadu, who is living in the UAE, has appealed to the government to bring her and her husband’s body back to India. The man was electrocuted at his workplace in Ras al Khaimah on May 10. Manimegalai has sent a video pleading for help from the government to bring her and her husband’s body to India. “I am in a very critical condition. My husband came here for work and was electrocuted on May 10. Please bring me and my husband home. I could not see him till date,” Manimegalai is seen saying in the video. K Velmurugan, 34, an electrician from Kodiyankulam village near Puliyampatti in Ottapidaram taluk in Tuticorin district, had gone to the Gulf in 2006-07 and has been working there. Velmurugan got married to Manimegalai five years ago. “He used to come home once in two years. Manimegalai had gone to the UAE seven months ago,” Velmurugan’s sister Selvi said. “On May 10, he asked her to prepare lunch, but never came home. Around 4pm she got a call saying that he died. She tried to see the body but in vain. She is all alone and struggling,” Selvi said. On Wednesday, Velmurugan’s father C Kathirvel petitioned the Tuticorin collector with copies of the death certificate, Covid-19 test report and passport to bring his son’s body and Manimegalai home. Collector Sandeep Nanduri said the request has been passed on to the public department and they are in touch with the Indian Embassy in the UAE. “They are trying to arrange a flight. Since availability of flights is tough now they are trying to arrange a cargo flight. Hopefully, very soon we will get the body,” Sandeep Nanduri said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/tn-woman-urges-govt-to-bring-her-hubbys-body-from-uae/articleshow/75767524.cms||M K Ananth
May 16, 2020||Madurai||Madurai traders won’t shift if market moves to outskirts||MADURAI: The district administration inspected a few locations in the city outskirts to shift the Madurai Central market, which is now functioning at the integrated bus stand at Mattuthavani. The market will have to be shifted as and when bus services resume. However, traders say they will not operate if the market is shifted to the city outskirts. The central vegetable market was shifted due to crowding in the first week of April. It was shifted to the MGR bus terminal in Mattuthavani, Amma Thiddal on the inner ring road and the heavy vehicle parking lot near the bus stand. Other markets including the Thayir market in the heart of the city, flower market and fruit market have been shifted to various places in the city. As public transport is expected to start soon, the corporation commissioner inspected alternative sites including the Agriculture College at Othakadai, Thirumalai Naicker College and a plot belonging to the corporation at Virattipatthu. Madurai Central Market Association president P S Murugan, said the government had said that they were not going to start public transport till May 31 and there was no hurry, but they would not move further out to the outskirts as it would not help them. “We can be given the parking lot behind the bus stand or our old market place and we will operate with just one third the strength, but if it is Othakadai or other places we will have to close the market,” he said. As of now only 150 out of the 400 shops from the central market are functioning. Murugan said they are stressing social distancing and also ensuring all safety measures. “We are also giving kabasura kudineer to the traders. Koyembedu has been a good lesson for us and we are not going to let down our guard,” he said. Meanwhile, three shops in East Masi street and East Marret street were sealed by the corporation on Friday for not maintaining social distancing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/madurai-traders-wont-shift-if-market-moves-to-outskirts/articleshow/75767545.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Madurai||MP says foodgrain being pilfered from Madurai PDS shops||Madurai: Madurai MP Su Venkatesan has submitted a petition to Madurai collector Dr T G Vinay alleging large-scale misappropriation in rations shops in the city.Speaking to reporters after submitting the petition, he said that he had inspected 12 PDS shops in Madurai on May 12 and 14, along with revenue officials. People came forward and complained about the quality and quantity of the products being given to them. Venkatesan said that all the shops did not maintain device records, and instead still used ledgers, which helped them to fudge the figures. People were getting text messages saying they had purchased 20kg of rice when they had actually received only 10kg, he said.He also alleged that people had complained about substandard ‘black rice’, which was not fit for consumption was being supplied by the shops. “This cannot be allowed during this crisis period and people should not use this as an opportunity to make money,” he said.The MP said the state government should take steps to fill up the post of revenue officials, who should monitor the ration shops and one revenue inspector should be appointed in-charge of one shop.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/mp-says-foodgrain-being-pilfered-from-madurai-pds-shops/articleshow/75767570.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Madurai||Meenakshi temple’s golden lotus tank to get a facelift||Madurai: The golden lotus tank within the Sri Meenakshi Sundareswarar in Madurai will be getting a facelift at a cost of Rs 70 lakh, after the lockdown.This tank is 200 feet by 148 feet in dimension and is a rainwater harvesting structure with all the draining outlets of the temple directed towards it.The joint commissioner, on Friday, said that as no rainwater was entering the tank in recent times, they had noticed algae growth in the water, which was spoiling the look of the tank.Temple authorities approached the experts at the Tamil Nadu Agriculture College and Research Institute Madurai and steps are being taken under their guidance to prevent algae growth. Also to increase the aesthetic appeal of the tank, they have decided to replace iron barricades with brass ones and also add stone arches on the steps of the tank, with guidance from the department of archaeology at a cost of Rs 70 lakh.Around 10 years ago, as the groundwater level here receded drastically, the temple administration took steps to ensure that the tank held water throughout the year because it was a major attraction within the temple. In 2010-11, bottom concrete layers of the tank were removed and original clay base that had the capacity to hold water was retained. This was done at a cost of Rs 50 lakh then.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/meenakshi-temples-golden-lotus-tank-to-get-a-facelift/articleshow/75767582.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Amaravati||Andhra Pradesh doctors want more super-specialty seats||AMARAVATI: The state government has cleared the decks for recruitment of assistant professors in medical colleges. Senior faculty members in government colleges, however, said the government has not created new associate professor posts which will make it difficult to get additional PG seats in super-specialty wings. The presence of associate professors is a must as per the Medical Council of India (MCI) guidelines, they say. “Recruitment of faculty at entry level by ignoring shortage in the middle level is not going to help the colleges get additional PG seats,” said a medical college principal. He said getting more PG seats is crucial to make the state a health hub. Sources said the government has also decided to create new units in clinical departments like ENT, general medicine and gynaecology, instead of new units in key super-specialty wings like cardiology, neurosurgery, gastroenterology and neurology. The move is unlikely to help the state get new PG seats, they say. For example, while the department of ENT is likely to get six new assistant professors with the creation of new units, the department of cardiology is likely to get only two assistant professor posts. The health department is believed to have stamped its final nod for recruitment of at least 100 assistant professors in government medical colleges. “A faculty member who joined the urology wing as assistant professor is continuing in the same position for the past two decades due to the absence of sanctioned associate professor posts. He has now made up his mind to quit the service for a lucrative job in a corporate hospital. Who would like to work with freshers in the same rank after putting in 20 years of service?” asked a veteran professor. Sources said many super-specialty wings at teaching hospitals are running with strength sanctioned about 30 years ago. “People will be compelled to depend on corporate hospitals if we fail to strengthen the super-specialty wings as experienced teachers would not remain with us,” said a senior professor at Kakinada Rangaraya Medical College.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/ap-docs-want-more-super-specialty-seats/articleshow/75765477.cms||Samdani MN
May 16, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: Maoists trying to recruit jobless migrants back home||BHOPAL/JABALPUR: Maoists are looking to exploit the rural distress, arising out of the lockdown and return of jobless migrants, to launch a massive recruitment drive, say intelligence inputs being received at the police headquarters (PHQ). The rebels are trying to connect with migrant labourers who have returned to their homes in Balaghat, Mandla and Dindori districts, say officials, adding that senior Maoist leaders have been seen in clusters of remote villages. These three districts have recorded a reverse migration of nearly 2 lakh labourers, 90,000 of them in Balaghat alone. Sources say Maoists have begun camping in remote areas that they had given up earlier. And, in an indication of renewed Maoist activity in these parts, a Hawk Force jawan on patrol was shot at and injured in Balaghat on Friday. The bullet went through one cheek and exploded out of the other. He was taken to a hospital in neighbouring Gondia district of Maharashtra, where doctors operated on him. DGP Vivek Johri said he is out of danger. “He was shot from a higher elevation. They were not visible,” said the officer. “Maoists are trying to recruit ground-level cadres. Jobless people may think about joining them for the sake of their families and children,” said a police officer, adding that the rebels are using the lockdown period to strengthen their cadre base in border areas. As if to mark their presence, Maoists burned logs in Mandla and warned villagers and forest officials not to fell trees. Handwritten pamphlets, nailed to trees, said, “Unabated felling of trees in the forest has led to mass migration of tribals and other villagers. This has put human existence in danger. These felling has been done without permission of gram sabhas. No tree can be felled in scheduled areas. Officers are not consulting gram sabhas before taking any decision. Labourers are being paid less wages -- Bodla Area Committee.” The Bodla Maoist unit has shown itself after nearly a year in Mandla. In June 2019, 15 armed Maoists had abducted a tendu leaf contractor from Nevsa village, about 65 km from Mandla district headquarters, but released him, said police. The rebels warned the tendu leaf contractor and his workers not to help police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/maoists-trying-to-recruit-jobless-migrants-back-home/articleshow/75767580.cms||P Naveen
May 16, 2020||Bengaluru||Stale food, filthy loos: Paid hotel quarantine in Bengaluru turns hellish for returnees||BENGALURU: Insects in food, bed bugs, dirty toilets and no TV signal or WiFi — these are among the horrid conditions many returnees claim they’re being forced to endure in two and three-star hotels, despite having coughed up exorbitant amounts for institutional quarantine. Pregnant women, children, the aged and the ailing, who are allowed home quarantine as per a government order on Thursday, are yet to be sent back. IT professional Swathy (name changed), who’s six months pregnant and is lodged in a Koramangala hotel with her husband, was shocked on finding a cockroach in her lunch on Friday. The couple is shelling out Rs 2,450 per day and is not allowed to leave the room. Complaining of stale food being served to them, the 30-year-old said: “I got sick at the sight. My husband and I told hotel authorities and BBMP health officials but no one is bothered.” They arrived in Bengaluru from Kerala on Tuesday night after a 10-hour ordeal. As per the revised government order, pregnant women are exempted from institutional quarantine and can be isolated at home if asymptomatic. But the change in rules is yet to be implemented as some like Swathy are left at the mercy of a BBMP doctor, who hadn’t arrived at the hotel after 48 hours of being alerted about her gestational situation. Meanwhile, a tweet from state authorities slamming people opposing institutional quarantine has irked netizens. The tweet from the official handle of Karnataka health department said: “Yes, one needs to spend if they choose hotel. To treat a Covid-19 patient Govt is spending in lakhs (sic).” Railway and BBMP authorities allegedly told train passengers that hotel quarantine was only for two days and asymptomatic persons could leave for their homes on the third day. Some protesting passengers at KSR City railway station on Thursday were packed off in a bus to a paid hotel. “They told us we would be quarantined only for two days and made us leave the platform. Only when I was brought to a hotel near Kanteerava Stadium and the receptionist told me I must pay for 14 days, did I realise we have been cheated,” said Manoj Singh, an executive with Nippon India mutual fund, who took the train from Delhi. Singh said he forced to spend the night in a non-AC room despite having paid Rs 1,900 in advance. Many people who arrived by train and are lodged in different facilities said paid hotel quarantine was a revelation to them as prior information wasn’t provided at the time of booking or boarding. Some staying in two and three-star hotels have complained of dirty toilets and no TV/internet access despite paying the full amount. “The toilets are filthy, delivery of meals is erratic and there is no TV and WiFi, but I was forced to paid Rs 1,400 per day. No official has come to check these conditions,” said Krishna (name changed), a staffer with Wells Fargo, Kadubeesanahalli, who is quarantined at a Majestic hotel after he arrived from Hyderabad on Thursday. BMTC on Thursday operated 30 buses from KSR City railway station to institutional quarantine facilities like hotels and community centres. However, many passengers, including children, were charged Rs 50 per head to facilities within the city and Rs 100 for those outside. Passengers who picked hotels in Majestic, less than 200m away from the railway station, were forced to pay Rs 50 per ticket. BMTC officials said each bus will carry only 30 passengers to ensure social distancing and will be empty on the return trip. “Many buses are coming from far-off depots and the earnings per bus amount to only Rs 1,250. We are operating them on a contract basis,” said a BMTC official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/stale-food-filthy-loos-paid-hotel-quarantine-turns-hellish-for-returnees/articleshow/75766746.cms||Petlee Peter
May 16, 2020||Hubballi||More than 20k postmen in Karnataka were busy delivering medicines during lockdown||Hubballi: As was the case with all government departments and functions, priorities of India Post too have changed drastically following the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic in the country – from delivery of mail, and managing its diverse financial portfolio, the world’s purportedly largest postal network has been occupied with the delivery of medicines, testing kits and personal protective equipment (PPE) across India. Over 20,000 postmen travelled to places in the corners of Karnataka to ensure supply of essentials and medicines. Chief postmaster general, Bengaluru Charles Lobo said that the department delivered a staggering 19,000 parcels containing medicines during the lockdown. “Our staff delivered medicines and other such essential commodities to the doorstep of the people. We took all necessary precautions in handling of the parcels, and ensured on-time delivery. Since all parcels are sealed, we are not aware of what medicines are being delivered,” said Lobo. Among the medicines that were delivered to patients across the country were drugs for tuberculosis, cancer, arthritis and such longstanding disorders. Assistant superintendent of post offices, Dharwad division Iranna Mutnali confirmed that nearly eight tonnes of medicines, mostly comprising drugs for TB were sent from across the division. He said that, given the weight of the parcel, which came up to eight tonnes, the department realised that the package contained drugs for TB. “Our division covers 13 districts, and we ensured that all medicines reached their respective destination within three days,” he added. Money, medicines and more *Rs 438 crore amount delivered to 43.8 lakh people across Karnataka in money orders *Rs 117 crore worth transactions made from 31 lakh saving accounts *Four lakh speed posts, registers and parcels delivered since the lockdown was enforced *10 postal services provided to more than 700 people through ‘Anche Mitra’ app||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/more-than-20k-postmen-in-karnataka-were-busy-delivering-medicines-during-lockdown/articleshow/75766116.cms||J Abbas Mulla
May 16, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Electricity bills accurate, assures APEPDCL chief||Visakhapatnam: AP Eastern Power Distribution Company Limited (APEPDCL) on Friday said that the electricity bills issued to consumers in March and April were billed as per the earlier method and that there was no any excess amount was billed. APEPDCL CMD S Naga Lakshmi requested the consumers not to believe rumours circulating in the media. “It is misleading the consumers,” she said. She said that the bills are issued as per the consumption. “The bills were calculated as per the duration every month, even it is being taken in the month of May. The particulars of the bill will be uploaded online, enabling the consumers to know their bill particulars,” she said. If the reading has been taken on March 5, the billing would be done for 25 days for March, 30 days for April and 5 days for May by dividing it in three parts. March month bill was within the tariff of last year. From April month onwards billing was done as per AP Electricity Regulatory Commission orders with new tariff rates. If consumers have any queries, they may contact the toll-free no 1912. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/electricity-bills-accurate-assures-apepdcl-chief/articleshow/75765480.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Rottweiler attacks 9-year-old boy, chews off half his scalp||CHENNAI: A nine-year-old boy walking to a store near his house in Avadi was bitten on the head and neck by a Rottweiler that got loose from its owner’s house after the compound gate was left open on Friday. The boy, S Vishnu of Morai, is in hospital with half his scalp bitten away. Police quoted doctors as saying his condition was stable. The Avadi Tank Factory police have registered a case against the dog’s owner, N Kumar, and have taken it away to be monitored by veterinarians of the Blue Cross of India. They will check the physical and mental condition of the dog to find out what caused it to attack the child. Rottweilers can get very aggressive unless they are trained well from a young age. They are usually used as guard dogs by security forces and are known for their courage and aggression. Their wide jaws deliver a fearsome bite, as was evident from the injuries the boy suffered. They are known to go straight for the neck. Police said Vishnu who was walking down the road near Kumar’s house was caught unawares when the dog charged out through an open gate and attacked him. Before the family that owned the dog could pull it away, the Rottweiler had inflicted grievous wounds. Neighbours informed the police control room and ‘108’ ambulance. The boy was sent to a corporate hospital at Ayanambakkam near Ambattur. Later, he was shifted to a hospital at Thousand Lights. Based on the sequence of events, a veterinarian said it appeared the owners had not been taking proper care of the Rottweiler.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/rottweiler-attacks-9-yr-old-boy-chews-off-half-his-scalp/articleshow/75767583.cms||A Selvaraj
May 16, 2020||Kochi||Kochi: No lockdown melancholy for the elderly in Ernakulam||KOCHI: Unlike many other socials groups, Covid-19 lockdown has not been very traumatic for most elderly in Ernakulam. According to a random survey done by researchers at Chinmaya Vishwavidyapeeth covering 600 elderly people who are living alone, elderly have received attention and support from a cross-section of the society including neighbours and relatives. “We looked at sociological and psychological impact on this population that depends on others for various needs. We interviewed people and also shared questionnaire through Google documents. About 78% of them had received good support from other family members besides help from neighbours or relatives. Many of them depend heavily on other adult family members. Yet, instead of being anxious about their own health and life, they expressed high concern about their relatives and children,” said Vanisree Ramanathan, associate professor and head, School of Ethics, Governance, Culture & Social Systems, who lead the study. Of the respondents, 67% were male and 33% were female. More than half of the persons surveyed were in the age group of 71 to 80. She said that the responses were contrary to the general expectations that elderly were not receiving attention. “Most of them told us that every day they were getting calls from people all over,” Ramanathan said. The fact that they could not go out socially either to places of worship or make calls was countered by the care and compassion by relatives and neighbours. The survey forms part of a larger study, ‘Psycho-social impact of the Covid-19 lockdown on elderly in the state of Kerala, India’. “We also did webinars with elderly in other states and found that the Kerala model of social democracy is better,” said Ramanathan. Internet availability or social network-related concerns were less for the elderly. Many seemed to appreciate helping tendency to connect to the distant family members through technology. Adhering to norms like social distancing, washing of hands and wearing face masks were considered as crucial to curtail the virus by the respondents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/no-lockdown-melancholy-for-the-elderly/articleshow/75765490.cms||Sudha Nambudiri
May 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: 30 migrants pool Rs 2 lakh for bus home||HYDERABAD: For more than two months now, Sukanto Mondal, has been out of work, with the hotel near Miyapur, in the heart of Hyderabad’s swank IT hub, not paying his Rs 6,000 per month salary. Yet, when someone offered him a seat on a crammed bus back home — at more than double the airfare between Hyderabad and Kolkata — he jumped at the prospect. The lure of being reunited with his family was too strong to resist. Mondal is among the 30-odd migrant workers, most of them employed with small hotels in the city, who pushed all boundaries to pool together Rs 2 lakh to hire a bus back to Katwa, in Bengal’s Bardhaman district. With no hope of finding a job in Hyderabad before the year-end, these workers knocked on the doors of friends, families, and acquaintances to borrow funds for the ride that started late on Thursday evening. They are hoping to reach home by May 17. “For now, my father has borrowed some money from people he knows, to raise funds. Once I get home, I have to either work in the fields or do some other odd jobs to repay the debt. It will be a burden because we also need to run our household,” said the 25-year-old, while waiting for the bus to arrive. He said he isn’t sure if he’ll return to Hyderabad again. “The hotel, they say, will not reopen before November. I can’t sit idle until then. I’ll have to find something back home.” Another worker, Subhroto Ghosh said that they had no choice but to cough up the money since authorities aren’t doing anything for them. “We feel very let down by the Bengal government. While many states are organising trains and other modes of transport to bring their people back, our government isn’t doing anything. How long can workers stay put in a place without a job?” he said, fearing that the struggle for most of them is still far from over. “Even after returning home, we are not sure when people will find jobs there. It’ll be tough to make ends meet,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/30-migrants-pool-rs-2l-for-bus-home/articleshow/75767609.cms||Sudipta Sengupta
May 16, 2020||Madurai||Influx from other states raises south Tamil Nadu tally||MADURAI: The influx of those returning home from other states and countries has raised the number of Covid -19 positive cases in the southern districts. According to the health department, till May 15, only 700 (6.92 % ) of the total of 10,108 positive cases in the state are from the 10 southern districts. However, on Friday, these districts saw a high of 59 new cases, a number they recorded on April 1 too, though it fell subsequently. There were 33 cases on April 9, 35 on May 6 and 38 on May 14. In the last two days, 72 new Covid-19 cases in the state were among those who came from other states or countries. Of these, as many as 67 cases (93%) turned out to be from the 10 southern districts. Sixty people have returned from Maharashtra to Tirunelveli (33), Tuticorin (12), Madurai (12), Tenkasi (1) and Sivaganga (1). In fact, Sivaganga got its first positive case after 24 days to take the total tally to 13 on Thursday. Kanyakumari is the only district that has had Covid patients from abroad — Maldives (4) and Qatar (2). Around 150 people have come from Maldives and Qatar over the last three days. The district administrations are taking extreme caution when people are coming from Maharashtra, Gujarat, Delhi and Rajasthan . Some districts are avoiding marriage halls or dormitories for quarantine as it causes the infection to spreading fast if one of them is infected. “We don’t want to give a chance to them to say that they were infected after they were taken to the quarantine facility. So we collect samples from them at the entry point to the district at Kavalkinaru (bordering Tirunelveli) and Kaliyakkavilai (bordering Thiruvananthapuram),” Kanyakumari collector Prashant M Wadnere said. After collecting samples they are sent to the 10 quarantine facilities – primarily hotels and lodges||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/influx-from-other-states-raises-south-tn-tally/articleshow/75767585.cms||M K Ananth
May 16, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Dist plans four more spl trains for migrant labourers to return home||Visakhapatnam: Flooded with requests from stranded people for transportation to their respective states, the district administration is trying to arrange for four trains in the next one week. While two trains have already been sent to Bihar and Jharkhand, officials have requested the government to arrange for four special trains to Bihar, Jharkhand, Odisha, and Rajasthan to shift more than 3,500 stranded people. The administration has received requests so far from more than 30,000 migrant labourers stranded in the district as well as 12,000 workers from Vizag stuck in other states. Speaking to TOI, joint collector M Venugopal Reddy said, “So far we have shifted 2,500 migrant labourers to Jharkhand, Bihar, and Odisha.” He added that they have been giving permission to companies for providing buses and four-wheelers. “Around 90 students of Sri Chaitanya College were sent to their native states Jharkhand and Bihar by college buses, while 22 people including nine pregnant women returned to the district from Indore on Friday,” he elaborated. “Vizagites stranded in foreign nations are also expected to arrive soon. Some people are coming via Hyderabad and Chennai. Direct flights will also arrive once the schedule is fixed by the Centre,” Reddy said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/dist-plans-four-more-spl-trains-for-migrant-labourers-to-return-home/articleshow/75765523.cms||Siva G
May 16, 2020||Chennai||Madras HC refuses to interfere with Class X exam schedule||CHENNAI: The Madras high court refused to interfere with the state government’s plan to hold board examinations for Classes X and XII. When a public interest writ petition filed by an advocate came up before it on Friday, a division bench of Justice M Sathyanarayanan and Justice Pushpa Sathyanarayana raised several queries as to the locus standi of the petitioner in seeking to postpone the examination schedule. For Class X, the board examinations are to commence on June 1. Faced with a flurry of questions, the PIL-petitioner sought the court’s permission to withdraw the plea. The judges permitted the petitioner to withdraw the case with the condition that no similar plea should be filed by him again. The petitioner, S Stalinraja, said amidst the rapidly increasing cases of Covid-19, conducting examinations would put students at the risk of infection. Students from containment zones would not be able to attend the exams, he added. Feasibility of social distancing, inaccessibility of exam halls due to lack of public transportation were among the other reasons the petitioner cited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/hc-refuses-to-interfere-with-class-x-exam-schedule/articleshow/75767587.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Goa||With blind wife and 2-year-old kid, 50-year-old man starts longest walk of his life||PANAJI: Vastaram Maske had his hands full as he headed towards the Patradevi border on Friday. Trudging down the highway in the scorching sun, he led his blind wife with one hand, and held his two-year-old infant, Kushi, in the other. For the 50-year-old, Patradevi would only be the first of many obstacles—his family’s destination was their home in Aurangabad, almost 600km away. “I came to Goa last December to work on construction sites, but I can’t afford to live here anymore,” he said. Thus, on Friday morning, he set out from Dhargalim, in Pernem, for perhaps the longest walk of his life. “We are going home,” he said, unsure if he and his family would ever reach. Maske is one of thousands of migrant workers walking down Goa’s highways towards the state’s borders, their first checkpost on a long journey. Many tried desperately to secure a travel permit but failed. With no option, they set out anyway, hoping to illegally cross the border. Situation may worsen during rains, fear policeBut even for those who succeeded, there was bad news. TOI encountered several men—hungry, angry and frustrated—who walked for kilometres in the sun to cross into Maharashtra via interior roads, only to have the neighbouring state’s police foil their attempt and send them back to Goa. On Friday afternoon itself, the Patradevi checkpost saw around 500 labourers, most from Uttar Pradesh and Bihar, sent back to Goa after being apprehended by Maharashtra police. At the border, they hung around between vehicles and stood in groups. “We usually have around 100 labourers a day sent back after having made their way across the border illegally,” said a cop at the checkpost. “Today’s number is quite high.” Even for police, the caravan of misery takes its toll. One cop recollected how a few nights ago, he saw some migrant workers sleeping along the highway, hungry. He too spent that night hungry. “I was on duty here, but I could not eat my tiffin after seeing them hungry,” he said. In theory, workers caught illegally crossing the border are stopped and sent to the nearest camp. However, in practice, it takes time to work out the logistics. “A vehicle has to be arranged to transport them,” a cop said. “We are sending some sand mining labourers to the nearest town, and we will summon their contractors.” The policeman, like many of his colleagues, was furious that the contractors had abandoned their workers in their hour of need. “The least they can do is to help them with the registration process and ensure their journey to their home states,” one said. “With so many of them, we are helpless.” The spectre of helplessness pervades the Patradevi checkpost. Many labourers who are stopped here have already walked for hours. “We started walking home out of compulsion, not choice,” said Motee Singh from UP, one of over 100 workers who walked from South Goa. “We have registered four to five times, but there has been no response from the government.” Another just wanted to get home. “We have no money to pay rent,” he said. “(If we reach home), at least we will be with our families, even if without money. I want to see my family.” Their last meal was on Thursday evening. On Friday, as temperatures soared, none of them had even a sip of water since morning. When Alam Trust, a charitable body, appeared with water bottles, there was a quarrel to get the last few ones. “We came with only a hundred (food) packets and water bottles,” said the main in-charge of distribution. “We had no idea that there would be so many people here.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/with-a-blind-wife-and-2-yr-old-kid-50-yr-old-man-starts-longest-walk-of-his-life/articleshow/75768263.cms||Bindiya Chari
May 16, 2020||Madurai||19 run away fearing quarantine, caught by police||SIVAGANGA: Nineteen people who were being brought back from West Bengal by bus, ran away fearing institutional quarantine, when the vehicle was going near Manamadurai in Sivaganga district on Thursday. Subsequently, all the 19 were caught by the police. According to sources, several people working in West Bengal were being brought back to their native places at Sivaganga and Ramanathapuram district in three buses. On Thursday morning, one of the buses in which 28 people were travelling, dropped off seven in a quarantine facility in Sivaganga district and was proceeding towards Ramanathapuram district with the remaining 21. When the bus came near the Manamadurai railway gate, the passengers asked the driver to stop the bus. As the bus stopped, 19 of them ran away fearing quarantine. The driver alerted the Manamadurai police officials about the incident. Sivaganga district superintendent of police R Rohith Nathan said that 12 people were caught in Sivaganga district and the remaining seven persons in Ramanathapuram district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/19-run-away-fearing-quarantine-caught-by-police/articleshow/75767588.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Dehradun||For WUP:After protest on Kailash Mansarovar road, Nepal seeks permission from India for its migratory villagers to use road||Pithoragarh: Amid tension on the India-Nepal border over the newly-inaugurated Kailash Mansarovar road that allows vehicular movement till near the Lipulekh Pass, Nepalese authorities have sought permission from Pithoragarh district administration to permit migratory villagers to use the road to get back to their villages. The authorities of Darchula district in Nepal have requested Pithoragarh district administration for permission to residents of Tinkat and Chhangru villages to use the newly-inaugurated road built by the Border Roads Organisation (BRO) to get back to their villages. The residents of these villages are migratory and each year, 500 families of these areas come to lower regions of the valley during winter. This year, they were unable to return to their homes due to the lockdown since the bridge at Sitapul (on the Kali river) that they used to journey home has been closed because of the Covid-19 situation. Nepalese authorities have therefore sought permission for villagers to use the newly-built road for one week so that all of them are able to return. A few days ago, some of the villagers of Tinkar and Chhangaru had also held a demonstration with their animals at the district magistrate office in Darchula (Nepal) to make arrangements for their return, Narendra Singh, a resident of Tinkar, told TOI. Vijay Kumar Jogdande, DM Pithoragarh, told TOI that he has forwarded the request of the Nepalese authorities to the state government and the Centre for clearance. Notably, Nepal had a day earlier, set up an armed police outpost near the border for the first time. It has also lodged a protest with the Union ministry of external affairs (MEA) contending that the new road passes through its territory. The MEA has reiterated that the area lies “well within the Indian territory.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/for-wupafter-protest-on-kailash-mansarovar-road-nepal-seeks-permission-from-india-for-its-migratory-villagers-to-use-road/articleshow/75765545.cms||Prem Punetha
May 16, 2020||Kozhikode||5 cases put Wayanad on high alert||Kozhikode: With five more persons testing positive in Wayanad on Friday and the contact tracing of a patient becoming a challenge, the district administration expanded its surveillance team and put in place stringent measures in containment zones, including vulnerable tribal colonies. Former state epidemiologist Dr A Sukumaran was appointed to coordinate contact tracing in the district. Now, the number of persons under treatment in Wayanad has risen to 19, the highest among all districts in Kerala. The new cases confirmed on Friday include a 25-year-old pregnant woman and her husband from Cheeral who had returned from the Gulf on May 7. Three others contracted the disease from persons who had tested positive earlier and are part of the Koyambedu cluster. New cases include the brother of the patient who tested positive after returning from Koyambedu on May 9. The other two positive cases are a one-year-old baby girl from Mananthavady, a primary contact of the daughter of the truck driver who tested positive on his return from Koyambedu on May 2 and a 36-year-old man, who is a friend of the truck driver’s son-in-law who tested positive on Thursday. To ensure that vulnerable tribal colonies are isolated, collector Adeela Abdulla ordered strict containment measures in three tribal colonies near Thirunelly. Persons from the colonies of Kundara, Kolli and Sarvani, who went to shops, were asked to go into institutional quarantine and two policemen and a junior health inspector will be posted in each colony.Stepping up containment measures, the collector issued an order that shops selling groceries and essential goods in containment zones, including Mananthavady, will be closed down as and when alternative arrangements for home delivery are put in place by respective local bodies. Meanwhile, the route map of the 20-year-old patient from Kammana, who is suspected of infecting three policemen, was finally released on Friday. The route map showed that the youth had visited Mananthavady police station on April 24 and 28, the deputy SP office on May 2.His travel includes a shop at Poolakkal, Vincentgiri hospital and agricultural field near his house. But, health authorities feel that there could be gaps in his contact tracing as the youth was reluctant to share information and retracting his statements. Meanwhile the number of police personnel in the district, who are under observation after three cops from Mananthavady station tested positive, has risen to 95.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/5-cases-put-wayanad-on-high-alert/articleshow/75765575.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Mysuru||South K’taka reports 21 fresh cases, all returning migrants from Maharashtra||Mysuru: Three districts in South Karnataka, two of which were grouped under ‘Green Zone’ until a fortnight ago, accounted for 21 of the 69 positive cases reported across the state on Friday. Interestingly, the common denominator among all 21 individuals was that they had all returned from Mumbai. While seven people tested positive in Hassan, Shivamogga had one case but it was Mandya that accounted for the bulk of the cases with 13. Across Karnataka, returning migrants from Mumbai accounted for 30% of the people who tested positive for the novel coronavirus. Of the 13 new cases reported in Mandya on Friday is a six-year-old kid. Interestingly, this is the first instance of the district in the Cauvery Delta reporting ten or more cases in a single day. As on Friday, the total number of Covid-19 cases registered in the district is 49, among whom 19 have recovered and been discharged. Those who have tested positive in the district had all been long-time residents of Mumbai, and returned to their respective homes in KR Pet and Nagamangala taluks. “Most of those who have tested positive are asymptomatic who have been quarantined after testing positive. There have been instances of many people returning to their villages without intimating the authorities, and that poses a huge threat to containing the disease,” said a senior official in the district administration. In Hassan district, the authorities have their task cut out, tracing suspects and contacts of the 16 patients who have tested positive. As of now, around 170 people suspected of having the infection have been quarantined at the designated Covid-19 hospital. In all, 16 cases have been reported in Hassan in a mere four days. Hassan deputy commissioner Girish said that those confirmed with the infection had travelled only within the borders of Hassan. “Given that the cases are rising, we have reserved as many as 400 beds at the Covid-19 hopsital just in case,” the DC said. A 33-year-old man and his seven-year-old son from Mumbai to Channarayapatna are among those who tested positive in Hassan. The father-son duo travelled back to Hassan by a four-wheeler that transported eight passengers in all. In another case, a 24-year-old woman tested positive, while her husband and daughter have both seemed negative, but have been quarantined. In Shivamogga too, the 42-year-old man who was the solitary case reported in the district had returned from Mumbai. Shivamogga DC KB Sivakumar said that the patient was a native of Ranjadakatte in Theerthahalli taluk, and the village was now sealed. He added that all commercial establishments in the taluk would be closed from 1pm from Saturday. -(With inputs from Darshan BH and KR Rajendrakumar)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/south-ktaka-reports-21-fresh-cases-all-returning-migrants-from-maharashtra/articleshow/75765550.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Chennai||Gas leaking from urea plant triggers panic in Chennai's Manali||CHENNAI: An ammonia leak from a public sector plant that manufacturers urea in Manali caused panic among residents of the Mathur MMDA colony on Thursday night. People who had gathered on their terraces to sleep suddenly encountered a foul smell which caused their eyes to water and skin to itch. With the Vizag gas leak fresh in their minds, residents rushed downstairs in a panic. R S Babu, secretary of Mathur MMDA resident welfare association, in a complaint to the district environmental engineer stated that some even felt nauseated, experienced breathlessness and had movement restrictions. “This has been a chronic issue in the locality but today (Friday), it was severe where the entire area was engulfed in the stench. As it is summer, people kept the windows open. Face masks saved the day for us,” he said. Massive soot particles released from the heavily industrialised area spoil clothes hung on the terrace for drying, he said. Residents said they called police for help but that the cop who responded allegedly asked them to identify which company had released the gas. After a short period of time, the uneasiness in the air settled, said Pandian, another resident. A senior official from Manali zone (2) of the Greater Chennai Corporation confirmed that the gas had leaked from a public sector plant manufacturing urea in Manali. Sources said the district environmental engineer Indira Gandhi inspected the plant early on Friday. An official from Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board (TNPCB), who wished anonymity, also confirmed the source of the leak and told TOI that the plant had been shut down on Thursday due to maintenance issues. “Due to this, ammonia had leaked, but it was in a minor quantity. The company has not been able to identify the leak,” the official said, adding that the factory was not authorised to release any such chemicals in the air.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/gas-leaking-from-urea-plant-triggers-panic-in-manali/articleshow/75767599.cms||Siddharth Prabhakar
May 16, 2020||Delhi||Closing of red light areas may cut 72% of new Covid-19 cases: Experts||NEW DELHI: India can add 17 days of additional delay in reaching the peak of novel coronavirus cases, and prevent 72% of projected new cases by closing down its red light areas till a Covid-19 vaccine is developed, scientists said. Based on modelling studies, the researchers — including those from Yale School of Medicine in the US — said closing down these places of sex work may reduce projected Covid-19 death toll increase in India by 63% after easing of the lockdown measures. The scientists said that the findings have been shared with the central government and with various state governments. They have recommended a continued closure of red-light areas beyond full nationwide reopening. According to the National Aids Control Organisation (NACO), India has close to 6,37,500 sex workers, and over five lakh customers visit the red-light areas on a daily basis, the scientists noted in a release. The research by scientists of Yale School of Medicine and Harvard Medical School said that if the red-light areas start operating, the disease will spread extremely quickly and infect a very high percentage of sex workers and customers. The scientists said the high transmission rate is because social distancing is not possible in sexual interactions. Infected customers can spread the disease to lakhs of other citizens, the scientists warned. The report highlighted the impact of red-light areas across India, and in five Indian cities which are currently in the red zone. These cities, the scientists said, account for some of the largest red-light areas in the country with large numbers of sex workers. According to the scientists, the measure may also reduce Covid-19 cases by a fifth in Mumbai, by 27% in Pune, and 31% in New Delhi. Covid-19 deaths may reduce by 28% in Mumbai, 38% in New Delhi, and by 43% in Pune, the scientists added. “Our study findings show that there is a strong effect of the red-light area closures, especially immediately following the lockdown,” said study co-author, Jefferey Townsend, professor of biostatistics at the Yale School of Medicine. Citing examples of other countries where similar interventions were implemented, the scientists said, strip clubs and brothels were the only businesses that are delineated as indefinitely closed in Australia’s reopening plan. They said Germany and the Netherlands have also closed their brothels to protect citizens from Covid-19. The scientists added that Japan did not close down red-light areas in time, and saw an ‘explosion’ in cases because of a red-light area which left local hospitals “overwhelmed”. Co-author of the report, Sudhakar Nuti from the Harvard Medical School said, “The continued closure of red-light areas will build on the successes achieved by the government in lockdown.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/closing-of-red-light-areas-may-cut-72-of-new-covid-cases-experts/articleshow/75782887.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Meerut||Day after bus runs over 6 migrants on highway, train flagged off with 1,320 labourers for Bihar||Muzaffarnagar: A day after six Bihari migrant labourers from Haryana, walking down Muzaffarnagar-Saharanpur highway towards home, were run over by a UP state transport corporation bus — a special train was flagged off from Saharanpur, carrying 1,320 migrant labourers back to Bihar. Thousands of workers have reached Saharanpur on foot from Punjab, Haryana, Uttarakhand and Jammu and Kashmir — Saharanpur being the first district of the state across the borders of Haryana and Uttarakhand. According to sources, as many as 5,000 Bihari migrants have reached the district from Punjab, Rajasthan, Haryana and J&K. They were provided shelter in Saharanpur and are now being sent to Bihar by the UP government, for which the district administration flagged off a special train on Friday from Saharanpur. Saharanpur commissioner Sanjay Kumar said, “After receiving permission from the UP CM, we sent a special train with 1,320 migrants. More trains will be sent soon. The UP government will bear expenses of all six trains.” The six dead in Wednesday night’s accident were among a group of 16 migrant laborers from Bihar, who were trying to reach their homes on foot, when between 10-11 pm on Wednesday night, a UPSRTC bus mowed them down near Rohana toll plaza in Muzaffarnagar. The spot is just 50m ahead of Ghagoli police check-post under Nagar-Kotwali police station. The accident also left four others injured. Area police arrived soon after the accident and launched a rescue operation. The four injured migrants were sent to a local hospital, from where two were referred to a higher centre in Meerut. Later, the deceased were identified as Virendra of Patna, Haresh Sahani, Vikas, Haresh and Vasudev Singh of Gopalganj, and Guddu Kumar of Bhojpur. According to a source, the group of 16 migrants, who were working somewhere in Yamunanagar district of Haryana before the lockdown, had entered the state through Deoband, the last town of Saharanpur district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/day-after-bus-runs-over-6-migrants-on-highway-train-flagged-off-with-1320-labourers-for-bihar/articleshow/75766780.cms||Mohd Dilshad
May 16, 2020||Goa||Finally, Canacona bus stand to get fresh lease of life||Poinguinim: After much delay, the maintenance of the Kadamba Transport Corporation (KTC) bus stand at Canacona finally commenced on Friday, with the roofing work been taken on priority in view of the fast approaching monsoon. Ever since the KTC bus stand at Chaudi was inaugurated 15 years back, it was never given a facelift even though it is used by thousands of commuters. The major works which have been undertaken are drainages to the toilets and roofing. With commercial space in front and back of the bus stand, there are 24 shops, a canteen and the RTO office. The shopkeepers, who have been complaining about the sorry state of the bus stand, pointed out that with cattle roaming freely, the area is strewn with cowdung. A shopkeeper, S Kenkre, said that the entire structure requires urgent repairs for stability and a coat of paint to arrest further degradation. Local MLA and deputy speaker Isidore Fernandes said the chief minister has sanctioned Rs 29 lakh for the maintenance of the bus stand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/finally-canacona-bus-stand-to-get-fresh-lease-of-life/articleshow/75768271.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Kochi||Low-cost solution for isolating driver seats||Kochi: Travel operators have devised a low-cost solution for separating the driver’s seat in taxi cabs from passengers to make trips safer. The partition using polythene sheet will create an L-shaped space for passengers, including one in the front, which was not possible earlier. While earlier solutions using fibre glass partition that separates passenger seats in the back was not widely adopted because of relative higher cost, the use of polythene sheets would make it inexpensive, said Bajy Joseph, general secretary, Travel Operators Association of Kerala (TOAK). TOAK took the help of upholstery shops and workshops to devise the partition that costs around Rs 600. The partition can easily be taken out and washed using soap and water and then hung-dry. The polythene sheets, mostly used to cover dining tables, are attached to velcro strips on the roof and then sealed below using double tapes creating an enclosure for the driver seat. “We are already operating 50 cabs using polythene divider between back and front seats for passengers disembarking at Cochin port,” said Bajy. The L-shaped space would help accommodate an additional person in the front seat. “While dropping off female employees in sectors like IT, we need to take along a security guard in the front seat,” he said. “The most important thing is to bring the vehicles out on the road, drivers need to make at least some money before they can invest on costly modifications,” said Bajy. TOAK wants the state government to come out with specific guidelines on aspects like protective gear so that the transport sector can open up. “Most vehicles have now submitted G-forms to avoid payment of tax. They will be out on the road if pro-active steps are taken. Contract carriages and tempo travellers can also be operated by following such safety guidelines. It is not practical to say that drivers have to undergo quarantine after every trip. We would have to deploy multiple drivers for every vehicle,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/low-cost-solution-for-isolating-driver-seats/articleshow/75765601.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Bengaluru||Most migrant workers leaving Karnataka are from UP, Bihar||BENGALURU: As many as 72,846 migrant workers left Karnataka in 53 Shramik special trains between May 3 and Friday. South Western Railway (SWR) records show a majority of the workers were bound primarily to two states — Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. This is mainly because more trains have been operated to these two states. While 16 trains were operated to Uttar Pradesh ferrying 21,922 passengers, 14 trains have been operated to Bihar with 19,316 migrants. They are followed by Jharkhand (8,092) and Rajasthan (5,493). However, inadequate number of trains to states like Odisha, West Bengal and Jharkhand has left thousands of migrant workers in the city in the lurch. Of the 53 trains, only three operated outside Bengaluru division: one from Mysuru and two from Hubballi. All remaining trains from Bengaluru railway division left from two stations: Chikkabanavara and Malur. Railway officials said Shramik Special trains from point-to-point are being operated based on requests from the state governments concerned. “The departure stations are identified by the state government considering the law and order situation,” said a senior SWR official. The Karnataka government has been collecting fares from migrant workers to pay for most trains operated from Bengaluru. This is because the states where these workers are travelling to — Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Odisha, West Bengal, Jharkhand and Rajasthan — aren’t bearing the travel expenses for these migrants. However, sources states like Jammu and Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh, Tripura, Manipur, Uttarakhand and Madhya Pradesh have decided to pay for tickets fares of passengers hailing from their states, including workers and students.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/most-migrant-workers-leaving-karnataka-are-from-up-bihar/articleshow/75766804.cms||Christin Mathew Philip
May 16, 2020||India||SC stays HC verdict quashing Gujarat law minister's election in assembly polls||NEW DELHI: In a relief to Gujarat law and education minister Bhupendrasinh Chudasama, the Supreme Court on Friday stayed the high court verdict which quashed his election in the 2017 assembly polls. The Gujarat High Court had quashed his victory in the election on May 13 and Chudasama rushed to the Supreme Court against the order, seeking a stay. Agreeing to hear his plea, a bench of Justices M M Shantanagoudar and R Subhash Reddy issued notice to Congress candidate on whose plea the HC had passed the order. "Issue notice to all the respondents. Call for records. There shall be interim stay of the operation of the impugned judgement in the meanwhile," it said. While allowing the plea of Congress candidate Ashwin Rathod who was defeated by Chudasama by a narrow margin of 327 votes in the election, the HC held that 429 postal ballot was illegally rejected and was not considered by the returning officer at the time of counting of votes. It said corrupt practices were committed during the election. Challenging the order, Chudasama contended that the HC erred on various grounds in declaring his election as void. He said the HC failed to appreciate that no written complaint or objection was made regarding rejection of 429 postal ballots at the time of of counting and declaration of results of Dholka assembly constituency. "The HC failed to appreciate that the returning officer states that (Out of 429 postal ballots) in 79 ballots, declaration Form No.13A was not found, 339 ballots were found not bearing signature of either candidate, gazette officer or witness and 5 ballots were found defective, thus total 423 ballots were rejected prior to opening of Form no.13B. Rest 6 were also rejected in accordance with provisions of 165 Conduct of Election rules," he said in his petition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sc-stays-hc-verdict-quashing-gujarat-law-ministers-election-in-assembly-polls/articleshow/75768663.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Patna||Lockdown in state may continue till May 31||Patna: The Bihar government seems set to extend the lockdown till May 31 with certain exemptions for economic activities. PM Narendra Modi in his May 12 address said lockdown 4.0 will have new set of rules to be announced by central government before May 18. Chief secretary Deepak Kumar told TOI on Friday that though Bihar government is waiting for the Centre’s fresh guidelines, the state requires restrictions to be in place as it is faced with heavy inflow of migrant workers from across the country. The state government is not in favour of running interstate buses, regular passenger trains and commercial flights for the time being. Schools, colleges and malls among other public places will also continue to remain closed, he said. Deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi told TOI that altogether 4.80 lakh migrants were estimated to return to Bihar by 389 Shramik special trains and 2.26 of them have already arrived by 224 trains. “Containment zones will continue to face strict restrictions, while relaxations will be given for economic activities in non- containment zones,” SuMo said on the possibility of lockdown 4.0. Deepak said the state government wants to keep the restrictions in place till the returnee migrant workers get settled in the quarantine centres. “We are expecting the migrant workers’ return to the state till May 25. Lifting the lockdown before that will not be a prudent step with respect to containment of Covid-19 spread. Besides, we are expecting large number of returnee migrant workers to complete their institutional quarantine period of 14 days by May 31. Accordingly, Bihar government is in favour of keeping the restrictions in place till May 31,” he said. Earlier, CM Nitish Kumar had also suggested in the meeting with PM and CMs of other states to extend the lockdown till May 31. “This will allow us to identify the infected persons coming from outside and safeguard others from the infection,” Nitish had said. Elaborating on the possible relaxations, Deepak said: “Some relaxations will be allowed in construction activities, agriculture, industries and shops, so as to open some opportunities for employment generation.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/lockdown-in-state-may-continue-till-may-31/articleshow/75765855.cms||Piyush Tripathi
May 16, 2020||Chennai||Preached but not practised: Trains for railway staff jam-packed||CHENNAI: The governments have been constantly stressing on physical distancing to avoid the spread of Covid-19, but the Southern Railway has been flouting the norm in its daily special trains which bring employees to Chennai. A video accessed by TOI shows that the workman special train from Arakkonam to Chennai is completely jam-packed, with seats completely filled and people even standing near each other inside the coaches. “Even if one of the employees has Covid-19, there is a chance of the train becoming a source for spread of the infection. Please do the needful,” reads a message sent by some employees to senior officials of Southern Railway along with the video. Workmen specials are run from Chennai to Arakkonam twice in the morning and twice in the evening. Only one service each is operated from and to Sullurpeta and to Chengalpet in the morning and evening. Southern Railway’s offices in Park Town, carriage and locomotive workshop as well as joint office in Perambur and other areas continue to work. In addition, staff are called for maintenance work at the Egmore and Basin bridge coach maintenance yards. Staff such as trackmen, signalling wing, traffic and operating, who are key for running essential train services, travel in these trains. A few railway employees including RPF staff have tested positive for Covid-19. A Janakiraman, working president of Dakshin Railway Employees Union (DREU) has complained about this officially to the general manager John Thomas. In addition to asking for additional services, Janakiraman in a letter on May 11 also pointed out that the trains have limited stopping and hence people working at Loco and Carriage workshops cannot get down at the station. An official spokesperson of Southern Railway said they were looking into it, though he termed it an ‘internal issue’. “The norms might change from May 17. We are reviewing it,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/preached-but-not-practised-trains-for-rly-staff-jam-packed/articleshow/75767612.cms||Siddharth Prabhakar
May 16, 2020||Chennai||Plea seeks HC nod for Nalini Sriharan to video call kin||CHENNAI: Octogenarian mother of Rajiv Gandhi assassination case life convict Nalini Sriharan has moved the Madras high court seeking direction to prison authorities to permit her daughter and her husband to talk to her mother-in-law in Sri Lanka and sister-in-law in London through WhatsApp video call for at least 10 minutes daily. Admitting the plea moved as a habeas corpus petition, a division bench of Justice N Kirubakaran and Justice R Hemalatha directed the state home department and the Vellore Central Prison authorities to file their response by May 22. According to Nalini’s mother S Padma, Sriharan alias Murugan’s father (Nalini’s father-in-law) died on April 27 in Sri Lanka. Murugan’s request to permit him to watch the last rites of his father through video call was rejected by the prison authorities. Subsequently, on April 28, Nalini spoke to the petitioner over phone and requested her to make an application to the prison authorities to permit Nalini and Sriharan to talk to her mother-in-law and sister-in-law through video call for at least 20 minutes daily, the petitioner said. The petitioner made an application on May 4 but since there was no decision by the prison authorities, claiming it amounts to violation of her rights under Article 14 and 21 of the Constitution, Padma has approached the high court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/plea-seeks-hc-nod-for-nalini-to-vid-call-kin/articleshow/75767625.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Meerut||In 14 days, coronavirus cases rise from 100 to 312 in Meerut||Meerut: With a major spike in Covid-19 cases of Meerut after May 2, a study of the number of cases has revealed that while it took 34 days for the cases in Meerut to rise to 100, at 14 days --it took less than half of the same period to rise from 100 to 312 – which is a jump of 212 cases. The analysis was done keeping in mind the total number of cases until Friday 9pm. On Friday, the total number of cases in Meerut was reported at 312 cases (including one admitted in Kanpur). Out of these, 95 have been discharged and 17 have died – thereby making the total number of active cases 200 (including one from Kanpur). Dr Raj Kumar, Meerut chief medical officer, said, “The major reason in the spike of cases in May is that vegetable vendors and others in the supply chain have tested positive for coronavirus. When their contacts were tested, they too tested positive. The vendors and others come under essential services and were in contact with many others. Before that, the cases were still under control.” Doctors have reiterated that a complete lockdown can only help in containing the disease. In this backdrop, Meerut district magistrate Anil Dhingra had announced May 14 as a day of complete lockdown – with only milk supplies and medicine stores remaining open. Several vegetable vendors and milk sellers have tested positive in Meerut till now – with over 70 cases being from the essential supplies bracket. Dr Vishwas Chaudhary, Meerut district surveillance officer, said, “As many as 21 new cases were reported in Meerut on Friday. Their locations are being ascertained. We are continuously tracking the number of cases, and getting their contacts checked too. Contact tracing is the major way that the disease can be controlled and we are leaving no stone unturned for this purpose.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/in-14-days-corona-cases-rise-from-100-to-312-in-meerut/articleshow/75766813.cms||Ishita Bhatia
May 16, 2020||Mangaluru||15 monkeys found dead in Uppinangady||Mangaluru: At least 15 monkeys were found dead on the roadside in Bandaru village of Uppinangady forest range. Puttur sub division ACF Subrahmanya Rao told TOI that experts have visited the spot. Preliminary investigation has ruled out Kyasanur Forest Disease (KFD) or monkey fever. Instead, poisoning is suspected. Veterinarians have collected the samples and based on their report, expected to come on Saturday, an inquiry will be conducted, he said. Many suspect that poison have been given to monkeys to get rid of them and save plantations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/15-monkeys-found-dead-in-uppinangady/articleshow/75765614.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Ahmedabad||Another teacher dies of Covid-19 in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: Another teacher of working for the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) school board has succumbed to the novel coronavirus. Vishwanath Shripati, a senior teacher of Thakkarbapanagar Hindi School No.2, died at GCS hospital on Naroda Road on Friday after being admitted for around three days. Shripati, 55, a resident of the Bapunagar area of city, was deployed in survey work and in food distribution by the government for around two months. “Shripati fell ill on the night of May 12 and was admitted to GCS Hospital where he died of Covid-19 on Friday,” said Ilyas Qureshi, member of the AMC school board. This is the second death of a teacher in a fortnight. Qureshi said that earlier on April 30, principal of Shahpur Urdu school number-5 Mohammed Yasin Shaikh died of the novel coronavirus infection at Civil hospital in the Asarwa area of city. Qureshi alleged that neither the state education department nor the AMC school board have been providing enough masks, gloves and sanitizers to teachers deployed in survey and distribution work. Due to this, 12 teachers have been infected by the virus and one of them is still on the ventilator. Qureshi earlier raised this issue with education minister Bhupendrasinh Chudasama, seeking proper safety materials for teacher but the representation went unheard, he said. Lagdhir Desai, administrative officer of the AMC school board, claimed that teachers are given proper safety materials like masks, gloves and sanitizers and they were also instructed to maintain social distancing. “We have told teachers that they can buy safety materials and put their expenditure in the school budget which will be passed by us. The government has also given them proper stocks of masks and sanitizers,” said Desai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/another-teacher-dies-of-covid-19/articleshow/75767667.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||7 with symptoms moved to hosps||T’puram/Kochi: The first Rajdhani special train with stranded persons from Kerala and Tamil Nadu arrived in Thiruvananthapuram on Friday morning. One passenger who showed symptoms of Covid-19 during screening was shifted to the General Hospital in the city.Train No 02432, with three stops in the state, had arrived in Kozhikode at 10pm on Thursday. Here six people with symptoms were moved to a hospital. As many as 411 passengers alighted the train at Ernakulam Junction station. No one had symptoms for the novel coronavirus, but one of the passengers who suffered chest pain was admitted to Kalamassery Medical College Hospital.Of the 411 passengers, 106 were from Ernakulam and the rest from other districts. They were transported in KSRTC buses and self-arranged taxis.The train pulled into Thiruvananthapuram Central station around 5.15am where 329 passengers disembarked, including 16 pregnant women and 18 children below ten years of age.The passengers -- from Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Pathanamthitta, Alappuzha, Kottayam and Kanyakumari districts -- were herded out of the coaches by RPF officers in groups.“A Pathanamthitta native who boarded train from Mumbai had fever and was shifted to Thiruvananthapuram General Hospital. Nine persons were shifted to the facility to Mar Ivanios College, two opted for paid quarantine at Hotel Chaitram, while one each was sent to the facilities in Varkala and Nagaroor. While some lacked the facility for proper self-isolation at home, others did not want to trouble their families and sought facilities arranged by the district administration,” said John V Samuel, revenue divisional officer of Thiruvananthapuram.At all the three stations, baggage was first disinfected before being handed over to passengers. The TN government had arranged buses to transport 58 passengers from the state. The remaining passengers travelled in private vehicles, taxis and KSRTC buses. Though authorities had arranged 20 KSRTC buses, only three buses were operated: two to Pathanamthitta and one to Kollam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/7-with-symptoms-moved-to-hosps/articleshow/75765615.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Kochi||Hight court to take call on tests for expatriates||Kochi: The high court on Friday said it will pass an order on the demand for conducting tests to detect Covid-19 on returning expatriates before they board the flight from a foreign country. A division bench comprising justices Anu Sivaraman and MR Anitha said it will pass an order after considering a petition (WP-C No. 9804/2020) filed by CR Neelakandan through advocate Rajan Vishnuraj.Advocate Harish Vasudevan, who appeared for the petitioner, argued that a test before boarding the flight is required as those who came from UAE, where rapid tests were conducted before boarding, tested Covid-19 positive on reaching Kerala. The chief minister has written a letter to the Centre, stressing on the need for conducting tests prior to boarding and the only demand is for the Centre to consider such a request, the counsel submitted.The CM’s letter stated that the consequence of not conducting tests prior to boarding will result in people who are carriers of infection traveling along with others, leading to spread of infection when they reach homes, the counsel said, adding that several passengers are suspected to have consumed tablets to reduce body temperate, thus escaping detection.Centre’s counsel Suvin R Menon submitted that pre-embarkation checks are conducted by officials of the foreign airport in tune with the norms in vogue at the particular airport. He also submitted that SC stayed Orissa high court’s interim order that allowed only those migrant workers who tested negative for Covid-19 are allowed to re-enter the state. SC observed that the guidelines brought in by the Centre afford sufficient protection.The standard operating protocol (SOP) has been issued after consultation with experts. After a long wait, a decision was taken to bring expatriates. SC specified that central guidelines are to be followed, he said.Petitioner’s counsel submitted that Centre had sent a medical delegation to Italy to screen Indians prior to boarding the aircraft. There was a precedent and therefore, it can be done, he submitted.Menon opposed the submission by stating that it is not imperative that Centre should send a medical team to all countries where repatriation is happening because it sent a team to Italy.Solicitor general’s submission on conducting thermal screening on returning expatriates has been taken into consideration by the SC. Thermal screening is convenient and Indian crew can handle that, he argued, adding that only when it is insisted in a foreign country that additional tests are done. The court said it will consider the contentions and pass and order.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/hight-court-to-take-call-on-tests-for-expatriates/articleshow/75765649.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Chennai||Pets of Covid-19 patients turn homeless in Tamil Nadu||CHENNAI: His voice is hoarse and muffled over the phone but Manoj*, who is undergoing treatment for Covid-19 at Tamil Nadu Government Multi Super Specality Hospital, Omandurar Estate, is more worried about his pet Rocky’s future. “I tested positive for coronavirus on May 10 and was hospitalised. My wife, who is due to deliver next week, and my parents tested negative but have been asked to test again. I am afraid of what will happen to my dog if everyone tests positive and have to go to hospital,” says the 29-year-old, who lives in Triplicane. “My house owner has been asking them to throw out Rocky but he is 11 years old and he won’t survive on the streets,” he says. Like him, several families who have tested positive for Covid-19 don’t know what to do with the pets they have to leave behind. With social distancing the norm and widespread fear of contracting the virus, extended families and friends are reluctant to take on the animals. Private boarding is not an option for many as the facilities charge about Rs 500 a day. Animal welfare activists say they have been receiving calls from anxious pet parents. “Two weeks ago, an animal rescuer called saying her friend had contacted her regarding a family, where everyone had tested positive and didn’t know what to do with their two dogs. They finally sent them to a boarding,” says animal welfare activist Jennifer Jacob. Another activist, Dinesh Baba says there have been plenty of cases wherein people have abandoned their pets. “On Thursday, a woman from Valasaravakkam called for help. Her mother had tested positive for Covid-19 and been taken to hospital. The three other family members are home quarantined and awaiting test results and she wanted to know where she could board her pet dog if they also had to be hospitalised,” says Baba. Some owners are forced to abandon their pets. “All of a sudden, they are asked to go to hospital. Many don’t know whom to contact for help, so they just leave their pets behind,” says Baba. “Most people cannot afford private boarding, especially as they don’t know when, or if, they will be back.” Animal lovers and activists are now requesting the government to extend help. “It would be good if they can use the city corporation’s dog shelter in Kannamapettai and cow sheds in Madhavaram as a temporary holding facility for these animals during this crisis. Once the family is back home, they can take their pet back. Otherwise the animals will be abandoned and may die,” says Baba. “A few of us have been trying to reach out to the concerned authorities in vain. We hope they will help.” (*name changed)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/pets-of-covid-19-patients-turn-homeless/articleshow/75767635.cms||Priya Menon
May 16, 2020||Hyderabad||NIN to study community transmission of virus in Telangana||HYDERABAD: With migrants returning home testing positive for coronavirus, the talk of community transmission of the virus has gained credence of late. To study community tranmission and to determine the spread of the virus, Hyderabad-based National Institute of Nutrition (NIN) will soon launch a community-based serosurveillance in Telangana. Serosurvellance is monitoring of the presence or absence of specific substances in the blood serum of a population. As a majority of people affected by the coronavirus (SARS-CoV-2) do not exhibit any symptoms of Covid-19 pandemic, serosurveillance will help in finding active cases and contact tracing, NIN scientists said. It will also help in understanding the extent of spread of infection in the given population and strengthening public health mitigation measures. According to R Hemalatha, director of NIN, Jangaon, Kamareddy and Nalgonda districts will be covered under serosurveillance. The NIN director said population-based seroepidemiological studies will help in determining the burden of Covid-19 infection at the community level and monitoring the trends in transmission of the infection. “The study findings will be useful in designing and implementing appropriate containment measures,” she said. In each district, 10 villages will be selected randomly. From each village, 40 persons above 18 years will be covered. The main objective of the serosurveillance are to estimate and monitor the trend of sero-prevalence for SARS-CoV-2 infection among the general population. NIN and the government has already initiated a house-to-house survey in 30 villages across three districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/nin-to-study-community-transmission-of-virus-in-t/articleshow/75767640.cms||Syed Akbar
May 16, 2020||Goa||Rivona, Colomb locals stop ore transport||Quepem: Residents of Rivona and Colomb blocked transportation of ore from the Colomb mine on Friday morning till 2pm protesting the rash driving and heavy movement of trucks along the route. The decision to stop ore transportation was taken after an ore-laden truck proceeding to Curchorem through Rivona from Colomb mines late Thursday evening collided with a two-wheeler, injuring the rider. Chandan Chandrakant Naik, 38, was first admitted to Hospicio hospital in Margao but as his leg was fractured, he was later shifted to Goa Medical College and Hospital, Bambolim. Quepem police registered an accident case but no arrest was made till Friday evening. Police said they will initiate action after completing the inquiry process. “The road from Sulcorna till Tilamoll junction is narrow and and unsafe for two and four-wheelers due to the continuous movement of mining trucks. We want frequency of trucks to be reduced,” said Dilip Gaonkar a local. On Friday evening, deputy collector of Sanguem Ajay Gavde called a meeting of mine owners' representatives, locals, police and truck drivers at his office at to work out an amicable solution between all stakeholders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/rivona-colomb-locals-stop-ore-transport/articleshow/75768284.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Goa||At Goa’s busiest checkpost, two men stand guard against coronavirus||PANAJI: Even as concerns over Covid-19 have spiked in Goa with eight new cases over the past two days, over 50 goods carriers rolled in to the state at the Patradevi border on Friday without so much as a temperature check of the drivers. The border with Maharashtra is Goa’s busiest and sees over 300 goods vehicles pass through daily. From 11.30am to 1.30pm, the trucks passed through unimpeded, as the two overworked health officials on duty were busy with the 86 crew members of Karnika, who also entered Goa on Friday. Even over a month after lockdown was enforced, the arrangements and deployment at the Patradevi border remain poor, despite the massive traffic it sees daily compared to other check posts like Keri or Dodamarg. As lockdown 4.0 sees more inter-state traffic, there are fears that the inadequate staff deployment at this busy border may put a spoke in the state’s fight against Covid-19. The staff deployed at the Patradevi border are mostly police personnel and homeguards and have been alarmed after a goods carrier driver tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday. Collectorate staff have also been trained to record temperatures, but on Friday morning, none were seen doing so. While citizens carrying transit permits are placed under facility quarantine until their Covid-19 test results are known, a health official said that as per guidelines issued by the Union ministry of home affairs, goods carriers are to be granted seamless entry. However, in Goa, truck drivers are also subjected to having their temperatures taken, as a precautionary measure—except on Friday—when this minimal precaution was skipped due to the workload.  “Yes, I am worried for my safety, but I can’t do anything about it. Even if I get slight sore throat these days, I feel like I have got Covid-19,” said a policeman. “Given our duty, and with so many people around, I forget to take care of myself. It is just not possible,” he added, as he walked continuously between check-in points to oversee arrangements or to attend to inquiries from stranded people waiting for entry. At Dodamarg, a policeman admitted that they have far fewer people to check, and that people and vehicles move in an orderly manner. “We see roughly 10-15 stranded people entering Goa daily,” he said. “Things are worst at Patradevi,” the Dodamarg cop said. “Some goods vehicles are now getting diverted to Dodamarg due to the long waiting period there. We are doing well so far, but I don’t know how things will be once the monsoon starts.” Here, health officials have full protective gowns and face shields, in addition to masks. At the Keri check post in Sattari taluka, which shares a border with Karnataka, Friday saw around 250-300 trucks, in addition to private vehicles, cross the border. However, this border, seems to have its facilities right, though many don’t use them. For instance, a walk-in kiosk to drop samples for the Covid-19 test was almost empty between 3pm and 4pm. While most people seemed to be in a hurry to get across the border rather than give their sample, a cop at the site said some people do use the kiosk.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/at-goas-busiest-checkpost-2-men-stand-guard-against-virus/articleshow/75768276.cms||Bindiya Chari
May 16, 2020||Rajkot||72-year-old die of Covid-19 infection in Bhavnagar||RAJKOT: A 72-year-old man died of Covid-19 in Bhavnagar’s Sir T Hospital on Friday. According to the district administration, the deceased Iqbal Meman was admitted on May 13. He had co-morbid conditions like hypertension and diabetes. He was resident of Vadva Padar which has been declared containment area by Bhavangar Municipal Corporation (BMC). In all 102 people have tested positive for the virus in Bhavnagar out of which eight people have died and 65 have been discharged. In Gir Somnath district, a 24-year-old man of Vitthalpur village in Kodinar taluka tested positive on Friday. There are total 23 Covid-19 cases in Gir Somnath district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/72-year-old-die-of-covid-19-infection-in-bhavnagar/articleshow/75767627.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Kochi||Are 2 treatment plants in a district viable?||Kochi: Ernakulam would have its first common biomedical waste-treatment facility (CBWTF) with Kerala Enviro Infrastructure Ltd (KEIL), a special purpose vehicle under the KSIDC, readying to ink a tripartite agreement with Union ministry of environment, forests and climate change (MoeFCC) and state pollution control board (KSPCB). But questions about the viability of having two biomedical waste-treatment facilities in the district are being raised with Kerala chapter of Indian Medical Association planning a similar project in the district at Brahmapuram. MoEFCC would release the first instalment of the total Rs 90 lakh once the agreement is signed, said N K Pillai, chief executive officer for KIEL, located at Ambalamedu. The state government would also provide a similar amount as grant through the PCB for which budgetary allocation has been made last year. KIEL received environment clearance for the project in 2017. “The signing of MoU got delayed because of the lockdown. We have completed ground- clearing works at the site and have placed orders for two incinerators,” Pillai said. “The company from which we have ordered the equipment too was facing issues because of the lockdown,” he said. “They have informed that they are starting fabrication and would deliver soon.” KIEL, which has lined up everything including the finance for the project launch, feels that two plants in a district would not be viable. The CBWTF proposed to be set up by KIEL at Ambalamedu, at a cost of 11.5 crore will have a capacity to process 14 to 15 tonnes per day. “As per our estimate, Ernakulam district alone generates three to five TPD (tonnes per day) of biomedical waste. We fixed the capacity of the plant taking into account biomedical waste from nearby districts,” said Pillai when asked about the viability of having two treatment plants in one district. According to experts in the sector, it is better to have a plant in a southern district since IMA’s sole plant is at Palakkad. As per Biomedical Waste Rules, 2016, no occupier of an HCF (healthcare facilities) shall establish an on-site treatment and disposal facility if a CBMWF is available within 75km. KIEL has ordered latest models of rotary incinerator with dry scrubbing system with less emissions that is necessary for complying with CPCB regulations, Pillai said. Each of these incinerators would have a capacity of treating 250kg per day. The facility would also have an autoclave of similar capacity, a shredder and an effluent-treatment plant. KIEL already has Treatment Storage and Disposal Facility (TSDF) at Ambalamedu and would be utilising 2.5 acres, which is part of the site for setting up the CBWTF.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/are-2-treatment-plants-in-a-district-viable/articleshow/75765656.cms||Binu Karunakaran
May 16, 2020||India||States seek to ease migrants’ home trek||NEW DELHI: While a large number of migrant workers are walking on highways across states with their families for days, state governments are scrambling to provide transportation facilities and working to get them off the roads. Even as the long line of workers continue to dot roads, governments are arranging buses to carry them to state borders, bringing back their own people to their homes and also patrolling the highways to pick up those walking. The Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) has ferried over 1 lakh migrants within the state in just six days, carrying them to the state borders from where they can cross over to other states. In Odisha, as state-bound migrants are taken to quarantine centres in their home districts, those who transit to other states via Odisha are being ferried up to the inter-state border checkpoints by government authorities. Till now, West Bengal has sent back nearly 1,500 stranded persons in buses. The state government is trying to send all migrant workers reaching state border to quarantine and is also arranging buses that are taking workers directly to their home states. In Uttar Pradesh, district administration and police have been asked to stop all those travelling back home on foot, cycle or in trucks and put them in shelters, conduct tests and drop home.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/states-seek-to-ease-migrants-home-trek/articleshow/75768926.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Mumbai||45-year-old Kandivli guard walking home with family to Raigad dies||NAVI MUMBAI: A 45-year-old Kandivli security guard died while trekking with his family to Shrivardhan, his hometown in Raigad district. He was with his wife, aged mother, two minor children and two nephews. Motiram Jadhav died in Jite village near Pen late on Thursday, after developing a fever and feeling breathless. Jadhav had been walking in the summer heat from Panvel from 3 pm and halted around 8 pm on feeling unwell. Jadhav’s wife, Mamta, told police that as there was a containment zone declared in Kandivli, they decided to return to their hometown. They took an autorickshaw to Borivli, and from there another auto to Thane, where a vehicle gave them a ride to Panvel. “They could not get transport from there and started walking,” police said. Raigad deputy collector Pratima Pudawal said the final rites were conducted at Pen in the presence of Jadhav’s family, who were later sent home in an ambulance. “As Jadhav and his kin were asymptomatic, neither was his post-mortem done nor was he or his family tested for Covid-19,” Pudawal said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/45-yr-old-city-guard-walking-home-with-family-to-raigad-dies/articleshow/75768282.cms||George Mendonca
May 16, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: IMA gets land for biomedical treatment plant in Ernakulam||KOCHI: Indian Medical Association (IMA) has finally got the possession of the promised 3-acre for setting up a biomedical waste-treatment plant at Brahmapuram. The land is located towards the entrance side of the Brahmapuram waste-treatment plant. IMA, which runs IMAGE that handles all the hospital waste in the state, has been asking the government for a piece of land to set up two plants in the state, one at Kochi and other at Thiruvananthapuram. Though the state had allotted a three-acre land for IMAGE some years ago, Kochi corporation had been reluctant to hand over the land. In fact, that land was included the space allotted for the waste-to-energy plant being proposed at Brahmapuram. IMAGE (IMA goes eco friendly) officials said the land allotted to them was near the entrance-end of Brahmapuram. “Waste is dumped in that area and we will need at least Rs 1 crore to clear that area,” an official said. Following the state government orders, the district administration had invoked Disaster Management Act to transfer the land to IMAGE as the Kochi corporation was not keen on IMAGE facility coming up in their land. The proposed common biomedical waste-treatment facility (CBWTF) will process all the biomedical waste of healthcare establishments, including hospitals, nursing homes, research stations, medical institutions, clinics, laboratories and veterinary centres, in four districts of Ernakulam, Alappuzha, Idukki and Kottayam. The facility will have a capacity to process 20,000kg per day for a budgetary estimate of Rs 25 crore. “Our facility in Palakkad has already reached its maximum capacity while we are being flooded with requests for more affiliation. We have been able to treat the biomedical waste from the Covid-19 care centres only because many hospitals and clinics have been closed during the lockdown,” said Dr Sharafudheen K P, secretary- IMAGE. IMAGE hopes to cut down operational costs of transportation when the facility in Ernakulam starts functioning. They are also looking at addressing domestic medical waste also. A couple of years ago when the government order of handing over the land in Brahmapuram had been issued, IMAGE had held discussions with CREDAI on collection and treatment of household waste in the hope that they would be able to set up two more facilities — one each at Kochi and Thiruvananthapuram. IMA plans to clear the land and landscape it properly before setting up the facility. They are waiting for a lease document clearance from the government before finalizing on the remaining aspects. “We would like to get it on lease to invest that kind of money in clearing the place that is completely covered with dumped waste,” an IMAGE official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/ima-gets-land-for-biomedical-treatment-plant-in-ernakulam/articleshow/75765690.cms||Sudha Nambudiri
May 16, 2020||Goa||Fiasco at Margao station sees hundreds left behind after being called for train||MARGAO: A paradox of human emotions played out at Margao railway station late on Friday evening. As the Shramik special train to Reva and Jabalpur, Madhya Pradesh, chugged out of the station, police personnel and state officials lined up on the platform and clapped in unison, a dignified farewell for 1,464 passengers. But metres away, hundreds of migrant workers who couldn’t make it on the train faced the wrath of the police after they refused to disperse even after the train left. “I left Sakhali early in the morning by bus, even though the SMS message I received asked me to report at the station by 4pm,” one migrant worker, who was detained by police for “instigating” the crowd, said. “After standing in the Sun all day with no meals and water, what we got is a thrashing by the police, forget about being allowed to board the train.” Several others who didn’t make it on the train showed TOI text messages asking them to report at the station by 4pm on Friday. ‘Will send them home by next train to MP’After police action, some order was restored at the site, and the migrants left behind were taken to the shelter home in Navelim. The Covid task force’s incident commander for Margao, Ajit Panchwadkar, confirmed that 550 migrants who missed the train were accommodated in the camp. “They had come to the station on their own after learning about the train,” Panchwadkar told TOI. “But we couldn’t simply leave them to their own resources. The sudden surge in the number of inmates at the shelter home meant we had to make some last-minute arrangements to provide them with bedding and meals. Arrangements will be made by the district administration to send them home by the next train to MP.” However, Friday’s episode has brought to the fore serious defects in passenger management by the district administration. “It is heartbreaking to see so many homeless migrants, many of whom had women with kids in their arms with them, being driven away after the train left,” said a senior official overseeing security at the station. “A similar situation occured two days ago for the train to Una, Himachal Pradesh, when 400 were left behind. The administration should have learnt from that and avoided a repeat of the situation.” Explaining Friday’s debacle, a senior official said, “We had made sent messages to 850 people from MP who had registered with us, to board the train. As many from MP housed in various shelter homes had also registered to go back, we expected that the number would be sufficient to be accommodated on the train. However, besides the ones registered with us, many unregistered ones also rushed to the railway station. We allowed them to board the train on first come first served basis.” At the railway station, however, the district administration had made impeccable arrangements to facilitate a hassle-free journey. From registration of passengers to pre-boarding medical screening to distribution of tickets to provision of journey meals and water, the well-synchronised tasks ensured that the train left the station at the scheduled time. Also, Konkan Railway’s ticket checkers and RPF personnel guided passengers to their allotted seats, thereby ensuring that no ticketless passengers boarded the train. The 24-coach train will reach their destination stations in the wee hours of Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/fiasco-at-margao-station-sees-hundreds-left-behind-after-being-called-for-train/articleshow/75768283.cms||Govind Kamat Maad
May 16, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: IMA gets land for biomedical treatment plant in Ernakulam||KOCHI: Indian Medical Association (IMA) has finally got the possession of the promised 3-acre for setting up a biomedical waste-treatment plant at Brahmapuram. The land is located towards the entrance side of the Brahmapuram waste-treatment plant. IMA, which runs IMAGE that handles all the hospital waste in the state, has been asking the government for a piece of land to set up two plants in the state, one at Kochi and other at Thiruvananthapuram. Though the state had allotted a three-acre land for IMAGE some years ago, Kochi corporation had been reluctant to hand over the land. In fact, that land was included the space allotted for the waste-to-energy plant being proposed at Brahmapuram. IMAGE (IMA goes eco friendly) officials said the land allotted to them was near the entrance-end of Brahmapuram. “Waste is dumped in that area and we will need at least Rs 1 crore to clear that area,” an official said. Following the state government orders, the district administration had invoked Disaster Management Act to transfer the land to IMAGE as the Kochi corporation was not keen on IMAGE facility coming up in their land. The proposed common biomedical waste-treatment facility (CBWTF) will process all the biomedical waste of healthcare establishments, including hospitals, nursing homes, research stations, medical institutions, clinics, laboratories and veterinary centres, in four districts of Ernakulam, Alappuzha, Idukki and Kottayam. The facility will have a capacity to process 20,000kg per day for a budgetary estimate of Rs 25 crore. “Our facility in Palakkad has already reached its maximum capacity while we are being flooded with requests for more affiliation. We have been able to treat the biomedical waste from the Covid-19 care centres only because many hospitals and clinics have been closed during the lockdown,” said Dr Sharafudheen K P, secretary- IMAGE. IMAGE hopes to cut down operational costs of transportation when the facility in Ernakulam starts functioning. They are also looking at addressing domestic medical waste also. A couple of years ago when the government order of handing over the land in Brahmapuram had been issued, IMAGE had held discussions with CREDAI on collection and treatment of household waste in the hope that they would be able to set up two more facilities — one each at Kochi and Thiruvananthapuram. IMA plans to clear the land and landscape it properly before setting up the facility. They are waiting for a lease document clearance from the government before finalizing on the remaining aspects. “We would like to get it on lease to invest that kind of money in clearing the place that is completely covered with dumped waste,” an IMAGE official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/ima-gets-land-for-biomedical-treatment-plant-in-ernakulam/articleshow/75769100.cms||Sudha Nambudiri
May 16, 2020||Kochi||Bracing for monsoon: Peopleextend help to municipal staff||Kochi: With hardly two weeks left for monsoon, a section of residents in Tripunithura municipality has come forward to help local body to speed up pre-monsoon cleaning work. As the first step, the municipality would be clearing clogged drains and canals and carrying out desilting. Then the civil society groups will identify a waterbody from which water can be pumped into the drains and canals and flush it. Following this, a disinfectant solution will be pumped into these to prevent vector-borne diseases. The disinfectant solution consists of common salt and builder’s lime. A section of residents in Tripunithura is in the process of forming a Pedestrian Facilitation Council (PFC) for ensuring scientifically laid footpaths in the city. Noted orthopaedic surgeon Dr R Venugopal, who is actively involved in the formation of PFC, said, “According to WHO, vector borne diseases would pose a threat in the coming years. Hence, it is important to have well maintained drainage systems. The local bodies, residents’ associations and other civil society groups have come together to address this issue.” He also pointed out that footpaths in the city and neighbourhoods are mainly constructed above storm water drains. The drains have to be cleared and well-maintained to have better pedestrian facilities. Dumping of waste into drains have to be prevented to prevent pollution and vector-borne diseases. As a pilot project, water from the Thamarakulangara Sree Dharmasastha temple pond will be pumped into drains along the sides of Thamarakulangara Road and Ambily Nagar. Vengugopal said the programme does not involve huge funds and citizens are providing voluntary service. “The local body provides the material required for making disinfectant solution and approvals for executing the work. Individuals bring pumps required for the activity,” he said. Though Tripunithura municipality started the premonoon work much earlier, they had to stall all activities due to lockdown. However, since the last two weeks, they have resumed drain and canal clearing work. “These channels are ready for flushing activities. We have also decided to test the quality of water before and after carrying out disinfection process,” added Venugopal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/bracing-for-monsoon-peopleextend-help-to-municipal-staff/articleshow/75765712.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Jodhpur||Jodhpur jawan dies as vehicle falls into gorge in Arunachal Pradesh||JAIPUR: A jawan who hailed from Jodhpur died in Arunachal Pradesh after the vehicle in which he was traveling fell into a gorge. His mortal remains are likely to arrive in his native village by Saturday morning. The army man was traveling in a convoy when the vehicle met with an accident three days back. The deceased has been identified as 37-year-old Rajesh Bishnoi who was posted in Tawang in Arunachal Pradesh in an Army Supply Corps (ASC) battalion and hailed from Pheench village in Jodhpur. The jawan’s cousin Om Vijay said, “My brother was going from Tenga to Tawang in a convoy when the vehicle met with an accident as apparently there was bad weather and snowfall on the road. The brother’s vehicle which had another passenger fell into a deep gorge three days back.” According to sources, the injured soldier was pulled out of the gorge by a helicopter and taken to the hospital but died shortly after. Bishnoi had served in the army for 16 years and was eldest among three siblings. He is survived by his wife and daughters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/jodhpur-jawan-dies-as-vehicle-falls-into-gorge-in-arunachal/articleshow/75767639.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Phase III crucial with spurt in cases||Thiruvananthapuram: As the state has started witnessing the onset of the third phase of Covid-19, experts believe it is likely to be severe. Health minister K K Shailaja expects the third phase to be more crucial compared to the previous two. “This is the third phase and we believe it would be more severe. The influx of people from other states has increased and hence it has become a daunting task to screen and monitor every individual,’’ said Shailaja. As per the trend of Covid-19 cases reported the world over, a sporadic increase is likely in the state in June and July. “The present reporting of cases denotes this trend as people are coming from the highly infected regions of the country. Hence we will have to increase the number of testing,” said Dr A Althaf, associate professor of community medicine, medical college hospital, Manjeri. More and more cases are being reported from the border districts of Kasaragod, Idukki, Wayanad and Palakkad. In Wayanad and Palakkad the sources of infections are still not known in a few cases. In Idukki, a bakery owner was tested positive without any direct contact. “Such cases are going to increase if we are not ready to test samples at the primary level,” said Dr Arun N M, an internal medicine expert. “At present Kerala stands much below the national average in testing the samples. Kerala needs to increase its testing hugely as more and more probable cases come from outside,” he added. Experts point out that people coming from abroad will be much safer since they are put in institutional quarantine. But this is not the case with the people who are coming from other states. Dr Arun draws attention to ICMR directive on testing those with influenza-like illnesses. “It is not known whether such testings have started in Kerala. Even people coming with acute respiratory infections at the primary health centres need to be tested. We can reduce the cases only by these steps,” said Dr Arun. In the first two phases, Kerala witnessed 499 positive case after 2.25 lakh people reached the state from abroad. Of this 70% of the cases were from the people who came from abroad and 30% were their contacts.  However, the experts are of the view that there is no need for extending the lockdown as it has adversely affected the economy. “There is no point in locking down the people to prevent the spread. Only seal the areas or regions if there is a community spread. The health literacy is high such that the people themselves have become the health workers and they will prevent the spreading,” said Dr A Althaf.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/phase-iii-crucial-with-spurt-in-cases/articleshow/75765716.cms||Rajiv G
May 16, 2020||Mumbai||Restore Mumbai’s lifeline for all essential staff: Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray to Centre||MUMBAI: CM Uddhav Thackeray on Friday urged the Union ministry of home affairs to direct the railway administration to restart Mumbai’s suburban train network as early as possible to facilitate daily commute for staff on essential services duty. Thackeray had first raised the demand during PM Modi’s video conference meeting with all CMs on Monday. “As per the directives of the Union home ministry, we have now submitted a comprehensive proposal to the ministry. We have said suburban trains should be started as early as possible as the network is the lifeline for lakhs of essential services workers,” a senior bureaucrat told TOI. He added that the state has also asked the Centre to allow it to decide on colour-classification zones Only those with I-cards would be allowed to board trains, the state said, but made it clear that the railway ministry would have to ensure that “unauthorised persons” do not enter railway station premises across the city. Let us decide on zones and curbs, state govt tells CentreThe bureaucrat pointed out that hospital staff and police personnel were entirely dependent on the suburban railway network. “Hospital services have been adversely affected as most staffers have not been able to reach their workplaces. We have proposed that only persons on essential services and emergency duty be allowed to take trains,” he said. The bureaucrat admitted that operating suburban trains exclusively for essential staff would be a challenge. “On all stations, there are at least 7 to 10 entry points, so it would be difficult to stop entry of unauthorised persons at stations. We expect that once the Union home ministry takes a decision, the ministry of railways will issue a standard operating procedure and it will be the responsibility of the railways to implement it,” he said. He said when the Railway Board started Shramik Special trains for migrants heading back to their home states, the Board had taken responsibility for management. “We have a limited role, and railways will take necessary steps to ensure unauthorised persons do not enter station premises,” he said. The bureaucrat said the state has also asked the Centre to allow it to decide on zones. “Zones are decided by the Centre on the basis of numbers of cases. We feel this should be left to the state as it is the one tackling the situation on the ground,” he said.The state has told the Centre it should be allowed to decide on details of lockdown plans.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/restore-citys-lifeline-for-all-essential-staff-cm-to-centre/articleshow/75768287.cms||Prafulla Marpakwar
May 16, 2020||Mangaluru||Karnataka govt employees too stuck in Kerala||Mangaluru: Many government employees in Mangaluru, settled in Kasaragod district in Kerala, are unable to return to work though the lockdown has been partially relaxed. Though a one-time inter-state movement is allowed, they cannot enter Karnataka and start working here as the rules mandate them to remain in quarantine for 14 days after crossing the border. Moreover, they cannot travel back to their homes once they reach Karnataka. This is not only the plight of government employees, but of others as well. A large number of government employees working in central and state government offices and also in public sector companies stay in Manjeshwaram, Uppala, Kumbala and other parts of Kasaragod district in Kerala. Most of them have been travelling up and down from their places in Kasaragod district to Manglauru every day. Deputy commissioner Sindhu B Rupesh said though there is relaxation in the lockdown for those who are making inter-district travel, no decision has been taken with regard to inter-state movement. Further, she said the district administration has not conducted a survey to ascertain the actual number of government employees in various central and state government offices, who are stranded in Kasaragod district. In fact, they will have to stay in the station where they are working, she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/karnataka-govt-employees-too-stuck-in-kerala/articleshow/75765686.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Meerut||Lockdown takes the scent off Bijnor flowers||Bijnor: Floriculturists in the district are facing a tough time as there are no takers for their flowers due to the lockdown.In the absence of any demand, flower growers have been forced to throw away the blooms, while at same time, continue to spend money to look after the flowering plants.According to officials, a section of farmers took up flower cultivation, hoping to reap high profits. With government subsidy, they set up poly houses to grow flowers all year round. But when the flower season was at its peak, the country was put under lockdown following coronavirus outbreak. Since then, all flower mandis have closed. All social events have been cancelled. The recent unseasonal storms have added to their problems, damaging the poly houses.Talking with TOI, a flower grower of Agri village, 6km from district headquarters, Akhilesh Chaudhary said, "I have four poly houses in which I grow gerbera, carnation and daisies. Carnations bloom only once a year. But there are no buyers due to the lockdown. I have suffered a loss of Rs 30 lakh since March. I could not even recover input costs. Then, the recent storms, uprooted and ripped apart my poly house."Another floriculturist of Nangal area, Himansu Tyagi, said, "The lockdown has crushed my dreams. My poly houses are blooming with roses. I have to virtually burn a hole in my pocket to look after the plants." Tyagi urged government to take steps to help flower growers from complete ruin. Confirming that floriculturists had suffered heavy losses, Narpal Malik, district horticulture officer, said, "We will look into the demand of growers about insurance of their poly houses."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/lockdown-takes-the-scent-off-bijnor-flowers/articleshow/75766825.cms||Harveer Dabas
May 16, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Six more BSF jawans test Covid-19 positive||JODHPUR/JAISALMER: Six more BSF jawans tested positive for Covid 19 on Friday. All of them are quarantined at the wellness centre of the STC BSF here. At the same time, forty-two BSF jawans who tested positive on May 6 and May 7 were discharged on Friday. Jodhpur CMHO Dr Balvand Manda the jawans were discharged as per the Centre’s new guidelines. “We have to take samples twice in 10 days and if both the time the tests results are negative, the patient can be discharged from the hospital. These jawans will, however, remain in quarantine for 14 days in BSF station, Jodhpur.” According to the medical and health department, samples of 13 jawans were taken taken on Thursday and six of them tested positive. These were the repeat sampling of these jawans. In the first test, they had tested negative. It may be recalled that 57 jawans of a battalion had returned from Delhi where they had been deputed to assist Delhi Police during the Tablighi Jamaat issue. Some policemen from Delhi had also tested positive during duty outside Jama Masjid. Apprehending infection, the entire battalion had been taken to Jodhpur by buses for quarantine considering the facilities here. According to the DIG Mahendra Singh, all the jawans had been accommodated at the Subsidiary Training Centre (STC) of the BSF here. “Out of the 57, 30 had tested positive in the first report and 13 more found infected in the next report,” said Singh, adding that remaining 14 had tested negative then. While those 43 jawans had been undergoing treatment at AIIMS, these 14 jawans were subjected to second sampling after quarantine period.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/six-more-bsf-jawans-test-positive/articleshow/75767652.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Goa||In a first, Coast Guard digitally commissions three new vessels||PANAJI: The Indian Coast Guard’s maritime surveillance capability received a boost on Friday with three new vessels being commissioned at Goa Shipyard Limited (GSL), taking the force’s fleet size to 150. In a first for India’s maritime history, defence minister Rajnath Singh commissioned an offshore patrol vessel and two interceptor boats via video link. “I am confident that the ships being commissioned today will enhance the Indian Coast Guard’s ability to tackle maritime threats, terrorism, drug trafficking, smuggling, maritime law enforcement and humanitarian assistance to seafarers,” Singh said. He also said that the Coast Guard needs to be suitably equipped to handle these threats. “Anti-nationals can use the sea route to pose all types of threats at any time. That is why it is important for all stakeholders to develop a collaborative and cooperative approach,” the defence minister said. Minister of state for defence Shripad Naik, defence secretary Ajay Kumar, director general of Indian Coast Guard DG Krishnaswamy Natarajan and chairman and managing director of GSL B B Nagpal were present for the digital commissioning where social distancing was maintained. Natrajan said the three ships will provide “added strength to our surveillance capabilities” especially during monsoons. The 105m offshore patrol vessel is designed to carry a twin-engine helicopter, four high-speed boats and one inflatable boat. Christened Sachet, which means alert, ICGS Sachet is commanded by deputy inspector general Rajesh Mittal and manned by 11 officers and 110 men. The interceptor boats C-450 and C-451 are indigenously designed and built by L&T Shipyard, Hazira. The 30m boats are capable of 45 Knots and are designed for interception, close coast patrol and low intensity maritime operations. The vessels all boast of around 70% indigenous content, said the coast guard. The force has another 40 ships under construction and 16 advanced light helicopters under production at HAL. Nagpal said four offshore patrol vessels for the coast guard remain under construction and efforts are being made to ensure that the ships are ready on time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/in-a-first-coast-guard-digitally-commissions-three-new-vessels/articleshow/75768296.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Goa||HC clears decks, SSC exams to be held in Goa from May 21||PANAJI: The high court of Bombay at Goa has held that conducting SSC examinations after May 18, 2020, is not in violation of the order issued by the National Disaster Management Authority, and declined to interfere with the exams scheduled by the Goa Board from May 21. “At least prima facie, it is not possible to accept the contentions raised by the petitioners that one-time holding of examination is an activity which is squarely covered under clause 4(vi) of the order dated May 1, 2020. The holding of such examination is not the same thing as conduct of regular activities in schools, colleges etc,” the high court stated. While clause 4 of the order provides that certain activities will continue to remain prohibited for a period of two weeks from May 4, the court stated that the period ends on May 18. “The examinations are scheduled to be held on May 21. Therefore, strictly speaking, the holding of examinations beyond May 18 cannot be said to be in contravention of clause 4 of the order,” said Justice Mahesh Sonak. The court found that the apprehension of the petitioners was not supported by concrete material, and stated that it would not be possible to interfere with the conduct of the examination. “…The state government and the Goa board will have to take all measures necessary to ensure the safety of students as well as personnel involved in holding of such examinations,” the court said, adding that “…directions are issued to both the state government as well as Goa board to ensure that all such measures are implemented and lives and well-being of students and personnel to conduct the examinations are not put into any serious jeopardy.” Apart from this, the state government and Goa board will also have to continuously monitor and assess the situation at examination centres, and, if necessary, issue suitable orders so that there is no compromise on the issue of safety and well-being of the students and personnel. The court said that although the SSC examination is a milestone, as urged by the advocate general, the safety and well-being of students will be priority and will undoubtedly rank over and above such milestone. The court said that although the petitioners expressed apprehensions of risk, they failed to make out a case that the state government and the Goa board was not conscious of such risk or that the decision to hold the exam was made without assessment of the risk. While declining interim relief in the case, the court ordered that the matter be placed for consideration in regular course.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/hc-clears-decks-ssc-exams-to-be-held-in-state-from-may-21/articleshow/75768288.cms||Lisa Monteiro
May 16, 2020||Nagpur||Two more Covid deaths in Akola; CRPF to be deployed in Amravati||NAGPUR: The Covid-19 situation in Akola turned more serious on Friday when two more deaths were reported. With highest 17 deaths in Vidarbha region, Akola now has 218 cases of Covid-19, only behind Nagpur, which recorded 18 cases on Friday and a total of 336. Another red zone district — Amravati — recorded four new cases. Looking at the rural and local spread of Covid-19 in Amravati, two companies of Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) with 120 jawans reached the city on Friday. They will be deployed in urban and rural containment zones in the district. Vidarbha region is marching towards 800-mark now. With 36 deaths and one suicide, there have been 780 cases of Covid-19 in Vidarbha. Only respite is the increasing recovery rate. On Friday, Nagpur (53) and Akola (28) together discharged 81 patients. With this, total number of recovered patients reached 430, which means the recovery rate of Vidarbha is 55.12%. Akola continued to record double digit increase in the number of Covid-19 patients on the sixth consecutive day on Friday. Total 11 cases — 5 women and 6 men were reported. A 37-year-old woman from Akola’s Firdauz Colony, who died on May 14, also tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday. A 65-year-old woman, a patient of Covid-19, died in the isolation ward. She was under treatment from May 11. Following new discharge policy, Akola released 28 patients on Friday. Out of these, four patients went home while the other 24 were shifted to Covid Care Center as they did not have required home isolation facilities in their densely populated localities. Amravati is fast nearing the century mark as four new Covid-19 positive cases today took the district’s count to 94. A 42-year-old woman health worker at the local Panjabrao Deshmukh Medical College Hospital and a 55-year-old man, under treatment for Severe Acute Respiratory Illness (SARI) at Covid hospital here, are among the four who tested positive on Friday. The rest two include a 37-year-old female contact of a Warud woman, who tested positive in Nagpur earlier this month, and a 60-year-old woman from Ravidas Bhavan area in Sweepers Colony of Masanganj ward. The health worker from PDMCH is a resident of Uttam Nagar and has been in isolation since a patient she treated at the isolation ward of the hospital a week ago tested positive a few days later. She is one of the six hospital staffers quarantined at Prabodhini here. She has now been moved to Covid ward. She is the third health worker to test positive, after two males from Covid hospital (r/o Ambika Nagar and Belpura) tested positive a day before. Uttam Nagar is now a new locality giving a positive patient. Her contacts are being traced and isolated. Naval said that a 350-bed permanent Covid hospital with all modern facilities is being set up in the premises of Ayurved Mahavidyalaya at Mozari and 100-bed Covid hospitals will come up in the premises of Trauma Care Centre at Achalpur and Rural Hospital at Chandur Bazar. While Mozari falls in the constituency of guardian minister Yashomati Thakur, Achalpur and Chandur Bazar are in the constituency of state minister Bachchu Kadu. Meanwhile, collector Shailesh Naval has acquired seven government, semi-government and private institution buildings and hostels in the city for quarantining contacts of Covid positive cases. Yavatmal recorded no new positive patient for the fifth consecutive day on Friday. After discharging 53 out of the 98 cases so far, there are 45 active cases in Yavatmal GMCH now. Barring the one positive patient, who is critical since his admission over 50 days ago and tested positive five times, all others are recovering speedily. No positive Covid-19 case was reported from Chandrapur either. Condition of two patients detected positive so far is stable. None of the relatives or close contacts of two patients have been found positive so far. Same is the case of Wardha and Washim too. Both districts have one active patient each and all their close contacts have tested negative so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/two-more-covid-deaths-in-akola-crpf-to-be-deployed-in-amravati/articleshow/75767657.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
May 16, 2020||Coimbatore||75 guest workers try to sneak out, sent back||Coimbatore: Seventy- five guest workers attempting to sneak out from Tirupur in a container truck were stopped by police. The driver and his assistant were arrested. The 75 workers from Bihar were employed in various textile units in Tirupur. Police contacted the companies they were working for and asked the management to take care of its workers. On May 13 around 8pm, Uthukuli police sub-inspector P Gomathi and two constables were scanning vehicles on Coimbatore–Salem national highway at Pallagoundenpalayam checkpost. They noticed a container truck and asked it to pull over. When they checked the container, they found 75 guest workers inside. The truck used to ply between Uttar Pradesh to Tirupur for transporting goods. The workers told police that they were travelling to their home state Bihar from Tirupur and were asked to pay the travelling expenses to the truck driver after reaching Bihar.With the help of revenue department officials, police sent the guest workers to their workplaces at Kangeyam, Vellakovil, Muthur and Padiyur in Tirupur district after advising their management to take care of them.Uthukuli police registered a case against truck driver M Mohammed Waris, 23 and cleaner R Mohammed Ali, 22, from Moradabad in Uttar Pradesh. They were booked under sections 188 (disobedience to order promulgated by public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of the Indian Penal Code and read with 190 (3) of Motor Vehicle Act on Thursday. The arrested persons were produced before a judicial magistrate and later remanded to custody. The truck has been seized.On Friday, Uthukuli police stopped another container truck during a vehicle check at Pallagoundenpalayam checkpost and found 14 guest workers travelling to Bihar and Uttar Pradesh. The cops rescued the guest workers and sent them to their workplaces.Police arrested the truck driver and cleaner and seized the vehicle. Further investigations are on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/75-guest-workers-try-to-sneak-out-sent-back/articleshow/75766834.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||We need to welcome NRKs but check virus spread: Min||Thiruvananthapuram: Health minister K K Shailaja has said that the third phase of Covid-19 infection, owing to the influx of returnees from other states and various countries ‘where the number of positive cases is fast escalating’, will pose a tougher challenge to the state. “It is a matter of serious concern that the number of Covid-19 cases is fast growing in many parts of the world and in other parts of the country, and unlike during the previous phases, more Keralites are returning to the state from such hotspots,” Shailaja said in an article released to the media on Friday. Kerala, she said, cannot deny entry to people coming from abroad or other Indian states seeking safety in their home state. “We need to welcome them, but cannot allow an uncontrolled entry into cities and villages here, which will lead to a big crisis. There’s no other option before the government but to enforce certain criteria and restrictions as thousands of people are returning by air, sea and land,” the minister said. Pointing out the huge challenge before the government in ensuring a foolproof screening and quarantine system to prevent Covid-19 spread in the coming days, the minister said the situation called for limiting the daily inflow and better coordination between police, revenue and health departments and volunteers. “A failure in the system will enhance the pandemic and lead to mass casualties as we have witnessed elsewhere. We should also guard against attempts to blow up minor issues which could bring down the morale of officials and volunteers who are now engaged in a selfless battle against Covid-19,” she added. Appealing to all to understand the difficult situation the state will have to face if thousands of people cross the border without passes, the minister stressed on effective interventions by the government, committed approach of the officials and responsible behaviour from citizens to handle the third phase of the infection. The minister also said that prime focus at this phase will be on ‘reverse quarantine’ of the vulnerable section of people, including aged, pregnant women, small children, people with physical disabilities and those suffering from allied diseases. The government has chalked out a big plan to keep them away from those coming from hotspots. Officials from health, police and social justice departments, anganwadi workers and Asha workers are constantly in touch with the households of these vulnerable people to implement this ‘reverse quarantine’, Shailaja said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/we-need-to-welcome-nrks-but-check-virus-spread-min/articleshow/75765740.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Kochi||Kochi police launch app to track home-quarantined||KOCHI: In a bid to ensure the adherence to restrictions by those under home quarantine, Kochi city police on Friday launched ‘Covid-19 Safety’, an in-house mobile application to track such people. Kochi city police commissioner IG Vijay Sakhare said that the application that played a vital role in controlling the situation at Kasaragod would be a handy tool for police to keep Kochi city safe as well. “We are using the application to understand the geo-location of the person under quarantine,” said IG Sakhare. “If he or she moves 50 metres away from the house, cops would receive an alert. Violating home quarantine is an offence and can invite penal action. Moreover, the returnees themselves should religiously follow it on their own. A mistake could put the lives of our elderly and friends at risk,” said Sakhare, who was the special officer at Kasaragod. He added that the application is safe and has been verified by cybersecurity experts. “The application is not available for public use. It is shared with those under home quarantine as an apk file and they are installing it voluntarily. Also, there is an SOS button in the app for those in home quarantine to request immediate assistance,” said Sakhare. On Friday evening, the commissioner took it upon himself to go on routine police patrolling to houses where people are staying in home quarantine. He talked to a family at Ayyappankav who had come from Karnataka. Standing outside, the IG explained to the family that was in the balcony, the importance of isolation. He showed them the functioning of a Swaraksha application by getting a doctor in for a video conference. “There are less than 1,500 persons here who came from outside while the city has a population of over 10 lakh. If we can ensure that these 1,500 stay at home, then we can keep the rest of the city safe,” said Sakhare. Police personnel have been divided into units of two and assigned the houses of those in quarantine. The police visit these houses at least twice daily. “We have bike patrolling teams to conduct the visits. Drones are airborne in all police station limits to check on these houses as well. The app would be an added safety measure from now on,” said Sakhare.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/kochi-police-launch-app-to-track-home-quarantined/articleshow/75765735.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Bengaluru||Ex-don, realtor Muthappa loses cancer battle at 68||Bengaluru: Reformed underworld don and real estate businessman Muthappa Rai died in a hospital here on Friday after a four-year battle with cancer. Rai was 68 and is survived by his wife and two sons. His supporters took his body in a procession to his farmhouse in Bidadi, Ramanagara, where he was laid to rest in the evening. Seven people were arrested for opening fire in the air in a gun salute of sorts during Rai's last rites. Born in Puttur, Rai worked as a clerk in a bank in Mangaluru before crossing paths with the underworld in the 80s and 90s. Transferred to Bengaluru, he quit his job and his name began to be linked to several extortion, murder and conspiracy cases. With the authorities on his trail, he fled to Dubai and came to be associated with Dawood Ibrahim. Following an Interpol alert, Rai was extradited in 2002; he would go on to claim he was a patriot who had helped intelligence agency Research and Analysis Wing in Afghanistan. A few months in jail, a murder attempt on him in court and finally, acquittal on all criminal charges, changed the course of his life. Rai founded Jaya Karnataka, a Kannada organisation, became a patron of kabbaddi and volleyball tournaments and was president of Karnataka Athletics Association. A racing afficionado, he was hailed in Puttur as a son of the soil who patronised Kambala and Yakshagana and brought the glamour of Bollywood and Sandalwood to the grand events in the coast. Link with Ravi Pujari Rai was recently questioned in his farmhouse in connection with a double-murder case in which another underworld don Ravi Pujari, who was extradited to India earlier this year, is an accused.  In January, addressing speculation over his health, Rai had said he was battling brain cancer and was surviving on “sheer will power”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/ex-don-realtor-muthappa-loses-cancer-battle-at-68/articleshow/75766838.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Jodhpur||Rajasthan: Six more BSF jawans test Covid-19 positive||JODHPUR/JAISALMER: Six more BSF jawans tested positive for Covid 19 on Friday. All of them are quarantined at the wellness centre of the STC BSF here. At the same time, forty-two BSF jawans who tested positive on May 6 and May 7 were discharged on Friday. Jodhpur CMHO Dr Balvand Manda the jawans were discharged as per the Centre’s new guidelines. “We have to take samples twice in 10 days and if both the time the tests results are negative, the patient can be discharged from the hospital. These jawans will, however, remain in quarantine for 14 days in BSF station, Jodhpur.” According to the medical and health department, samples of 13 jawans were taken taken on Thursday and six of them tested positive. These were the repeat sampling of these jawans. In the first test, they had tested negative. It may be recalled that 57 jawans of a battalion had returned from Delhi where they had been deputed to assist Delhi Police during the Tablighi Jamaat issue. Some policemen from Delhi had also tested positive during duty outside Jama Masjid. Apprehending infection, the entire battalion had been taken to Jodhpur by buses for quarantine considering the facilities here. According to the DIG Mahendra Singh, all the jawans had been accommodated at the Subsidiary Training Centre (STC) of the BSF here. “Out of the 57, 30 had tested positive in the first report and 13 more found infected in the next report,” said Singh, adding that remaining 14 had tested negative then. While those 43 jawans had been undergoing treatment at AIIMS, these 14 jawans were subjected to second sampling after quarantine period.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/six-more-bsf-jawans-test-positive/articleshow/75769388.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Hubballi||Pre-monsoon kharif crop sowing begins in Karnataka||Hubballi: Covid-19 crisis notwithstanding, pre-monsoon sowing of kharif crops has begun in several districts across the state. According to B Y Srinivas, director, department of agriculture, this year the total target area for sowing for this season is 73 lakh hectares (11.82 lakh hectares for maize alone) which remains by and large same compared to the previous year. Farmers are likely to begin the activity by the end of this month. Farmers in Chamarajanagar, Chikkamagaluru, Mysuru and Mandya have begun sowing pre-monsoon crops like green gram, groundnut, black gram and jowar. Maize is the main kharif crop in the state besides paddy, pulses and oil seeds. The targeted area of the red gram is 11.66 lakh hectares, followed by paddy which is set to be sown in 10.05 lakh hectares. Of the oil seeds, ground nut is a major crop which will be sown in targeted area of 4.90 lakh hectares. Among the commercial crops, cotton will be sown in 6.25 lakh hectares of land, said official sources in the department. This year sowing activity will be different as the labourers will have to follow the standard operating procedures due to coronavirus pandemic. The Indian Meteorological Department has prsedicted normal rains this season and good pre-monsoon showers have brought a wide smile on the faces of farmers as the rains began on a promising note in many north interior districts. Seeds and fertilisers are being made available to the farmers through Raitha Samparka Kendras throughout the state, added Srinivas. Agriculture minister B C Patil said the agriculture department is prepared to supply seeds to the farmers. For this kharif season, seeds are being sold at a discounted rate. Fake fertiliser unit After busting several rackets selling low-quality seeds at various districts in the state, the agriculture department officials jointly with police department raided a fake fertiliser unit in Bagalkot on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/pre-monsoon-kharif-crop-sowing-begins-in-karnataka/articleshow/75765743.cms||Kishan Singh Bhorde
May 16, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Faulty screening, community spread behind more transmission in non-Covid hospitals||KOLKATA: Covid infections have been more rapid and virulent across hospitals that were not designated for pandemic patients. Three of them had to shut down temporarily while another came close over the last one month. More than half a dozen doctors and close to 50 nurses tested positive at these facilities, forcing nearly 200 health workers to go into quarantine.  Faulty screening and a failure to gauge the extent to which the virus had spread in the community led to the situation, believe hospitals and experts. Charnock Hospital, the first to shut down on April 14, had allowed a positive patient to be treated at its ICU that resulted in four doctors and a dozen nurses testing positive. Multiple healthworkers, too, got infected forcing a shutdown. “We had failed to gauge that a community spread had already happened. So, even though we were screening patients, we were not as cautious about the asymptomatic ones who ended up infecting our health workers,” said managing director Prashant Sharma. He added that while screening is now stricter, a Covid unit has been set up in a separate building. “All inpatients are being treated like Covid positives and we are testing as many as possible,” Sharma said. Charnock reopened on Wednesday. Saroj Gupta Cancer Centre & Research Institute (SGCCRI) — the state’s first modern cancer hospital — had to shut down most sections after a lung cancer patient tested positive on April 17 and was moved to MR Bangur, a designated Covid hospital. More than 50 health workers went into quarantine and many more stopped attending work forcing a near closure. The authorities had to seek help from the police after neighbours started demanding a closure. It took SGCCRI more than a week to revive normal services. Last Monday, Peerless Hospital was forced to shut down after 16 healthworkers tested positive and around 70 had to be quarantined. Here, too, asymptomatic patients led to a transmission, admitted authorities. “While none in our Covid unit was affected, the spread happened in the non-Covid sections. Initially, we didn’t have the resources to test everyone and went by symptoms that was wrong. We admitted a patient who had tested negative at MR Bangur but turned positive here,” said Peerless superintendent Sudipto Mitra. Set to reopen next week, Peerless will now have a 38-bed Covid unit that has been segregated from the rest of the hospital. Covid test has been made compulsory for all inpatients. “Those who can’t be tested for some reason will be treated as Covid positives and each healthworker is being trained to prevent transmission,” added Mitra. Many were plain lucky to avoid transmission during the first phase of the pandemic, felt pulmonologist Raja Dhar. “When the first wave hit us, few were prepared and we didn’t know what to expect. By the time hospitals started receiving positive patients, community spread had begun and asymptomatic patients had multiplied who could not be intercepted,” said Dhar. He added that hospitals were now wiser and screening has been stepped up. “It’s a learning process for the health community and mistakes will now be fewer. This will help to curb transmission,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/faulty-screening-community-spread-behind-more-transmission-in-non-covid-hospitals/articleshow/75766841.cms||Prithvijit Mitra
May 16, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra adds over 1,000 cases 10th day in a row; Mumbai’s second worst day||MUMBAI: For the tenth day in a row, Maharashtra recorded over 1,000 new Covid-19 cases in a 24-hour period. Friday’s addition of 1,576 cases was its third highest single-day count so far and took the total number of cases in the state past the 29,000 mark, to 29,100. A day after the state’s death toll crossed 1,000, it registered 49 deaths on Friday, the third highest recorded in a day. The total toll is now 1,068. With 933 new cases on Friday, Mumbai recorded its second highest single-day addition, taking its case tally to 17,671. Of the 49 deaths recorded in the state, Mumbai recorded 34, its second highest death toll for a day. The city had reported its highest single-day toll of 40 deaths on May 13. The total Covid-19 toll for the city is now 655. Mumbai case count unlikely to touch 30K or 40K: OfficialA public health department official said though the Covid-19 outbreak is likely to peak in the next couple of weeks in Mumbai, the tally is unlikely to cross 30,000-40,000. “We have enough beds. Almost 75% of beds being added have oxygen support and should help check the spread,” the official said. State health minister Rajesh Tope said they were hoping for the best but preparing for the worst. “We are adding large number of beds in Mumbai and across the state. It is the impact of the lockdown that cases in Mumbai didn’t increase at the rate some had projected,” Tope said. Tope said the state is planning to provide relaxations in orange and green zones from Monday, but regarding red zones, a decision would be taken after deliberations between the state and the Centre. Of 34 deaths in Mumbai, BMC officials said 10 deaths were those that had occurred between May 10 and 12 but were added to the toll on Friday after the victims’ positive reports came in. 16 of those who died in the city had co-morbidities or chronic diseases such as diabetes or hypertension. 21 of the dead were men, 13 were women.Three of those dead were under 40 years of age, 18 were in the 40-60 agegroup and 13 were above 60 years old. AMC Suresh Kakani said though BMC is concerned about increase in deaths in May, it is a reflection of spread of the disease. “We are testing more and identifying more patients. At the same time, death rate has remained the same for almost a month at 4%,” he said. An analysis BMC did in Dharavi showed Covid-19 had spread to 18 pockets in the area since the first case was diagnosed there on April 1. On Friday, 84 patients were reported from Dharavi, taking the tally there to 1,145, including 53 deaths. Thane city recorded six deaths—not in the state daily update but locally, its highest single-day toll, taking the total to 48. For the second consecutive day, it recorded the most cases (83). Pune recorded 6 deaths, and 2 deaths each were recorded in Akola, Kalyan-Dombivli and Dhule. One death each was recorded in Panvel, Jalgaon and Aurangabad city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/state-adds-over-1000-cases-10th-day-in-a-row-citys-2nd-worst-day/articleshow/75768290.cms||Bhavika Jain
May 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Auto and AC showrooms set to reopen in Telangana from Saturday||HYDERABAD: After 55 days of lockdown, showrooms selling ACs, automobiles and its spare parts shops, will throw opens its doors from Saturday in Telangana as the government prepares to allow more relaxations ahead of lockdown 4.0. While the government is examining various other relaxations, including bus transport services in green and orange zones, it has decided to wait for a few days as the Centre’s lockdown is ending on May 17 and fresh guidelines are expected from the Centre. Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao held a review meeting with officials to review lockdown implementation, Covid-19 cases, especially in Greater Hyderabad, and various other measures being taken to prevent the spread of the virus. The state announced a lockdown on March 22 evening. “Since no one knows when the deadly disease will be wiped out, we have adopted a strategy to live with it,” the CM said. He said present lockdown rules would be continued till further orders. The CM said in Hyderabad, except in four zones — L B Nagar, Malakpet, Charminar and Karwan — where 1,442 families are under quarantine, the city does not have active positive cases. ‘Recovery & discharges more in T’Migrant workers tested positive in three districts — Yadadri-Bhongiri, Jangaon and Mancherial and are being treated in Hyderabad. Since residents of these areas did not get Covid-19, government considers them free from virus, KCR said. KCR said though cases are on the rise, recovery and discharges are more and deaths were only 2.38%, which is less than India’s average 3.5%. As Centre is planning to operate domestic flights, the CM said all those coming in should be screened and shifted to hospitals if tested positive. “If passengers from other states land in Hyderabad, they should be sent to respective states by special buses,” he said. On seasonal diseases, he directed health and municipal administration department to keep villages and towns clean. “Though state is facing financial problems, government is releasing funds to gram panchayats and municipalities,” the CM said. He asked officials to start 45 more Basti clinics.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/auto-ac-showrooms-set-to-reopen-in-t-today/articleshow/75768305.cms||Koride Mahesh
May 16, 2020||Ahmedabad||Prisoner refused bail, jail transfer||Ahmedabad: Murder accused Chetan Raval alias Jadiyo sought bail citing the Covid-19 threat inside jail and failed. But when he wanted bail citing a threat to his life and sought jail transfer, the same virus threat outside proved a hindrance for him. Lodged in Sabarmati jail for a murder in 2015 in Vatva, Raval first requested the city sessions court for temporary bail. He told the court that if he remained in jail, he would be at risk of getting infected by Covid-19. But Raval has been charged of a grave offence and prisoners like him do not fall in the category that is recommended for benefit of bail during this pandemic. Raval is facing charges punishable with sentence of more than seven years. Raval also filed another application requesting the court to direct the prison authorities to shift him from Sabarmati central jail to a prison either in Junagadh or Rajkot. He told the court that he was apprehending an attack by some inmates who belong to Bapunagar gang and Chharanagar gang. He urged the court sort this issue by sending him to another jail. The state government opposed Raval’s plea for jail transfer and cited the executive order by the government that seeks to forbid any movement or gathering. Additional sessions judge S D Dave upheld the government’s argument and said that the prison is a safer place for Raval. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/prisoner-refused-bail-jail-transfer/articleshow/75767681.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Nagpur||Facing lockdown heat, coolies want to be absorbed in railways||NAGPUR: With all eyes on migrants, coolies working at the Nagpur station seem to be among the forgotten lot, facing troubled times amid Covid-19 lockdown. Some are even demanding that the railways take them on as employees. “Hauling luggage of passengers is an easier job than bearing the load of life like this,” says Rahul Khadse (35), who stays in Ambedkar Nagar on Hingna Road with his family. Khadse’s condition is so bad that for six consecutive days his family of six lived only on dal and rice. “Though train operations have started partially from May 12, my family members are preventing me from going to the station. They fear I may come in contact with some Covid-19 infected passenger,” says Khadse. There are 158 coolies at Nagpur, including three at Ajni station. Ahead of the lockdown, over 100 coolies returned to their native places in Rajasthan. Two families living in rented houses in Mominpura are still stuck as the area has been sealed due to several Covid-19 positive cases. Those who returned to Rajasthan are still better placed, as they have small farmlands, but those in city are vulnerable. The remaining coolies, who are entirely dependent on the present job, are facing tough times. “During the 55-day lockdown, we supplied them food kits at least four times through employees’ union and other sources,” says Central Railway spokesperson & ACM SG Rao. “For us, lunch and dinner is one and the same now. We are dependent on NGOs to serve food in our areas, and if we don’t get any, I turn to GMCH, where food is supplied to patients’ relatives by some NGOs. We get some food grains from PDS shop but the stock is insufficient to fulfil the requirement of my six family members. I have not paid rent for last three months,” said Siddharth Ramteke (40), a luggage porter from Chandan Nagar. “The starting of special trains has not lifted our fortunes as passengers feel that if they come in contact with us they might get infected by Covid-19. Very few call for us to lift their luggage,” said. Suraj Meshram, president of Jan Shakti Coolies Union, says from May 13, due to few trains only 10 coolies are being called to the station in two shifts. “Of these, only two of them are getting a chance due to Covid-19 scare,” he says. Coolies are quasi railway employees and have valid licence to work at the station. In 2007, then railway minister Lalu Prasad Yadav had decided to induct coolies as gangmen. But failing to cope with the tough job of gangman, many returned to their old profession. “The lockdown woes have made them repent their decision to leave the job of gangmen, where they would have at least got fixed salaries. The coolies should be absorbed under Group D category,” said Meshram. “As it is, due to modern luggage with strolleys and escalators on every platform, we coolies have been sidelined and there is no future,” says Runali Raut, a woman porter, who took up the profession mantle after her husband passed away.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/facing-lockdown-heat-coolies-want-to-be-absorbed-in-rlys/articleshow/75767707.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
May 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad scientists look to horses for Covid-19 cure||HYDERABAD: After finding vaccine candidate for novel coronavirus, the city has now joined the race for treatment of Covid-19 patients through antibodies obtained from horses. While a researcher from the University of Hyderabad (UoH) had earlier found a vaccine candidate that could help in the development of vaccine to prevent Covid-19, the UoH has now teamed up with the city-based Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB) and Vins Bioproducts Limited to develop antibody fragment-based immunotherapy for immediate treatment for Covid-19 pandemic. Scientists and doctors, the world over including India, have turned their attention to immunotherapy to deal with the rogue virus that has been playing havoc with human life and economy. Many are trying plasma-based passive immunity against Covid-19 to treat the pandemic. Plasma is obtained from people, who are cured of Covid-19. But, moving a step further, the city scientists are exploring alternative strategies of using horses or other higher animals to create antibodies to tame the novel coronavirus or SARS-CoV2. “The use of antibodies has been an effective method in protecting against several human and animal diseases. Although plasma-based passive immunity against Covid-19 has been reported to be working well in clinical trials, it has several theoretical and practical concerns including limitation in the availability of human plasma samples. As the pandemic has become a major global crisis, we are exploring alternative strategies of using horses or other higher animals to generate antibodies,” the researchers said. The UoH team is headed by Dr Nooruddin Khan, associate professor, department of animal biology, School of Life Sciences. Dr Khan’s laboratory specializes in the area of immunology, infection biology, and vaccinology. The CCMB team is led by principal scientist Dr Krishnan Harinivas, who is a specialist in molecular virology. According to Dr Nooruddin, the antibodies raised in horses using inactivated coronavirus is fractionated and purified to produce antibody fragments for neutralizing coronavirus in patients aiding in recovery. The collaborators have complementary expertise required for developing the therapy for treating the Covid-19 pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/city-scientists-look-to-horses-for-covid-19-cure/articleshow/75767717.cms||Syed Akbar
May 16, 2020||Chennai||SC stays HC order, 3,600 Tasmac shops to open in Tamil Nadu from Saturday||NEW DELHI/CHENNAI: The Supreme Court on Friday allowed the state government to resume sale of liquor through Tasmac outlets from Saturday by staying a May 8 order of the Madras high court that had closed these outlets due to violation of conditions imposed by it. A special bench of Justice L Nageswara Rao, Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul and Justice BR Gavai said: “There shall be ad interim stay of orders dated May 6 and 8 passed by the Madras high court, including order dated May 11 passed by the Madurai bench.” Operation of the ‘onerous conditions’ laid down by the HC on May 6 too was thus expressly stayed. Within hours of the order, Tasmac announced reopening of about 3,600 outlets across the state, except in Chennai and Tiruvallur districts. Shops in Chengalpet and Kancheepuram districts falling under the jurisdiction of Greater Chennai Police, too, will keep their shutters down. In a bid to maintain social distancing, authorities will issue liquor coupons in seven different colours valid for each day of the week. Also, sale would be restricted to 500 customers per day per shop. Tasmac sources said the tokens would be issued once in two days and police will be involved in issuing them. Earlier, before the Supreme Court, Tasmac did not make any mention of billing or online sale plans. In fact, senior counsel for Tasmac Mukul Rohatgi told the apex court that the Madras HC order on online sale of liquor was fraught with danger. Persons carrying liquor for home delivery could be mobbed and also there was a chance of some of them adulterating liquor, which could cause bigger problem, he said. On May 4, Tamil Nadu government announced reopening of Tasmac outlets from May 7. On May 6, the high court permitted liquor sale with conditions like Aadhar proof, social distancing and liquor rationing. However, on May 8, citing violation of conditions, the court ordered closure of liquor shops. Tasmac, which had done business for Rs 195 crore during the two days, moved the apex court challenging the closure order. Referring to the conditions, Tasmac told the Supreme Court that it was against the right to privacy of an individual. “Purchase and consumption of alcohol is one of personal choice and keeping Aadhaar number, name and address will lead to profiling of the purchaser and possible exploitation of the person” Tasmac said through advocate Balaji Srinivasan. In his submissions, Mukul Rohatgi said wherever there was violation of social distancing norm by customers, the authorities had deployed police force to control crowd and enforce the norm. Whenever, at a particular place, social distancing could not be enforced, the liquor vends there were shut temporarily till order prevailed, he argued. Appearing for the PIL-petitioner, advocate P V Yogeswaran defended the HC order saying it was based on precautionary principle aimed to protect public health during pandemic where social distancing was the only shield against spread of Covid-19 disease. Meanwhile, a press release from the state government later in the evening said liquor shops would not be reopened in malls, shopping complexes and containment zones. It said customers should wear masks when they visit the liquor shops. Watch SC allows state government to resume sale of liquor through Tasmac outlets in Tamil Nadu from today||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/sc-stays-hc-order-3600-tasmac-shops-to-open-in-tn-today/articleshow/75767688.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Ranchi||Rims oncology to restart from May 20||Ranchi: After nearly two months of closure, the oncology department of Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (Rims) is set to resume its operations, partially from May 20. The hospital management on Friday directed the oncology unit to begin attending to patients, while on the other hand, the state department of health, medical education and family welfare asked all civil surgeons to resume OPD services in government and private health facilities in their respective districts. The oncology department, which caters to medical, radiation and surgical oncological services, was shut for new patients since the lockdown was announced and weren’t admitting new patients. With the lockdown continuing for more than 50 days, the department issued guidelines with strict protocols for resuming OPDs, chemotherapy and surgeries so that new patients can be attended to on a daily basis. As per the guidelines, a screening area is being set up for OPD patients wherein a team of doctors will screen the patients as per ICMR norms and provide appointment. Patients visiting the chemotherapy and radiation wards will be apprised of precautions and treated on a rotational basis to reduce the chance of contracting the virus. Head of the oncology department, DR Anup Kumar said, “Majority of oncology centres are either shut or functioning partially in the state leading to inconvenience to patients. As cancer patients have 40% more chances than others to get infected by Covid-19 due to the lack of immunity, we have come up with a detailed guideline on ensuring consultation and patient care with all necessary precautions. We will start attending to patients of medical and radiation oncology from May 20. For patients in need of surgery, we are working on the logistical and manpower arrangements.” Kumar further added, “We are planning an alternate roster so that we do not deploy any health worker on Covid duty keeping risk to cancer patients in mind.” Meanwhile, the state health department issued protocols for enabling essential health services and directed all deputy commissioners and civil surgeons to ensure uninterrupted services for patients with maternal issues, newborns and child health. The district health authorities have been also been directed to take necessary steps for prevention and management of communicable diseases and to keep healthcare centres ready for attending to patients with chronic diseases and emergencies. State health secretary Nitin Madan Kulkarni said, “The government has asked all its district health care units to keep designated wards for expecting mothers at the district hospitals. The deputy commissioners have also been asked to exempt people who need to visit healthcare facilities be it private or state-owned. Dialysis centres and chemotherapy sessions are being carried out on a regular basis. All district administrations have been asked to cater to patients who need medical attention promptly. Helpline numbers have been issued to those providing medicines and pick and drop services for patients who need medical attention.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/rims-oncology-to-restart-from-may-20/articleshow/75766414.cms||Gaurav Pandey
May 16, 2020||Ranchi||Miscreants torch earth mover in Palamu dist||Daltonganj: Members of the outlawed Tritiya Prastuti Committee on Thursday night torched an earth mover in Kamad village in Panki block of the Palamu district, police said. The earth mover was engaged in the construction of a 26-km road between Sarjoun and Bakoriya, the estimated cost of which is Rs 18 crore and funded under the Pradhan Mantri Gram Sadak Yojana. Palamu SP Ajay Linda said while one earth mover was set ablaze, miscreants set ablaze the cabin of another earth mover. Two tractors were left untouched. “The machines belong to Sildilya Construction Company, owned by former Panki MLA Videsh Singh,” Linda added. A cased has been registered and investigation initiated in connection with the incident. “In a piece of paper found at the site, the Tritiya Pratuti Committee claimed responsibility for the arson. The handwritten leaflet warned the company of dire consequences if it resumed work. Extortion threats seem to the be the reason behind the arson. However, the leaflet did not have any TPC marking on it,” the SP added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/miscreants-torch-earth-mover-in-palamu-dist/articleshow/75766442.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand: Eight cybercriminals nabbed in Deoghar||DUMKA: Deoghar police on Friday arrested eight alleged cybercriminals from different areas of the district. The eight men were accused of siphoning off Rs 1.12 crore from various accounts of ICICI Bank. An FIR in this connection was lodged with Deoghar cyber police on March 12 by the bank’s manager. The bank authorities submitted 74 mobile phone numbers through which the money was siphoned off. Calling the arrests a major breakthrough, Deoghar SP Piyush Pandey said the cops were on the hunt for nabbing a few more cybercriminals from neighbouring Jamtara district. SP said that the cybercriminals had sent text messages to their targets regarding expiry of their KYC who in turn had called them back on those phone numbers and submitted all the secret details of their bank accounts, ATM cards and credit cards. Police have also seized a laptop, 29 mobile phones, 15 SIM cards, a number of cloned ATM cards and a cloning machine from the possession of the arrested cybercriminals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/8-cybercriminals-nabbed/articleshow/75766410.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand: Five held for murdering couple ‘for practising witchcraft’||RANCHI: Chatra police on Friday arrested five persons for allegedly killing a couple in Tikulia village under Lawalong police station area for practising witchcraft. Their bodies were found on Wednesday from Kustel forest. “The murder is related to witch hunting,” Chatra SP Rishav Jha said, adding, “Our search is on to nab the remaining three culprits.” Those arrested include Pantu Ganjhu, Rambachan Mistri, Mahesh Ganjhu, Virodhi Ganjhu and Rajendra Ganjhu. The culprits had allegedly murdered the couple, identified as Bhola Ganjhu and Silwa Devi, upon the suspicion that they were responsible for the death of Pantu’s daughter. The five-year-old girl had died after falling into a well. Bhola’s son Butan Ganjhu, in his complaint to the police, said that Pantu was threatening his father frequently over the incident. On May 5, the couple had gone to a nearby village for a marriage function when Pantu and others came looking for them at Tikulia with an axe, Butan added. Later, when the couple did not return home till May 12, Butan went to the nearby village only to be told that his parents had already left on May 7. Butan then lodged a missing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/5-held-for-murdering-couple-for-practising-witchcraft/articleshow/75766644.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Ranchi||Two new mothers test positive in Hazaribag, district tally crosses 20||Hazaribag: The number of Covid-19 cases in Hazaribag reached 24 on Friday after six new cases, including two new mothers, were recorded here. The women, residents of Godhakhar and Manar villages under Katkumsandi police station of the district, had delivered babies at Srinivas Hospital in Demotand area recently. Speaking to TOI, deputy commissioner Bhuvanesh Pratap Singh said: “Soon after their reports arrived, the hospital’s management was directed to collect blood and swab samples of all staff members who attended to the two patients. There are around 40 patients who are currently undergoing treatment at the hospital. If need be, the entire hospital will be sanitized by Saturday.” Singh said both women were moved to the Covid isolation ward of Hazaribag Medical College and Hospital (HMCH) on Friday. The HMCH’s gynaecology wing was shifted to Srinivas Hospital in Demotand after the former was made a dedicated Covid-19 facility. On Thursday, eight fresh cases were reported from the district. Of them, six are from Barkattha and one each from Katkumsandi and Chouparan. “The six men reached Barkattha from Thane in Maharashtra in a private vehicle. They were not allowed to enter their native villages and were taken to the Barhi quarantine centre. The man from Katkumsandi arrived from Kolkata in his personal car. All the positive patients have been moved to HMCH,” Singh added. Hazaribag, categorised as orange zone by the MHA earlier this month, has marked Barkattha and Bishungarh as Covid-19 hotspots. The district administration said out of 4,500 migrants who returned, 650 have been quarantined. Civil surgeon Dr Krishna Kumar said close to 1,770 samples have been sent for testing so far. Singh said the testing centre at Hazaribag will soon become functional.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/two-new-mothers-test-positive-in-hazaribag-district-tally-crosses-20/articleshow/75766546.cms||Abhijit Sen
May 16, 2020||Ranchi||Eateries take measures but Ranchiites fear contamination||Ranchi: With students back to their hometowns and most people working from home, restaurant and eatery owners rue the lack of business in the city. While not all restaurants are open, the ones that are operating are seeing an almost 75% dip in demand. Nishant Ranjan of Jashn Restaurant said, “Students in the city are our prime customers. Most of them did not return after Holi and those who returned went back due to the outbreak of coronavirus. This led to a decline in our sales.” Luv Bhatia, owner of Kaveri Restaurant said, “Earlier, we used to receive almost 150-200 orders per day, but now, the number revolves around 30 to 40. The lockdown has brought miseries to our business.” Those in the business said things were fine even after cases were being reported. However, after a food delivery boy tested positive for Covid-19 in Delhi, fear gripped the citizens, who stopped ordering food. Ranjan added, “After the Delhi incident, our customers fear contracting the virus through delivery boys. Some also feel that the food, while being prepared, may get contaminated if someone among the kitchen staff has the virus.” The food business slumped even after restaurants and eateries in the city have taken measures like using hand sanitizers and masks to prevent the spread of the virus. Some restaurants have also made it compulsory for their staff to undergo thermal screening before reporting to duty. Manoj Paswan, manager at Seasons restaurants, said, “We use lukewarm water to wash vegetables and leave them for an hour or two to ensure proper cleaning. We also ensure proper measures so that there is no chance of contamination. Our staff are wearing masks, gloves and hair caps throughout the day to ensure proper hygiene.” On the other hand, app-based food delivery companies have also taken prerequisite measures to prevent Covid-19 from spreading. Zomato’s Ranchi cluster head Md Ali said, “We have currently stopped cash on deliveries and are asking for online payments to ensure no contact deliveries. We have also provided masks and sanitizers to our delivery boys to ensure their safety.” Currently, out of the 700 listings of eateries and restaurants, only 80-90 are functioning in the city. The numbers are expected to rise by another 40-50 after May 17. However, despite the measures, the fear among people is palpable. Chandan Kumar Paswan, a resident of Kokar and a UPSC aspirant, said, “Being a bachelor, I used to order food from restaurants almost thrice a week. After the outbreak of the coronavirus, my parents were wary that this may prove to be a way of contracting the disease and strictly asked me not to order food from outside.” Avinash Kumar, a student of MBA at the Central University of Jharkhand and resident of Nalanda in Bihar, said he used to rely upon online food delivery services for his dinner when he stayed here. “As I used come back from the university late in the evening, I opted to buy cooked food and ordered online mostly. I order food online at least four times a week. Most of my friends opted for the same as we were tired to cook ourselves.” Kumar had come back after Holi, but left for his hometown after the outbreak of coronavirus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/eateries-take-measures-but-ranchiites-fear-contamination/articleshow/75766588.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand awaits Centre’s nod to airlift migrants from Andamans||Ranchi/Sindri: The Jharkhand government has written to the Union home ministry seeking clearance for bringing back the state’s stranded migrant workers from the Andaman & Nicobar Islands in a chartered flight, chief minister Hemant Soren said on Friday. Hemant put out a copy of the letter written by Jharkhand chief secretary Sukhdev Singh to Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla on May 12. In his letter, Singh cited the MHA’s permission for inter-state movement for persons stranded due to lockdown and apprised Bhalla of 319-odd migrant workers stranded in the Andaman & Nicobar Islands for over a month. “While registering stranded persons, it has come to our notice that 319 persons of Jharkhand are stuck in the Andaman & Nicobbar Islands for over a month. They are facing extreme financial hardships and are finding it difficult to meet the extra financial burden of boarding and lodging during the lockdown. They and their family members are going through mental agony. Government of Jharkhand has, therefore, decided to bring these persons by special aircraft,” Singh wrote. “It is requested that permission may be granted to run special chartered flight to bring stranded persons to Jharkhand. The flight will originate from Bengaluru and reach Ranchi after taking passengers from Port Blair. Two sorties will be required to transport these 319 persons,” Singh wrote. While Union railway minister Piyush Goyal criticised Hemant’s government for allowing entry of a very few trains, sources in the CMO said, “The permission for the chartered aircraft is pending for four days. The Jharkhand government is ready to bear all expenses of the travel. It is time for the Union government to show its intent and showcase humanitarian approach in rescuing the stranded.” Meanwhile, special trains kept arriving from various parts of the country. Influx of migrant workers and those stranded in Delhi continued to reach Dhanbad on Friday. While 2,814 migrant workers including 1,474 from Kozhikode and 1,340 workers from Chennai, arrived here in two trains, nearly 100 others arrived in a special Delhi-Howrah train. Dhanbad DC Amit Kumar said 369 were from Giridih, 338 from Jamtara, 290 from Garhwa, 262 from Pakur, 226 from Deoghar, 109 from Godda, 105 from Dhanbad, 95 from Sahibganj, 89 from Ranchi, 44 from Bokaro, 38 from West Singhbhum, 34 from Hazaribag and the rest from other districts of the state including 1 each from Bardhhaman and Purulia in West Bengal and 2 from Aurangabad in Bihar. A special train from Telangan’s Ghatkesar arrived at Jaisidih station on Friday morning with close to 1,100 migrants while another train ferrying 1,380 migrants from Andhra Pradesh arrived at Daltonganj.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/jharkhand-awaits-centres-nod-to-airlift-migrants-from-andamans/articleshow/75766466.cms||Dhritiman Ray
May 16, 2020||Ranchi||12 test Covid-19 positive in Jharkhand, 10 returned home recently||RANCHI/HAZARIBAGH/SINDRI: Jharkhand recorded 12 new Covid-19 cases on Friday as migrants returning home continued to test positive for the novel coronavirus. The state reported 100 fresh cases in the 11 days since May 5 as migrants return home. The state tally of positive cases now stands at 215, of which 115 are active cases while 98 have recovered and two have died. Ranchi, which accounts for almost half the tally (102) in the state, did not record any new case, even as 10 patients who recovered were discharged from Rims taking the total number of recoveries in the city to 71. However, the number of cases have risen sharply in the distircis in the last few days. The figure in Hazaribag continued to rise as six new cases were detected in the district on Friday. Of these, four are migrant workers and two are new mothers who gave birth at a private hospital recently. Hazaribag DC Bhuvnesh Pratap Singh said: “Three are migrants from different villages in Bishnugarh block and had who have returned from Mumbai recently. The other is also a migrant from Barkathha block. The young mothers are residents of Godhakhar and Manar villages in Katkumsandi and were admitted at Srinivas Hospital in Demotand. The hospital’s management has been told to collect samples of all doctors and others who came in contact with the patients.” In Garhwa, all four new cases are migrants who have returned from Nasik and Mumbai in Maharashtra. Garhwa DDC Naman Priyesh Lakra said: “They returned to the district earlier this week. Two are from Meral block and one each from Majhiaon and Garhwa town.” A 31-year-old resident of Kapuria colony in Dhanbad who returned home from Mumbai in his own car with three family members on May 11 tested positive. Dhanbad DC Amit Kumar said: “He was stranded in Mumbai since the lockdown was imposed. He was under institutional quarantine with his family. The three others have tested negative.” In East Singhbhum, the patient is a 30-year-old man from Patmada block who has returned from another state, sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/12-test-positive-in-jharkhand-10-returned-home-recently/articleshow/75766749.cms||Gaurav Pandey
May 16, 2020||Ranchi||Hemant Soren, Piyush Goyal in Twitter war over special trains for migrants||RANCHI: Chief minister Hemant Soren on Friday reacted sharply on Twitter to Union railway minister Piyush Goyal’s statement where the latter accused the Jharkhand government of permitting “very few trains” carrying migrants into the state. माननीय रेल मंत्री जी, ऐसा प्रतीत हो रहा है की आपके विभाग द्वारा आप तक सही जानकारी नहीं पहुँचायी गयी है।हमने अब तक… https://t.co/iteF3iWfnc— Hemant Soren (घर में रहें - सुरक्षित रहें) (@HemantSorenJMM) 1589536340000In his tweet, Soren accused Goyal of being misinformed. “The railway ministry has not given you the correct information. Jharkhand government has given no objection certificates to 110 trains so far. Around 60,000 migrant labourers have returned to their homes in 50 trains which have arrived in Jharkhand since May 1. Jharkhand was the first state which requested to start the train services for migrants,” Soren wrote. It may be mentioned that the first train in the country ferrying migrants reached Jharkhand from Lingampally in Telangana on May 1. In the same Tweet, Soren said six to seven trains are arriving in Jharkhand every day. “This is insufficient to bring back the seven lakh stranded migrant workers. I hope you will take this matter into consideration and help the state’s residents,” he tweeted. Through his official Twitter handle, Goyal on Friday claimed that Jharkhand, along with Rajasthan, West Bengal and Chhattisgarh, were allowing very few trains into their states. Speaking to journalists at the Project Building here, Soren said, “Permission for plying special trains came after a lot of efforts. We have also appealed to the Union government to allow us use aircraft to bring our stranded workers.” Earlier in the day, a delegation of the Congress party met Soren at his residence and discussed in detail about the efforts being taken to bring back the stranded migrants. Reacting to Goyal’s statement, Jharkhand Congress president and state finance minister Rameshwar Oraon said, “The railway minister’s statement is politically motivated. Jharkhand government is equally concerned in bringing the state’s workers back home.” Meanwhile, special trains kept arriving in Jharkhand from different parts of the country. A special train from Tamil Nadu’s Tirunelveli arrived at Hatia railway station on Friday morning with 1,232 passengers. Trains also arrived in Dhanbad, Jasidih and Daltonganj stations as well, bringing over 3,500 passengers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/hemant-piyush-in-twitter-war-over-special-trains-for-migrants/articleshow/75766667.cms||Dhritiman Ray
May 16, 2020||Ranchi||13 criminals arrested in Khunti||RANCHI: Police arrested 13 persons for conducting opium trade and other illegal activities under Khunti and Marangdaha police station areas. Eight kilograms of opium, arms, ammunition along with a car, bike and mobile phones were seized during raids. Khunti SP Ashutosh Shekhar on Friday said: “After receiving a tip-off, a police team conducted a raid near Kujram bridge under Marangdaha police station and nabbed four persons with opium. One of the miscreants, however, managed to flee from the spot taking advantage of the surrounding forest and the darkness.” The arrested persons are Ram Singh Pahan, Birsa Munda, Mahadeo Pahan and Bihari Pahan. Police said that all four were involved in illegal cultivation of opium and had reached the spot to hand over a consignment to a buyer. In another operation, police nabbed nine men. They are Moris Tirkey, Markus Bhengra, Alvinus Soy, Parameshwar Mahto, Namjan Horo, Etwa Pahan, Bhola Naag, Kuldip Sanga and Bandhana Pahan. Several cases related to murder and loot, among others, were lodged against the accused in various police stations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/13-criminals-arrested-in-khunti/articleshow/75766718.cms||---
May 16, 2020||India||Myanmar hands over 22 NE insurgents||NEW DELHI: The Myanmar army on Friday handed over to India 22 insurgents from the Northeast, including self-styled home secretary of NDFB (S) Rajen Daimary, in a clandestine operation monitored by National Security Advisor Ajit Doval, officials said. The insurgents were brought to India on a special aircraft and handed over to police forces in Manipur and Assam where they are wanted, they said. The police will ensure all health protocols including quarantine in the wake of coronavirus pandemic, they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/myanmar-hands-over-22-ne-insurgents/articleshow/75768932.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh govt creates SEB to crack down on illicit liquor distillation, trade||VIJAYAWADA: The state government issued orders on Friday creating a special enforcement bureau (SEB) to curb illicit distillation, bottling and smuggling of alcohol. The SEB will also be responsible to check illegal sand mining and its transportation. The government has divided the functions of the prohibition and excise department between the SEB and the excise commissionerate. Excise department employees have been divided in 70:30 ratio between SEB and excise commissionerate. The SEB will be headed by an IPS officer who will report to the state’s director general of police (DGP). All 208 excise stations in the state will be at the SEB commissioner’s disposal henceforth. The SEB’s functions will include conducting raids, booking cases, filing FIRs, producing accused in courts, investigation, confiscation of articles and vehicles, filing, charge-sheets, serving summons and executing NBWs. Apart from enforcement duties, all residual functions of the excise department like management of outlets, distilleries, wholesale trade of liquor, revenue generation and general superintendence will remain with the prohibition and excise department headed by the excise commissioner and the commissioner of distilleries. In order to ensure functional movement of group-1 and group-2 officials from SEB to revenue department and vice versa, a board will be constituted under the chairmanship of the chief secretary with the DGP and the special chief secretary as members. DGP Gautam Sawang on Friday chaired a video-conference with unit officers of SEB and took stock of the enforcement situation. He asked officials to check sand reaches and stock points in Andhra Pradesh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/govt-creates-seb-to-crack-down-on-illicit-liquor-distillation-trade/articleshow/75765809.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Ghaziabad||Ghaziabad: Cops in hospital as 16 Covid patients walk in corridor||GHAZIABAD: Staff at the District Combined Hospital, a level 2 Covid facility, had a tough time managing 16 positive patients on Friday morning. Officials said the patients kept walking around the corridors and other floors of the hospital despite repeated warnings. The situation could be brought under control only after police threatened to initiate action against them. With a drastic increase in the number of positive cases in the past two weeks, the health department has started moving Covid patients to the district hospital even if they are asymptomatic. Till Thursday, 16 patients had been admitted to the L2 facility. On Friday morning, all the 16 patients admitted to the hospital walked out of their ward, causing a flutter among the hospital staff and other patients. Sources said there had been a delay in providing these patients with dinner on Thursday night. The next morning, too, the hospital staff got late in arranging breakfast for them. The patients walked out of their ward and started roaming around the corridor, enquiring about the breakfast. Chief medical superintendent Naresh Vij said the cops deployed outside the hospital warned the patients against leaving their isolation ward.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/cops-in-hospital-as-16-covid-patients-walk-in-corridor/articleshow/75768126.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh-Odisha border area turns arrack brewing hotbed||VISAKHAPATNAM: The state government’s decision to allow the price of bottled liquor to skyrocket has created an opportunity for an enterprising lot, who are now seeking to make money of something that had long gone out of fashion, but is now making a comeback— arrack. Using the most mundane means to distil jaggery mix, these enterprising people are raking in the mullah like anything. With cops preoccupied with Covid policing, many across the border areas of north Andhra Pradesh have taken to brewing the firewater in orchards and other discrete spaces. “Smuggling in bottled liquor from Odisha is fraught with danger. There are too many check points and the chance of getting caught is high,” said Pothu Naidu, from Salur mandal in Vizianagaram district, explaining why he has taken up brewing arrack. Arrack brewers don’t need to look far and wide for their basic ingredients. All they need is jaggery, rice, rhubab weed and two pots. The easy-to-make intoxicating concoction is drawing large numbers of consumers in rural parts, despite the best efforts of the police. Tipplers, meanwhile, are rather delighted. They are finding their poison at a fraction of the price of bottled liquor. “One of the main attractions of arrack is its price. It comes cheap as six ounces of arrack doesn’t cost more than Rs 60. A bottle of the same quantity of cheap liquor would costs Rs 180 at the minimum,” said an arrack aficionado who did not wish to be named. Meanwhile, excise officials are on their toes and are conducting raids on a regular basis. In Vizianagaram district alone, a total of 701 cases have been filed. Nearly 300 cases have been filed in Srikakulam district, according to P Ramachandra Rao, excise deputy commissioner of Vizianagaram. S Sukesh, deputy commissioner in-charge of excise in Srikakulam said that the number of raids has gone up drastically during the lockdown. “We are on the field virtually every hour of the day. The rise in number of cases that we have seen in the last 55 days is unbelievable,” Sukesh said. According to reports from the department, more than 12 mandals in Vizianagaram and Srikakulam have turned into arrack brewing hotbeds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/andhra-odisha-border-area-turns-arrack-brewing-hotbed/articleshow/75765829.cms||Venkatesh Bayya
May 16, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh: IMD warns of cyclone Amphan; rains, gale likely||VISAKHAPATNAM: Cyclone ‘Amphan’ is likely to form over Bay of Bengal within the next 24 hours, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD). While the cyclone may not affect the Andhra Pradesh coast, there will be moderate to heavy rain with wind speeds around 45-50kmph close to the state’s coast, as per IMD’s initial predictions. Speaking to TOI, S Stella, director of IMD Amaravati centre said that the cyclone’s preliminary stages such as well-marked low pressure loomed over the Bay of Bengal till Friday. The low pressure would turn into a depression, then a deep depression and then a cyclone. The precise track of the weather system would be available by Saturday, she said. Depression to intensify into a cyclone today“The cyclone is expected to move along the Andhra Pradesh coast. There will be some impact in terms of rains and winds along north-coastal AP, but most probably, it (the cyclone) will not make landfall on the AP coast,” said another senior IMD official. The Cyclone Warning Centre (CWC), Visakhapatnam centre informed that a well-marked low pressure (WMLP) area formed over southeast Bay of Bengal and its neighbourhood on Friday. The system is likely to move northwest initially, till May 17, and then make a re-curve north-northeast ward towards northern Bay of Bengal during May 18 to 20. Under the influence of the system, squally winds of speed 55-75kmph are likely over central parts of southern Bay of Bengal and adjoining area on May 16. Squally winds at 40-50kmph gusting to 60kmph are likely along and off north AP and southern Odisha coasts on May 18. Fishermen have been advised to not venture into sea during this period.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/imd-warns-of-cyclone-amphan-rains-gale-likely/articleshow/75765849.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
May 16, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Plans afoot to give Nellore, Tirupati railway stations makeovers||AMARAVATI: The Rail Land Development Authority (RLDA) held an online pre-bid meeting for redevelopment of Nellore and Tirupati railway stations on Thursday. The projects are in line with Smart Cities Mission and aimed at making Tirupati and Nellore stations multi-modal transit hubs endowed with state-of-the-art amenities, including differently-abled-friendly access ramps and elevators and green building features such as rainwater harvesting and solar energy generation. While it is estimated to cost Rs 510 crore for redevelopment of Tirupati, it is likely to cost Rs 130 crore for Nellore. According to RLDA, about Rs 230 crore will be spent on providing better passenger amenities at Tirupati and Rs 53 crore in Nellore. The tender is scheduled to be awarded by mid-June 2020. “The pre-bid meetings for Nellore and Tirupati witnessed participation from prominent firms such as GMR, Oberoi, Ambience, Adani Group, Godrej Properties, Reliance Infra, Sobha, Brigade, Embassy Group among others,” said Ved Parkash Dudeja, vice- chairman, RLDA. Both stations will be redeveloped on a PPP (Public-Private Partnership) mode on Design, Build, Finance, Operate, Transfer (DBFOT) model. They will have operational areas like administrative areas, miscellaneous technical area, security and station operation staff areas besides world-class amenities for passengers such as shopping, hospitality, food court, cloakroom, dormitories and executive lounges. The Tirupati station is targeted to be redeveloped in three years. “Amidst the lockdown, we conducted online pre-bid meetings for both Nellore and Tirupati. This is in line with our commitment to ensure seamless operations during this unprecedented time. We have also started opening online tenders also,” said Dudeja. The proposed redevelopment will facilitate commercial development, generate employment opportunities, and boost the tourism potential of both regions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/plans-afoot-to-give-nellore-tirupati-railway-stations-makeovers/articleshow/75765873.cms||Samdani MN
May 16, 2020||India||Ban spitting in public, smokeless tobacco sale, says Harsh Vardhan||NEW DELHI: Health minister Harsh Vardhan has urged all states and Union Territories to ban sale of non-smoking tobacco products and spitting in public places to prevent the spread of coronavirus infection. Raising concerns about potential risk of spreading coronavirus through users of tobacco products, Vardhan said smokeless tobacco users have a tendency to spit in public places, which increases health risks especially spreading contagious diseases like Covid-19, tuberculosis, swine flu, encephalitis and others. “Use of smokeless tobacco also creates an unhygienic environment which further spreads the diseases. Large gathering at the retail outlets where smokeless tobacco products are sold, also pose the risk of spread of Covid-19,” he said in a letter to states. Chewing tobacco products and areca nut increases production of saliva followed by a very strong urge to spit. Spitting in public places could enhance the spread of the Covid-19, Vardhan said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ban-spitting-in-public-smokeless-tobacco-sale-says-harsh-vardhan/articleshow/75768956.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Nagpur||‘Efforts sincere but testing needs to be ramped up’||Among the frontline warriors of global pandemic Covid-19 are the personnel who are carrying out testing for coronavirus. To know more about their work, risks they face and testing, TOI speaks to Krishna Khairnar, senior scientist and head of environmental virology cell at the National Environmental Engineering Research Institute, which is one of the testing laboratories of Covid-19 in the city. How is the testing going on in Vidarbha? Do you think there is a need to scale it up? The top administrative officers of Nagpur, especially the divisional commissioner and additional divisional commissioner of the region are working very hard. The quantum of the Covid-19 attack is so big and pronounced that all the effort made towards salvaging the situation are becoming more demanding by every passing day. The population dynamics of a country like India is very large. It's a challenging time for the government to close the gap between testing vs number of people. Despite of sincere efforts, the ratio of number of tests vs number of people is still one of the lowest in the world. Many government organizations, including the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR), have joined the war against Covid-19, but more needs to be done to ramp-up the testing so that the ratio increases. Director general of CSIR Shekhar Mande has taken this gauntlet of ramping up the council for fight against Covid-19 in a major way at the national level. Director of Neeri, Rakesh Kumar has been a great support and a key person in the involvement of the institute in this war against COVID-19. It's not just about scaling up of testing centres, but also about more institutions and organizations joining the testing efforts. More testing will help identify more cases and timely identifications will help manage the situation better. Do we need to test asymptomatic patients too? Always better. There are many asymptomatic carriers who are posing a great threat to the susceptible population like senior citizens and persons with underlying health conditions. How does the testing happen? Thanks for asking this! It's not just day a in our life, it's also night (pun intended). We are a small team, mostly comprising students, but we are effective. Our team is divided into sub-groups for handling the different steps involved in testing. The first personnel handles sample processing that involves maximum risk of exposure and is therefore performed in a containment room. The personnel don full PPE before entering the room. Then, viral RNA is extracted by the same personnel using ICMR-approved kits. Another personnel simultaneously handles entire reagent and mastermix preparation in a clean room using PPE. We always ensure a one-way flow and the set guidelines of a containment facility. All follow Covid distancing and use PPE in the facility at all times. Equipment, instruments and surfaces in the containment area and other workstations are cleaned thoroughly. A designated MPCB authorized biohazard and medical waste handling agency finally collects and disposes the waste. How long does it take to test a sample? Please tell the procedure in brief. The procedure involves sample receiving, sorting, documentation, assigning sample IDs, labelling, sample processing, aliquoting (storing samples in small proportions), RNA extraction, result and analysis, documentation of results, report preparation, test report generation, uploading the data in various government portals etc. It takes around 8 hours if the procedures are performed without any break. In normal course, it's done within 12 hours. Do we need more testing centres in the coming days? There has been a rapid escalation of cases in the last few weeks but not considerable in testing, isolation and contact tracing. Covid distancing measures can help in buying time for preparing the health systems to cope up with increasing cases in future. However, just distancing is not enough to tackle this pandemic. it’s the combination of all measures which will make the difference. It is important that all countries take a comprehensive approach. The most effective way to prevent infections and save lives when vaccine and drugs are not available, is by breaking the chains of transmission. To break the chain of transmission we must test and isolate. Ultimately, one cannot fight this pandemic blindfolded. We need to know who is infected to stop this pandemic. The World Health Organization’s (WHO) director has issued a simple message for all of us: Test! Test! Test! Being a hub, how is Neeri ensuring that other testing centres work effectively and scientifically? Neeri is the only CSIR institute to be designated as a hub by the Centre. Overall, there are 10 regional hubs in the country. Neeri has collected all inputs from other testing centres like AIIMS, GMCH, IGGMCH and NVC for scaling-up and capacity building. A consolidated report has already been communicated to the Department of Biotechnology (DBT). The secretary DBT is in the process of seeking necessary approvals from the central government for scaling-up and facilitation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/efforts-sincere-but-testing-needs-to-be-ramped-up/articleshow/75766999.cms||Manka Behl
May 16, 2020||Nagpur||10 Covid-19 cases crop up from new localities||Nagpur: After being restricted to two hotspots—Mominpura and Satranjipura — for long time, Covid- 19 cases are now being reported from new areas of city. There have been 10 such cases in last 19 days. Source/origin of infection in six old cases is also yet to be ascertained. Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) has continued to claim there was no community spread of virus yet. A 65-year-old person admitted at Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) on May 13 tested positive on May 15. He is a resident of Khalasi Line, Gaddigodam, in West Nagpur and 10th case from an area not a containment zone. TOI learnt he is a daily wage earner and has severe comorbidities. The team of Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) led by additional chief medical officer Dr Praveen Gantawar has started tracing his family members, close contacts and will investigate source of infection. On May 14, a 65-year-old person from Baba Farid Nagar, Kharbi, in South Nagpur, had tested positive. He was admitted at GMCH after local residents reported to police that he had come from outside some days ago. Dr Gantawar said, “Person seems to a resident of Mominpura and went to Kharbi a few days ago. His sons are residents of Mominpura. We are investigating the case,” he said. Another comorbidity person, a 29-year-old from Pandhrabodi in West Nagpur tested positive on May 7 and died on May 11. His 27 family members and close contacts were quarantined and tested but all came negative. Admitted at GMCH, a 51-year-old from Jawahar Nagar in South Nagpur had tested positive on May 9. He was taking care of accounts in a transport company working from Kalamna. His 12 family members and close contacts were quarantined and tested and all were negative. A 51-year-old homeopathic practitioner from Bada Tajbagh in South Nagpur had tested positive on May 6. Samples of her husband, son and a few more close contacts came negative. On May 7, a youth from Kashi Nagar, Shatabdi chowk in South-West Nagpur admitted as SARI patient at GMCH had tested positive. Reports of his family members and close contacts are also negative. In this case, some doctors and staff of two hospitals were quarantined but their reports are not known. A 44-year-old cancer patient from Sangam Nagar in North Nagpur had tested positive on April 26. The person, an auto driver, had undergone surgery on April 14 at a cancer hospital on Kamptee road and discharged on April 22. He came back for check-up complaining of cough and other health problems on April 24. Around 202 people were quarantined of whom only a seven-year-old boy was found positive. 59 doctors and staff of cancer hospital all came negative. A 32-year-old truck cleaner from Khushi Nagar in North Nagpur tested positive on May 6. He had returned from Mumbai and other cities on April 27 and went for testing. Six of his family members were found negative. In all these six cases, source of infection is yet to be ascertained. Dr Gantawar said, “Khushi Nagar patient had travelled to many cities so might have got infected there. In remaining five cases, we are finding links and may connect to existing containment zones.” A 22-year-old football player from Parvati Nagar in South-West Nagpur was tested positive after death. This case was connected with Mominpura and Satranjipura. NMC nurse from Ganespeth who tested positive was linked with a positive case from Timki. These areas are containment zones.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/10-covid-19-cases-crop-up-from-new-localities/articleshow/75767020.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
May 16, 2020||Nagpur||Rich and poor join the queues for booze||Nagpur: An empty carton of a whisky brand lying on the road at Wadi indicated that liquor shops had opened again. Less than 500 metres away, a wine shop could be identified from a distance by the long queue in front of it. After the district administration allowed sale of liquor at outlets outside municipal limits, people from all walks of life lined up for a long-awaited refill. Both social status and distancing were set aside as rich and poor joined to raise a toast. Officials said 18 outlets opened for business in rural areas on Friday. TOI also found many from lower income strata in the queues. They said the lockdown had left them drained financially but they could spare some money to buy a little booze to keep the spirits alive. TOI visited shops in outskirts like Wadi, Hingna, and Khapri to find queues everywhere. “The shop opened at 11 am in presence of excise officials who broke the seal. We have been selling at MRP,” said Inderjeet Baweja, owner of M/s Krishna Wines at Wadi. People emerged out of the crowds holding liquor bottle in their hands like a trophy. Guddu, a driver, held a 750 ml bottle of whisky. Guddu said he earned Rs 8000 a month accepting that lockdown days were tough. The bottle cost him Rs 2,000. Asked how could he spare that much for liquor, he slipped away avoiding an answer. Some said three-four friends had contributed for a single bottle. Others accepted they had borrowed “You have to do it for your soul,” came a reply from the crowd. Pitambar (name changed), who works in a private establishment in the MIDC area, said he managed to carry on during the last two months by borrowing from friends and relatives. “I borrowed to buy liquor also,” he said. “I just want half a pint of country liquor that hardly costs anything,” said a weary man in his 60s. A little ahead M/s Patel Wines had a longer queue. As people nudged against each other, the staffers made vain attempts to maintain distancing. Police jeeps drove past asking people to keep distance. “Why should you blame the liquor shops only. Isn’t there crowd at other outlets. Here they checked my temperature too, is it not enough. It was 97 degrees,” said Vinod Sadar, who said he was a construction contractor. “It’s dangerous if people come too close, but it’s okay,” said a student not wishing to be identified. There were no fixed rules. At one outlet, a customer said they were selling four bottles if one had a permit and three without it. At another shop in Wadi they asked for aadhaar cards but those without it could also buy. A country liquor shop at Hingna was an exception. A handful of factory workers stood with enough distance between two. “You will not find much crowd here, because this is country liquor shop, go to the shop a little ahead where they sell foreign liquor,’ said the attendant here. A few metres away nearly 500 had gathered at three shops and people stood right on the road hampering the traffic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/rich-and-poor-join-the-queues-for-booze/articleshow/75767041.cms||Shishir Arya
May 16, 2020||Nagpur||HC: Clarify stand on migrants’ rly tickets||Nagpur: Quoting Supreme Court’s directives, the Nagpur bench of Bombay high court on Friday directed the centre and state to clarify their stand on paying railway tickets of thousands of migrants. Both governments were further told to file an affidavit in this regard by May 19. While asking the railway ministry to clear apprehensions that ferrying migrants would be stopped after May 17, justice Amit Borkar told it to file an affidavit providing details of special trains passing from the city and whether they would continue to ply beyond May 17. While hearing a suo motu PIL (No 44/2020), amicus curiae Deven Chauhan contended that railways needs to clarify on the stoppage of the special trains started from various stations in India and steps taken to ferry the migrant workers. Pointing out towards principal seat’s order of May 8 where Centre had agreed to bear 85% cost of migrants tickets and state gave nod to sponsor remaining 15% as per the SC directives, the amicus stated that it wasn’t complied by both respondents in letter and spirit. Government pleader Sumant Deopujari then made a statement that state had already released Rs57 crore towards its share of 15%. The judge then asked him to file a comprehensive affidavit on compliance of May 12 orders where HC had given a series of directives to help the poor migrants walking towards their native places in sweltering heat. Pleading on Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s (NMC) behalf, counsel Jemini Kasat also assured to comply with the HC’s orders of May 12, where justice Madhav Jamdar directed all authorities to constitute teams on their levels to ensure that the hapless migrants shouldn’t have to walk on roads for reaching their native places. The HC had asked collectors, police commissioners and superintendents in rural areas, municipal commissioners and council chiefs, and Zilla Parishad CEOs to form teams of officials comprising representatives of district administration, police and local bodies. “Such teams shall, from time to time, inspect all the highways and roads and stop migrants at respective places. Temporary tents shall be put up at therein for protecting their family members from scorching heat along with drinking water tankers and mobile toilets. A list of all such migrants would be prepared and they would be divided into groups for accommodating into MSRTC buses,” the HC said. What HC said Centre & state to file affidavit by May 19 on providing rly tickets to migrants Railways to clear apprehension on stopping trains for migrants from May 17 It should provide details of all special trains for migrants passing from Nagpur Govt to file comprehensive affidavit on compliance of May 12 orders||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/hc-clarify-stand-on-migrants-rly-tickets/articleshow/75767056.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
May 16, 2020||Nagpur||PM Cares Fund: Govt seeks plea dismissal||Nagpur: Additional solicitor general Anil Singh on Friday requested the Nagpur bench of Bombay high court to dismiss plea against ‘PM Care Relief Fund’ filed by a city lawyer demanding its details be made public. Pleading for central ministries through videoconferencing from Mumbai, Singh stated that the issue was already decided by Supreme Court and, therefore, there’s no point in continuing with the petition. Justice Amit Borkar directed Singh to submit a copy of apex court’s orders by May 19. He also allowed petitioner Arvind Waghmare, who was pleading in-person, to file an application for interim prayer before next hearing after three days. Government pleader Sumant Deopujari appeared on state’s behalf while Sudhir Puranik pleaded for Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC). The lawyer had knocked judiciary’s doors demanding declaration of total amount collected so far in the ‘PM Care Relief Fund’ on government’s website for knowledge of common public. He also prayed for fund’s audit through Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) instead of an independent auditor to be nominated by board of trustees. Earlier, Singh and assistant solicitor general Ulhas Aurangabadkar claimed that the petitioner had filed the case with vested political interests. The duo claimed that there was no interim prayer mentioned by him in his petition. Union defence, home and finance ministries along with divisional commissioners of Nagpur and Amravati, Nagpur collector and municipal commissioner have been made respondents in the case. Waghmare contended that certain guidelines were issued while setting up the fund that specifically mentioned that apart from the ex officio chairperson and ex officio trustees, three more trustees will be appointed/nominated on the trust. However, three other trustees have not been appointed till May 9, but donations to the tune of crores of rupees are being accepted, he had said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/pm-cares-fund-govt-seeks-plea-dismissal/articleshow/75767063.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
May 16, 2020||Nagpur||‘Explain steps taken to protect cops, docs’||Nagpur: The Nagpur bench of Bombay high court on Friday granted three days to Maharashtra government to file a comprehensive affidavit on protection offered to police, doctors and healthcare workers in city’s containment zones (C-zones). Government pleader Sumant Deopujari assured to complete formalities on compliance of HC’s orders of April 30, May 5 and 12 after which Justice Amit Borkar adjourned the hearing till May 19. Earlier, collector Ravindra Thakare in an affidavit informed that faceshield could be used by cops on duty to prevent Covid-19 infection and civil surgeon has given a positive opinion in this regard. The court was hearing a plea filed through counsel Tushar Mandlekar, who contended that police personnel, medical and other frontline workers in containment zones are exposed to utmost risk. He prayed for directives for their protection and necessary steps to be taken by the government. In last hearing, the HC had asked government to explore whether faceshield could be used by the cops on duty as a preventive measure against getting infected. Pointing out that government had failed to take necessary steps, Mandlekar argued that when he had filed the case in April, very few policemen had contracted the virus, but today over 1,000 of them have been infected and the number is increasing each passing day due to nature of their work. Accusing the administration of tarnishing state’s image, he added over 600 cops are working in containment zones without proper safety gear. In other parts of the state, some of them had succumbed after contracting the disease while on duty. A heated argument ensued between Mandlekar and Deopujari, who refuted former’s allegations stating that government was providing all possible help to the frontline workers to protect them as per the guidelines issued by Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR). Deopujari insisted that petitioner should file an affidavit with specific examples of his claims on inadequate protection to the police. The collector informed the HC that government had granted Rs10 lakh to city police commissioner for purchasing protective gear and Rs60,000 for barricades. “The police would be procuring N-95 and cloth masks, sanitizers, automatic spraying machines, disinfectants, thermal scanners, PPEs and medical kits for the personnel working in containment zones,” he said. He added that the CP had also demanded Rs56.23 lakh for steel barricades to implement lockdown on main roads and bylanes coming under the city’s jurisdiction and also for closing district boundaries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/explain-steps-taken-to-protect-cops-docs/articleshow/75767072.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
May 16, 2020||Nagpur||No relocating Mominpura meat mkt: HC||Nagpur: In a relief to Wathoda residents, the Nagpur bench of Bombay high court on Friday directed Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) not to allow any person from Mominpura, declared as containment area for Covid-19, set up meat market near Symbiosis International University. The directives came while hearing a plea by aggrieved residents who challenged the NMC’s decision of May 4 to relocate the meat market known as ‘Bakra Mandi’ from Mominpura to residential area of Wathoda. Petitioners, through counsel Kartik Shukul assisted by Aman Verma and Raghav Bhandakar, apprehended that residents from the containment area would be visiting their locality which may lead to spread of Covid-19 infection. Jemini Kasat pleaded for the NMC and opposed the petitioners’ contention. “In prima facie view, the petitioners are justified in their apprehension. Therefore, it needs to be clarified that the NMC, in pursuance of its April 4 and 12 orders regarding sealing of roads in containment zones, shall strictly comply with the rules. It shouldn’t allow any person from containment area to visit Wathoda,” said Justice Amit Borkar. Petitioners — Umesh Unthkhede, Krishna Maske and Dinesh Yewle — argued that relocating the market defeats the very purpose for which containment zones were declared. They said there is every possibility that such a market would result in rapid spread of the virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/no-relocating-mominpura-meat-mkt-hc/articleshow/75767093.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
May 16, 2020||Delhi||Delhi Metro may ferry only government and essential services staff initially||NEW DELHI: If the Centre accepts Delhi government's recommendation to allow Delhi Metro to resume its services from Monday, people will be returning to a very different experience. Under new procedures, only smart cards will be valid and tokens will not be issued. Wearing masks will be mandatory and all passengers will have to undergo thermal screening while entering a station, besides having the Aarogya Setu app on their mobile phones, according to official sources. The AAP government has proposed that only government employees and those involved in essential services and with e-passes be allowed to use the Metro from next week. Mask & Setu app must in metro, screening at entryChief minister Arvind Kejriwal has proposed that the government employees should be allowed to use the Metro from 7.30am to 10.30am and 5.30pm to 8.30pm while those having e-passes should be allowed to travel between 10.30am and 5.30pm. This will be reviewed after a week to consider if more people can be allowed. Even if, finally, the Metro is thrown open to the public, it won’t be able to function to its capacity because of social distancing measures. In order to keep every alternate seat vacant, Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) has started pasting stickers on seats where sitting will be barred. Standing will no longer be allowed. Signage at stations will guide passengers on maintaining social distancing. A direct consequence of this will be that a coach which usually carries 300-350 passengers during peak hours will have only 50 passengers. Hence, a six-coach train that usually ferries 1,800 to 2,100 passengers on each trip will carry only around 300 passengers. The question that remains unanswered is that without any pre-booking or status updates, how will passengers figure out whether they will be able to board a train. Delhi Metro was earlier ferrying around 30 lakh passengers a day. If even one-third of NCR’s workforce turns up at the gates – whenever Metro resumes its normal operations – there could be chaos outside the stations. This, sources said, is the biggest problem that the government anticipates and it's still trying to find a solution to it. Sources said a suggestion for online booking of seats was considered and discarded as it was not found suitable because of the huge volume that Delhi Metro handles. Significantly, if a Metro station nearest to your home or office falls in or is close to a containment zone, it will remain closed and trains will skip such stations. “The decision to resume Metro rail services in Delhi-NCR will be taken by the government after which a detailed protocol to be followed by passengers for travelling in the Metro will be shared with the public,” said Anuj Dayal, executive director, DMRC. “At present, DMRC is taking up the necessary cleaning operation inside the trains and indoor areas of stations such as entrance lobbies, corridors, staircases, escalators, elevators, security area etc.,” he said. While all passengers will have to go through thermal screening, those showing visible symptoms of Covid-19 will not be allowed to enter the station. Only half the entry points will be opened to control passenger movement and the entry and exit points will be far apart to ensure that the arriving and departing passengers do not run into each other, sources said. The 6am to 11am schedule is unlikely to be resumed anytime soon. There will also be no fixed frequency of trains and the number of trips will depend on demand. The frequency is expected to be high during peak hours and very low during offpeak hours. Keeping in mind concerns about circulation of air in an air-conditioned environment leading to spread of the virus, it has been decided that efficient ventilation inside coaches would be ensured and the temperature will be kept between 24 and 30 degree Celsius. Sources said that with the wide doors of Metro trains opening almost every two minutes at a station, ventilation should not be a cause for worry. (With inputs from Atul Mathur)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-metro-may-ferry-only-government-and-essential-services-staff-initially/articleshow/75768976.cms||Sidharatha Roy
May 16, 2020||Nagpur||Ytl woman gets food after TOI reports plight||Yavatmal: Within hours of TOI publishing the story of Patipura woman forced to beg for food amid the lockdown, collector MD Singh ordered Yavatmal Municipal Council chief officer to ensure the family gets food. Chief officer on Friday visited the hut of Manda Moogle, a resident of ward no.9, and gave the kit of food grains and other essentials. Thanking TOI for the help, Manda, who has to take care of three children and disabled husband, said, “Aaj saheb mujhe anaj, dal, tel aur kuch masala diya hai.” There are many more Mandas in the containment areas in the city who need immediate attention. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/ytl-woman-gets-food-after-toi-reports-plight/articleshow/75767111.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Nagpur||3 NU profs develop mathematical model of Covid-19 spread||Nagpur: Three Nagpur University professors have developed a novel mathematical model on Covid-19 virus, which they claim would be useful in minimizing infection rate and improve recovery using suitability condition.Named as SIRM (S-susceptible, I-infective, R-recovered and M-mortality) model, the trio said it would be handy and useful if researchers and experts from medical sciences along with technologists work together on it.The model has been developed by senior professor at NU Mathematics department Kishor Deshmukh along with assistant professor at Laxminarayan Institute of Technology SD Warbhe and head of the department at Shri Lemdeo Patil Mahavidyalaya NK Lamba.According to them, the entire world is battling to contain the deadly virus which is a highly transmittable and pathogenic viral infectious disease believed to have originated in China.“Due to unavailability of proper vaccine, it’s spreading fast all over the globe. The situation is becoming uncontrollable and lakhs of patients have died due to it, particularly in the developed countries. To contain the spread of infection, a predictive mathematical model is must to inform about the prevention factor and suitability conditions, which include Covid distancing, lockdown, immunity, favourable environmental conditions,” Deshmukh told TOI.According to him, the SIRM model was physical in nature and numerically calculations were illustrated, but presented graphically. Also, special cases have been discussed by considering the impact of prevention factor.“The importance of the study is that prevention factor decreases infection rate, increases recovery rate and a very low mortality is observed. In this model, the current scenario of entire world is discussed and working of prevention factor in different situations is analysed. It was concluded that accuracy may vary depending on population, and conditions mentioned in the model,” Deshmukh, also the former NU science dean, said.IMPORTANT OBSERVATIONS* When infection is less than carrying capacity of population, its rate from person to person decreases, and recovery & mortality varies with time* When infection is more than carrying capacity of population, its rate increases from person to person with time, but recovery & mortality reduces* When infection is equal to carrying capacity of population, its transmission rate is negligible||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/3-nu-profs-develop-mathematical-model-of-covid-19-spread/articleshow/75767123.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
May 16, 2020||Business||Donald Trump threatens to tax companies producing outside US||WASHINGTON: US President Donald Trump has threatened to slap new taxes on American companies like Apple to dissuade them from moving their manufacturing bases from China to countries like India and Ireland instead of the US amid the Covid-19 pandemic. In an interview with Fox Business News, Trump said that taxation was an incentive for the firms to return manufacturing bases to the US. “Apple said now they’re going to go to India. They’re going to do some production in India away from China,” he was asked. “If they do, you know, we gave Apple a little bit of a break because they’re competing with a company that was a part of a trade deal that we made. So it was a little bit unfair to Apple, but we’re not allowing this anymore. You know if we wanted to put up our own border like other countries do to us, Apple would build 100% of their product in the United States. That’s the way it would work,” he said. According to the New York Post, Apple is looking to shift a significant portion of its production to India from China. Supply lines of many tech companies manufacturing in China were disrupted after the deadly coronavirus outbreak in the Chinese city of Wuhan. “These..firms have to get on the ball because they’re going not only to China...You look at where they’re going... They’re going to India and they’re going to Ireland and they’re going all over the place, they make them,” Trump said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/international-business/donald-trump-threatens-to-tax-companies-producing-outside-us/articleshow/75768978.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Delhi||In just 10 days, Rs 100 crore of booze sold in Delhi||NEW DELHI: In just 10 days since it opened a handful of shops, the excise department managed to register MRP sales of liquor worth more than Rs 100 crore in MRP in the capital, earning about Rs 65 crore as special corona fee and almost the same amount as excise duty at a time when other revenue sources for Delhi government have almost dried up due to the extended lockdown. In fact, with high sale volume and new tax structure, excise department's average revenue collection per day is only marginally less than what it earned in last fiscal. In 2019, the excise department, through a network of 860-odd stores and 800-odd bars, pubs and clubs, sold liquor worth Rs 20-22 crore every day and managed to earn an average revenue of Rs 15 crore per day as excise duty.  However, with no bar or club opened and just 20% of the total shops opened, it is recording average MRP sales of Rs 10 crore. Apart from about Rs 6-6.5 core as duty, the excise department is also collecting additional revenue of Rs 7 crore as special corona fee. The Delhi government had opened a few liquor stores on May 4 and levied 70% additional tax on maximum retail price of the bottle as special corona fee. According to the data available with TOI, the excise department recorded a total sale of almost Rs 101 crore since May 4.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/in-just-10-days-rs-100-crore-of-booze-sold-in-delhi/articleshow/75768979.cms||Atul Mathur
May 16, 2020||Delhi||Man kills partner, sleeps with body in Delhi's Rohini||NEW DELHI: A 34-year-old man murdered his live-in partner and then slept with the body for five hours before informing police about it, at Kanjhawala village in Rohini. He had sexually assaulted the 30-year-old woman before and after murdering her. When cops reached the spot, they found the body naked on the floor. The couple used to work at a nearby factory and have been staying together for around two months since they could not return to their hometown due to the lockdown. Satpal walked to Kanjhawala police station around 2am on Thursday and confessed to the murder. The cops immediately arrested him. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/man-kills-partner-sleeps-with-body-in-delhis-rohini/articleshow/75768985.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Business||Economy can't be locked down for long, have to live with Covid: SBI chairman||NEW DELHI: The chairman of the country’s biggest bank is clear that economic activity needs to resume and it is the pace of recovery that will determine the damage to the economy and bank books. Rajnish Kumar points out that any loss to GDP will get distributed to government, businesses and individuals and thus impact banks. In an interview to TOI, Kumar speaks of what is required. How much of the loans are likely to turn into NPAs?Our scenario analysis depends on how quickly the lockdown is lifted and what is the pace of recovery thereafter. If there is a GDP loss it will get distributed among the government, corporates and individuals. Corporate profits are down. Ultimately this gets reflected in the balance sheet of banks. How much loans go bad depend on the pace of recovery. What is the state of the economy? Is it worse than the worst-case scenario in the financial stability report?The financial stability report has a base case, medium severity and high severity scenario. I think we are between the base case and medium severity scenario. The position will be clearer once we exit the lockdown. One thing that is becoming clear from the pronouncement of WHO and other agencies is that the World will have to learn to live with Covid-19 and economic activity cannot be kept under lockdown for a long period. We have to find ways to ensure that the virus does not spread and the economic activity resumes. While a lot of activity is happening in rural areas it is the unfortunately cities that contribute the most to GDP that are badly impacted. Ultimately for economic activity to come back, it is important for consumption points to become operational. Will the Rs 20 lakh crore package help?Thursday’s announcement was around MSME, NBFC and the power sector. Liquidity has already been provided by RBI and the government has provided risk capital by providing guarantees to NBFCs and MSMEs and state governments will probably be guaranteeing obligations of the power distribution companies. The liquidity support coupled with the guarantee will help businesses and control non-performing loans in this sector. The money will be used by MSMEs for working capital including the purchase of raw material. Everything will depend on how quickly we come out of the lockdown. What other measures do you think are required?I am very confident that the next set of announcements will be on increasing investment. I think they will be around easing the laws around production, setting up manufacturing facilities, availability of land and labour laws are major issues. So, the reforms around factors of production and factor productivity, the next set of reforms should be around that. This is also a dilemma for the government whether to put more money in productive sectors like infrastructure or put more into the hands of people. What is needed to protect the financial system?Banks and intermediaries have to be proactive in managing asset quality particularly in the corporate book. There is some help from the regulator and the government. The 90-day moratorium and government support to NBFC, MSME and power sector will improve the cash flows and reduce delinquencies. In the power sector bank exposure so far as it is to state and centre it is safe. As far as independent producers are concerned the guarantee will help. The three-month moratorium to borrowers will end in two weeks, should it be extended?It is difficult to say. This is a call that RBI has to take. It would all depend on how the lockdown exit strategy works and how quickly the system comes back to normal. A restructuring may not be required immediately. It will be sector specific and case to case. A picture will emerge in the second quarter. Would a `bad bank’ help lenders to deal with NPAs after the lockdown?Banks books have been cleaned up as most of the loans have been fully provided for. There are certain advantages outlined in the concept paper prepared at IBA. It is all about resolution. There are a lot of cases going in NCLT. Decision making will be centralised and maybe become faster and more professional. I think more discussion is required at RBI and government level. Banks have been parking nearly Rs 8 lakh crore with RBI. When will lending start?There is excess liquidity in the system. In April 2020 we got Rs 1.25 lakh crore as deposits as against Rs 14,000 crore in April 2019. A lot of money has come from central and state governments and our increase in market share shows that there has been a flight to safety. There is usually a negative growth in credit in April every year and as we are in surplus there is no choice but to park with RBI. Demand can come only when economic activity picks up. What can be done to spur demand?Ultimately it is investment that leads to jobs and when there are jobs demand will come. Other than that putting money in the hands of consumers also leads to demand. The Rs 40,000 crore transferred to JDY account in that sense is consumption money. But at the same time unemployment has gone up which will suppress demand. The cycle of investment and consumption needs to be revived and the government has to do a balancing act between spending on consumption and spending on infrastructure. Do you continue to fund NBFCs? Have you extended a moratorium to them?We are helping NBFCS in every manner. We disbursed funds in March. The government guarantee will ensure credit flow to NBFCs, especially those who do not command a high rating. We have been providing moratorium on a case to case basis. Bank staff has been under strain working during the lockdown. Unlike other businesses work from home option is not available to many..Strategies are being worked out on what type of work can be done (remotely) after taking into consideration system securities. We are trying to ensure that a certain percentage of workforce will have the flexibility to work from anywhere. The work is going on and we will have a blueprint in a month or so.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/eco-cant-be-locked-down-for-long-sbi/articleshow/75768982.cms||Mayur Shetty
May 16, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka government gives Rs 512 crore relief for maize farmers, Asha workers||BENGALURU: The Karnataka government on Friday announced its third and final economic package worth Rs 512 crore, giving relief to maize growers and rewarding Accredited Social Health Activists (Asha) for selfless and spirited service in the fight against coronavirus. About 10 lakh maize farmers will get Rs 5,000 each, and 40,250 social-health activists get Rs 3,000 each through co-operative institutions as part of this package. The cash assistance to farmers and health workers will cost the government Rs 500 crore and Rs 12 crore, respectively. This comes on the back of two packages, worth Rs 1,610 crore and Rs 162 crore, which were announced earlier. Will help left-out ryots if finances improve: CMThe first two packages were announced to help workers from the unorganised sector. “Given the limitations, we’ve done what’s possible to help those in distress. There will be no more packages,” chief minister BS Yediyurappa said, adding, “We’ve decided to help maize growers as they are under distress owing to price crash and reward health workers for their fight against Covid-19.” The CM said farmers left out of the package may get help if the government’s financial situation recovers in the coming months. As frontline warriors, thousands of Asha workers are helping doctors, nurses and paramedical staff in the state in containing the spread of the infection. Some workers came under attack by aggrieved people while they were on the job – during contact tracing, testing or looking after those in isolation wards of state-run hospitals. The state government pays Asha workers Rs 7,000 a month, and the Centre contributes two thirds of it. After Yediyurappa announced the first package, opposition parties had urged the state government to extend cash assistance to tailors, priests, carpenters and others. The CM promised help only after the Covid-19 crisis abates.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-government-gives-rs-512-crore-relief-for-maize-farmers-asha-workers/articleshow/75768980.cms||Anil Gejji
May 16, 2020||Gurgaon||E-passes: Haryana to ask Delhi to give employee details||GURUGRAM: A day after the state gave an undertaking in the Delhi high court that it would issue e-passes within 30 minutes of receiving an application from persons engaged with essential service providers, it will now ask the Delhi government to provide details of their employees who require e-passes to enter or exit Haryana districts. Haryana also plans to start issuing e-passes to healthcare professionals within 30 minutes from Saturday. “The software needs to be changed for it generate passes within half an hour,” Vijayendra Kumar, Haryana principal secretary (general administration department), told TOI. “We are going to ask Delhi government departments to register with us. They will be given a username, login ID and password to furnish their employees’ details so that applicants can be verified. All institutions providing essential services, including hospitals, will have to follow the same process,” he said. After institutions provide the details, employees will have to apply on the Saral Haryana portal for e-passes. Portal operators will call up the institution and verify that the applicant is employed with them. The portal will also check the applicant’s details on the Aarogya Setu database to verify if they are registered on its app and are Covid-free. “After verification, the applicants will be issued e-passes within 30 minutes or earlier,” Kumar added. Authorities are considering using Aadhaar card numbers to verify applications of those who are essential service providers but don’t belong to one particular organisation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/e-passes-state-to-ask-delhi-to-give-employee-details/articleshow/75768073.cms||Vishakha Chaman
May 16, 2020||Kolkata||Oil-for-fish bait kills Gangetic dolphins||Kolkata: An independent investigation, spanning over a year (2019), by city-based NGO Human and Environment Alliance League (HEAL) has unearthed large-scale killing of Ganges river dolphin — an endangered species and the national aquatic animal of India — along the banks of the Ganges in Murshidabad and Malda for oil trade and medicinal purposes. The report has been submitted to the state’s chief wildlife warden. Field workers revealed that at least 50, including juvenile, Gangetic dolphins — protected under Schedule I of the Wildlife Protection Act — are killed every year in the said stretch. Meghna Banerjee of HEAL said their probe was primarily carried out in October-November 2019 in areas by the Ganges river bank in Malda and Murshidabad. “We conducted investigations here to understand the extent of dolphin trade in a stretch of about 150 kms. Dolphin oil is primarily used by fishermen as bait to catch freshwater catfish. It attracts larger number of fish, making the use of oil commercially lucrative,” Banerjee said, adding that the oil is also used for treating joint pain and healing wounds. According to HEAL’s Suvrojyoti Chatterjee, after the dolphin is cut open, the blubber (fat) is stored in a drum. “According to the fishermen, it takes a few months for the oil to gain its properties. The older the oil, the better and costlier it is,” he added. Gangetic dolphins are found in the Ganges-Brahmaputra-Meghna and Karnaphuli-Sangu river systems of India, Nepal and Bangladesh. Recent population estimates in its entire distribution range recorded over 2,500 individuals. Of this, almost 80% are within Indian territory. Its poaching can result in imprisonment of up to seven years. “When the dolphins are caught in fishing nets, the fishermen, instead of releasing the dolphins, capture them for extracting the oil. If the dolphin is found dead, they retain the carcass instead of disposing it of. The trade is widespread along Farakka, in both the Ganges and Padma rivers,” says the report. In some areas, particularly in Malda, oil and blubber are also reportedly bought from Bihar and sold locally by fishermen or middlemen. Among the areas in Murshidabad where the trade is rampant are Jafargunge, Dhuliyan, Diara Ghat, Nimtita and Jiaganj. In Malda, the dolphin oil trade is rampant in Rajnagar ghat, Khasmahal ghat, Binpara ghat and Sukullapur. Chief wildlife warden Ravi Kant Sinha said Nimtita-based trader Sudhir Mondal was recently arrested and remanded in jail custody for 14 days. “We are also opposing his bail under relevant sections of wildlife protection act and have informed Wildlife Crime Control Bureau (WCCB) about the trade,” Sinha added. Chatterjee said police superintendents of both the districts are also welcome to join them and the forest department in creating awareness among the villagers. Earlier reports suggest that this cruel practice dates back to the 1960s. According to a report of 2002, the oil is used as a bait to catch primarily two species of freshwater catfishes — Eutropiichthys vacha, (basha) and Clupisoma garua, (ghaora). It had also suggested use of oil from fish scraps as an effective alternative to dolphin oil as fish attractant. Oil from fish scraps is inexpensive and can be made readily available to fishermen. The reports had suggested scraps from fish — especially from rohu, catla and mrigal — as an effective alternative for the fishermen. Gangetic River Dolphin IUCN status | Endangered National aquatic animal of India Found in the Ganges-Brahmaputra-Meghna and Karnaphuli-Sangu river systems of India, Nepal and Bangladesh Recent population estimates in its entire distribution range recorded over 2,500 individuals. Of this, almost 80% are within Indian territory||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/oil-for-fish-bait-kills-gangetic-dolphins/articleshow/75767378.cms||Krishnendu Mukherjee
May 16, 2020||Business||General insurance companies retain 90% of April business||BENGALURU: General insurance companies managed to retain 90% of the business they saw last April and reported total premiums collected for April 2020 of Rs 14,206 crore on higher premium from fire and health. Industry persons say that the high collection rate despite a lockdown was a pointer to the resilience of the industry and the shift to digital payments. Also a 25% hike in fire insurance rates by GIC helped improve collections. While segment figures are still not available - insurers said the trend of people buying more health insurance in the wake of the Coronavirus pandemic can be seen in standalone health insurers posting a 7% year-over-year increase to Rs 888 crore for the month of April 2020. The country’s largest insurer, New India posted a 7% growth of Rs 3,161 crore in the midst of a pandemic - bucking the industry trend of 10% decline. NIAs performance helped Public-sector companies fare better than the private sector; with only a 6% decline in premium to Rs 6,559 crore, compared to private players who saw a sharper decline of 16% to Rs 6,722 crore. “We were tenacious this time in ensuring we communicated with every customer on renewals and that paid off. We could have grown higher had it not been for motor. For the whole industry, motor is bleeding - no new business and a dip in renewals,” said Atul Sahai, CEO, New India. For motor and health policies, where the premium has been due since March 25, the last date for renewal is May 15, 2020. “Existing individual policyholders and corporates have been very conscious in renewing health policies in the wake of Coronavirus - even though an extension for payment had been granted,” said the CEO of a private insurer, which has currently entered its silent period for Q1 results. “With regard to motor, there’s been a sharp dip in motor renewals from commercial vehicles. No doubt truckers felt deferment would be cost-effective. Also the industry has been posting losses with the lockdown. May numbers would give a clearer indication - given the grace period IRDAI gave for March and April,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/general-insurance-companies-retain-90-of-april-business/articleshow/75769013.cms||Rachel Chitra
May 16, 2020||Chandigarh||Cancer patient, 55-year-old test Covid-19 positive in Panchkula||PANCHKULA: A 63-year-old cancer patient is among two people to test positive for Covid-19 here on Friday, taking the count to 25. The Sector 10 woman went to a private hospital in Mohali for chemotherapy a few days back. She later visted a private hospital here, which took her samples, said Panchkula civil surgeon Dr Jasjeet Kaur. The civil surgeon said the hospital informed the administration, which shifted the patient to an isolation ward at General Hospital, Sector 6. “We have quarantined five family members of the woman. We have also taken their samples.” The second patient is a 55-year-old resident of Sector 21. The civil surgeon said the man had come to General Hospital flu clinic. His samples were taken. “He was having symptoms of flu. He approached the hospital flu clinic. He was shifted to isolation ward. His wife and son were quarantined. Their samples were sent for testing,” she said. The report would arrive tomorrow.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/cancer-patient-55-year-old-test-covid-19-positive-in-panchkula/articleshow/75769018.cms||Barinderjit Saluja
May 16, 2020||Chandigarh||Hold meet with MHA before relaxations: Punjab and Haryana high court||CHANDIGARH: Observing that if everything has been opened in Chandigarh during the lockdown, why not open courts and temples as well, the Punjab and Haryana high court on Friday directed the UT administration to conduct a meeting with officials of the ministry of home affairs (MHA) within 24 hours before giving any relaxation. The court directed UT to give relaxations in consonance with the guidelines of the ministry. The court order stated, "Chandigarh and the ministry of home affairs would sit together today itself and resolve all these issues latest by tomorrow and in case any cause for issuing rectifications arises, the same would be done. It is also stated by the counsel for the Union Territory that in future as well the administration shall continue to strictly implement the MHA guidelines regarding Covid-19 and consult and seek clarifications from the MHA, in case so required or advised." The directions were given on a PIL filed by advocate Pankaj Chandgothia against the lifting of curfew by the administration. The court on Thursday had pointed out that here are contradictions and dichotomy between the ministry orders and that of the administration and directed the UT to file a reply on a slew of issues The UT told the court it acted as per the guidelines in identifying containment zones within the red zones. "Case mapping and contact mapping was conducted, and it was found that positive cases were not being reported from the whole of the city but were concentrated in certain areas. As per mapping, the areas were declared containment zones," the UT said. On unrestricted inter-state movement from Mohali and Panchkula without any pass, the UT said it is in touch with the administrations of Panchkula and Mohali and has placed thermal screening points on exit points of Chandigarh and allow travel after verification. "Chandigarh, being a Tricity, has a unique administrative positioning being the capital of Punjab and Haryana. Keeping that in mind, the administration in consultation with administration of Panchkula and Mohali has regulated the flow of vehicles. In case, the movement is stopped, it will amount to prohibition on travel of any state official out of Chandigarh and lead to chaos for both the states," the UT told the court. On opening of shops, the UT said there are no standalone shops in Chandigarh and shops in the markets are following odd-even policy for opening. Vehicular traffic is allowed in consonance with the ministry guidelines, the UT said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hold-meet-with-mha-before-relaxations-punjab-and-haryana-high-court/articleshow/75769028.cms||Neha Sharma
May 16, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka government may allow cabs, buses, autos on limited scale from Monday||BENGALURU: Lockdown 4.0 may see further opening up of economic activity, particularly public transport, sports and fitness centres in the state. The state government on Friday indicated it’s in favour of resumption of public transport including buses, autorickshaws and cabs from May 18 on a limited scale provided it gets the Centre’s nod. “We’re awaiting the home ministry guidelines which is expected on Saturday or Sunday. If we’re given a free hand, we’ll definitely ease the lockdown by 90%,” said a senior minister. Chief minister BS Yediyurappa was optimistic: “I think the Centre will lift virtually all restrictions. It may not give permission to services like five-star hotels for now.” According to sources, the government has proposed complete relaxation in its exit plan submitted to the Centre on Wednesday while assuring it would ensure strict adherence to health and home ministry guidelines on Covid-19. The state is looking at changes in classification criteria for red, green and orange zones. Fewer curbs at red, orange zonesThe state government hopes the Centre will accede to its demand to shift from district classification to containment zones. However, sources said colour coding of districts and declaring containment zones on the basis of positive cases will stay, though with fewer curbs on economic activities, workplaces, business operations, factories and manufacturing units in non-containment red and orange zones. E-commerce may be allowed for non-essential goods in red zones too. Deputy chief minister CN Ashwath Narayan said it’s time to learn to live with coronavirus. “Having succeeded in keeping positive cases low by ensuring stringent lockdown for almost two months, it’s time to resume economic activities to maintain the balance between health and livelihood,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-government-may-allow-cabs-buses-autos-on-limited-scale-from-monday/articleshow/75769009.cms||Anil Gejji
May 16, 2020||Chandigarh||35 slay coronavirus, no active case lodged in Mohali||MOHALI: As many as 35 Covid-19 patients were discharged in a single day on Friday, the highest so far in a development that prompted civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh to announce that Mohali has no active case now. As many as 95 of the 105 total cases in the district have recovered. Three patients had died. The civil surgeon said the remaining seven active cases, while being from Mohali, are under isolation at Patiala (2), Ludhiana (3) and Ropar (2). Discharged patients belong to different parts of the district. Out of these, the civil surgeon said 22 are Sikh pilgrims who had returned from Hazoor Sahib, Nanded, Maharashtra, nine are from Jawaharpur and four from Nayagaon. The civil surgeon said that according to the revised discharge guidelines that were issued by the Punjab health department, Covid-19 patients who display no symptoms of the disease for 10 days of admission to a Covid care facility can be discharged from a hospital. The recovered patients thanked the doctors and other staff. Besides quality treatment, they said their needs of food and drink were also taken care of. They appealed to people not to be scared of the illness and take good diet and precautions. The civil surgeon also appealed to people not to leave their homes and go out only in case of urgent need. He asked them to visit hospitals in case of serious problems only. Instead of going to hospitals, he said they could call on the health department's helpline number 104 for expert advice. He also asked people to wash their hands frequently and maintain distance from each other. District epidemiologist Dr Renu Singh and Dr Harmandeep Kaur were also present on the occasion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/35-slay-coronavirus-no-active-case-lodged-in-mohali/articleshow/75769034.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Thane||Pregnant Thane woman taken to hospital after 12 hours||THANE: A 32-year-old pregnant woman from Chandanwadi and her five-year-old daughter who tested positive to Covid-19 were allegedly made to wait for nearly 12 hours, till Thursday night, before the Thane civic body could arrange an ambulance to ferry them to hospital. Neighbours and relatives called for the vehicle at 11.30am. “Her husband tested positive few days back and her report came positive on Thursday. It was appalling to see them wait. Basic facilities are lacking,” said BJP corporator Narayan Pawar, who will approach chief minister Uddhav Thackeray. Congress ex-corporator Sanjay Ghadigaonkar said TMC was doing little for mitigation of the pandemic. Civic officials said they had four ambulances for a population of 22 lakh. “After each trip, vehicles are sanitised, which is adding to delay,” said officials. Cabinet minister and Thane guardian minister Eknath Shinde directed TMC to deploy 10 ambulances on contract basis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/pregnant-thane-woman-taken-to-hospital-after-12-hours/articleshow/75769037.cms||Manoj Badgeri
May 16, 2020||Business||Berger Paints to enter home, personal hygiene biz||Kolkata: After FMCG companies like ITC and Emami, the paints companies are also entering the rapidly growing sanitiser market following the Covid-19 pandemic. Paints major Berger Paints is going to produce sanitiser commercially and entering home and personal hygiene space across the country. Berger would be the third paints company to launch sanitiser after Asian paints and JSW Paints did the same in the last fortnight. India’s sanitiser market, a small segment even a couple of months ago, could touch Rs 500-crore mark his year. Abhijit Roy, MD & CEO of Berger Paints India (BPIL), told TOI on Friday that the sanitiser and home spray of Berger Paints would hit the stand in the next few days. The sanitiser brand of Berger, one of the leaders in decorative paints in the country, will be Breathe Easy. The company sells paints under the same brand. “The government had requested us to produce sanitiser that is why we are entering into this space of health and hygiene. We have already informed stock exchanges regarding this,” he added. On Thursday, JSW Paints announced a foray into the hand sanitiser segment in the domestic market with plans to roll out a disinfectant under brand Securall this month. BPIL will produce sanitiser in its Rishra and Goa plants for now and later on, in other plants as well. “The production line of sanitiser is different, so there will be different demarcated area for this,” he Added. In the new normal, the company is expecting a good demand for its health and hygiene ranges. Post-Covid, Berger plans to take Silk Breathe Easy Paint, Express Painting to rural areas and smaller towns. According to industry experts, the sanitiser market in India used to be worth only Rs 114 crore. But in February 2020 itself, there was a sales surge of 50% compared to February 2019 and in March the spike in demand is almost 100%, which has gone up by 250% in April itself. Paints, however, come under non-essential services. ITC has already entered sanitiser space with Savlon while Emami did it through extension of Boroplus brand and G D Pharmaceuticals, the maker of the iconic antiseptic cream Boroline, has started producing its hand sanitiser Ruksha. “Savlon has been relentless in its pursuit to serve a national priority and a key step has been to accelerate innovations that can offer significant anti-viral & anti-bacterial protection,” an ITC spokesperson said. In order to meet an unprecedented spurt in demand for hand sanitiser, ITC had earlier changed its production line at its newly installed perfume plant in Himachal Pradesh to a sanitiser manufacturing unit. ================== SAFETY AT HANDS # Berger paints is introducing sanitiser under Breath Easy brand # Asian Paints has already entered sanitiser space a few days back # City-based ITC, Emami, G D Pharmaceuticals are making sanitisers # Some other pharma companies joined the space in last 2 months # India’s sanitiser market is growing at three-digit rate||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/berger-paints-to-enter-home-personal-hygiene-biz/articleshow/75766836.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Pay your water bills for February, March by May 30, June 15||CHANDIGARH: After a gap of almost two-and-a half months, the engineering department of the municipal corporation (MC) has finally resumed the exercise to incur water charges from consumers. Two slots have been decided. Residents who had to pay their water bills up to the month of February in March have been given time till May 30 to make the payment. The payment for March can be deposited till June 15. According to the records of the engineering department of the MC, 40,000 consumers could not pay their previous water bill charges for February due to the coronavirus pandemic, leaving the authority short of Rs 5 crore. The MC had given out water bills up to the month of February before the curfew to consumers of all the segments and started distributing bills for March two days back. The date to pay the water bills for the month of April will be decided in coming few days. "We have managed to take the reading of water consumption of many consumers. The remaining water bills are being sent on the basis of average water consumption. Moreover, a 15-day gap has been given to consumers to make the payment for February and March. Sufficient time will be given to make the payment for April and May too," said an MC official. Shailender Singh, chief engineer, MC, said, "While the e-sampark centres of the city are going to open in coming few days and most likely by Monday, the consumers can make the payment through online mode also. There are around 1.80 lakh water consumers in the city, according to records of the engineering department of the municipal corporation. The civic body spends Rs 170 crore to 180 crore to provide the supply to consumers and earns around Rs 80 crore to 90 crore in return.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/chandigarh-pay-your-water-bills-for-february-march-by-may-30-june-15/articleshow/75769041.cms||Deepak Yadav
May 16, 2020||Kolkata||FM’s 3rd package not enough: Bengal parties||Kolkata/New Delhi: Opposition parties in West Bengal expressed reservations on Friday over the third tranche of the government’s Covid-19 economic package. Senior Trinamool Congress MP Saugata Roy said the finance minister had arranged for bank loans when the immediate need was direct cash transfers to farmers. “Many economists have been suggesting cash transfers to create demand. This is an extraordinary situation and the government has to respond accordingly. The finance minister spent little from government coffers to address the crisis. The support she promised was all through banks,” Roy said. Lok Sabha Congress leader Adhir Chowdhury said the Centre had failed to address pressing problems. “Taking long-term measures to build infrastructure and supply chain for the farm sector is being discussed for long. The priority today is bringing back migrants and boosting demand. The Centre has been taking care of only the supply side. There is no immediate relief for the people,” he said. CPM’s Sujan Chakrabarty said the finance minister’s announcements on Friday were based on misplaced priorities. “Which is more important: fighting foot-and-mouth disease among livestock or fighting Covid-19? The minister reiterated her budgetary promises without an eye on the immediate problem.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/fms-3rd-package-not-enough-bengal-parties/articleshow/75768405.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Kolkata||Outgoing Siliguri mayor turns down chairman’s post||Siliguri/Kolkata: The Bengal government on Friday appointed outgoing Siliguri mayor and CPM leader Ashok Bhattacharya as chairperson of the board of councillors to oversee municipal activities in the town in view of the pandemic, two days before the elected board completes its five-year tenure on May 17. Bhattacharya turned down the offer minutes after the state notification. Bhattacharya accused the state government of “making a difference” between Kolkata and Siliguri in the new arrangement. “The state government appointed a board of administrators comprising outgoing mayor Firhad Hakim and mayor-in-council members to run essential services. The government could have formed the board of councillors for Siliguri with the outgoing mayor and the seven existing mayor-in-council members. But it didn’t. For Siliguri, the government appointed five Trinamool councillors in addition to the MMICs in the board of councillors. I want to know why councillors from the opposition were left out,” he said. The state government invoked its powers under Section 11(4) of the West Bengal Municipal Corporation Act, 2006, to set up the board of councillors. The Act, however, doesn’t say anything about the composition of the nominated board. The government set up similar board of councillors for a host of other municipalities, namely Uluberia, Rampurhat, Joynagar, Jalpaiguri, Tufanganj, and Gayeshpur, on Friday. Bhattacharya made a U-turn and refused to take over as chairman of the board of councillors when he found that he has to run the board with seven outgoing mayor-in-council and five Trinamool councillors, marking a departure from the arrangement made for KMC. “Why did the government leave out opposition councillors in KMC?” Bhattacharya asked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/outgoing-siliguri-mayor-turns-down-chairmans-post/articleshow/75768400.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Kolkata||Chronicler of ‘Teesta Parer Brityanta’ dies at 83||Kolkata: Noted writer Deb-esh Roy, known best for his ‘Teesta Parer Brityanta’, wh-ich won him the Sahitya Akademi award in 1990, breathed his last at a city hospital late on Thursday. On Friday, his Covid-19 report was said to be negative. Roy was 83 and is survived by his son. Among his other best-loved works are ‘Borishaler Jogen Mondal’, ‘Manush Khun Kore Keno’ and ‘Samay Asamayer Brityanta’. His stories have highlighted class struggle and the inequalities in social systems. ‘Teesta Parer Brityanta’ takes one back to the 1970s when a large part of the land of north Bengal, especially Jalpaiguri, was being assessed by settlement officers. It speaks about land having been amassed by landlords and the tyranny they unleashed on those who worked on this land.  The book took the world of fiction by storm, and critics started comparing his work with those by the likes of Manik Bandyopadhyay. Roy was born in Pabna in what is now Bangladesh on December 17, 1936. His first book was ‘Jajati’. CM Mamata Banerjee expressed deep sorrow in her condolence message. She described Roy as a writer who broke set patterns of fiction. Roy was suffering from sodium-potassium imbalance, high blood sugar and breathing distress. On Thursday, he suffered a heart attack and died in hospital at 10.50pm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/chronicler-of-teesta-parer-brityanta-dies-at-83/articleshow/75768407.cms||---
May 16, 2020||Ranchi||Rims oncology to restart from May 20||Ranchi: After nearly two months of closure, the oncology department of Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (Rims) is set to resume its operations, partially from May 20. The hospital management on Friday directed the oncology unit to begin attending to patients, while on the other hand, the state department of health, medical education and family welfare asked all civil surgeons to resume OPD services in government and private health facilities in their respective districts. The oncology department, which caters to medical, radiation and surgical oncological services, was shut for new patients since the lockdown was announced and weren’t admitting new patients. With the lockdown continuing for more than 50 days, the department issued guidelines with strict protocols for resuming OPDs, chemotherapy and surgeries so that new patients can be attended to on a daily basis. As per the guidelines, a screening area is being set up for OPD patients wherein a team of doctors will screen the patients as per ICMR norms and provide appointment. Patients visiting the chemotherapy and radiation wards will be apprised of precautions and treated on a rotational basis to reduce the chance of contracting the virus. Head of the oncology department, DR Anup Kumar said, “Majority of oncology centres are either shut or functioning partially in the state leading to inconvenience to patients. As cancer patients have 40% more chances than others to get infected by Covid-19 due to the lack of immunity, we have come up with a detailed guideline on ensuring consultation and patient care with all necessary precautions. We will start attending to patients of medical and radiation oncology from May 20. For patients in need of surgery, we are working on the logistical and manpower arrangements.” Kumar further added, “We are planning an alternate roster so that we do not deploy any health worker on Covid duty keeping risk to cancer patients in mind.” Meanwhile, the state health department issued protocols for enabling essential health services and directed all deputy commissioners and civil surgeons to ensure uninterrupted services for patients with maternal issues, newborns and child health. The district health authorities have been also been directed to take necessary steps for prevention and management of communicable diseases and to keep healthcare centres ready for attending to patients with chronic diseases and emergencies. State health secretary Nitin Madan Kulkarni said, “The government has asked all its district health care units to keep designated wards for expecting mothers at the district hospitals. The deputy commissioners have also been asked to exempt people who need to visit healthcare facilities be it private or state-owned. Dialysis centres and chemotherapy sessions are being carried out on a regular basis. All district administrations have been asked to cater to patients who need medical attention promptly. Helpline numbers have been issued to those providing medicines and pick and drop services for patients who need medical attention.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/rims-oncology-to-restart-from-may-20/articleshow/75766411.cms||Gaurav Pandey
May 16, 2020||Ranchi||Medica gets nod to collect samples for Covid tests||Ranchi: In order to boost the number of Covid-19 tests in Jharkhand, the state health department on Friday authorised Medica hospital, Ranchi to collect swab and blood samples and send them for RT-PCR tests to their Kolkata lab. The approval comes five days after the private hospital received ICMR’s approval for testing Covid-19 samples at its Kolkata facility. Talking to TOI, MD, National Health Mission (NHM) Shailesh Chourasia said, “We received a proposal from Medica Hospital, Ranchi, for collection and testing of Covid-19 samples in Jharkhand based on their approval from ICMR to their lab in Kolkata. After examining the proposal and their certification issued by ICMR, we have provided an approval to start testing at their Kolkata lab and have directed them to follow safety protocols during the collection and testing of samples as per the guidelines issued by ICMR.” The Medica hospital group will facilitate the collection of samples through their state-of-the-art diagnostic centre in the city and provide the test results within 48 hours of sample collection. The hospital chain has also been directed to share the details of collection and test results on a daily basis to the state IDSP authorities without fail and not charge more than Rs 4,500 per test which has been fixed by state government. With Medica hospitals getting the approval, the number of private entities conducting sample testing in the state rose to six as Dr Lal Path Labs, SRL limited, Core diagnostics and Path Kind diagnostics were allowed by the state health department on May1. Tata Main Hospital has also been authorised to test Covid-19 samples in Jamshedpur. On being inquired about the commencement of their operations, assistant vice president (operations), Medica group of hospitals, Anil Kumar said, “Soon after we received the approval for testing Covid-19 samples on May 10 for our Kolkata lab, we approached the state government with our proposal. We will be collecting samples from individuals and send them for testing to our Kolkata lab the same day so that we can provide the results within 48 hours as per the directions of ICMR.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/medica-gets-nod-to-collect-samples-for-covid-tests/articleshow/75766439.cms||Gaurav Pandey
May 16, 2020||Kolkata||Centre softens after Bengal protest on Vande evacuees||Kolkata: A full-scale Twitter war erupted on Friday between the Bengal government and the Centre over bringing back its citizens stuck abroad and return of migrants stranded in other states. In a late-night development, the Centre welcomed the willingness of the state to accept returnees from abroad. The MEA requested the Bengal government to confirm the modalities to be followed upon arrival of passengers at Kolkata airport. Earlier on Friday, state education minister Partha Chatterjee blamed the Centre for leaving Bengal out of in-bound international flights to states, even as railway minister Piyush Goyal expressed dismay over the Bengal government requisitioning 105 trains till June that can carry a maximum 1.5 to 2 lakh workers out of the nearly 30 lakh stranded. The state home secretary also responded to a tweet from the ministry of external affairs claiming that it was waiting for the state’s nod to repatriate 3,700 international passengers to Bengal. The state uploaded a letter to the Centre dated May 11, wherein the Bengal government had detailed the arrangements necessary for receiving returnees from abroad. The state government’s letter also elaborated the quarantine arrangements, including reservation of 738 hotel rooms. While Kolkata was given the miss by 84 fights that were scheduled to be operated by May 17 in phase one of Vande Bharat to evacuate Indians stranded across the world, the city does not figure among the arrival airports for the 216 flights that are lined up in the next phase. Even smaller airports like Gaya, Srinagar, Vijaywada, Kannur, Tirupati, Lucknow, Trivandrum and Visakhapatnam figure on the list. The uncharacteristic Twitter exchange between MEA and the Bengal home department came after Chatterjee questioning the rationale behind Vande Bharat Mission. The Trinamool Congress secretary-general wrote: “Is the MEA asking us to believe that there are enough people to come from Georgia to Gujarat but none to Kolkata? Also, there are enough people to come back to Bihar from Kyrgyzstan but not enough to bring back to Bengal? Stop this injustice!” Chatterjee’s tweet had a flight schedule of the second phase of Vande Bharat. Kolkata does not figure in it. MEA spokesperson Anurag Srivastava responded — also on Twitter — claiming, “MEA does not discriminate between states. GOI’s Vande Bharat Mission is for all stranded Indians, including those from West Bengal. Over 3,700 of them have registered for repatriation from different parts of the world. Will gladly facilitate flights to Kolkata if state government will confirm arrangements to receive and quarantine. Will also help in return of WB residents through land borders with neighbours. We hope to receive an early response on the matter.” The state home department responded, saying: “GOWB keen to welcome back our people stranded in different countries and has long back communicated its agreement as well as quarantine arrangements details to GOI for special intern-ational inbound journeys.” On Friday, Goyal took a dig over Bengal requisitioning 105 trains to bring back stranded workers. “Each train can carry 1,200 passengers. A total 105 trains can facilitate the return of 1.5 to 2 lakh passengers when a total 30 to 50 lakh migrants from Bengal are stuck in other states,” he said. TMC Rajya Sabha leader Derek O’Brien blamed the Centre, saying: “Pictures never lie. The picture of a child on a trolley bag... They have been left to fend for themselves while the minister was presiding over the Indian Railways with its daily ferrying capacity of 23 million people.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/centre-softens-after-bengal-protest-on-vande-evacuees/articleshow/75768415.cms||Saibal Gupta
May 16, 2020||Kolkata||Gangetic dolphins killed for fish-bait oil||Kolkata: An independent investigation, spanning over a year (2019), by city-based NGO Human and Environment Alliance League (HEAL) has unearthed large-scale killing of the Ganges river dolphin — an endangered species and the national aquatic animal of India — along the banks of the Ganga in Murshidabad and Malda for oil trade and medicinal purposes. Field workers revealed that at least 50 dolphins, including juveniles, are killed every year along the stretch. The report has been submitted to the state’s chief wildlife warden. Meghna Banerjee of HEAL said their probe was primarily carried out in October-November 2019 in areas along the Ganga banks in Malda and Murshidabad. “We conducted investigations here to understand the extent of dolphin trade on a stretch of around 150km. Dolphin oil is primarily used by fishermen as bait. It attracts larger number of fish, making the use of oil commercially lucrative,” Banerjee said, adding that the oil was also used for treating joint pain and healing wounds. According to HEAL’s Suvrojyoti Chatterjee, after a dolphin is cut open, its blubber (fat) is stored in a drum. “According to fishermen, it takes a few months for the oil to gain its properties. The older the oil, the better and costlier it is,” he said. Gangetic dolphins are found in the Ganga-Brahmaputra-Meghna and Karnaphuli-Sangu river systems of India, Nepal and Bangladesh. Recent population estimates in its entire distribution range recorded over 2,500. Almost 80% of them are within Indian territory. Chief wildlife warden Ravi Kant Sinha said Nimtita-based trader Sudhir Mondal was recently arrested and remanded in jail custody for 14 days. “We are opposing his bail under relevant sections of Wildlife Protection Act and have informed Wildlife Crime Control Bureau about the trade,” Sinha added. Full report on www.toi.in||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/gangetic-dolphins-killed-for-fish-bait-oil/articleshow/75768409.cms||Krishnendu Mukherjee
May 16, 2020||Kolkata||Hooghly Net ban challenged in high court||Chandernagore/Kolkata: The Calcutta High court is likely to hear a petition challenging the Hooghly district administrations’s ban on internet services in some stretches, including Chandernagore, till Sunday evening to stop proliferation of fake provocative social media posts. A petition was moved in the HC by a Chandernagore-based lawyer, who claimed the order was illegal and violated fundamental rights in times of a pandemic-induced lockdown. Lawyer Indrajeet Dey’s petition argues that the internet ban “will restrict inhabitants from work, getting food and medicine online, and will compel the residents for cash transactions and will also compel them to go out of their homes for getting their daily needs, and the same might lead to a more vulnerable situation”. “The petition is likely to be heard on Saturday morning,” he said. A division bench of Chief Justice Thottathil B Nair Radhakrishnan and Justice Arijit Banerjee is likely to hear the petition. Meanwhile, in Telinipara, a few shops opened in the troubled zone along with a market. “Eight more persons have been detained for questioning. The situation is under control,” Chandernagore police commissioner Humayun Kabir said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/hooghly-net-ban-challenged-in-high-court/articleshow/75768292.cms||Falguni Banerjee
May 16, 2020||Kolkata||Plasma therapy clinical trial to begin in Kolkata after DCGI nod||KOLKATA: Clinical trial of convalescent plasma therapy is all set to begin in Kolkata with the Drug Control General of India giving its final nod to a collaborative effort by the Council of Scientific & Industrial Research (CSIR) and the Bengal government. The purpose of the trial is to study the efficacy of blood plasma from a recovered Covid-19 patient on a positive patient undergoing treatment. To begin with, willing plasma donors will be screened to select those eligible for donation. “If all goes well, plasma collection might start from Monday,” said Dipyaman Ganguly, principal scientist and associate professor at Indian Institute of Chemical Biology, Kolkata. Patients who have been cured and are healthy can become donors after about three to four weeks of testing negative. At this stage, they are known to have developed an antibody to the virus. Screening of donors, plasma collection, processing and storage will be carried out at the immunohematology and blood transfusion department of Medical College Hospital. Covid survivors who have agreed to donate plasma have been informed and some are expected to turn up at the hospital on Monday. Medical College immunohematology and blood transfusion head Prasun Bhattacharya said, “Our team is ready to go ahead. The process is quite similar to blood donation. But in this case, blood will flow back to the donor, while we extract only the plasma.” Bhattacharya will have in his team two senior resident doctors, four PG trainees, two nurses and technologists. Fully funded and supported by CSIR, the clinical trial will take place in the Covid ward of the Beliaghata ID Hospital, where doctors Yogiraj Ray, Shekhar Ranjan Paul and Biswanath Sharma Biswas will act as the clinical investigators. Unlike convalescent plasma therapy clinical trials elsewhere in the country, where the trial is being conducted on mildly affected patients, here adult patients with both mild and moderate acute respiratory disease syndrome will be recipients of the therapy. “Two hundred ml of plasma each will be administered to selected recipients once daily for two days. Their blood samples will be analysed after a few days of observation for immune response. It will help study why it worked and why it did not. This is a high-end scientific trial,” said Dipyaman Ganguly, who is the principal investigator. “Once we start, we will be able to assess the result partially in about four to six weeks after using on at least 20 patients,” he said. The trial is designed to have about 40 recipients. This is the first plasma therapy clinical trial under CSIR that could garner a considerable financial support||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/plasma-therapy-clinical-trial-to-begin-in-city-after-dcgi-nod/articleshow/75768387.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
May 16, 2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand awaits Centre’s nod to airlift migrants from Andamans||Ranchi/Sindri: The Jharkhand government has written to the Union home ministry seeking clearance for bringing back the state’s stranded migrant workers from the Andaman & Nicobar Islands in a chartered flight, chief minister Hemant Soren said on Friday. Hemant put out a copy of the letter written by Jharkhand chief secretary Sukhdev Singh to Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla on May 12. In his letter, Singh cited the MHA’s permission for inter-state movement for persons stranded due to lockdown and apprised Bhalla of 319-odd migrant workers stranded in the Andaman & Nicobar Islands for over a month. “While registering stranded persons, it has come to our notice that 319 persons of Jharkhand are stuck in the Andaman & Nicobbar Islands for over a month. They are facing extreme financial hardships and are finding it difficult to meet the extra financial burden of boarding and lodging during the lockdown. They and their family members are going through mental agony. Government of Jharkhand has, therefore, decided to bring these persons by special aircraft,” Singh wrote. “It is requested that permission may be granted to run special chartered flight to bring stranded persons to Jharkhand. The flight will originate from Bengaluru and reach Ranchi after taking passengers from Port Blair. Two sorties will be required to transport these 319 persons,” Singh wrote. While Union railway minister Piyush Goyal criticised Hemant’s government for allowing entry of a very few trains, sources in the CMO said, “The permission for the chartered aircraft is pending for four days. The Jharkhand government is ready to bear all expenses of the travel. It is time for the Union government to show its intent and showcase humanitarian approach in rescuing the stranded.” Meanwhile, special trains kept arriving from various parts of the country. Influx of migrant workers and those stranded in Delhi continued to reach Dhanbad on Friday. While 2,814 migrant workers including 1,474 from Kozhikode and 1,340 workers from Chennai, arrived here in two trains, nearly 100 others arrived in a special Delhi-Howrah train. Dhanbad DC Amit Kumar said 369 were from Giridih, 338 from Jamtara, 290 from Garhwa, 262 from Pakur, 226 from Deoghar, 109 from Godda, 105 from Dhanbad, 95 from Sahibganj, 89 from Ranchi, 44 from Bokaro, 38 from West Singhbhum, 34 from Hazaribag and the rest from other districts of the state including 1 each from Bardhhaman and Purulia in West Bengal and 2 from Aurangabad in Bihar. A special train from Telangan’s Ghatkesar arrived at Jaisidih station on Friday morning with close to 1,100 migrants while another train ferrying 1,380 migrants from Andhra Pradesh arrived at Daltonganj.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/jharkhand-awaits-centres-nod-to-airlift-migrants-from-andamans/articleshow/75766455.cms||Dhritiman Ray
