May 17, 2020||India||National portal to track migrants' movement by trains and buses||NEW DELHI: A central online repository on migrant workers moving by Shramik Special trains and buses to reach their native places has been developed by National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) to facilitate their seamless movement across states and also help the sending and receiving states use the ‘National Migrant Information System (NMIS)' dashboard for better coordination, movement monitoring and contact tracing. In a letter sent to all chief secretaries on Saturday, home secretary Ajay Bhalla urged them to use the online portal NMIS for capturing the information on movement of migrants and for better inter-state coordination. States can upload batch file of individual migrants' data on the portal. As many states have already collected migrant data, this can be integrated through Application Programming Interface, Bhalla told the chief secretaries. The key data pertaining to the persons migrating has been standardised for uploading such as name, age, mobile no, aadhaar number, originating & destination district, persons accompanying, date of travel etc, which states are already collecting. States/UTs, Ministry of Railways and other stakeholders would be able to access the portal for decision support. By having all information relating to movement of migrants -- each to whom will be allowed a unique ID to be used for all transactions -- on a single online platform, states will be able to visualise how many people are going out from where and how many are reaching the destination states. The mobile numbers of people can be used for contact tracing and movement monitoring during Covid-19, said Bhalla. The portal will enable the receiving state/district to ask for and give their acceptance in an online format seamlessly. This system will help in speedy communication between states without creating additional work at the level of the field officers. It has additional advantages like contact tracing, said the home secretary. There are many issues involved in the movement of migrants including contact tracing, planning of trains, planning of quarantine facilities in destination states, planning of return when the migrants want to return etc. "So far, it is expected that about 3.5 lakh migrant workers have been moved in 350 trains. More such journeys are being planned. Further to provide facility of contact tracing, both individual particulars and spatial identifiers (origin, destination address) need to be captured. A ready database can be of help in planning such return Journeys in a systematic manner," said the home secretary. NMIS portal will have various dashboards such as public dashboard, logistic management, risk index, and quarantine alert etc which are being used by states for containment of spread of corona virus. Listing the benefits of NMIS, the home ministry letter said that as the transportation levels of migrant workers increase, manual system will become difficult to implement and may lead to delays. On line centralised portal will give seamless connectivity. NDMA central repository can be used to plan and also keep in touch with the migrants for giving them benefits by states (if any), or plan their return journeys.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/national-portal-to-track-migrants-movement-by-trains-and-buses/articleshow/75782413.cms||Bharti Jain
May 17, 2020||Goa||IOA wants plan B in place for delayed infrastructure||Panaji: It’s not really a surprise that the Indian Olympic Association (IOA) do not believe in the timelines set by Goa for the 36th edition of National Games, scheduled to be held later this year. There have been so many postponements since the Games were allotted in 2008 that one has lost count, and with the Games now just five months away – unless postponed again – the IOA is understandably jittery. The IOA has demanded monthly progress reports from the state government, and with Goa delaying in sending these reports –because no work has taken place due to the coronavirus pandemic –IOA has been forced to send reminders, according to information made available to TOI. There are question marks whether, despite the umpteen postponements, Goa will be able to meet the deadlines to complete the necessary infrastructure. Mukesh Kumar, chairman of the games technical conduct committee (GTCC), has sought progress report on five projects which are found to have been lagging behind. The swimming pool (Campal), tennis facility (Fatorda), hockey turf-ground (Peddem), squash courts (Chicalim) and lawn bowl facility (Chicalim) have all seen delays. The turf at Peddem has to be re-laid after being found faulty. “All infrastructure work needs to be completed before the start of the rainy season in July. A detailed report on the above (five projects) is required as GTCC would like to explore "Plan B" for the above facilities (in case there are problems in timely completion of the infrastructure),” Kumar said in an email to VM Prabhu Desai, executive director of Sports Authority of Goa (SAG) and joint CEO for the National Games. The IOA has also raised concerns over procurement of sports equipment. “It has been observed that the work orders for procurement of equipment for nine sports disciplines has only been issued so far. The decision on procurement of all other disciplines is still pending on account of one or the other reason. “This issue has been highlighted by GTCC many a time in the past, and it was conveyed that by March/April end all sports equipment will be procured by the organising committee. The progress in this regard is not satisfactory,” said Kumar. The state government, on its part, said all infrastructure will be completed by August 30 after some of the timelines were being reworked “considering suggestions at the stadium by various stakeholders.” The problem of procurement of sports equipment, too, has been sorted, according to the organising committee. “All required formalities for crucial sports equipment that was to be imported have been completed. The rest of the equipment is to be domestically procured, the processes are much easier and can be operated with a fixed window period,” Prabhu Desai said in his email to IOA last week. Prabhu Desai also said ten hotels having a capacity to serve about 1000 persons on a daily basis have been provisionally reserved for the Games. The National Games are scheduled to be held from October 20 to November 4.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ioa-wants-plan-b-in-place-for-delayed-infrastructure/articleshow/75782587.cms||Marcus Mergulhao
May 17, 2020||India||135 BSF personnel recovered from Covid-19||NEW DELHI: In a heartening turnaround, number of daily recoveries of para-military personnel who were detected as Covid-19 positive, have begun to far exceed the new cases added everyday. This is true for BSF, CRPF and ITBP and comes after the ministry of health and family welfare recently relaxed its guidelines for discharge of Covid-19 patients from healthcare facilities. In BSF, 135 personnel have recovered so far, bringing down the number of active cases in the force to 208. Since Friday, 16 new Covid-positive cases were reported in the force. While 37 BSF personnel — including 24 in Tripura, 5 in Delhi, 6 in Kolkata and 2 in Tekanpur — were cured earlier, 98 more — 42 in Jodhpur, 31 in Tripura and 25 in Delhi — were discharged from the hospital on Friday after testing negative. The 98 have been placed under quarantine as per protocol. In CRPF, 44 personnel of the 31st battalion —which had turned a Covid-19 hotspot after many personnel tested positive — have recovered and been discharged. In contrast, only 5 positive cases were reported in the last 24 hours. Total recovered cases in CRPF now total 51, and active cases, 233. ITBP did not report a single new positive case in the past 24 hours. So far, 22 ITBP personnel who had contracted Corona virus have recovered. This brings down the tally of infected personnel in ITBP to 151. As per the new discharge policy framed by MoHFW, mild and pre-symptomatic Covid-positive patients can be discharged after 10 days (considering from the day symptoms appeared) if they did not have any fever for 3 days. Before the discharge, Covid-19 test (RT-PCR) is not performed. For moderate cases admitted to DCHC (Oxygen beds) too, no RT-PCR test will be done before discharge. If the fever resolves in three days and oxygen saturation is maintained above 95% for minimum 4 days, the patient can be discharged. Where the patient demands oxygen and fever is not resolved within 3 days, discharge can only be given after the clinical symptoms are resolved and the patient is able to maintain oxygen saturation for 3 consecutive days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/135-bsf-personnel-recovered-from-covid-19/articleshow/75782500.cms||Bharti Jain
May 17, 2020||India||Terrible to see the plight of migrant workers walking back home, says Ram Vilas Paswan||NEW DELHI: Union minister Ram Vilas Paswan on Saturday termed the instances of migrant workers walking back home and getting killed on road and rail track as "terrible situation". The minister said now migrant workers desperately want to reach home and they are least bothered about work and food. “They will think about job once they are settled after reaching home,” Paswan said while referring to the telling photographs and videos of people walking hundreds of kilometers and mothers carrying children. Paswan, who had earlier served as a railway minister, said there was a possibility that stranded migrants were following rail tracks since states have put restrictions on movement. “The rail ministry has issued guideline to run Shramik Special trains to ferry stranded migrant labourers and these trains are plying. There are huge number of migrant labourers and the government is relaxing social distancing norms to transport more migrant workers in these trains. Despite this a large number of people are gathering outside stations and they are not sure whether they can return home,” the minister said. Though both the Central and state governments have been appealing stranded migrant workers to stay where they are and not to walk on roads, a large number of labourers and daily wage earners are walking home with their families and belongings.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/terrible-to-see-the-plight-of-migrant-workers-walking-back-home-says-ram-vilas-paswan/articleshow/75782624.cms||Dipak K Dash
May 17, 2020||India||Taliban accuses India of playing 'negative' role by supporting Kabul govt||NEW DELHI: The Taliban has lashed out at India, accusing it of playing a “negative” role by supporting the government in Kabul. In an interview to Azm, a news website, Sher Mohammad Abbas Stanekzai, deputy head of the Taliban's political office in Qatar and head of the negotiating team with the US, was quoted as saying that “if the Indian government wants to take positive steps in the Afghan peace process and in rebuilding a new Afghanistan, we are counting on it, but according to him, India has been inside Afghanistan for the last 40 years. It played a negative role and maintained economic, military and political ties with a "corrupt" group instead of the nation.” Sources here said the recent urgent Khalilzad mission to New Delhi was not so much about asking India to talk to the Taliban, as to get New Delhi to persuade the Kabul government to release the Taliban prisoners. The Ghani government is believed to be dragging its feet, presumably, as sources say, because they don’t believe the Taliban is actually interested in an intra-Afghan dialogue. In a recent interview to the Daily Times of Pakistan, Stanekzai asserted, “Intra-Afghan cannot start unless 5000 of our prisoners are released and there would be no ceasefire and reduction in violence unless intra-Afghan dialogue starts. The US and the Kabul administration are responsible for this situation.” In a recent press conference, Zalmay Khalilzad underscored the importance of the release of prisoners, which appears to be becoming a deal-breaker. “We have pushed to get both sides, the Afghan Government and the Taliban, to release prisoners. Already some 1,011 prisoners have been released by the government, Talib prisoners, and 253 Afghan Government prisoners have been released by the Taliban." India’s point to the Khalilzad delegation was that India could help only if India was in the room on Afghanistan’s future. The US, according to India, has been playing the Pakistani game by keeping India out of recent consultations on Afghanistan’s future. That, according to Indians involved in Afghanistan has been the US game for years now. India has resisted US pressure before, and they say, unlikely to give up its gains in Afghanistan at this point, when the game is still open. On talking to the Taliban, the Indian government remains cautious. Sources here say there are unofficial contacts with Taliban, but there appears to be no concerted view among the Taliban themselves about engaging with India. There are differences within the Taliban regarding India — therefore India is not going to rush in to start talking to the Taliban. India is one of the most visible supporters of the Kabul government, both during Karzai’s time and now with Ghani. This has given India a good deal of leverage particularly when India has been kept out of regional formulations on Afghanistan’s future. To the clamour asking India to talk to the Taliban, Indian policy makers believe they have a stronger position being Afghanistan’s development partner, rather than making nice with a terror group like the Taliban, which continues to take orders from Pakistan. The government in Kabul is convinced they would not survive if the Taliban were to take a piece of the power structure. In recent days, the Ghani government has been targeting both Taliban and ISKP positions. Taliban too have stepped up violence and refuse to consider a ceasefire before talks with the Afghan government, so as to maintain a position of strength. In addition, the divisions between Ghani and Abdullah Abdullah have added to the inaction, say sources. Stanekzai’s core complaint is directed against the US, which, he said had been unable to get the Kabul government to release the 5000 Taliban prisoners that had been promised as part of the peace deal with Zalmay Khalilzad. That was one of the big deliverables for the Taliban in the US peace deal. The Taliban prisoners were supposed to have been released by March 10, according to Stanekzai. The US has gone out of its way to pin the responsibility of recent terror attacks on the ISKP, not the Taliban. Khalilzad said, “We believe that ISIS and the Taliban are mortal enemies, and in the war against ISIS, Taliban have played an important role. Of course, the government has as well, and we have played a vital role in that fight. And that fight is not finished, and we believe that our assessment currently is that the attacks that took place against the hospital and the attack in Nangarhar on a funeral procession was the work of ISIS...” Indian officials remain sceptical — recent attacks on Indian interests, like the gurdwara in Kabul, showed that the planning of the attacks, execution and claiming responsibility were being done by the LET, Haqqanis and the ISKP respectively. This makes it difficult for India to believe the US when it says that Taliban and ISKP were “mortal” enemies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/taliban-accuses-india-of-playing-negative-role-by-supporting-kabul-govt/articleshow/75782676.cms||Indrani Bagchi
May 17, 2020||India||For faster distribution of free pulses, Govt to give 'chana' to migrants||NEW DELHI: The Centre on Saturday urged states and UTs to pick the 8 lakh tonnes of foodgrain from FCI expeditiously and distribute them to 8 crore migrants within next fortnight. Learning from the difficulties in free distribution of pulses, the Centre has decided to provide two kg “whole gram” (chana) for free to the migrants for May and June. Chana can be distributed quickly as it doesn’t require milling. Union food and consumer affairs minister Ram Vilas Paswan said, “We are not seeking the details of beneficiary migrants who don’t have ration cards from the states as the focus is to bring quick relief to these vulnerable people. If we ask states to start identifying, it will take months,” Paswan told reporters through a video conference. The food ministry has made the allocation of wheat and rice estimating that states would require around 10% more foodgrains of the allocation under National Food Security Act (NFSA). So, while this extra free grain and pulses would benefit about 1.42 crore in Uttar Pradesh followed by Bihar (86.45 lakh) and Maharashtra (70 lakh). In West Bengal, the numbers are around 60.1 lakh. Similarly, the estimated migrants to benefit in Madhya Pradesh is pegged at 54.64 lakh, followed by Rajasthan (44.66 lakh), Karnataka (40.19 lakh), Gujarat (38.25 lakh), Tamil Nadu (35.73 lakh), Jharkhand (26.37 lakh), Andhra Pradesh (26.82 lakh) and Assam (25.15 lakh). In Delhi, about 7.27 lakh migrants are likely to get free 5 kg food grains per person and 1 kg chana per family for May and June. However, Paswan said Centre is ready to provide more foodgrain, if the numbers increase. But states will have to validate the numbers. Responding to whether these 8 crore migrants would also be eligible to get ration cards, Paswan said the number on beneficiaries under NFSA has been fixed as per the 2011 Census. It will be reviewed again after 2021 Census and Niti Aayog will come out with the numbers. Food secretary Sudhanshu Pandey said states can send their preference of grain by May 18 and states can directly supply free ration at shelter camps or issue distressed coupons as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/for-faster-distribution-of-free-pulses-govt-to-give-chana-to-migrants/articleshow/75782872.cms||Dipak K Dash
May 17, 2020||India||Govt opens doors to greater private role in defence, power, space||NEW DELHI: The government on Saturday announced a major opening up of defence production, power, space and coal and mining sectors for private participation as part of finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman’s fourth set of announcements aimed at spurring investment and buffering the economy against the Covid-19 shock. Though the reform moves do not immediately address concerns over the need to spur demand, Sitharaman said steps to provide funds to MSMEs as well as tax refunds, which is money that belongs to taxpayers, and deferred payment will leave more money in the hands of individuals. Saturday’s measures were intended to signal India’s readiness to pro-actively seek investment and instil confidence in business circles. “I am not saying I have done everything possible, we are trying to help people so that they can have money in their hands now and that is definitely going to help in boosting demand,” she told reporters adding that the measures being announced by the government will create a better environment for investment and enable companies to get back to business as soon as the lockdown is relaxed. The reforms across several sectors, led by defence, have been previously discussed but the severe stress in the economy seems to have provided the goad to reconsider the reluctance to let in the private sector even in areas like space development. In a major boost for the ‘Make in India’ initiative, the government is now issuing a list of items where imports will be banned and indigenisation of spares promoted. Sitharaman said this list will be expanded every year. At the same time, to address concerns related to inadequate foreign-holding, the government has decided to increase the FDI limit for defence production under the automatic route to 74%, from the current 49%. Along with the defence sector, the government also decided to push privatisation of power distribution companies after a gap of over a decade and said discoms in Union Territories will be privatised, an experiment that has previously helped consumers in Delhi. The move will open lucrative markets such as Chandigarh and Pondicherry, with the possibility of power distribution in Jammu and Kashmir also being run by the private sector. But to ensure that consumers are not short-changed, the FM said the step will come with the new tariff policy, which will ensure that inefficiencies of discoms do not burden consumers. The move to privatise the discoms again signals the Modi administration’s efforts to get the government out of areas where it should not operate. While Air India and BPCL privatisation initiatives were steps in this direction, Covid-19 has impacted the initiative and the discom move is unlikely to see aggressive bidding, immediately. Nevertheless, the FM’s announcement to auction blocks for coal and other mining were again meant to attract private participation in areas which have hitherto been dominated by Coal India and other public sector entities. Some of the steps in mining and coal sector were a reiteration of earlier announcements although the government indicated that it will provide a fresh impetus to coal gassificaiton and coalbed methane extraction. A big change in policy came in the space sector, where the government for the first time announced its intent to allow the private sector to be a co-partner in future planetary exploration and outer space travel initiatives such as Chandrayaan and Mars mission. This came with the promise to provide a level-playing field for private companies in satellites, launches and space-based services.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/govt-opens-doors-to-greater-private-role-in-defence-power-space/articleshow/75783007.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Kanpur||26 migrant workers killed, 36 injured in UP accident||KANPUR: Yet another desperate journey has ended in tragedy on the side of a highway. Twenty-six more migrant labourers fleeing joblessness and hunger will never see home again. They died when a trailer truck carrying sacks of lime and 50 people drove into the back of a stationary DCM truck carrying another 20 people on National Highway 19 in Auraiya district, Uttar Pradesh, around 3.15am on Saturday. Thirty-six were injured. The DCM truck, carrying migrant workers from Ghaziabad, had stopped at a roadside eatery near Chirhauli village. The trailer truck driver didn’t see the stationary vehicle. He appeared to have fallen asleep, ASP Kamlesh Kumar Dikshit told TOI. The majority of the victims were those on the trailer truck. Reports said that around 50 migrants on the trailer truck were from Bihar, Jharkhand, West Bengal and UP and had been travelling from Rajasthan. The DCM truck, carrying 20 migrant labourers, had been heading towards Sagar district of Madhya Pradesh. Of the 36 injured, 20 were shifted to Saifai Medical University in Etawah as their condition was stated to be critical, while 16 were admitted to the district hospital in Auraiya. Three SHOs, of Fatehpur Sikri-Agra, Kosi Kalan and Mathura, have been suspended with immediate effect on the directions of CM Yogi Adityanath who also sought reports from the SSP, IG, and the ADG. On Friday, at least 15 migrant workers had been killed in three separate incidents in UP, Madhya Pradesh and Bihar. The UP government had announced on Friday that district authorities must ensure that migrant workers do not walk or cycle home and are provided transport. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Adityanath and leaders of several opposition parties expressed grief over the loss of life. The CM has announced an ex gratia of Rs 2 lakh for the families of the deceased and Rs 50,000 for the injured. “The trailer truck was also carrying migrant labourers from Jaipur and Bharatpur districts of Rajasthan to UP’s Kushinagar, Bihar, Jharkhand and West Bengal. The DCM truck was carrying labourers from Delhi via Ghaziabad and was heading towards Sagar via Auraiya district,” ASP Kamlesh Dikshit said. “The trailer truck collided with the DCM from behind. The impact was so severe that both vehicles overturned and fell into a roadside ditch. Nearly 42 labourers sitting on the trailer and 20 on the DCM truck were injured. Of them, 26 died before reaching hospital,” Dikshit added. IGP Mohit Agarwal said the police would investigate why so many people were travelling on just two vehicles. The accident spot was littered with backpacks and belongings of the dead and the injured. A senior police officer said many labourers were crushed to death under sacks of lime. The bodies have been sent for post-mortem and efforts are on to contact their family members. Auraiya DM Abhishek Singh said investigations were on to establish the exact cause of the accident. “As of now we have been able to ascertain the identities of 18 victims. The identities of seven others are yet to be ascertained,” Singh added. An official said the 26 deceased included 12 migrant labourers from Jharkhand. “The death toll is likely to go up,” he said. The CM directed senior officials to visit the site. “The chief minister has also directed that all the injured be provided medical care immediately and the commissioner and IG Kanpur visit the site and immediately file a report on the cause of the accident,” said UP additional chief secretary (home) Awanish Awasthi. Opposition politicians, including BSP chief Mayawati, SP’s Akhilesh Yadav and Congress’ Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, questioned the government over the accident. Watch At least 23 migrants killed, several injured after trucks collide in UP's Auraiya||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/26-migrant-workers-killed-36-injured-in-up-accident/articleshow/75783050.cms||Faiz Siddiqui
May 17, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Series of quakes danger sign? Experts debate||NEW DELHI: Are four minor earthquakes in Delhi in almost a month a sign of danger for the region? Officials at the National Centre for Seismology (NCS) do not believe so, saying Delhi is unlikely to be the epicentre of a strong earthquake. The greater threat, they say, lies closer to quake-prone Himalayan region. The succession of minor tremors originating in Delhi has led to fears of a bigger quake hitting the region. Particularly so because some studies abroad point to the possibility of low-intensity earthquakes preceding a bigger one. A study by USA’s Los Alamos National Laboratory last year had found smaller quakes were recorded days or weeks before earthquakes of at least magnitude 4.0 struck the Californian region. Led by author Daniel Trugman, the study analysed data from south California of at least 4.0 magnitude earthquakes between 2008 and 2017, and found that some 72% of these were preceded by smaller quakes. However, J L Gautam, head (operations) at NCS told TOI that Delhi’s quakes have been fairly minor and were not the result of a particular fault. These were minor adjustments underneath the earth’s surface, which is not alarming, he said. Gautam said the quakes were nothing to be concerned about. “These can occur from time to time. The intensity and the scale of these quakes were not much. Delhi is not considered a high seismological risk zone and it is rare to have earthquakes with their epicentre here. A greater risk lies towards the Himalayan region,” said Gautam, pointing towards the recent Nepal earthquake as an indicator that seismic stress was building up in the region. All four of Delhi’s earthquakes, which first began on April 12 have been of 3.5 magnitude or less, with the latest being only 2.2 on the scale. Experts say buildings built in Delhi, especially the newer ones and adhering to zone-IV regulations can withstand earthquakes ranging from 6 to 6.6 in magnitude, while older buildings can withstand shocks ranging from 5 to 5.5. The Bureau of Indian Standards has classified the entire country into four seismic groups – ranging from zone II (low intensity) to zone V (very severe). Delhi falls in zone IV (severe), according to this categorisation, with three fault lines running through it — the Sohna, Mathura and Delhi-Moradabad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-series-of-quakes-danger-sign-experts-debate/articleshow/75783130.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
May 17, 2020||India||Covid-19: Why people flee quarantine centres||NEW DELHI: People fleeing quarantine centres, struggling with unhygienic rooms and toilets, being treated like untouchables, living in cramped rooms, fighting for food. Even as Covid-19 cases surge across the country and quarantine centres run by state governments begin to overflow, tales of woes at these centres in many states continue to spill over. A number of cases of people fleeing quarantine centres to commit suicide has been pouring in. While a labourer in Yavatmal in Maharashtra hanged himself from a tree after fleeing a centre on Saturday, a person in Odisha’s Mayurbhanj also committed suicide on Thursday. Many are also fleeing to escape sordid conditions and lack of facilities. It has been 48 hours since Sundararaj (43) fled from Tamil Nadu’s biggest medical facility — Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital — and police are yet to trace him. What worries authorities is that he is part of the notorious ‘Koyambedu cluster’ which is responsible for infection of more than 2,000 people in Tamil Nadu. In Latehar in Jharkhand, over 100 migrants escaped from a quarantine centre on Friday to escape from poor facilities there. They were later brought back by the police. Several incidents of migrants fleeing quarantine centres have been reported from many districts in Bihar. On Thursday, 17 inmates of a centre in Nalanda escaped. And, while those in quarantine struggle to cope with unhygienic conditions, the stigma of being in quarantine is adding to the woes of many. A woman who has been in a centre in Pune, said: “When the hostel in charge comes to distribute food packets, he kicks the door open and throws food packets at us. We are not untouchables.” “The guards and employees at our quarantine centre push or throw food packets at us. This is inhuman. Even if we are suspects, we deserve some respect,” said a man at a quarantine centre at a private university in Rajasthan. Lack of basic amenities and cleanliness is leading to ruckus at quarantine centres. There were problems at quarantine centres in Rajasthan when people complained of mismanagement, especially unclean washroom and delayed supply of meals. Dirty toilets and insufficient quantity of food have been the most common complaints from quarantine centres in and around Mumbai, where over 12,000 people are in institutional quarantine. In Mumbai, when a Breach Candy resident put her domestic help, who tested Covid positive last week, in civic quarantine, the patient texted to say the bedsheets hadn’t been changed, the toilets were stinking and there was a menace of mosquitoes. Lack of medical care has also been the bane of many. A family that was placed in quarantine in a housing colony in Bhiwandi complained that their father, a diabetic, had been asked to bring his own medicines from home. “In the rush, we didn’t pack enough and are worried about running out of tablets. The doctor sits on the ground floor and rarely comes up for rounds,”' said one of the relatives. But, it isn’t just the government-run centres where people are suffering. Shocking instances of mismanagement have emerged from hotels in Karnataka where 84 have been identified for paid institutional quarantine. (With inputs from Mumbai, Bengaluru, Chennai, Lucknow, Ahmedabad, Jaipur, Bhubaneshwar, Ranchi & Patna) Watch COVID-19 crisis: Reasons behind people fleeing quarantine centres||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-19-why-people-flee-quarantine-centres/articleshow/75783193.cms||---
May 17, 2020||India||Titans of India Inc bat for cash doles for the poor||CHENNAI: Even as the government is announcing stimulus initiatives for various sectors, industry leaders have sought more fiscal measures in the form of cash doles, with tech czar Azim Premji asking for Rs 7,000 to be paid to the poor for the next three months, while TVS boss Venu Srinivasan suggested a monthly assistance of at least Rs 5,000. “Emergency cash relief of Rs 7000 a month should be provided for at least three months (without biometric authentication) to each poor household/or migrant : minimum wages for 25 day a month should be released to all poor urban residents for the period of the lockdown, and at least for 2 months following the end of the lockdown,” Premji said in a piece in The Economic Times and complimented PM Modi for announcing a support of 10% of GDP to combat the impact of Covid-19. He suggested an additional allocation of Rs 1 lakh crore under MGNREGA along with an increase in the number of days of guaranteed work and higher daily wage. Azim Premji Foundation, Wipro Enterprises and Wipro have committed Rs 1125 crore for the fight against the Covid. TVS Motor Company CMD Venu Srinivasan has sought at least Rs 5000 a month as cash dole for the poor for the next three months. The government had announced a one time cash dole of Rs 1500 for the poor under PM Garib Kalyan Yojana. “The government should announce a cash payment of Rs 5000 per month for the next three months to bring back confidence. The fiscal package should be announced even at the cost of fiscal deficit increasing and rising inflation chance,” Srinivasan said. The government initiative should bring back buying and “should have given more fiscally than what has been given in the past 3 days.” Techpreneur Sridhar Vembu of Zoho Corp agreed with Premji and tweeted, “the economic impact of the pandemic has fallen disproportionately on people least able to cope. The most urgent priority for all of us is to take care of our less fortunate fellow human beings.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/titans-of-india-inc-bat-for-cash-doles-for-the-poor/articleshow/75783205.cms||Rajesh Chandramouli
May 17, 2020||India||NEP 2020: One overarching body likely for higher education||NEW DELHI: The final draft of the National Education Policy (NEP) 2020 has proposed an overarching Higher Education Promotion Commission (HEPC) with four separate verticals —regulation, accreditation, funding, and academic standard— as part of complete overhaul of the present regulatory system. At present, there are separate regulators for different sets of institutions. Technical institutions are under the AICTE, universities and colleges under the UGC, medical colleges under the Medical Council of India, etc. Under the proposed regulatory system, distinct functions of regulation, accreditation, funding and setting academic standards will be performed by independent and empowered bodies irrespective of the branch of study. HEPC will have four independent verticals—National Higher Education Regulatory Council (NHERC) as common, single regulator for the entire higher education sector; National Accreditation Council (NAC), a ‘meta-accrediting body’; Higher Education Grants Council (HEGC) for funding and financing of higher education; and General Education Council (GEC) to frame expected learning outcomes for higher education programmes. Technical institutions are under the AICTE, universities and colleges under the UGC, medical colleges under the Medical Council of India, etc. Under the proposed regulatory system, distinct functions of regulation, accreditation, funding and setting academic standards will be performed by independent and empowered bodies irrespective of the branch of study. HEPC will have four independent verticals—National Higher Education Regulatory Council (NHERC) as common, single regulator for the entire higher education sector; National Accreditation Council (NAC), a ‘meta-accrediting body’; Higher Education Grants Council (HEGC) for funding and financing of higher education; and GEC to frame expected learning outcomes for higher education programmes. These verticals will have powers for punitive action to shut down or penalise higher educational institutions (HEIs) for dishonesty in self-disclosures or for not conforming to basic minimum norms and standards. According to an HRD official, these four verticals will subsume the present regulatory bodies as their specific roles will be redistributed. For example, UGC’s functions relating to academic standards will be subsumed under GEC, while its funding powers will go to HEGC. Similarly, National Assessment and Accreditation Council will be incorporated in NAC. The document advocates for greater autonomy to all HEIs and the responsibility will rest on its Board of Governors. The document advocates for greater autonomy to all HEIs and the responsibility and accountability will rest on its Board of Governors. The new regulatory regime will also make setting up of new institutions easier. Under the section ‘Transforming the Regulatory System of Higher Education’, the vision document states: “Ironically, this rigid inspectorial regime has also had a consistently poor record of weeding out poor practices and institutions... The regulatory system is thus in need of a complete overhaul in order to re-energise the higher education sector and enable it to thrive.” In line with autonomy granted to the premier IIMs, NEP 2020 also projects similar freedom for all HEIs and has a dedicated a section on ‘effective governance and leadership for higher education institutions’, where it states that “through a suitable system of graded accreditation and graded autonomy, and in a phased manner, all higher educational institutions will aim to become independent self-governing institutions pursuing innovation and excellence”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/one-overarching-body-likely-for-higher-education/articleshow/75783226.cms||Manash Pratim Gohain
May 17, 2020||India||After HC notice, UP withdraws order extending working shifts to 12 hrs in manufacturing units||NEW DELHI: The Uttar Pradesh government has withdrawn its order increasing daily work hour shifts from the existing 8 hours to 12 hours in manufacturing units, a day after the Allahabad High Court issued a notice to the state on a PIL which challenged the decision. On May 15, the state government, in an order signed by Principal Secretary (Labour) Suresh Chandra, directed the state counsel to inform the High Court in the next hearing on May 18 that the controversial order stands withdrawn. On May 8, the UP government had ordered increase in duration of working shifts to 12 hours by diluting certain sections of the Factories Act of 1948. The order had also said payment for additional hours of work will be “in proportion of the existing wages”, a clause that was opposed by trade unions on grounds that any overtime should be “double” the wages. Speaking to TOI, AITUC general secretary Amarjeet Kaur said, “Ten states have increased working hours from 8 to 12 hours. UP’s hurried withdrawal after the decision was challenged in court will prompt other states to follow suit. We have also written to the International Labour Organisation in this regard, and it has said in a statement that the state government’s decision is in contravention of the ILO convention, to which India is a signatory.” The withdrawal of the labour department’s order, however, has no bearing on the ‘Uttar Pradesh Temporary Exemption from Certain Labour Laws Ordinance, 2020’, which seeks to put all but three labour laws in the state in abeyance for three years, and increasing daily work hours to 10 hours. In the ordinance, UP has invoked Section 5 of the Factories Act which is called in during national emergencies or war situations. Here too, UP has provisioned for payment for extra hours in proportion to existing wages, instead of double wages as has been done by states like Punjab and Rajasthan. Other states which have diluted their labour laws to encourage economic activity in the wake of coronavirus-triggered lockdown include Maharasthra, Rajasthan, Gujarat, Goa, MP, Uttarakhand, Assam, Punjab, Haryana and Himachal Pradesh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/after-hc-notice-up-withdraws-order-extending-working-shifts-to-12-hrs-in-manufacturing-units/articleshow/75783231.cms||Swati Mathur
May 17, 2020||India||Ready to run Shramik Specials from any district: Goyal||NEW DELHI: Amid growing concerns over rising number of migrants workers getting killed on their homeward journey, Union railway minister Piyush Goyal on Saturday said the railways is ready to run ‘Shramik Special’ trains from any district in the country. For three consecutive days — Wednesday, Thursday and Friday — Shramik Specials had transported more than two lakh people per day. The ministry officials said they are capable of scaling this up to three lakh passengers. Till Thursday, 14 lakh stranded migrants had taken these trains to head home. In a series of tweets, Goyal urged district collectors to prepare lists of stranded labourers and their destinations and “apply to the railways through the state nodal officer” so that more trains can be pressed into service to transport them. ” Meanwhile, the West Bengal government has said it will bear the rail fare of migrant labourers who were returning home by special trains. In a communication to railway board chairman Vinod Kumar Yadav on Saturday, state chief secretary Rajiva Sinha said, “Instructions may be issued to officials concerned that non costs may be claimed from those boarding these trains destined for West Bengal at station of origin.” However, sources said as per the norm, the sending state will pay the ticket amount to the railways. On Friday a Twitter war had broken out between rail minister and CMs of Rajasthan, Jharkhand and Chhattisgarh after Goyal had alleged that three states and West Bengal were not giving approval for more Shramik Specials. The three CMs had rejected this and had alleged that the Centre was busy playing politics over the issue. On Saturday, ANI tweeted a letter from Himachal Pradesh CM Jai Ram Thakur addressed to Jharkhand CM Hemant Soren, in which Thakur said despite details of 3,290 migrant workers from Jharkhand being shared, the state was yet to respond.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ready-to-run-shramik-specials-from-any-district-piyush-goyal/articleshow/75783236.cms||---
May 17, 2020||India||Road crash is 10 times more likely to kill than coronavirus||NEW DELHI: A road crash is 10 times more likely to kill someone than getting infected with the Covid-19 virus. According to updates available on Aarogya Setu, as of Saturday afternoon 2,752 out of total 85,940 coronavirus infected persons had died, a fatality rate of 3.2%. But at least 381 had died in 1,200 road crashes, according to data compiled based on media reports by SaveLife Foundation. This translates to a fatality rate of nearly 32%. Even during 2019, the fatality rate per 100 road crashes was around 30. “Based on the media tracking and de-duplication done by our organisation, 145 out of the 381 road deaths between March 24 and May 16 were migrants,” said Piyush Tewari of SaveLife Foundation. Road safety experts have been demanding measures including keeping one lane free from vehicles for safe passage of migrant workers who are walking back home and thorough briefing to bus drivers with regard to emergency protocols, identifying rest areas where food and water can be provided to travellers, engaging drivers well trained in long-distance driving and familiar with particular terrains. Road Safety Network, a coalition of road safety experts and organisations, has also sent recommendations to the Union home secretary suggesting the need to include temporary lanes for cyclists and pedestrians on highways and urban roads.Seeking immediate intervention from the road transport ministry, Harman Singh Sidhu of ArriveSAFE has urged Union minister Nitin Gadkari to “issue directions to keep one lane ‘vehicle free’ as soon as possible.” The road deaths during a nationwide lockdown have stumped experts and government officials as well. Speeding is being seen as the main reason behind such fatal crashes and it has once again reinforced how road users’ behaviour is responsible for a majority of crashes and fatalities in India. Taking note of the vulnerability of pedestrians on major roads and highways, the home ministry has issued advisories asking states to ensure that migrants are walking on roads to reach home.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/a-road-crash-is-10-times-more-likely-to-kill-than-coronavirus/articleshow/75783239.cms||Dipak K Dash
May 17, 2020||Kolkata||Officers from north-central & central Kolkata police stations test negative for Covid-19||KOLKATA: The results of several officers from police stations in central and north-central Kolkata who had been tested for Covid-19 have come negative. Police personnel have been on the frontline to contain the spread of the virus in areas like Posta, Burrabazar, Muktarambabu Street, Madan Mohan Burman Street, Rabindra Sarani, Armenian Street and Canning Street, where multiple cases of Covid-19 have emerged. Samples from cops in police stations like Jorasanko, Jorabagan, Posta and Bowbazar were sent for tests when some of their colleagues tested positive. “It is a huge relief for us that all of them have tested negative. Most of them have been working since the beginning and know the affected areas very well,” said a senior officer. Cops have been posted in various hotspots in these pockets to enforce lockdown and implement social distancing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/officers-from-north-central-central-kol-police-stns-test-ve/articleshow/75782533.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal government starts testing for lockdown-exit strategy||KOLKATA: In preparation for the lockdown exit, Bengal government has decided to launch a district-wise sentinel survey to analyze the trend of Covid transmission so that the authorities can prepare preventive strategies, based on the report. The healthcare facility-based examination will focus on three categories of people —pregnant women, OPD as well as hospitalized patients and healthcare workers, divided into low-risk and high-risk groups—across 23 districts in the state. “We need to have strong post- lockdown preventive strategy to contain rapid spread of the novel coronavirus. This testing before exiting the lockdown is aimed at collecting specific data on the trends of transmission, based on real-time evidence. We will analyze the data and study the trend, based on which a post-lockdown preventive strategy will be prepared,” said a health department official. Swasthya Bhawan sources said the surveillance would throw up information, like the presence of infection, if any, among low-risk population in districts that have not reported any Covid case. While for districts that already have Covid cases, the survey report will help analyze the trend of infection on weekly basis. “Such data will help decide whether to lift the lockdown in specific districts or not. If the restrictions are eased, we have to figure out a method for it,” said the health department official. Among low-risk categories, swab samples will be tested for asymptomatic pregnant women reporting to antenatal clinics or undergoing institutional delivery and asymptomatic OPD patients as well hospitalized patients. From every district, 50 samples of pregnant women and 50 of asymptomatic OPD and admitted patients will be tested over a week. “Examining people belonging to the low-risk category is important as it serves as a marker for general community prevalence of the infection,” said the official. Healthcare wokers will fall in the high-risk category. Samples of 100 such health workers, including doctors, nurses, Group D staff, Asha workers and ANMs, will be tested in every district. A nodal officer has been assigned for each district for the purpose. Collections and testing of swab samples in many districts already started on Friday. Each district is expected to collect and test 200 samples by Sunday. A team of health officials at Swasthya Bhawan will start analysing the interim data by Wednesday next week. Details of the second round of surveillance will be worked out after this.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/govt-starts-testing-for-lockdown-exit-strategy/articleshow/75782474.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
May 17, 2020||Kolkata||IIEST official’s help for cleaning staff||HOWRAH: For the past three days, a young cleaning staff of Indian Institute of Engineering, Science and Technology (IIEST) was looking for a bus or a transport vehicle to take him home to Goghat in Hooghly as his mother needed an immediate surgery. Bairagi had to reach Arambag sub divisional hospital on Saturday as his neighbours said they would get his mother admitted to the hospital. Assistant registrar Bibhor Das got to know about Bairagi’s problem when he sought leave. Das drove his brand new car, that was waiting to be “inaugurated” since it was delivered just before the lockdown, from his Bally residence to the institute, picked Bairagi up, drove him to hospital before driving back home, covering 200 kilometres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/iiest-officials-help-for-cleaning-staff/articleshow/75782520.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
May 17, 2020||Ahmedabad||AUM of equity mutual funds drop by 6.5%||AHMEDABAD: Radhika Shah (name changed to protect identity), a corporate professional used to make an investment of Rs 20,000 per month in a systematic investment plan. However, due to the lockdown, she faced a 20% deduction in her take-home salary. “A 20% cut in salary is not sustainable; I have loans to repay and a family to take care of. At this point, survival is more important than savings and thus I stopped the SIP deductions,” said Shah. Shrinking individual incomes due to the lockdown have severely hit the SIP inflows into equity mutual funds. This, coupled with reduction in net asset value of existing investments due to volatility in stock market indices has caused a decline in the overall assets under management (AUM) for equity-linked mutual funds. In Gujarat, the AUM fell from Rs 69,994.2 crore in March 2020 to Rs 65,418.3 crore in April 2020 – a decline of 6.54%. The AUM for equity-linked mutual funds investments (MFIs) continued to fall for the second consecutive month, witnessing an erosion of Rs 4,575.5 crore. “Fall in people’s income is one of the clear reasons for a decline in SIP investments and that has led to stoppage of several SIPs. That apart, the volatility of the Indian equity markets also caused the net asset value of existing investments to fall, which also dented the overall AUM in equity-linked MFs,” said Jayesh Vithalani, a city-based financial analyst. Analysts also said given the situation, that most schemes have introduced a pause option i.e. the periodic deductions would be temporarily halted and resumed when the investor is comfortable with one’s source of income. “This option is indeed a relief to retail investors whose incomes have been temporarily impacted owing to the lockdown and has been widely utilised. The trend of stopping SIPs grew stronger in the second half of April, by when people took salary cuts or business incomes got hampered. Therefore, decline in SIP inflow may also be visible more strongly in May and June as well,” said Mumukshu Desai, director of a city-based financial advisory firm. According to industry experts, while most investors have sought pausing or stoppage of SIP deductions, people have not withdrawn funds. “Investors are behaving smartly. They have not withdrawn funds at a point when the market is down thus converting their notional loss into an actual one; unless a given investor is in dire need for liquidity,” said Desai. Apart from equity-linked MFs, overall AUM in Gujarat too continued its downward trend. The total AUM witnessed an erosion of Rs 14,040 crore, falling further by 8.1% from Rs 1.72 lakh crore in March to Rs 1.58 lakh crore in April. Analysts attribute this decline to the major erosion seen in debt-linked MFs and liquid schemes. The reduction of AUM in debt-linked schemes can be attributed to the withdrawal of six schemes by Franklin Templeton and the subsequent embargo on withdrawals. Outlook for May, June· If incomes continue to shrink, retail investors will continue to stop SIP deductions and the inflows for May and June are expected to get affected. · The situation in the equity markets is expected to gradually improve over the next few weeks. The stimulus measures announced by the Union finance minister have had little impact on the stock market indices as the relief was centred around MSMEs and agriculture At the same time, analysts are closely watching whether corporates who primarily invest in debt funds, withdraw funds and put them into low-risk avenues like bank deposits, given the uncertainty and concerns triggered by Franklin Templeton’s announcement of withdrawal of six schemes last month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/aum-of-equity-mutual-funds-drop-by-6-5/articleshow/75782090.cms||Niyati Parikh
May 17, 2020||Surat||Covid-19: Lab technician among two infected in Valsad||SURAT: Two persons, including a laboratory technician, tested positive for Covid-19 in Valsad district on Saturday. According to district health officials, Mommad Kaif Siddique (18) in Vapi town and Tejas Naik (45) of Umarsadi village of Pardi taluka were found infected with the coronavirus. Naik is a laboratory technician with Jan Seva Hospital in Vapi town. With this the tally of Covid-19 cases has risen to eight in Valsad. One person has succumbed to the virus. In Surat district, five new cases were reported on Saturday taking the case tall to 67. No fresh cases were reported in Bharuch, Tapi, Navsari, and Dang districts on Saturday. Navsari district has no active Covid-19 case as the last patient was discharged on Saturday. Total eight cases were reported from Navsari.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/lab-technician-among-two-infected-in-valsad/articleshow/75782291.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Bail denied in hall ticket scam||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat high court has refused to grant legal protection to an accused in the scam involving forging of hall tickets for board exams in Junagadh district. Three persons were arrested in March when the board exams were under way. They were nabbed for selling forged hall tickets for Rs 3,000 each. Another accused, Gangabhai Odedara, was also named in the scam. He unsuccessfully approached a district court for anticipatory bail. When he approached the HC, it denied him anticipatory bail and observed, “It appears that large-scale criminal conspiracy came to be unearthed for preparation of duplicate and concocted hall tickets, purportedly to be issued by the Education Board.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/bail-denied-in-hall-ticket-scam/articleshow/75782461.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Mangaluru||Man dies after falling off roof||Mangaluru: A person died after he accidentally slipped and fell, while installing roofing material on the roof of a museum in Dharmasthala. The incident took place on Friday evening, and a complaint of unnatural death was registered at the Dharmasthala police station in this regard. The police said that Sanjeeva, a resident of Karwar, received grievous head injuries and was immediately rushed to a nearby hospital. He was declared brought dead.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/man-dies-after-falling-off-roof/articleshow/75781143.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Ahmedabad||Amdavadis to sweat at 42°C: IMD forecast||Ahmedabad: The meteorologists have forecast that the maximum temperature in the city is likely to be around 42°C.The city on Saturday was reeling under 41.8 degree celsius, while the minimum temperature was 29.7 degree Celsius which was 2.6 degrees above normal. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) officials have forecast that there will be no large change in the maximum temperature over the state and the city for the next two to three days.The officials have also predicted light rains or thunder showers at isolated places in Chhota Udepur district and Bhavnagar district of Saurashtra on Sunday evening. The officials said that the weather in the remaining parts of the state would remain dry.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/amdavadis-to-sweat-at-42c-imd-forecast/articleshow/75782007.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Mysuru||BS Yediyurappa likely to opt for compromise solution for MySugar Mills||MANDYA: The proposal to privatise MySugar Mills in Mandya district has always been a highly delicate issue, with activists and local farmers opposed to the idea of the state government giving up ownership of the facility, which has been defunct for long. Chief minister BS Yediyurappa, reportedly under pressure against giving his nod to privatising the mill, is believed to have directed senior bureaucrats in the government to explore the option of handing over operation and maintenance (O&M) to private entities, while the state retains ownership. Among those opposed to completely privatising the mill are elected representatives from Mandya. However, the CM believes that by entrusting crushing operations and maintenance to private entities, and keeping the government’s stake in the mill intact, might be a solution acceptable to all. Thinker and activist MB Naganna, among those who has been opposing the idea of privatising MySugar Mill in Mandya from the start, feels that the O&M formula would be the best solution to the longstanding problem. Naganna said that, under the O&M model, the private entrepreneurs tasked with the mill’s operations would share in the profits of the facility. “The model must, however, also look to bring in transaparency in the finances involved in the mill’s maintenance,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/cm-likely-to-opt-for-compromise-solution-for-mysugar-mills/articleshow/75781335.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Mangaluru||Probe Covid-19 deaths in Dakshina Kannada scientifically to combat pandemic, says MLA||MANGALURU: Former health minister U T Khader demanded that the authorities carry out a scientific analysis of the five deaths that occurred due to Covid-19 in Dakshina Kannada. “The number of fatalities vis-à-vis the number of positive cases in the district is worrying, and the district administration and health department should not take the matter lightly. Lapses, if any, in dealing with the co-morbidity factors should be addressed, lest it become a major health challenge,” he warned. Addressing reporters on Saturday, Khader, said only carrying out such types of analysis will help the health department combat the spread of the novel coronavirus in the future. “At present, the only data available with the health authorities here and in the state war room, is the number of people tested and number of positive cases,” Khader said. “Any strategy to combat Covid-19 must be built around scientific analysis of causes of how the disease is spreading and to do so, concrete efforts must be made to find the source of the cluster at the First Neuro Hospital in Padil. A analysis of reasons that caused the deaths, will also come in handy for the authorities to prepare suitable advisories for the people, who in turn could take informed decisions,” Khader noted. Referring to Rs 20 lakh crore package that Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced, details of which finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman is announcing in tranches, Khader said a large section of people are yet to receive direct benefit from it. Even the financial aid that chief minister B S Yediyurappa has announced is nothing new, Khader said, adding various sections of society have been left out of the aid package. Seeking a probe into the inconvenience faced by passengers arriving at Mangaluru International Airport on May 12, Khader said that the district administration and authorities concerned must be better prepared to avoid the same, when repatriation flights land in the future. State BJP president Nalin Kumar Kateel must wield his influence to ensure that more such flights are operated to his hometown, to bring back stranded Kannadigas from the Gulf, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/probe-covid-19-deaths-in-dk-scientifically-to-combat-pandemic-says-mla/articleshow/75780506.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Patna||Two from Gaya among 24 killed in Auraiya accident||PATNA: Two migrant workers from Gaya in Bihar were among the 24 people killed in an accident on the NH-19 in Auraiya district of Uttar Pradesh early Saturday morning. With this, the tally of migrant workers from Bihar killed in separate accidents during the ongoing nationwide lockdown has gone up to 17. Reports said Kedar Yadav (22) of Padumchak village under Barachatti block in Gaya district was killed when the truck in which he and 70 others were travelling from Rajasthan hit another truck in Auraiya district. Another migrant worker, Satyendra, from Dobhi police station area in Gaya district, also died in the accident. He was in his early 30s. Another migrant worker, Arjun Kumar, a native of Sahebganj in Muzaffarpur district, received serious injuries. Chief minister Nitish Kumar expressed grief over the accident and wished for early recovery of the injured. On Thursday night, a migrant worker was killed and two others were seriously injured when an SUV carrying nine people from Gujarat hit an oil container on the NH-2 under Kudra police station in Kaimur district. The SUV was on way to Aurangabad. Earlier, two migrant workers were killed in an accident in Samastipur district on Wednesday. Besides, two migrant workers died when they fell from a moving truck near Supauli under Sidhwalia block in Gopalganj district last week. These apart, Ashok Kumar and Pinku, stated to be residents of Purnea district, were run over by a speeding SUV at Ambala Cantonment in Haryana on May 11 followed by the death of another 25-year-old migrant worker Shiv Kumar Das in Raebareli. Das was killed while cycling home from Bulandshahr in Uttar Pradesh with a group of migrants returning home in Bihar. In a similar incident, a 25-year-old Sageer Ansari of East Champaran district was killed on Shaheed Path in Lucknow on May 11. Sageer was part of a group of migrants returning home from Delhi on bicycles. On April 23, migrant workers Mukesh Yadav and Tulsi Ram were killed and their friend Guddu received serious injuries on Agra-Lucknow Expressway under Nagla Khangar police limit in Firozpur district of Uttar Pradesh when they were on motorbikes on way to their native place in Samastipur and Muzaffarpur districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/2-from-gaya-among-24-killed-in-accident/articleshow/75780605.cms||Ramashankar
May 17, 2020||Patna||Patna: Doctors feel dehydrated in PPE kits as mercury soars||PATNA: The life-saving personal protective equipment (PPE) kit turned out near fatal for junior resident doctor Dr Durgesh Kumar, who was attending to Covid-19 suspects at the outpatient department (OPD) of Nalanda Medical College and Hospital. The doctor fell unconscious due to dehydration in the protective gear on Saturday. “My body was soaked in sweat and I was slightly feeling suffocated because of face mask. I went inside a room and removed the mask. I then felt better and resumed my duty,” Dr Durgesh told TOI. “I again started feeling dizziness around 3pm. I wanted to sit somewhere but fell down before I could grab a chair. My chin got injured. I felt stable only after drinking two bottles of water,” he recounted. With the mercury soaring to 39 degrees C in Patna on Saturday, the doctors using PPE kit in Covid and isolation wards are finding it difficult to adjust with the temperature. Dr Vinay Kumar at AIIMS-Patna said: “Doctors are finding the protective gear uncomfortable owing to surging temperature. It is more difficult in the Covid wards as the airconditioners (ACs) have been switched off to prevent the possibility of virus spread through ventilations.” At AIIMS-Patna, the doctors are doing 12 hours’ duty and change their PPE kit every six hours. Dr Sherjeet Kumar of medicine ward at PMCH said: “Sometimes I feel dizzy in the PPE kit and goggles for longer period. We sweat profusely in the plastic cover. It makes us dehydrated as we neither eat anything nor drink water during duty hours. The fan in isolation ward is also of no use.” Responding to the problem, health department additional secretary Manoj Kumar told this newspaper that the state government would look for alternate arrangements to reduce the problems of doctors. “It is obviously a challenging job for health workers to work while wearing full PPE kit. We will either reduce the working hours or look for some alternate arrangements,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/doctors-feel-dehydrated-in-ppe-kits-as-mercury-soars/articleshow/75781420.cms||Faryal Rumi
May 17, 2020||Surat||Bhavnagar man’s stem cells to save Maharashtra's 14-year-old cancer patient||SURAT: A 14-year-old cancer patient battling for life in Maharashtra could get a new lease of life, thanks to a Bhavnagar businessman whose blood stem cell has matched with her’s. On Sunday, the 24-year-old donor Harsh Gandhi’s stem cell will be transplanted into this little girl in a hospital in Maharashtra. In fact, this will be the first stem cell transplant after the nationwide Covid-induced lockdown was clamped on March 23, said Jalpa Sukhanandi, regional head, DATRI, India’s largest unrelated blood stem cells donors registry. On Saturday, Gandhi travelled all the way from Bhavnagar to Ahmedabad for the process of donating his stem cells that was done in a private hospital. The stem cells were then dispatched through a special vehicle that would travel non-stop to the Maharashtra hospital for transplant into the 14-year-old on Sunday. “I am very happy that my few hours of travelling will save someone’s life. Though the situation is not advisable for travel, everyone is trying their bit to help the society in this difficult time. So, I to stepped out to save a life,” said a beaming Gandhi, who was accompanied by his wife to Ahmedabad on Saturday. A staunch believer in the doctrine of Jeev Daya ((compassion towards living beings), Gandhi added that the patient’s condition is critical and the successful transplant would be the most satisfactory moment of his life. The probability of finding blood stem cell matching donor is only 1 in 10,000 to one in over a million as the total number of voluntary donors registered are very low. There are only a little more than 4.5 lakh blood stem cell donors registered with DATRI, which is less than 0.33% of the total population of India. Blood stem cell transplants across the country have been stalled due to the lockdown. "There are at least 14 patients who have got matches for blood stem cell across the country, but due to restrictions on movement of vehicles and flight operations, they are stalled.” During the stem cell donation, all the safety measures in respect of Covid-19 were followed and the DATRI team ensured safety of Gandhi and his family at every step.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/bhavnagar-mans-stem-cells-to-save-14-year-old-cancer-patients-life-maha/articleshow/75782335.cms||Vijaysinh Parmar
May 17, 2020||Vadodara||MSU bags DBT funded biotechnology programme for a second session||VADODARA: The department of microbiology and biotechnology centre of M S University has once again got recognized and approved as one of the national centre for postgraduate (PG) teaching programme in biotechnology. This teaching programme will be funded and conducted by the department of biotechnology (DBT) of Government of India. “The course would offer advanced interdisciplinary education in molecular, cellular, biochemical, biophysical and pharmacological fundamentals in biology and also in bioinformatics,” said Dr Mrinalini Nair, who is coordinator since 2015. “The MSc biotechnology programme had initially started as one of the first five DBT supported centres in 1985 by late Dr V V Modi. It has run successfully for over the past 30 years, where over 60 % of the students clear national eligibility tests with high placement records in top national and international institutes. The programme has fostered the foundation of several bright scientists across the globe,” she said. DBT had recently initiated an exercise to revisit and revamp all the existing PG teaching programmes. It had recommended fresh applications for approval of programmes through rigorous reselection of universities/ institutes. “The recognition and selection for a second time are due to feedback from students, high success of the programme, strong research culture with quality publications and infrastructure that had been developed through extramural funds,” said Nair.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/msu-bags-dbt-funded-biotechnology-programme-for-a-second-session/articleshow/75780682.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat HC permits rape survivor to undergo abortion of 24-week fetus||AHMEDABAD: Gujarat high court has permitted a 19-year-old rape survivor to undergo medical termination of 24-week pregnancy after the later requested for the same arguing that the continuation of pregnancy may affect her physical and mental health. The rape survivor belongs to Navsari district in south Gujarat. She approached the HC for directions to the medical authority to abort her fetus complaining that since it is a medico-legal case, the doctors turned down her request for abortion in absence of HC order. It was submitted that the pregnancy was of 24 weeks, therefore, medical practitioners cannot on their own terminate the pregnancy. If they terminate the pregnancy without the order of the court, the act of the doctor amounts to an offence punishable under the Indian Penal Code or under the Medical Termination of Pregnancy Act, which prohibits abortion beyond 20 weeks of pregnancy. After getting medical opinion, Justice V H Patel permitted the rape victim to terminate her pregnancy at the earliest. The court ordered concerned doctors at the hospital in Surat to follow the procedure and report the court in a week’s time. According to additional public prosecutor Himanshu Patel, the HC has ordered the medical superintendent of New Civil Hospital, Surat, to hand over, in scientific manner, the tissues drawn from the fetus for DNA identification to the investigating officer in the rape case as registered in Vejalpore police station. The DNA sample is for onward transmission to the Forensic Science Laboratory.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/hc-permits-rape-survivor-to-undergo-abortion-of-24-week-fetus/articleshow/75781943.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Cop-turned-poet wows all with piece on Covid-19||PATNA: On the field he is considered a tough task master. Off duty, he is a literary writer. Meet Rajesh Kumar, a 2003 batch IPS officer, whose poem on Covid-19 pandemic is doing the rounds on social media these days. Posted as DIG of Begusarai range, Kumar turned so emotional after going through the sufferings of people that he penned a poem recently. The lyrics of the poem goes like this, ‘Corona bhi na jane kya karne laga hai, aadmi ab aadmi se darne laga hai. Shahar hain viran se, gaon hain sunsan se, har taraf na jane kyun marghaton sa maun hai, jeevan kitna bemani sa lagne laga hai, aadmi ab aadmi se darne laga hai’. Kumar got inspiration to pen his poem during the first phase of lockdown announced by PM Narendra Modi on March 24. “Since Begusarai figured on the list of Covid-19 affected districts in the initial days of the pandemic, I had to visit places where people were kept in quarantine. I came across several such people whose lives became a source of inspiration for me as a writer,” he said. The poem also deals with significant changes in the nature during the lockdown. Describing the changes, the poet says, “Par panchhiyon ki kalrav kyo sunne lagi hai, hawa kyon mastani si dikhne lagi hai, nadiyan ab kuchh khulke kyon bahne lagi hai, kuchh achha bhi anjaane hi hone laga hai, kyon aadmi se aadmi darne laga hai.” Through his poem, Kumar has also tried to create awareness among people about the far-reaching consequences of the pandemic. Referring to the dangers posed to the humanity by the deadly virus, the poet says, “Wajood ab khatre mein hai aaj hamara, jeevan ko bachana hi hai uddeshya hamara, ab saath milkar aao corona ko hara den.” The poet says the people have to maintain social distancing and self-discipline to defeat the virus. A native of Haryana, Kumar has a penchant for writing poems since childhood. “I have been reading and writing poems since my childhood,” he said. This is not the first time that 1976-born IPS officer has composed a poem. Last year, CM Nitish Kumar had released his collection of 62 poems titled ‘Jee Le Zara’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/cop-turned-poet-wows-all-with-piece-on-covid-19/articleshow/75781508.cms||Ramashankar
May 17, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Bypass hospital set to reopen with revamped Covid-19 unit||KOLKATA: After shutting down new admissions and OPD services for almost two weeks, Peerless Hospital is set to resume all services, including surgeries, from Monday. The hospital has also revamped their Covid-dedicated facility, where they have strengthened infrastructure and added more beds. The multi-specialty hospital shut services on May 4 after some doctors and nurses tested positive for Covid-19 and several health workers had to be quarantined. The authorities had to suspend certain services owing to manpower shortage and for a sanitization drive. “We regret the inconvenience caused to our patients during the temporary closure. We are now in a better position to provide safer services,” said Sujit Kar Purkayasthya, managing director of Peerless Hospital. The hospital, which has been treating novel coronavirus patients right from the beginning with only 10 isolated beds, has now upgraded the Covid unit. A ward has been converted into a negative-pressure facility with 20 single-bed cabins and eight ITU beds. An extractor machine has been installed on the rooftop to create negative pressure. “This ward has been created in such a way that there will be no interaction of people attending to Covid patients and the rest. This is a very advanced facility with intensive care and other services under the same roof,” said hospital CEO Sudipta Mitra. Many hospitals across the city have had their share of Covid scare, as asymptomatic patients tested positive and infected several healthcare workers. But with guidelines now allowing samples of asymptomatic patients to be tested, hospitals said such cases would go down. “Hospitals had started emerging as hotspot for transmission of the virus. But now that the government has eased the norms for testing, we hope the risk of healthcare workers as well as patients getting infected in hospitals will be reduced,” said an official at a hospital off EM Bypass.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bypass-hospital-set-to-reopen-with-revamped-covid-unit/articleshow/75782481.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
May 17, 2020||Patna||Bihar: 43,000 people come back by 35 special trains||PATNA: Altogether 35 Shramik special trains, the higher ever in number, reached different stations in Bihar carrying nearly 43,000 migrant workers, students and other stranded people from nine states, including Delhi on Saturday. The East Central Railway (ECR) has thus received 232 Shramik special trains so far. About 2.78 lakh stranded migrant workers and others have reached Bihar by special trains since May 2. Danapur divisional railway manager (DRM) Sunil Kumar said three Shramik special trains from Surat and Jamnagar in Gujarat and Coimbatore in Tamil Nadu carrying 3,800 stranded people reached Danapur on Saturday. Railway security personnel and healthcare staff enforced health protocols while a dedicated team of railway and state government doctors conducted thermal screening on each passenger, he said, adding another special train from Chennai carrying about 1200 migrant workers and other stranded people also reached Biharsharif in morning. ECR chief public relations officer (CPRO) Rajesh Kumar said three special trains from Delhi carrying about 3,500 migrant workers and others reached Muzaffarpur, Bhagalpur and Saharsa while two trains from Mangalore in Karnataka reached Hajipur and Gaya. Two other special trains from Bengaluru carrying about 2500 stranded people reached Katihar and Muzaffarpur. Two special trains from Faridabad and one each from Panipat and Gurgaon in Haryana brought about 5,000 people to Katihar, Barauni , Bhagalpur and Darbhanga. Besides, one special train from Bolarum in Hyderabad reached Katihar, the CPRO said. Similarly, two trains from Bandra and one each from Palghar and Pune in Maharashtra carried 4900 stranded people of the state to Katihar, Purnea, Kishanganj and Barauni. Special trains from Ludhiana, Mohali and Chandigarh in Punjab reached Araria, Motihari, Sitamarhi, Bettiah and Madhubani with nearly 6,300 migrants and others, he said. Altogether 7,200 people reached Araria, Katihar, Muzaffarpur, Bettiah and Araria by three special trains from Karamana and one each from Saharanpur, Ghaziabad and Jalalpur in Uttar Pradesh. Four other trains from Surat, Ahmedabad, Rajkot and Bhuj carried 4900 migrants to Purnea, Barauni, Siwan and Chhapra. They were transported to the nearby quarantine centres by buses after thermal screening, the CPRO said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/43k-people-come-back-by-35-special-trains/articleshow/75780569.cms||Kumod Verma
May 17, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Eight Covid-19 patients recover in Bettiah||BETTIAH: A day after a migrant worker died in the Covid isolation ward at Bettiah’s M J K Hospital and Government Medical College, West Champaran had some encouragingly good news to celebrate on Friday when eight Covid patients undergoing treatment here were given a warm send-off with a shower of petals after testing negative. “A week ago, two children and an adult who had been sent to the Nalanda Medical College and Hospital were also discharged. The recovery of 11 patients so far is a satisfying reward for the dedication of our doctors and paramedics,” DM Kundan Kumar said. Now, 14 Covid patients remain in the isolation ward here. “We are augmenting quarantine facilities to accommodate the rising number of migrants coming home,” the DM said. So far, 21,000 returnees have been placed in 260 quarantine camps in the blocks. With around 2,000 to 3,000 migrants returning each day by Shramik Special trains, buses, hired vehicles, cycles and on foot, the district is seeing a 77% jump in these homecoming numbers. The administration consequently is preparing schools and other appropriate premises in each of the 319 panchayats in the district. On Friday itself, 13 migrants reached Sanichari on cycles covering 1,300km from Tehri Garwal in Uttarakhand. Another group reached Lauriya on foot from Phillaur in Punjab. “It is good that some migrants are voluntarily getting themselves screened and quarantined,” the DM said. ( With inputs from Tirthraj Kushwaha in Bagaha)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/8-covid-patients-recover-in-bettiah/articleshow/75781397.cms||Abhay Mohan Jha
May 17, 2020||Ahmedabad||Amdavadis order groceries, veggies worth Rs 20 crore in 2 days||AHMEDABAD: The people of Ahmedabad ordered groceries and vegetables worth Rs 20 crore in 65,000 orders on various e-commerce websites. Municipal officials said the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation has taken up a drive to ensur essential goods reach the people of Ahmedabad, while keeping in public heath in view. The AMC directed e-commerce companies and app-based delivery companies to deliver goods ordered online between 10am and 5pm. The AMC has also asked these companies to get health cards for their delivery boys and over 2,350 such cards were issued to delivery boys. Officials said all major retailers and e-commerce companies engaged in providing essential goods like food. milk and groceries were told to accept orders that are paid online and to not offer payment on delivery options. On Friday and Saturday, some 65,000 transactions worth a total of Rs 20 crore have been made in Ahmedabad. The AMC had deployed around 200 teams who provided training and guidance on online payments to around 20,000 small retailers. grocery shops, milk vendors among others. The AMC, in detailed guidelines issued earlier, had said that vendors and shop keepers will have to use trays cash transactions to maintain proper distance between buyers and sellers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/amdavadis-order-groceries-veggies-worth-rs-20-crore-in-2-days/articleshow/75782044.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Ahmedabad||Bhavnagar: Union minister Mansukh Mandaviya's father passes away||GANDHINAGAR: Lakshmanbhai Mandaviya, father of Mansukh Mandaviya, Union minister of state for shipping, chemicals and fertilisers, passed away at Hanol village of Palitana in Bhavnagar district on Saturday. He was 100. Mandaviya said on his Twitter handle that because of the lockdown, all post-death rituals have been cancelled. PM Narendra Modi, Union home minister Amit Shah, CM Vijay Rupani and other national leaders of BJP and various parties expressed their grief and offered condolences to Mandaviya and his family.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/mandaviyas-father-passes-away/articleshow/75782026.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Surat||Cops deny doctor’s claim of being harassed on road||SURAT: A 31-year-old cardiologist has alleged of being harassed by police at a check post, which the police are denying.In his written complaint with Katargam police, Dr Bhavesh Talavia has said that cops even tore his shirt during the argument. Police, however, claim that the doctor first entered in a lane meant for two-wheelers and when asked to switch to the correct lane, he drove his car at high speed. While Dr Talavia wants strict action on the errant cops, he did not register a police complaint but requested departmental actions only. According to the case details, Talavia was going in his car with his assistant to Amroli from Katargam area when he was asked to stop before the bridge at a check point by the police. “The cop had raised his hand signalling me to stop and when I reached close to him and applied breaks, the car inched forward. This annoyed him and started abusing me,” Talavia alleged, adding that more cops joined in the argument. “As I came out from car they started threatening me of arrest and taking me to police station. I requested them to take me to the police station during which, they even tore my shirt,” he added. B N Dave, assistant commissioner of police, traffic, however, clarified that police have separated lanes for two wheelers and four wheelers at Amroli bridge to manage traffic better. “The doctor was trying to enter in the wrong lane and was asked to switch to proper lane. He went to the four wheeler lane and then drove at high speed when police stopped him,” said Dave, adding that he started arguing with police when he was stopped again for speeding in the narrow lane.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/cops-deny-docs-claim-of-being-harassed-on-road/articleshow/75782281.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Surat||Coronavirus: Children recover faster, 35 of 40 go home||SURAT: Compared to adult Covid-19 positive patients, children below the age of 12 years have shown faster recovery rate of 92% in the city. When Covid-19 hospital built on New Civil Hospital (NCH) campus is overflowing with adult patients, positive news has trickled in from its paediatric ward. Out of the total 40 Covid-19 positive children, 35, including a three-month-old girl, one of the youngest patient in Surat, defeated the deadly virus and were discharged in the last one month. Hospital authorities said condition of five remaining Covid-19 positive children is stable and that they too will be discharged soon. Out of the 40 children, 17 were girls and 23 boys and their age ranged from three months to 12 years. Dr Panna Bulsara, nodal officer of Covid-19 paediatric ward, told TOI, “Most of the children were asymptomatic and had tested positive during community sampling drive. The winning spirits of the children, dedication of the health staff and doctors at the NCH were responsible for the recovery of the children.” The children were provided with healthy and nutritious meal, medicines including antibiotics and vitamin supplements. A positive environment also helped them to fight back, he said. “Our nursing staff and doctors used to play with the children to remove the fear of disease from their minds. Mothers of many small children were staying with their kids in the ward,” said Dr Bulsara. Two cousin brothers-four-year-old Jeet Rana and five-year-old Vadik Rana- residents of Maan Darwaja tenements defeated the deadly virus within seven days. They were admitted in the paediatric ward on April 20 and got discharged from the hospital on April 27. Dr Vijay Shah, head of the paediatric department at NCH, said, “It is very difficult to manage children with Covid-19 and keep them in the ward for days together. We had to attend to each one of them personally. Our team of nurses and doctors took utmost care of the children, which resulted in their faster recovery. From time to time, the children and their parents were counselled that the virus can be defeated. ”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/children-recover-faster-35-of-40-go-home/articleshow/75782263.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Patna||200 non-resident Biharis stuck in UK to be back tomorrow||GAYA: Nearly 200 non-resident Biharis (NRBs) stuck in the United Kingdom (UK) are set to reach Gaya on Monday. As part of its Vande Bharat Mission, the Centre is operating special flights to bring back stranded Indians from foreign countries. Air India (AI) has released a list of six international flights that will fly to the UK, Oman, Qatar, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan and Russia. Each of them will carry at least 170 passengers. According to the schedule, AI-0112 is scheduled to reach the Gaya airport at 4.30pm on May 18. AI-0974 and AI-0972 will bring back stranded NRBs from Oman on May 24 and Qatar on May 25. AI-0952 will evacuate Biharis stuck in Kazakhstan on May 26 and in Kyrgyzstan on June 1. The last one will bring back stranded NRBs from Russia on June 3. “All arrangements have been made to welcome the NRBs and send them to hotels, guesthouses or monasteries for completing the 14-day mandatory quarantine period,” Gaya district magistrate Abhishek Singh told this newspaper on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/200-nrbs-stuck-in-uk-to-be-back-tomorrow/articleshow/75780582.cms||Abdul Qadir
May 17, 2020||Patna||Patna: Cop, five others booked for molesting minor girl||PATNA: A police sub-inspector (SI) and five others have been booked for allegedly molesting a 14-year-old girl and thrashing her relatives at Lemuabad village under the Pandarak police station area in Patna district on the intervening night on Wednesday and Thursday. SHO of Pandarak police station Raman Prakash Vashishtha said the SI, Sudhir Kumar, is posted at Dehri-on-Sone. He was, however, stuck at Lemuabad due to lockdown. He said several others from the girl’s side are also evading arrest as an FIR under SC/ST Act was lodged against them by the opposite side. “Apart from the SI, five others – Vinod Mochi, Sunny Kumar, Vicky Kumar, Manjesh Kumar and Shravan Kumar – were also named in the FIR lodged by the girl’s cousin,” the SHO added. ( The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/cop-five-others-booked-for-molesting-minor-girl/articleshow/75780642.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Patna||BMP campus: Four more men test positive for coronavirus, tally rises to 26||PATNA: With four more Bihar Military Police (BMP)-14 personnel testing positive for coronavirus on Saturday, the number of cases on the BMP campus at Khajpura has increased to 26. The campus has headquarters of fifth, tenth and fourteenth battalions of BMP. A woman constable from BMP-1, 24 serving and a retired havildar of BMP-14 have been tested positive for Covid-19 since May 7. The woman constable, also a cook for a woman IPS officer, had returned from leave and quarantined on the campus. A senior IPS officer said contact tracing of the four new positive cases would be done to identify more cases. “The daily sanitization process on the campus was supposed to end on Saturday. However, fresh positive cases mean that the exercise will continue for at least one more week,” he said. Another IPS officer said the BMP-5 and BMP-10 personnel have so far not contracted the virus. “Samples of 12 BMP-5 personnel were collected as they had come in touch with a BMP-14 jawan. Their results, however, came negative,” he said, adding 10 BMP-10 personnel were also tested negative for Covid-19. State nodal officer for Covid-19 Dr Ragini Mishra said it was still not clear how the virus reached the BMP campus. “The retired BMP havildar, the first from the BMP campus to contract the virus, was quizzed. However, nothing concrete can be said about the origin of the virus on the campus,” she added. Meanwhile, four more police personnel tested Covid-19 positive from the Nawada district police lines on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/4-more-bmp-men-test-ve-tally-rises-to-26/articleshow/75781471.cms||Debashish Karmakar
May 17, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: 1st kite-string death on Maa flyover||KOLKATA: Unrestricted kite flying in the Park Circus-Tiljala area ever since the beginning of the lockdown — especially on the approach to Maa flyover at both ends —claimed a life on Saturday evening. Akhtar Khan, a 40-year-old resident of Kabitirtha in Kidderpore, died after the Chinese thread of a flying kite got tangled around his neck and knocked him off his bike. The incident was reported on the AJC Bose Road flyover-Maa flyover connector at 5.15pm. He was taken to CNMC Hospital where doctors declared him dead. Though similar accidents have been reported on the twin flyovers for the past three years — leading to about 25-odd accidents, some of them serious — this is the first fatal accident of its kind. The incident was also the first recorded fatality in the Kolkata Police area since April 3, thus ending the accident-free run of Kolkata Police during the lockdown. Police sources said the man was riding at a speed a little higher than allowed when the thread caught his neck at a crucial bend. A case in this regard has been initiated at the Beniapukur police station. KMDA had planned several measures to tackle the kite-thread menace at this spot but could not implement them. Earlier, three back-to-back accidents took place between April 1 and April 5 on the Maa flyover stretch here, where two of the victims happened to be a special branch cop and a banker. The cops launched a drive to control such accidents. Saturday’s incident shows the relief was a short one.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/1st-kite-string-death-on-maa/articleshow/75782447.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
May 17, 2020||Surat||Surat crosses 1,000-mark in Covid cases, two die||SURAT: Twenty-nine new Covid-19 cases took their total number in the city to 1,020 on Saturday. Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) officials said 11 out of 29 cases were detected in Limbayat zone, a Covid-19 hotspot. Of the total coronavirus cases, this zone alone accounts for 389 of them. Meanwhile, two persons succumbed to coronavirus during the day, taking the Covid-19 toll in the city to 48. cap"Till now, a total of 48 people have succumbed to Covid-19 in the city. Of these, 43 patients were suffering from co-morbid conditions like diabetes, blood pressure, hypertension heart and kidney ailments. We observed that people do not immediately report to hospitals when they fall ill. They go to hospitals only after they become really serious, but by then it's too late. I request people to immediately contact hospitals if they notice any symptoms of the virus in them. This will help us to save more lives,'' municipal commissioner Banchhanidhi Pani said. "We have launched a massive door-to-door APX survey in the most affected areas of the city. A house is marked ‘A’ if we find any member there with acute respiratory infection or other symptoms, ‘P’ if there are elders in a house with co-morbid conditions and ‘X’ in case nothing is suspected in the dwelling. During the last few days, our survey has recorded 2.73 lakh people with co-morbid conditions in the most affected areas. We are keeping a watch on people with co-morbid conditions because they are susceptible to the virus,'' Pani said. Meanwhile, the recovery rate in the city has jumped to 65.9 per cent with discharge of 20 more Covid-19 patients on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/surat-crosses-1000-mark-in-covid-cases-two-die/articleshow/75782247.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Patna||Close shave for DM & SP of East Champaran||MOTIHARI: East Champaran DM Shirshat Kapil Ashok and SP Naveen Chandra Jha had a close shave on Saturday when their vehicle met an accident on NH-28 at Kotwa village on Saturday. Two police constables were injured in the accident. They are undergoing treatment at Motihari sadar hospital. The incident occurred when the two officers were on way to Dumariaghat to visit a quarantine centre. The SP was also sitting in the DM’s car. “A stray dog suddenly came on the road. The driver of our car applied brake, following which the SP’s vehicle hit my car from behind. Thereafter, another vehicle in our escort hit the SP’s vehicle,” the DM said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/close-shave-for-dm-sp-of-east-champaran/articleshow/75780621.cms||Chandra Bhushan Pandey
May 17, 2020||Surat||Lockdown breathes clean air into Ankleshwar, Vapi||Surat: With the commercial and private vehicles vanishing from the roads and most of the industries remaining shut due to the national lockdown, the two-most critically polluted industrial clusters of south Gujarat—Vapi and Ankleshwar--have shown significant reduction in the air pollution levels.According to the study on ambient air quality conducted by the Gujarat Pollution Control Board (GPCB), the PM10 and PM2.5 concentrations in Vapi and Anleshwar reduced by 40% and 34% respectively, making the air breathable for the residents. Also, the Air Quality Index (AQI) has improved from 160 (moderate) to 79 (satisfactory) in Ankleshwar, whereas in Vapi it improved from 177 to 102. The GPCB carried out the study to find and evaluate the average value of air quality parametres data generated Continuous Ambient Air Quality Monitority Systems (CAAQMS) stations located at Vapi and Ankleshwar for the pre-lockdown period—March 15 to March 21—and national lockdown period—March 22 to March 28. In Ankleshwar GIDC area, few essential services based industries were operational, while other industries were completely shut. Moreover, there was negligible movement of vehicles including commercial and private, which resulted in the improvement of air quality. In Vapi, the findings revealed reduction of 40.4% in PM10 and 34.9% in PM2.5. About 950 units were in operation during pre-lockdown period and once the national lockdown was imposed, about 46 industrial units comprising of pharmaceuticals, pesticides and disinfectants and sanitiser manufacturing units were in operation. GPCB study stated that the drop in average concentration values of coarse and fine particulate matter is due to the restriction on construction activities, less road re-suspension and curb on industrial combustion activities. “The reductions in values of ambient air quality parametres can thus be attributed to the complete restrictions on non-essential vehicular movement and commercial activities, the emissions from construction activities and industrial activities,” said the report. “The long term benefits of the air pollution reduction depends on whether the impacts are sustained or there are chances of reversal once the Covid-19 challenge ends,” added the report.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/lockdown-breathes-clean-air-into-ankleshwar-vapi/articleshow/75782231.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Goa||Only 282 arrivals at Margao station relieves authorities||Margao: When the passenger chart for the Delhi-Madgaon Rajdhani Express, scheduled to arrive on Saturday at the Margao railway station, showed 823 arrivals, the district administration authorities were worried that the huge number would put a strain on its already stretched resources — administrative, medical and security. However, when the final count of passengers to alight at the station came to just 282, they knew nothing could go wrong. South Goa collector Ajit Roy, who personally monitored the activities at the Margao railway station, said that arrival of a fraction of the expected number of passengers had eased the situation quite a bit. “Yes, some relief,” Roy said, when questioned.  He attributed the lesser quantum to probable last-minute cancellation by some passengers for whatever reasons. “Everybody might not have boarded the train. This is the only stop in Goa, and 282 people have come to Goa by this train,” Roy said. All the 282 passengers were taken to South Goa district hospital for the Covid-19 test. A swab collection facility and testing centre has been set up at the hospital. After their swabs were collected, the passengers were ferried by Kadamba buses to the Jawaharlal Nehru stadium, Fatorda, where they were quarantined until their test reports were out. Some anxious moments were witnessed at the railway station after a few passengers refused to pay for their Covid-19 tests. A sum of Rs 2,000 was collected from all passengers, including Goans, before they exited the station. Manohar Bicholkar Teli, a resident of Bicholim, said he had no money to pay for the test, and dared the authorities to refuse him entry into the state. “I have no money on me. I have no one here from whom I can borrow money. How can they refuse me entry?” he said. A seven-member Chodankar family from Verem, also expressed their indignation on being asked to pay up for the tests, claiming they had no money left. Earlier, 33 passengers alighted at Margao by the Thiruvanantpuram-Delhi train. All 33 were sent to the new district hospital for the test, and quarantined at the Fatorda stadium until their results were obtained. Sources said that most of them who arrived by both the trains were either Goans or those employed in Goa. Though adequate arrangements were put in place for swab collection of the passengers at the South Goa district hospital, many were seen protesting against the delay in completing the process. As many of the passengers are residents of far-off places, sources said, they will have to stay overnight in the quarantine facility.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/only-282-arrivals-at-margao-station-relieves-authorities/articleshow/75783149.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Hubballi||Karnataka: Man held for spitting on hotel staff; police find he’s a murder accused||HUBBALLI: A fracas at a hotel proved disastrous for a murder accused who had been on the run since November. Saleem Ballari was taken into custody late on Friday for allegedly spitting on the staff of a hotel and manhandling them. Police soon discovered that Saleem had been absconding after killing a man in Kalaburagi. The murder took place when the victim was out on bail. Police could not divulge further details of the murder in November. Since the killing, Saleem had been hiding in Nekar Nagar, doing unskilled jobs, said Kasabapet police. On Friday evening, he indulged in binge drinking and later went outside to buy food at Nekar Nagar. Due to lockdown restrictions, eateries are closed at 7pm. When Saleem went to a nearby hotel and demanded food, the staff told him that they were closed for the day. Irked by the response, Saleem started abusing them and allegedly spat on the staff. The hotel staff then called police who reached the spot and took Saleem into custody. Investigation at the police station revealed Saleem’s criminal background. Police took him to KIMS for medical test. They said Saleem is a resident of Anand Nagar in Hubballi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/man-held-for-spitting-on-hotel-staff-police-find-hes-a-murder-accused/articleshow/75781449.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Patna||All private hospitals should resume operations: Nitish Kumar||PATNA: Chief minister (CM) Nitish Kumar on Saturday said all private hospitals, nursing homes and clinics should be made operational in the state for the treatment of general patients. Later in the evening, the state health department also issued a press statement, urging private medical health institutes to resume their services. The Indian Medical Association had earlier urged the state government to provide personal protective equipment (PPE) kits to private hospitals so that they can resume their operations. However, the department has expressed its inability to provide PPE kits to the private hospitals. Meanwhile, holding a review meeting with state’s top officials on measures being taken to check spread of Covid-19 and AES, the CM asked chief secretary Deepak Kumar to expedite immunisation campaign against the AES so that all children in the affected districts could be covered. Similarly, the CM asked the chief secretary to keep panchayat-level quarantine centres ready for the likely arrival of large number of migrant workers in the next few days. “Arrange all basic facilities at the panchayat-level quarantine centres so that the people do not face any difficulty,” the CM said. He said block-level officials can also take assistance of local teachers, farmers, chowkidars, panchayat and ward members for better facilities at quarantine centres. He asked the chief secretary to make arrangements for sanitisation and regular cleaning of all market areas and other places where crowd gathers. “Regular sanitisation of such places will protect people from Covid-19 infection,” the CM said. He asked the officials to ensure completion of all flood protection projects before arrival of monsoon. ‘Optical shops to open three days a week’: Patna DM Kumar Ravi on Saturday allowed opening of shops selling opticals in the city on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays. These shops, however, have been asked to follow social distancing norms. The DM said all book shops, including the ones selling competitive expatiation books, and stationery shops have been allowed to resume operations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/all-private-hospitals-should-resume-operations-nitish/articleshow/75781445.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Private hospitals counsel nurses to stay back||KOLKATA: Nurses planning to return to their home states are being counselled to stay back by private hospitals in Kolkata who are faced with the threat of a severe service disruption in the middle of the pandemic. With more than 500 nurses having returned to Manipur, Odisha and Tripura, and more slated to follow, hospitals that are attempting to scale up operations in a bid to return to normalcy have hit a roadblock. Hospital authorities point out that in-patient services and surgeries will again have to be rolled back if more nurses quit. AMRI Hospitals, which lost 80 nurses this week, claims to have counselled 50 others into staying back. “We are addressing their concerns and they have agreed to stay back. We will continue talking to the rest and are also bringing back those who have just retired,” said CEO Rupak Barua. He added that an online recruitment process will soon be started to replace those who have quit. AMRI has around 140 nurses from the northeastern states. Medica Superspecialty Hospital, that saw an exodus of 75 nurses, has been counselling the rest. “We have transferred 75 nurses to Kolkata from our Jamshedpur unit,” said chairman Alok Roy. Contrary to reports in some sections of the media, the Manipur government had no role in calling back nurses from Kolkata. It was the nurses’ personal decision and the government had only arranged transportation for the stranded state residents in Kolkata. Woodlands Hospital has started counselling its nurses from Kerala, Odisha and Tripura. The counselling will be done one-on-one in three stages, according to CEO Rupali Basu, who pointed out that services could collapse if the exodus continues. “We are on the way to resuming normal services after a month-and-a-half-long break and this threatens to turn the clock back. We have already lost two nurses from Tripura. While everyone has the right to work where he or she wants, this is not the right time to poach healthcare workers. So we hope that state governments will take up the issue even as we persuade our nurses to stay back,” said Basu. Half of Woodlands’ 400 nurses are from other states. Nine nurses from Manipur have resigned at RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences (RTIICS). “They have not yet left and we are counselling them to continue to stay and work here. We have just started elective cases and once those numbers go up, we will feel the strain on the system due to the shortage of nurses. So we will need to look for replacements,” said RTIICS zonal director R Venkatesh. “We are concerned that this will set a precedent for other states. We will be facing a major shortage of nurses and will not be able to offer regular services nor face the pandemic effectively,” added Venkatesh. Charnock Hospital, which had to shut down last month after several doctors and nurses tested positive, has started discussions with nurses. “We have just resumed our services and are about to scale up operations through elective surgeries and outpatient services. If nurses continue to leave at this juncture, things will go back to square one. More importantly, Covid patients will be affected since normal services are key to ensuring they receive good care,” said managing director Prashant Sharma. Nurses, on the other hand, said absence of proper safety protocol, parental pressure and food issues had prompted them to go home. They said that since they did not have ration cards, many had to go without food on certain occasions. MIK (Manipuris in Kolkata), a closely-knit group of people from Manipur working in diverse professions, is trying to assess the exact reasons for the nurses’ exodus while counselling the rest not to leave Kolkata unless necessary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/pvt-hosps-counsel-nurses-to-stay-back/articleshow/75782420.cms||Prithvijit Mitra
May 17, 2020||Kolkata||Door-to-door survey in Kolkata's Bidhannagar||KOLKATA: The New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA) on Saturday started door-to-door health survey with the help of health department. The team will check on residents for fever or flu like symptoms to identify potential Covid cases and conduct swab tests. Starting the area wise survey from Action Area I, healthworkers collected data of 235 persons in the first round. “The survey will be conducted throughout New Town and we will try to cover as many residents possible by the end of May,” said an official. In neighbouring Tegharia and Baguiati, the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation has so far collected over 60 swab samples from residents in containment zones. Officials said reports were awaited. The civic authorities had started random swab sample collection following the footsteps of Kolkata Municipal Corporation and Howrah Municipal Corporation. The collected samples are being sent to NICED for tests.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/door-to-door-survey-in-bidhannagar/articleshow/75782490.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Movement restriction may have adverse impact on mental and social well-being||HYDERABAD: Even through the prolonged lockdown put in place to curb the spread of Covid-19 has given people ample time to spend with family and loved ones, psychiatrists warn that forced restriction and isolation at home can cause damage to one’s mental and social health. The issue is set to persist even after the lockdown is lifted due to post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD). The movement restriction, coupled with the stress of monetary losses and job insecurities, has given rise to anxiety among many. People have also been forced to alter their lifestyle. The lockdown will only worsen the issues for those already fighting mental health disorders, according to experts. The latest issue of Indian Journal of Psychiatry warns that even spending more time with the family may have negative results. “The forced, prolonged proximity with family can improve bonding but can also stress relationships, the latter may result in domestic abuse,” warns a researcher, Chittaranjan Andrade, of the department of clinical psychopharmacology and neurotoxicology, National Institute of Mental Health and Neurosciences, (NIMHANS), Bengaluru. The lockdown may also further complicate ailments related to heart, lung and kidney for some. Cancer patients will be the most affected due to restricted in various hospitals. Many hospitals have stopped outpatient consultations and put off elective surgeries as they deal with Covid-19 patients. “The lockdown may also have effects that are associated with delayed access. People trapped indoors will get very little exercise. They will spend much time watching movies on television or on smartphones. They might also gain weight,” Chittaranjan warned. He stressed on the difficulty in losing weight and the health risks it can put people under, including diabetes, hypertension, ischemic heart disease, stroke, osteoarthritis of the knees, Alzheimer’s disease, and different types of cancer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/movement-restriction-may-have-adverse-impact-on-mental-and-social-well-being/articleshow/75782417.cms||Syed Akbar
May 17, 2020||Kolkata||Two-month-old, West Bengal’s youngest Covid-19 survivor, goes home with mom||KOLKATA: A two-month-old boy is the state’s youngest Covid survivor, who battled the infection for two weeks and is now completely free of the contagion after being released from MR Bangur Hospital last week. A resident of Park Circus, the infant was only 55 days old when he was admitted with his mother who had also tested positive for the disease. Both mother and baby were kept at a secluded isolation room and a core team of doctors, including paediatricians, pulmonologists and chest physicians, was formed to take care of them. The efforts bore fruit as the baby recovered within 10 days and his mother followed soon after. “The baby had undergone the then-mandatory consecutive double-negative test and was rendered free of the infection. But since the mother was still under treatment he could not be released. The two were released together last week and are doing well,” said a senior official of the hospital. Doctor Sisir Naskar, superintendent of MR Bangur Hospital — the state’s largest Covid hospital — told TOI that the case was a challenge for the attending doctors. “Since the boy was very young — the youngest patient we had handled till now — the situation was extremely challenging and we needed to take extreme precautionary measures. Because of his tender age, he could not even be kept in isolation away from his mother, who was also undergoing treatment. But we are happy that both recovered in quick time,” said Naskar. Doctors said the best thing about the child was that he had a very mild infection and was mostly asymptomatic. “His speedy recovery has boosted our morale and we are now more confident about dealing with critical patients,” said Naskar. On May 4, the state’s oldest novel coronavirus survivor, 88-year-old Sarojini Mukherjee, had recovered after being treated at the hospital for two weeks. TOI carried a report on Friday on how Mukherjee and her entire family —who also tested positive — have fought the disease and are now absolutely fit. So, far the hospital has had two infant Covid-19 patients, one who was discharged after treatment and another — a four-month-old child also suffering from Kawasaki — who was shifted to another hospital and is still under treatment. “We have, however, successfully treated at least six kids under eight, one of whom was critical and needed dialysis twice a week and another who was only 8 months old,” said an official. The hospital also has a separate isolation room for Covid-positive new mothers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/two-month-old-states-youngest-survivor-goes-home-with-mom/articleshow/75782455.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
May 17, 2020||Mangaluru||Changes made at Mangaluru International Airport to receive second repatriation flight||MANGALURU: With 20 passengers who came on the Vande Baharat Mission Air India Express repatriation flight from Dubai testing positive for Covid-19 and other issues faced at the time of their arrival, the Dakshina Kannada district administration has been forced to make changes at the airport. According to sources, the district administration came under fire after many repatriates, especially pregnant women, alleged several discrepancies and ill-treatment, after landing at the Mangaluru International Airport on the night of May 12. The second repatriation flight to Mangaluru from Dubai will land on Monday. “The district administration has made several changes before the second repatriation flight lands here. One of the major changes is that details about hotels and their fares, where repatriates can get quarantined, will be made available at the Dubai Airport itself, so that evacuees have enough time to decide where they want to stay,” added a source, who is a government official. When STOI contacted Rahul Shinde, probationary IAS officer, who is in charge of the quarantine facilities for the repatriates, he said that several changes have been made. “The changes are not due to what happened earlier, or several repatriates testing positive for Covid-19, but for everything to happen smoothly at the airport, when repatriation flights land,” he stressed. He said that porters have been deputed at the Mangaluru International Airport. Secondly, more counters for hotel bookings for institutional quarantine have been arranged. A list of hotels and their fares will be made available for repatriates at the Dubai Airport itself. “This will allow repatriates ample time to decide their preferable accommodation, before they land at Mangaluru. It will also minimise confusion,” he said, and added that all the passengers must sign an undertaking for institutional quarantine before boarding their flight. However, for those cannot afford to pay for quarantine, the district administration has arranged free stay for them at hostels of government educational institutions, he said. It can be recalled that during the first repatriation flight, which had brought about 38 pregnant women and ailing passengers to Mangaluru, it had been alleged that they had been mistreated, and made to stand for several hours without food and water. Sources added that the second repatriation flight that will land at MIA will also have several pregnant women on board.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/changes-made-at-mia-to-receive-second-repatriation-flight/articleshow/75780639.cms||Kevin Mendonsa
May 17, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Local industries gear up to explore global market||PATNA: With the Centre announcing Rs20 lakh crore economic package under the Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan and Union finance minister announcing makhana cluster in Bihar on Friday, industrial units in state are gearing up to grab the opportunity to survive and thrive amid global crisis owing to Covid-19 pandemic. The industries are also looking forward to utilise thousands of migrant workers returning home during the lockdown. Archi Rani & Faryal Rumi take a look into the business plans of state industries, which will try to get the maximum of PM’s “vocal for local” call: Makhana industry: Deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi said Bihar produces at least 80% of the makhana (fox nuts) in the world. Satyajit Singh, a leading makhana exporter in Bihar, said CM Nitish Kumar and PM Narendra Modi identified makhana as a global health food in 2005 and 2019 respectively. “Now that the FM has announced its promotion from Bihar on the global level, we are looking forward to the state government for the crop’s promotion,” he said. Cottage industry: Bihar Mahila Udyog Sangh president Usha Jha said local entrepreneurs were being encouraged to prepare edible items like pickle, papad, sattu, atta (flour), spices and even herbal products made of tulsi, neem and haldi. “People don’t go for local items mainly because of its packaging. We have now trained around 200 families in packaging of food items,” she said. Manju Devi and Neelam Singh, who prepare papad with their brand names, have huge orders to prepare the item for marketing. Sanoj Kumar and his family were busy making herbal products. “We are preparing soaps, handwash, derma cream and shampoo by using neem, tulsi and haldi,” he said. Handicraft & handloom: Upendra Maharathi Shilp Anusansadhan Sansthan (UMSAS) director Ashok Kumar said around 400 artists registered with the association make Madhubani painting, tikuli art, paper-mache, block printing, appliqué work and jewellery on consignment basis. “They work on getting 50% advance for the consignment. All our artisans are working hard for living,” he said. Pramod Kumar, minister of art, culture and youth affairs, said the state government will give a platform to handicraft artists to sell their products. “In Madhubani, we are training 100 artists in different art works,” he said. Hygiene products: With the rising demand of self-hygiene products, several industrial units are planning to manufacture masks, gloves, PPE kits, handwash and sanitizers. While some of them have already set up manufacturing units, others are training their workers to start production. Devesh Kumar, manager (non-farm and micro enterprise), JEEVIKA, said JEEVIKA didis had a business of over 27 lakh masks. “We have decided to extend it from 20 to all the 38 districts in Bihar. Besides, the didis are being trained to make medicated masks and alcohol-based sanitizers,” he said. Cotton gamcha (towel): Jeet Lal Prasad, owner of a Gaya firm that produces gamcha, said the product’s demand has increased after the government identified it as an alternative for face masks. “We recently delivered the product to several other states. We are also hopeful of extending the business globally in the near future,” he said. Mushroom cultivation: Rahul Ranjan, who has a farm of oyster mushrooms in Madhubani, is planning to extend his business. “The current situation has increased the demand of mushrooms. In fact, I have been receiving at least two-three calls per day from people who wish to start mushroom cultivation,” he said. Honey business: Bihar is second in honey production and first in its productivity. There are 9,000 bee farmers in the state. With the provision of Rs500 crore for bee farming announced by the Centre, the farmers dealing in this produce in Samastipur, Muzaffarpur and other districts will be benefited, says deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi. State agriculture minister Prem Kumar also said, “The state government will promote the farmers for honey cultivation.” Anuj Kumar from Vaishali said, “We are now changing the packaging of honey boxes to make it more enticing. Earlier, we used to import boxes from Kolkata. Now, we are making at local level.” Floriculture: With temples closed owing to the lockdown, the flower business in the state has suffered huge losses. Now, the flower producers are hopeful of getting some support from the Centre’s package. Ved Prakash, a nursery owner in Rajendra Nagar, said: “I have planned a few things like starting online business and increase the market,” he said. Agriculture, animal & fisheries resources minister Prem Kumar held videoconferencing on Saturday to discuss the losses the floriculture sector has suffered due to the lockdown. Tea estate: Manish Daftari, director of a tea estate in Kishanganj, said tea manufacturers in the district are working on export quality production in order to increase its demand. “With the government’s initiatives, we are also looking forward to the export market. Besides, we are planning to start a green tea factory, which will provide employment opportunities to local workers,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/local-industries-gear-up-to-explore-global-market/articleshow/75781374.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Varanasi||25,000 migrants on Bihar border block highway||VARANASI: A huge crowd of over 25,000 migrant labourers seeking entry in Bihar at Naubatpur border in Chandauli district crammed both the lanes of national highway-2 with queues of vehicles stretching to 15 km. Even goods carriers ferrying essential supplies were stranded following which divisional commissioner Deepak Agrawal and IG Varanasi range VS Mina reached Naubatpur and talked to their counterparts from Bihar. Migrant labourers travelling on foot, trucks and other vehicles from Maharashtra, Gujarat and Delhi have been reaching Naubatpur via UP in thousands per day since a fortnight. The migrants are being allowed entry only after proper health screening by Bihar officials at a camp in trans-Karmnasha area. The rush of migrants increased on Saturday and over 25,000 amassed at the border. Initially, due to their movement only the lane of vehicles heading to Bihar was choked. But, since Saturday morning, the opposite lane of highway was also blocked with queues of vehicles stretching to over 15 km. Divisional commissioner Deepak Agrawal said, “We met district magistrate Kaimur and senior police officers from Bihar and asked them to shift the checking and screening camp few km inside their territory so that the highway jam is cleared and essential supplies are not hit. They agreed to shift their screening camp. The highway opened by late afternoon.” The officials worked to solve this problem on immediate basis as the vehicles carrying essential goods and building material were stuck in jam. Officials said that checking of overloading by vehicles is also done at Naubatpur and is necessary since it is damaging the bridge on river Karmnasha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/25k-migrants-on-bihar-border-block-highway/articleshow/75780212.cms||Rajeev Dikshit
May 17, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: 69 lakh families to get free rations||AHMEDABAD: Chief minister Vijay Rupani has announced that 68.80 families including 65.40 lakh families covered under NFSA and 3.40 lakh non-NFSA families will get food grains for the second month in a row. Secretary to CM, Ashwani Kumar, said, “These families are from across the state, except for the city of Ahmedabad. The foodgrain distribution will begin from Sunday and will continue till May 26 . The ration card holders will be divided based on the last digits of their ration cards. Around 3.36 crore people will be covered under this.” In addition, the families will also get an additional 3.5kg of wheat and 1.5kg rice per person and 1kg pulses per family under Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Package. The free food grain distribution will take place keeping in mind the necessary safety protocols like social distancing, use of masks, avoiding overcrowding etc. The grains will be distributed from government approved fair price shops.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/69-lakh-families-to-get-free-rations/articleshow/75782054.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Varanasi||Probe report in Kashi Vishwanath temple aarti row submitted to Varanasi DM||VARANASI: As the probe team looking into the May 7 Kashi Vishwanath temple’s Shaptarshi Aarti row has submitted its report to the district authorities, the temple administration has allowed eight priests of different states to enter the temple for performing rituals as per tradition. However, the entry of temple’s former mahant and his family members to perform the rituals of Shaptarshi Aarti has not been allowed as they did not reply to the notices issued to them, KVT chief executive officer Vishal Singh said on Saturday. Talking to TOI on Saturday, district magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma said, “The ADM City and SP Security, who had been assigned the task to probe into the May 7 incident of performing of Shaptarshi Aarti on road near at gate-4 of temple, have submitted their report to me on Friday evening. This report has been forwarded to the principal secretary (religious affairs), divisional commissioner, temple administration and also temple truck to initiate further action with the finding of investigation and recommendations.” The DM said that during the investigation it was found that some photographs, which were taken when the house of former mahant was getting vacated in March, were issued by terming as current photographs to prove that portions of a temple inside KV corridor are had been damaged. “The investigators found that these photographs were released with ill intention to instigate religious sentiment of people at a time of lockdown enforce in view of Covid-19 epidemic,” he said adding, as it seems to be conspiracy, recommendation had been made by investigators to initiate action against a member of former mahant family who led the entire episode. “The livelihood of former mahant family depends on temple, but instead of performing their responsibility at a time of lockdown this act was like disloyalty for temple and breach of trust,” said the DM on the basis of the recommendation for appropriate action made against the member of former mahant family responsible for it made in the investigation report. He said that course of action in this regard would be decided by the religious affairs department, divisional commissioner, temple administration and trust. He said that as a case had already been lodged against the persons performed rituals on road by violating lockdown had already been taken by administration further action against them was left on temple administration. Regarding action against the priests who took part in the rituals performed on road on May 7, the temple’s CEO said that eight priests from different states had given their reply to temple administration against the notices issued to them for their act. He said that satisfied with their reply, the temple administration had allowed them to perform rituals in temple like past. But, he said, former mahant and his family did not give any reply against notices given to them hence no decision to allow their entry in temple to perform rituals of Shaptarshi Aarti had been taken. On May 7 evening an awkward situation was created in and around the KVT when two parallel Shaptarshi aartis of Lord Vishwanath performed in evening on daily basis, took place. While a group of priests belonging to family and group of former mahant of temple performed the aarti on road near gate-4 another aarti was performed inside temple’s sanctum sanctorum by the priests arranged by the temple administration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/probe-report-in-kashi-vishwanath-temple-aarti-row-submitted-to-dm/articleshow/75780229.cms||Rajeev Dikshit
May 17, 2020||Hubballi||61-year-old discharged in Gadag||Hubballi: After 16 days of treatment, a 61-year-old Covid-19 patient was discharged from the Gadag Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS) on Saturday. In a statement, GIMS director Dr P S Bhusaraddi said that the male patient, who resides at Ganji Basaveshwar Circle in Gadag, was designated as P-912. He was primary contact of P-514, who tested positive for Covid-19 on April 30. “He was provided T. Azithomycin 500mg, T. HCQ 200mg, T. Oseltamivir 75mg, T. Vitamin C, T. Amlodipine 5mg treatment and he responded good. He was not found with any ailment during the period of in-patient. We tested his throat swab on May 14 and 15 in our laboratory and reports turned negative. With the suggestion of being in home quarantine in next 14 days, he was discharged on Saturday,” he stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/61-year-old-discharged-in-gadag/articleshow/75776607.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Hubballi||With 533 cases, north Karnataka accounts for 50% of state’s Covid-19 tally||HUBBALLI: Even as the country readies to ease restrictions on movement further in Lockdown 4.0 and Karnataka looks to open up most of the state, the northern districts are grappling with a surge in Covid-19 infections, especially following the return of residents from other states. The 11 districts of North Karnataka account for 50% of the cases — 533 of 1,092 — reported as of Saturday, and authorities fear the curve is showing no sign of flattening anytime soon. Of the total number of cases reported from across the region, 250 have been reported in May, when the central and state governments relaxed curbs and allowed movement of goods and people. Belagavi, Davanagere, Kalaburagi, Bidar, Bagalkot and Vijayapura have borne the brunt of the spike in Covid-19 cases in the region. Davanagere, in fact, was classified a green-zone district at the beginning of the month. A fortnight later, it has hurtled into the red zone. The number of infected has also been steadily rising in Dharwad, Haveri, Yadgir and Gadag districts, which had very few or no cases till last week. Among the districts in North Karnataka, Belagavi is the worst-hit by coronavirus, with 114 cases. It is followed by Kalaburagi, with 94 cases, and Davanagere with 89. The good news, however, is that nearly 40% of the patients (205) have been treated successfully and discharged. Senior bureaucrats in the region attributed the spurt to the easing of the lockdown, and influx of residents who were stuck in other states. Most of the people who have tested positive in the region had travelled to Ahmedabad, Mumbai or Ajmer. The other common factor, official said, was that the returnees were asymptomatic on arrival in their home districts; tests confirmed that they were infected. In Belagavi, a majority of the patients are linked to the Tablighi Jamaat congreation in Delhi — either attendees or their contacts. In Davanagere, a nurse at a primary health centre and a 69-year-old man, who subsequently succumbed to the infection, accounted for most infections among contacts. Davanagere deputy commissioner Mahantesh Bilagi said the district administration has stepped up measures to contain the infection. “As many as eight localities in Davanagere city have been completely sealed, and declared containment zones. All people entering the district are being subjected to tests and are being quarantined in accordance with the norms,” Bilagi said. - ( With inputs from S A Gangaraju)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/with-533-cases-n-ktaka-accounts-for-50-of-states-covid-tally/articleshow/75781769.cms||Basavaraj Kattimani
May 17, 2020||Coimbatore||Helpline for Class X students in Tamil Nadu||COIMBATORE: The school education department has sent details of the staff, who will answer queries of Class X students and their parents about the board exams over the phone, to the state government.  The office of the chief education officer (CEO) is awaiting permission to start the service. After school education minister K A Sengottaiyan announced on Tuesday that the postponed Class X board exams will be held from June 1 to 12, the directorate of school education had asked chief education officers to form a team comprising a personal assistant and four postgraduate (PG) teachers to clear doubts regarding the exams.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/helpline-for-class-x-students/articleshow/75782418.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Ahmedabad||Doctor hurt by spalling at Shardaben Hospital||AHMEDABAD: Over the last one and a half years, some six civil repair contracts for Shardaben Hospital had been approved by the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC), but on Saturday, a doctor serving at the Covid-19 isolation ward in the hospital was injured after a chunk of the ceiling plaster fell on her. The doctor, D Mitali, is being treated for the injury at the moment and is stable, senior doctors said. The incident occurred around noon when Mitali was near the ward. Several patients in the isolation facility have demanded immediate repair s. “We are looking into the civil works complaint and the contractor has been informed,” says a senior AMC official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/doctor-hurt-by-spalling-at-shardaben/articleshow/75782460.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Vande Bharat flights hit social distancing air pocket||HYDERABAD: Some passengers flying into the city on Vande Bharat Mission flights have complained of lack of social distancing norms on board. Having paid almost double the airfare, some say they expected better social distancing norms. While grateful for having reached India, Vinod Sundarraj, who arrived in the city on Monday from the US, said he paid Rs 1 lakh to get to India. “I initially thought they are charging double because the flight was coming empty from India and there would be social distancing. But it was a disappointment to see the flight was completely packed and had carried passengers from India to the US, so it was not empty both ways.” Average fare from the US to India would be in the range of Rs 50,000 to Rs 60,000 one way in the pre-lockdown era. Sundarraj, who is among 10 people from Tamil Nadu who flew into the city and will be quarantined here, is waiting to head to his state. “We are looking for clarity as to how we will travel home after quarantine ends. I am waiting to see my daughter, who was born on April 17 in Coimbatore,” he added. Bothered by the fare, Srinivas (name changed) also arrived in Hyderabad on Monday. “Everyone feels that if we can pay to travel abroad, we are privileged and can pay the higher fares. But we have put in our savings to meet family in the US. The quarantine cost —though not high — is an added burden.” He said that while protocol was followed, sitting on a long flight in proximity to others, was concerning. Travelling from Kuala Lumpur to the city, which landed on Thursday night, was Jashuva V, who paid Rs 19,085, also said there was no social distancing. “Initially, we thought they would be charging us close to Rs 35,000, but the final fare wasn’t that high. I suppose that is why they could not maintain social distance.” But happy overall, he said, “The airline staff provided us kits with masks, sanitisers and gloves. The flight was packed, but people were asked to board and settle down in groups of five-six.” The average fare from Kuala Lumpur to Hyderabad, depending on the airline, could vary from Rs 8,000-Rs 15,000 one way. Air India sources said they had followed the protocol set by government regarding social distancing norm and this was not a call the airline was taking. They added that running half empty flights was not a viable option. About the fare, the sources said a single standard fare had been collected as per the government’s decision.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/vande-bharat-flights-hit-social-distancing-air-pocket/articleshow/75782422.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Coimbatore||Tamil Nadu: Budding designers lend Covid-19 a trendy twist||COIMBATORE: After designing saris and wearable art to spread awareness on coronavirus and the Covid-19 pandemic, students of the Nift-Tea College of Knitwear Fashion in Tirupur have come up with a ‘corona positive attire’. The attire, made of denim, carries images and messages to create a positive attitude towards Covid-19. It was designed and produced by Nageshwaran and Deepika, who also did a photo shoot wearing it. Boopathy Vijay, assistant professor and coordinator of the project, said the students have done value addition using fabric paints, applique work and patchwork. “As printing units were closed due to the lockdown, the students did all the work. We included ideas such social distancing, staying at home, wearing masks and conducting blood tests. As the lockdown is being relaxed and districts are slowly moving from orange zone to green zone, we have depicted a positive approach,” he said. Though it is not a fashion attire, it is the trend of the time and there could be a demand for corona-themed attire in the future, Vijay added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/budding-designers-lend-covid-19-a-trendy-twist/articleshow/75782425.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Second flight from US lands with 121 on board||HYDERABAD: The second repatriation flight to Hyderabad from the US, landed at the city’s Rajiv Gandhi International Airport (RGIA), in the wee hours of Saturday with 121 passengers on board. The Air India flight, AI 1839, from Newark to Hyderabad via New Delhi reached RGIA at 3.14 am. It is the eighth flight to Hyderabad under the Vande Bharat Mission. Earlier, on May 14, the first flight from the US ferried 163 stranded Indians to their home in Hyderabad. While the Air India aircraft, AI 104, from Washington to RGIA, also via Delhi, took off from the US with 244 passengers, 81 disembarked in Delhi. Another flight, AI 1840, on May 12 ferried 87 passengers from the city to Delhi, from where they were airlifted to the US. “All arriving passengers and aircraft crew are being screened by thermal cameras positioned at the aerobridge. As per government’s norm, passengers are being sent for a mandatory 14 day quarantine at designated locations in the city,” a RGIA source said. About seven to eight hotels, including five star facilities, have been roped in for use as quarantine centres. Till May 16, RGIA has handled eight Vande Bharat evacuation flights receiving over 1,200 Indian nationals stranded in various countries like the US, the UK, UAE among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/second-flight-from-us-lands-with-121-on-board/articleshow/75782427.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad RCI scientists come to the rescue of elderly||HYDERABAD: Scientists at Hyderabad Research Centre Imarat (RCI), a Defence Research and Development Organisation lab, have stepped forward to donate groceries to senior citizens residing in five old age homes during the lockdown. Dry goods, including rice, atta, red gram, green gram, black gram and edible oil, are being supplied. “It has become very difficult for old age homes to procure groceries during the lockdown. We collect goods from donors and deliver them to these homes in Bandlaguda, Karmanghat, Badangpet and adjoining areas of RCI, through our ‘Defence Security Corps’ (DSC) of the RCI-DRDO for the past few weeks. Few scientists also donated cash to purchase the material,” defence sources in DSC told TOI. The material was procured after collating the data of number of people residing in these homes. The scientists found that around 60 to 90 senior citizens are staying in each old age home. QRT trucks were then used to transport goods to the doorsteps of these old age homes. “We thank the RCI scientists for their goodwill as it had become really difficult for us in these situations to continue providing food to the elderly for breakfast, lunch and dinner,” said Srinivas Rao, an organiser at the Arshita Old Age home in Badangpet. G Giri, who runs the Mathru Devobhava Ashramam said, “I thanks the blessings that have come out way. The scientists and their families came to our rescue when we least expected it.” The prolonged lockdown and strict movement restriction had led to a shortage of various essentials for these homes. People had also been struggling to get vital medicines. Certain good samaritans from the city had come forward in situations like these to help the elderly in need.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/rci-scientists-come-to-the-rescue-of-elderly/articleshow/75782437.cms||Sunil Mungara
May 17, 2020||Salem||Youth dies in Salem from drug overdose||SALEM: A 17-year-old youth died after he overdosed on drugs in Annadhanapatty in Salem city on Saturday. Salem city police have registered a case and initiated inquiry. The deceased K Ajith Kumar, of Valluvar Nagar in Annadhanapatty was working in a silver anklet manufacturing unit in the same vicinity. It is learnt that, Ajith Kumar was addicted to sleeping pills, paint thinners and booze. On Friday evening, he went to nearby hillock with his friends to consume drugs. “Later, he returned to his house on the same evening where he fell flat on the floor,” said a police official from Annadhanapatty. The police learned about the consumption from his friends. The police officer said that, the exact reason for his death will be confirmed only after post-mortem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/youth-dies-from-drug-overdose/articleshow/75782429.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Allahabad||DLW manufactures electric engine in a week||Varanasi: The Diesel Locomotive Works (DLW) manufactured a 6000 Horse Power (HP) electric engine in just a week after a 48-day shutdown of the workshops due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The production activities at DLW resumed from May 9. According to the chief public relation officer of DLW Nitin Mehrotra, the locomotive is being sent to the Gomoh electric shed of the East Central Railway (ECR). It is the very first electric engine produced by the unit in the 2020-21 financial year. The DLW officials and employees welcomed celebrated the feat during the rolling out ceremony. The production activities resumed on May 9 with necessary precautions and lockdown protocol. Only 33% of employees living in DLW township are being involved in the production. All employees were made to download the Arogya Setu app and have been given masks. The workshop timing has been divided into two shifts and social distancing norms are strictly followed. Each employee has to undergo thermal scanning at the entrance. Besides, proper arrangements of sanitization have been made in the the workshops. As per the guidelines of the ministry of home affairs, the work timings have been fixed from 7.30 am to 12.30 pm for the first shift, and from 1.30 pm to 6 pm for the second shift.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/dlw-manufactures-electric-engine-in-a-week/articleshow/75780250.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Pune||Non-containment areas may see some relaxations: Pune civic chief||PUNE: The civic authorities on Saturday hinted at more relaxations in the city’s containment zones as the doubling rate of coronavirus cases increased to 13 days. Pune municipal commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad said, “The relaxations could be in three sectors — opening of private offices, functioning of government establishments at full strength and allowing all types of trades. Additional relaxations will be planned based on the guidelines of the Union and the state governments.” The civic administration is reviewing the status of containment zones based on the surge or drop in the number of positive cases. Gaikwad said about 97% areas of the city were out of strict lockdown norms at present. “Only 3% of the city has been under a close watch and efforts are on to contain the virus spread. The doubling rate of cases has increased to 13 days now, while the death rate has dropped to 5.18%, which is still more than the state and national average. We are expecting a further drop in the next two weeks,” Gaikwad said. The civic chief had identified 69 micro-clusters in the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) limits having high number of Covid-19 cases in the first week of May. Stricter lockdown measures were imposed in those pockets. “It looks like we shall have to continue with the lockdown measures in these zones because of detection of fresh cases. Based on the review, some small parts may get excluded from the containment zones, while some spots can get added to the list. The study will be done in the next one or two days,” Gaikwad said. He said the administration would continue to ensure that people got the supply of essential items, food and medicines in the containment zones. Gaikwad said the administration estimated an increase in positive cases up to 5,000 by the end of May. The PMC has set up a 500-bed isolation facility at the Balewadi sports complex to augment the quarantine capacity. Gaikwad said the facility was a standby arrangement and would be utilised only if the number of cases surged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/non-containment-areas-may-see-some-relaxations-pune-civic-chief/articleshow/75782934.cms||Sarang Dastane
May 17, 2020||Coimbatore||Injured leopard rescued from botanical garden||Udhagamandalam: An injured leopard was rescued from the government botanical garden in Ooty on Saturday. According to a forest official, the leopard was first spotted by Toda tribes, who were living at the upper elevation of the botanical garden. Saravanakumar, assistant conservator of forest, Nilgiris division, said, “They immediately informed us. The animal was very weak as it seemed to have not eaten anything for a day or two.” The six-year old male leopard was subsequently captured with a fiber net and shifted to the district veterinary hospital in Ooty, where it has been put in a cage. “Initial check-up revealed it has sprained hind limbs. Infighting would have caused the injury. Blood samples of the animal has been collected and sent to lab for test. It will take at least a day for the leopard to regain health. Once the animal is fit, it will be released in deep forest,” the forest official said. The reserve forest area that is located adjacent to the botanical garden is known for leopard and Indian gaur population.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/injured-leopard-rescued-from-botanical-garden/articleshow/75782440.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Goa||Ayush mantri writes to HRD counterpart on JNV issues||Panaji: Union minister for Ayush and North Goa MP Shripad Naik has written to Union HRD minister Ramesh Pokhriyal asking for his intervention in resolving the infrastructure and academic problems that students of Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya (JNV), Valpoi, are facing. He has also requested for an ‘able replacement’ for JNV’s principal, as the current school head is set to retire in May 2020. Teachers of JNV, Valpoi, and parents of students have been fighting the school administration for many years. Previously they had met former HRD minister Smriti Irani to get their issues resolved. Earlier this week, the school’s parent teacher council (PTC) has sought Naik’s intervention in addressing many shortfalls in the school’s management, including repair and maintenance of the structure and non-appointment of teachers to vacant posts. “The PTC has listed a number of shortcomings and the resulting hardships faced by the students during the last academic year, including non-compliance of the high court order. Also, the current principal is due for retirement by May-end and it is imperative to send an able replacement. I request you to kindly look into the matter and get the new principal sent immediately so that students get the proper education they are entitled to,” Naik said in his letter to Pokhriyal. The JNV schools, affiliated to CBSE, were set up by the central government by allotting one to each district in the country. They provide residential facility to students and are meant to provide quality education to rural students.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ayush-mantri-writes-to-hrd-counterpart-on-jnv-issues/articleshow/75783158.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Take care of migrants, CM YS Jaganmohan Reddy tells officials||VIJAYAWADA: Chief minister Y S Jaganmohan Reddy has directed officials to take care of migrant workers who are trying to make their way home on foot. Speaking to officials at a review meeting on Saturday, the chief minister said food and drinking water must be provided to migrant workers on the move in the state. He also told officials to provide free transportation for the next 15 days, such as special buses, to the state borders for migrant workers. A humanitarian approach must be adopted towards migrants who have been stranded since the lockdown began and are now trying to walk home, the chief minister said. The chief minister congratulated officials for the lowering of number of positive cases in the state. Officials told the chief minister that the number of discharges from hospitals was more than the number of new positive cases. Of the 48 new cases reported in the last 24 hours since Saturday, 31 had links to Koyambedu market in Chennai.  The chief minister directed officials to keep an eye on the contacts with links to the market and ensure that no additional cases are reported.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/take-care-of-migrants-cm-jagan-tells-officials/articleshow/75781786.cms||Gopi Dara
May 17, 2020||Hubballi||Cops throw ‘geofence’ around home quarantined||Hubballi: With rising number of coronavirus patients and their contacts being kept in quarantine, the Hubballi-Dharwad police is now using geofencing technology to monitor their movements. Until now, the only fall-back police and health authorities had were neighbours who alerted them when those in home quarantine stepped out. Three people have already been booked for violating isolation directives. As of Friday, as many as 4,732 were under home isolation, district authorities said. Geofencing involves creating a virtual boundary around a specified location which triggers a response when it is breached. Depending on how it is configured, a breach may trigger text messages or alerts to the administrator. Variations of geofencing are used for marketing — such as in supermarkets and coffee shops, for instance, to push messages and ads to mobile phones in the area — and smart home appliances that trigger alerts when the user walks by. “Since it is a sensitive issue, I will not reveal how it works. There are many methods and we are using one such method to track the movement of people in quarantine,” deputy commissioner of police (law and order) Krishnakanth said. “I would like to make it clear that those who are under mandatory isolation should not venture out. We are watching them constantly and a dedicated team has been deployed for this task. We will take strict action against those violating quarantine norms. We have already booked cases against three such people.” The DCP added, “Beat police are also visiting the houses of those under home quarantine and requesting neighbours to keep a watch and alert us if they see any violation.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/cops-throw-geofence-around-home-quarantined/articleshow/75781790.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Varanasi||UP: 62-year-old man dies of Covid-19 in Gorakhpur||GORAKHPUR: A 62-year-old Covid positive man from Mohri Purva tola in Campierganj Tehsil of Gorakhpur died on Saturday morning. The deceased had returned from Mumbai on Sunday. He had been suffering from multiple diseases, and after his health checkup at Bankati health centre, doctors referred him to Maharajganj district hospital from where he was further referred to BRD Medical College. He was admitted to BRD Medical College on Friday night and died on Saturday morning, confirmed college principal Dr Ganesh Kumar. However, it is yet to be ascertained as to which district this case will be counted in—Gorakhpur or Maharajganj. The chief medical officers of the two districts haven’t reached a consensus. Gorakhpur CMO Dr Srikant Tiwari said although Campierganj tehsil is in Gorakhpur, the health services were offered at Maharajganj and his swab sample also arrived from Maharajganj district hospital, and hence it is a case of Maharajganj. Whereas, Maharajganj CMO AK Srivastav said since the deceased was a resident of Gorakhpur, it must add to the Gorakhpur Covid data.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/62-yr-old-man-dies-of-covid-in-gorakhpur/articleshow/75780307.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Ahmedabad||Himanshu Pandya steps down as Gujarat University VC, Bhavsar given charge||AHMEDABAD: It seems the wait for the announcement of the new vice-chancellor for Gujarat University has just got a bit longer. With the three-year term of Himanshu Pandya as vice-chancellor coming to an end on May 16, he has stepped down from the post with the charge being temporarily given to Jagdish Bhavsar, pro VC of GU, said sources close to the development. Bhavsar will hold the position of in-charge VC till a full-time candidate is finalized for the post, sources said. The reason cited for this delay is that the search committee formed three months ago to shortlist names for the post of VC, could not complete the task due to the Covid-19 pandemic and the lockdown situation, sources said. “The committee could only hold a couple of meetings and that too online in the past three months due to the ongoing nationwide lockdown,” said a GU official in the know of the matter. Bhavsar took over the charge from Pandya on Saturday, he added. Earlier a professor in the science department, Pandya took charge of the post on May 16, 2017. Pandya, who himself remains one of the contenders for the post, is hopeful of getting a second term. Once believed to be close to the Bharatiya Janata Party in Gujarat, his candidature is currently opposed by members of BJP-backed Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP) after they faced a crushing defeat from Congress’s student wing National Students’ Union of India in GU students’ union elections held earlier this year, sources said. The three-member search committee formed for choosing the new VC for GU is headed by Gujarat governor Acharya Devvrat. It includes Kamlesh Joshipura, former vice-chancellor of Saurashtra University whose name was chosen by GU. Parimal Vyas has been chosen by the Joint Board of Vice-Chancellors (JBVC) is the third member of the committee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/pandya-steps-down-as-gu-vc-bhavsar-given-charge/articleshow/75782459.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Vadodara||Only three Covid-19 patients under treatment in Anand||VADODARA/ ANAND: Only three Covid-19 patients remain under treatment in Anand district even as many were discharged on Saturday. A 60-year-old resident of Mirkoiwado area, a 83-year-old man from Pipasheri area and a 75-year-old man from Kadiya pole in Khambhat town were discharged. With this, 74 of the the 86 Covid-19 patients in the district have recovered. Of the three patients who now remain under treatment, one is being treated at cardiac care centre, Khambhat while two others are being at Shree Krishna Hospital, Karamsad. Of this, one patient is under ventilator, one on oxygen support while condition of one patient is stable, district health officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/only-three-patients-under-treatment-in-anand/articleshow/75780721.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Vijayawada||96 active cases in Chittoor after 8 fresh +ves||Tirupati: There seems to be no respite for Chittoor as it continues to face the after-effects of coronavirus (Covid-19) outbreak in Chennai’s Koyambedu market. With eight more positive cases in the last 24 hours, the district now has 96 active cases. So far, 77 patients have recovered and discharged from hospitals. While two cases each were reported in Madanapalle and Varadaiahpalem areas, one case each were reported in Nagalapuram, Punganur, V Kota and Pichatur. The figures are worrying for the district administration as the fresh cases are being reported mostly from the rural areas. After nine new Covid-19 cases, the overall tally in Kurnool district is 608 as on Saturday. The death toll in the district has also shot up to 19 after one more patient succumbed to the virus. Meanwhile, 1,412 migrants from Uttar Pradesh who were stranded in Chittoor district during the lockdown period, were allowed to board the Shramik trains and return to their hometowns on Saturday. District collector Dr Narayana Bharat Gupta and SP S Senthil Kumar closely monitored the travel arrangements at the Chittoor railway station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/96-active-cases-in-chittoor-after-8-fresh-ves/articleshow/75781792.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
May 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Ease norms for online classes: Marri||Hyderabad: Congress has urged governor Tamilisai Soundararajan to ensure that universities relax the attendance, examination pattern and other norms pertaining to online education classes held during lockdown period. Telangana Congress Covid-19 task force committee chairman Marri Shashidhar Reddy, in a letter to Soundararajan, said there are a large number of students from poor and middle class sections who could not afford smartphones, Tablets and laptops which are necessary to participate in online classes. As a result, the attendance of online classes conducted by government colleges and aided colleges is between 30% and 50% only. The governor should use her good offices and ensure that the universities waive off the normal requirement of attendance to enable poor students get their hall- tickets, he said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ease-norms-for-online-classes-marri/articleshow/75782597.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Erode||Govt employees’ quarters damaged in tree fall||Erode: Two government employees’ quarters were damaged as two big trees that were uprooted in a sudden whirlwind fell on them at Bhavanisagar near Sathyamangalam here on Saturday. No one was injured in the incident. The Bhavanisagar police said Public Works Department employees were residing at the quarters. “There was a whirlwind early in the morning. While many trees were uprooted, two big ones fell on the quarters in which Mayilsamy and Veena were staying. None were injured in the incident.” Three electric poles were also damaged in the whirlwind. Traffic, meanwhile, came to a grinding halt, as trees blocked the road. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/govt-employees-quarters-damaged-in-tree-fall/articleshow/75782446.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Hyderabad||NCSC member distributes groceries||Secunderabad: Member of the NCSC K Ramulu visited Pedda Thokatta in Bowenpally on Saturday to distribute grocery kits to 200 slum dwellers. He also advised the SCB CEO to resolve problems of borewells, water, roads and other civic issues. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ncsc-member-distributes-groceries/articleshow/75782449.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Row as RTC overlooks outsourced staff||VIJAYAWADA: The decision of the Andhra Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation (APSRTC) to utilise the services of regular employees in place of outsourced workers has sparked a row. While worker unions and opposition parties have alleged that the RTC is trying to lay off more than 7,000 outsourced employees, the state government has said it is only a temporary arrangement as bus services are yet to be restored and outsourced employees will be taken back once normalcy is restored. The APSRTC had issued an office order stating that services of regular employees would be utilised in places where outsourced employees were in service. The decision will affect more than 7,600 outsourced employees, workers unions have alleged. General secretary of the employees union (EU) Palisetti Damodar has urged the management and transport minister Perni Venkatramaiah to roll back the decision. Damodar said that while the Union government has directed to not lay off employees during the lockdown, the management of APSRTC is trying to remove outsourced employees who are already suffering due to non-payment of salaries. State secretary of Communist Party of India K Ramakrishna criticised the government over the decision and demanded all outsourced employees be taken aborad and their salaries cleared. Transport minister Perni Venkatramaiah said the government is not laying off any employee. APSRTC management has decided to utilise the services of regular employees as bus services are yet to be restored, the minister said. “It is only a temporary arrangement till things get to normal and all outsourced employees will be taken back once the corporation is fully operational,” the minister said. Meanwhile, APSRTC has deducted one day’s salary of five employees in West Godavari district for a protest demanding wages to outsourced employees be cleared, insurance for RTC workers, personal protection equipment for workers on duty and to not allot duties to RTC staff at liquor stores. In its order, the RTC stated that the action of the employees who sat on dharna amounted to gross indiscipline. Workers unions have protested the move to deduct salary. The APSRTC had issued an office order stating that services of regular employees would be utilised in places where outsourced employees were in service||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/row-as-rtc-overlooks-outsourced-staff/articleshow/75781809.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Allahabad||Entrance for Allahabad University UG courses from August 1||PRAYAGRAJ: Allahabad University (AU) announced the tentative dates for entrance examinations for its various undergraduate and postgraduate courses on Saturday. The university officials said that the schedule was tentative and the dates might change. According to AU director of admissions Prashant Agarwal, the schedule contains dates of entrance examinations for admission to UG and PG courses, along with the five-year integrated BBA-LLB, LLM, LLB, BEd, MEd and professional courses offered by Institute of Professional studies (IPS). The entrance exam for BA, BSc and BCom would be held from August 1-4. The entrance for the five-year integrated BA-LLB could be held on August 5 and exams for IPS courses would be conducted on August 6-7. The entrance test for PG courses would be conducted in two phases. The PGAT– I will be held on August 10, while PGAT–II would be conducted from August 11-14. The test for admission to LLB/LLM could be held on August 8 and the one for BEd/MEd could be held on August 11-14. The entrance test for admission in MBA, MBA (rural development offered at GB Pant Institute of Social Sciences, Jhunsi), MPEd would also be held between the August 11-14, said Agarwal. The dates for holding Combined Research Entrance Test (CRET–2020) would be announced later. “In view of the Covid-19 pandemic and the guidelines issued by the government to check the spread of the disease, it would be mandatory for aspirants to wear face masks,” said Agarwal. He also said that AU has doubled the number of examination centres as compared to last year, so that it could practise social distancing while conducting the examinations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/entrance-for-au-ug-courses-from-aug-1/articleshow/75780334.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Erode||Erode: Jilted nursing student, 20, drowns self||ERODE: A 20-year-old nursing student committed suicide by throwing herself into a well near Andhiyur here on Friday evening after her lover refused to marry her.The Vellitiruppur police on Saturday arrested A Pugazendhi, 20, of Thindal, for abetting the girl’s suicide. Police identified the deceased as K Karthika, of Vakaimarathu Kodikal village near Andhiyur. She was a second-year BSc nursing student.A police officer said Karthika was in love with Pugazendhi. “He, however, refused to marry her. Shattered, she jumped into the common well in the village on Friday .”Vellitiruppur police registered a case under Section 306 (abetment of suicide) with Section 3(2) (VA) of the SC/ST Act and arrested Pugazendhi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/jilted-nursing-student-20-drowns-self/articleshow/75782452.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Good Samaritans do their bit to help migrant workers||VISAKHAPATNAM: Although the railways has been running special Shramik trains so that migrant labourers can reach home, many are still opting to walk. On an average more than 1,000 laboureres are passing through the district to reach their home towns in Odisha, Chhattisgarh, Bihar, Jharkhand and West Bengal. Speaking to a few of them, it was found out that lack of information on train schedules and fear of being quarantined are two of the main reasons why many of them are choosing to walk than take the trains. “More than 10,000 migrant workers passed through Visakhapatnam in the last 10 days either on foot or bicycles. We have seen many youth crossing the check post at the cricket stadium,” said one of the police constables. So far the district administration has arranged three special trains for migrant labourers, more trains would leave from the city in a few days. “I had Rs 10,000 when the lockdown began. I started from Chennai on a new cycle, which I purchased soon after the first lockdown was over. Later, I met a group of people on the road who too were on their way to my native place in Bhadrak, Odisha,” said a construction worker SK Mahanti to TOI. Given the situation, many NGOs and volunteers have hit the national highway to distribute food, shoes, umbrellas and even financial aid. People’s Service Organisation led by VV Ramana Murthy distributed bread and shoes to migrant labour at NAD Junction, R&B junction Simhachalam, Arilova and Sheelanagar. Similarly members of the BSNL Retired Employees’ have been distributing food for the past 10 days. A businessman, Chalumuri Ramakrishna from Visakhapatnam, while coming from West Godavari in a car, distributed food and financial aid to migrant labour passing the national highway from Rajahmundry to Tuni. “Even in the soaring mercury, they are walking. Everyone should help them. They only trying to reach home, ” Ramakrishna said. Local theatre owner P Sambamurthy has been distributing tiffin, buttermilk, bananas, water bottles and others. He has even arranged for shelters so that the migrant labourers can halt and rest. Meanwhile, following the directions of chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy, officials of Vijayawada Municipal Corporation and Krishna district administration began distributing food and water among the migrant labourers. District collector A Mohammed Imtiaz, VMC commissioner Prasanna Venkatesh inspected the arrangements. “It is not an easy task to walk hundreds of kilometers during summer. We can understand the pain of migrant workers who are striving to reach their homes fast. We have arranged temporary halts at multiple locations and providing them food throughout the day. Our teams are, however, are have been trying to convince them to move to the nearby migrant workers’ shelters so that we can take them to their native village in special trains,” Venkatesh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/good-samaritans-do-their-bit-to-help-migrant-workers/articleshow/75781804.cms||Siva G
May 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: SCB struggles to pay Rs 2 crore water bill as coffers run dry||SECUNDERABAD: The fund-starved Secunderabad Cantonment Board (SCB) is staring at a Rs 2 crore water bill, even as the prolonged lockdown has slowed down all economic activity for the past seven weeks. The SCB has to pay Rs 2 crore per month to Hyderabad Metropolitan Water Supply Board and Sewerage Board (HMWS&SB) towards the supply of potable water. Water board is supplying 60 lakh gallons of water per day (LGPD) to SCB under ‘bulk’ category and is collecting consumption charges. However, the outbreak of Covid-19 has adversely impacted the water bill collections. “As per our calculations, the SCB is supposed to collect of Rs 85 lakh to Rs 1 crore in a month towards water supply. But we earned a meagre Rs 3 lakh in April and so far we have collected of Rs 5 lakh this month,” said SCB water wing superintendent, M Raj Kumar. According to the official records, monthly bills are issued to 15,000 consumers, including domestic and non-domestic (commercial) premises. “For slum dwellers Rs 210 is charged and Rs 410 is collected from domestic consumers. As we don’t have water meter system in the cantonment it is difficult to assess the accurate supply and consumption,” he said, adding that several residents are not permitting bill collection due to restricted movement during the pandemic. “Our staff are advising them to pay through our SCB portal www.scb.gov.in,” added the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/scb-struggles-to-pay-rs-2-cr-water-bill-as-coffers-run-dry/articleshow/75782470.cms||Sunil Mungara
May 17, 2020||Allahabad||Allahabad: CRPF jawan shoots wife, son and daughter; ends life||PRAYAGRAJ: A Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) jawan, working as a driver, shot dead his wife and two kids and then committed suicide by shooting and hanging himself early Saturday morning. The incident occurred at CRPF Group Centre at Padila under Tharwai police station in Prayagraj. ADG Prem Prakash said, “Vinod Kumar Yadav (41) was a driver in 224th Battalion of CRPF. He hailed from Sirsa area of Meja tehsil in Prayagraj and lived in a type-II quarter of the CRPF Group Centre in Padila with his family.” “On Saturday, between 5.30 am and 6 am, Yadav first shot dead his wife Vimla (36), his 14-year old son Sandeep and 12-year-old daughter Simran. He then committed suicide by hanging himself. He shot himself also. The door of the house was locked from inside,” the ADG added. Senior police and CRPF officials rushed to the spot on getting the news. Police also found a bullet injury on Yadav, but since the main entrance was locked from inside, police believe that he must have shot himself somehow. “It is also learnt that Yadav used to get drunk and pass objectionable comments on a woman living in the opposite quarter. The woman, whose husband is posted outside, had reported the matter to senior officials and the deputy commandant of centre had summoned Yadav on Friday for giving his statement on the written complaint against him,” said ADG. “On Friday night, Yadav started quarrelling in his house. When neighbours tried to intervene, he warned them to stay away from his personal matters. This could have triggered the incident,” he added. The bodies have been sent for post-mortem examination and the relatives of Yadav have been informed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/crpf-jawan-shoots-wife-son-daughter-ends-life/articleshow/75780353.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Erode||Stranded Class X students will be brought to exam centre: K A Sengottaiyan||ERODE: School education minister K A Sengottaiyan on Saturday said Class X students, who were stranded in other districts, will be brought to their exam centres three days before the commencement of board examinations.“E-passes will be issued to all the students for travelling to exam centres from wherever they are. No one will be left out. They will be provided accommodation in nearby private schools,” he told reporters in Gobichettipalayam after giving away loans to the tune of Rs 46.85 lakh to 75 self-help groups. The minister said all the 12,000 higher and higher secondary schools in the state would be converted into Class X board exam centres. “Only 10 students will be allowed to sit for exam in a classroom to ensure physical distancing.”Sengottaiyan said all the teachers would be deployed for exam duty, which would start from May 21. It will be the district collectors’ responsibility to take care of basic amenities in the exam centres. “They will monitor all activities related to the board examination,” the minister said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/stranded-class-x-students-will-be-brought-to-exam-centre-min/articleshow/75782473.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Nagpur||SRPF man, two cops on duty in Mominpura among five test positive||NAGPUR: One personnel of State Reserve Police Force (SRPF) and two policemen who were deployed in Mominpura containment zone, city’s second hotspot, tested positive for Covid-19 on Saturday. This is the first instance of police and SRPF personnel testing positive for coronavirus in the district. On May 13, a 49-year-old policeman from Paratwada in Amravati was the first from police department to test positive in Vidarbha. A 65-year-old SARI patient from Khalasi Line, Gaddigodam, who was admitted at GMCH with co-morbidities on Wednesday and tested positive on Friday, died on Saturday. Two family members of 51-year-old Covid patient from Jawahar Nagar near Manewada tested positive on Saturday. Now, the number of cases in district has increased to 341. In yet another proactive measure, the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) had organized a special camp for pregnant woman and high-risk persons at Mominpura containment zone on Friday. Fifteen policemen and SRPF personnel on duty in the zone reportedly also gave their samples. Reports of three of them came positive while others are yet to be known. Reports of 24 pregnant woman and high-risk patients who gave samples at the camp are awaited. There are 16 containment zones in the city where 1,000 policemen and 200 SRPF personnel are deployed. Around 300 are engaged in Mominpura containment zone which comes under Tehsil police station. The SRPF personnel, 38, is a resident of SRPF Colony, Hingna, and was at home after completing duty when he came to know about the reports. A 33-year-old policeman, a resident of Gorewada, was on duty at Police Control Room when his test report arrived. Similarly, a 42-year-old policeman posted at Tehsil police station was on duty at Mominpura containment zone when his report arrived. Now, these three areas are likely to be new containment zones. Family members, close contacts and colleagues of these persons will be quarantined and tested. Two persons who tested positive from Jawahar Nagar were among 12 who were quarantined at VNIT after the 51-year-old person tested positive on May 9. Their samples were taken on May 13. One woman (25) is daughter of the person’s elder brother and another woman (34) is wife of younger brother. The person was managing accounts of a transport company at Kalamna. The civic body is yet to find source of infection in this case. The NMC has quarantined 199 persons, including family members, close contacts and neighbours of the victim from Gaddigodam till Saturday evening. It is a congested slum so the NMC team led by municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe, Dr Yogendra Savai, Dr Praveen Gantawar and Dr Atik Khan utilized mass quarantine model to contain spread of Covid-19 to other areas. The NMC team on Saturday returned empty-handed from Satranjipura after residents refused to go in for institutional quarantine. The team had identified another 150 families in connection with five positive patients detected from areas bordering pocket having residence of the first deceased. Already over 1,500 residents from the area have been quarantined. Zonal medical officer Dr Meenakshi Mane said earlier too suspects were picked up on the basis of their location from the residences of high risk patients. “We had quarantined around 150 of which 30 tested positive. In one lot 17 had tested positive forcing us to quarantine the entire locality,” she said. The main pocket comprises the 1st deceased’s home at the centre. “We didn’t expect people from boundary too will test positive. Now one lane was supposed to be picked up from the boundary of this pocket,” she said. The team waited till 7pm. Repeated announcements were made about new discharge and quarantined policy to win their trust but nobody turned up. Mane said these suspects were to be transferred to Symbiosis centre. Residents claimed nobody from their lane had tested positive and offered to get quarantined after Eid. “We are ready to go but we are worried about plight of others at quarantined centres. Once Ramzan is over, we shall go even if there is no reason,” they said. On Saturday, five persons were discharged from IGGMCH, taking total recoveries to 198 so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/srpf-man-two-cops-on-duty-in-mominpura-among-5-test-positive/articleshow/75782951.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
May 17, 2020||Dehradun||Owners of wedding venues write to PM, seek help||Dehradun: As large gatherings and other social events are likely to remain cancelled for the next few months due to the coronavirus pandemic, owners of wedding venues in Uttarakhand have written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to seek help in saving livelihoods of those associated with events industry. The owners of wedding venues in Dehradun claim that they have suffered losses to the tune of Rs 80 crore due to the virus outbreak. The stakeholders of the industry expect the Central government to allow weddings and events with certain precautions. Anil Chaddha, owner of a city-based marriage venue, told TOI, “The owners of wedding points in Dehradun were supporting the livelihood of nearly 30,000 people before the lockdown. Majority of them have become unemployed now and we are left with no money to support them. We have written to the Prime Minister requesting him to consider the matter and let us operate our business with guidelines. This will help us cope up with our losses.” In the letter, the business owners have also suggested measures to the Prime Minister which can help in hosting small gatherings while following distancing norms. “Since the social distancing norms will be part of our lives, we suggest that events can be hosted between 11 am and 11 pm. Also, only 20 guests will be allowed at a time at the venue. In addition, we can bear the cost of sanitising the venue and also hand over masks to guests and provide them with hand washing and sanitising facility,” added Chaddha. Another wedding venue owner Bhanu Chaudhary said, “We were not left with any other option but to approach the Prime Minister. He is already taking important decisions for the economy and we hope that he will help us as well because we support livelihood of thousands of people.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/owners-of-wedding-venues-write-to-pm-seek-help/articleshow/75781823.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Misuse of funds: Telangana HC seeks BC welfare commissioner’s report||HYDERABAD: The Telangana high court has issued notices to the state BC welfare department commissioner to explain by June 15 as to why the authorities entrusted with the task of inquiring into the alleged misappropriation of funds meant for Mahatma Jyothiba Phule Jayanthi celebrations were failing in their duties. The bench of Justice M S Ramachandra Rao and Justice K Lakshman gave these notices to the state and its ACB along with an alleged beneficiary Kundaram Ganesh Chary while hearing a PIL filed by Shivupalli Rajesham of Secunderabad. Arguing the case of the petitioner, senior counsel S Satyam Reddy told the court that the state has released funds to an extent of 13 lakh for holding these celebrations in Hyderabad. It named one individual as chairman of these celebrations committees in districts and released funds to them. They were all misused and were never spent for the intended purpose, he said. In Hyderabad, the misappropriation was more pronounced. The petitioner has been making representations to the state, its BC welfare officials and even the ACB. But none of them are responding, he said. In Hyderabad, the celebrations committee chairman misappropriated 80 per cent of the funds, Satyam alleged. The bench noticed that the officials did not respond in this case despite receiving notices in this case a few months ago and issued notices to them again. BC welfare commissioner was directed to file a report on the funds allocated and also on the way they were spent by June 15.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/misuse-of-funds-hc-seeks-bc-welfare-commissioners-report/articleshow/75782464.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Hyderabad||55 positive cases in T, total tally hits 1,509||Hyderabad: A shocking 23 coronavirus positive cases, including that of an 11-month-old baby boy, from an apartment at Madannapet in Hyderabad took the Covid-19 graph soaring to 1,509 in Telangana. Continuing with the upward surge as seen throughout this week, 55 new cases were reported in Telangana on Saturday alone. Of the 55 new cases, Greater Hyderabad accounted for 44, including a pregnant woman from the Madannapet apartment where 50 inmates had been tested for the novel coronavirus. The 23 residents of the apartment have been shifted to the nodal Gandhi Hospital. Sangareddy accounted for two positive cases and one case was registered in Rangareddy . GHMC and health department officials, who visited Madannapet, however, are clueless on the source of the virus and how did so many residents of one apartment end up contracting the virus. “We have deputed special teams to conduct more Covid-19 tests in and around Madannapet and its surrounding areas,” an official said . According to a medical bulletin, 52 migrant workers who have returned to Telangana in the recent past have been tested for the virus so far. Among them, eight had tested positive on Saturday. Meanwhile, the health department has decided to follow new guidelines in declaring Covid-19 related deaths. “If a person tested for coronavirus and with a history of pronged illness like heart problems, cancer and other problems dies, it will not be treated as a Covid-19 death,” Telangana health minister Eatala Rajender said on Saturday. As per the latest guidelines of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), he said before declaring any Covid-19 death, a team of expert doctors would analyse and submit a death audit report. “Based on the report, the cause of the death will be ascertained,” the minister said. “As per the new guidelines, persons who test positive for coronavirus will be treated for 10 days and discharged without conducting any further tests. Later, they will be put in home isolation for a week. If anybody suffering from other ailments along with Covid-19 symptoms, they will continue to be treated in hospitals,” Rajender said. “We have been transparent in reporting the Covid-19 cases,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/55-positive-cases-in-t-total-tally-hits-1509/articleshow/75782458.cms||Koride Mahesh
May 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Covid-19 lockdown: 1,000 Andhra Pradesh, Telangana seafarers stranded on ships||HYDERABAD: Around a thousand seafarers from Andhra Pradesh and Telangana are among a large number of Indian seafarers awaiting crew change during Covid-19 lockdown. Despite completing their stipulated number of months on the ships, seafarers are having to stay put. As changing of crew is not being facilitated at many ports, those who have completed their training and are spending up to Rs 5 lakh are unable to join ships. Most of the seafarers affected are from Srikakulam, Vizianagaram and Vizag in AP and Hyderabad in Telangana. At least 1,000 Telugu seafarers are stuck on different ships and another 2,300 are waiting to get on board. “The issue has been taken up and it is being facilitated at some ports. Seafarers from the Telugu states are mostly in the cargo ships,” said Capt Sanjay Prashar, chairman, International Maritime Federation (IMG) and member of National Shipping Board. Efforts are on to assist the seafarers and facilitate a crew change. On Friday, Sanjay announced that the port hotel was the first private quarantine facility in Vizag dedicated to seafarers. Disembarking from the ships has also been a problem, but with the issue being taken up with everyone concerned, 168 crew members of SS Voyager disembarked at Mumbai Port Trust. All of them have tested negative for Covid-19 and are on their way home to different states. At 19 ports in the country, crew change has been agreed for. As special flights are being operated only from a few countries, seafarers cannot hope to return to India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/1k-ap-t-seafarers-stranded-on-ships/articleshow/75782487.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
May 17, 2020||Goa||BJP govt targeting select schools: Cong||Panaji: Congress on Saturday said that the state government is instigating director of education Vandana Rao to target and penalise selective educational institutions in a bid to coerce certain aided schools to “stoop” before the BJP. Congress condemned Rao’s move to issue warning letters to headmasters five months after issuing show cause notices. The party has demanded a thorough inquiry into the department’s expenditure and sought Rao’s suspension till the inquiry is complete. “The entire teaching community is being harassed by the department. He (Sawant) is harassing and hounding the headmasters, teachers and other staff of education department along with management,” Congress spokesperson Vithu Morajkar said. He added that Rao was acting “vindictive” at the instructions of the chief minister. He said that instead of spending money on online training classes, the government should resolve genuine issues such as releasing school maintenance grants, and paying teachers, both contract and permanent staff, who have not got salaries for a long time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/bjp-govt-targeting-select-schools-cong/articleshow/75783163.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Dehradun||9 more Covid +ve in U’khand, highest single day spike ever||Dehradun: The number of novel coronavirus positive patients in the state rose to 91 on Saturday with both Dehradun and US Nagar reporting four cases each and Nainital one. With nine cases, this is the biggest spike in the state ever in one day. All the 25 cases reported in the last one week are returnees from other states. Dr NS Khatri, Covid-19 nodal officer at Government Doon Medical College, said that two of those who tested positive in Dehradun on Saturday are children aged 10 and 15 years. Similarly, Dr Shailja Bhatt, chief medical officer of Udham Singh Nagar, said that two migrants, both 18-year-old, tested positive at the border while they were on their way back from Maharashtra and Gurgaon respectively. “They were screened at the border and later quarantined. They were shifted to Susheela Tiwari Medical College later in the evening,” she added. According to health officials, two people who returned to Jaspur from Mumbai too tested positive on Saturday. In Nainital, a person who returned from Delhi was also found to be a confirmed case of the virus. The state has 39 active cases at present while 51 have recovered from the infection. At present, the recovery rate of Covid-19 patients in the state is 57.95% and the doubling rate 18.82 days. Health officials said that the results of 680 samples are awaited as of 2 pm on Saturday. With the influx of scores of migrants from other parts of the country, most cases are being reported from districts that were earlier classified as ‘green’ and ‘orange’ zones. Haridwar, which was categorized as a ‘red’ zone, has not reported any new case in the last one month and the lone Covid-19 patient who was being treated in the district has also recovered from the infection. According to the health department, the categorisation of districts were last done on April 30.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/9-more-covid-ve-in-ukhand-highest-single-day-spike-ever/articleshow/75781815.cms||Ishita Mishra
May 17, 2020||Dehradun||50 people booked for rioting, 2 hurt||Roorkee: Around 50 villagers, including village head of Kotwal Alampur near Roorkee, were booked for rioting and violating lockdown norms on Saturday. It is reported that two rival groups engaged in a clash in the village on Friday night. People from one of the rival groups attacked members of their opponent group with firearms and sharp-edged weapons. Two persons, including a minor boy, sustained injuries in the clash. “The arrests in the matter will be made after the probe report comes in,” said Ravindra Shah, in-charge of Jhabreda police station. The official added that village head Yaqub Ahmed and 50 others have been booked in the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/50-people-booked-for-rioting-2-hurt/articleshow/75781833.cms||Tapan Susheel
May 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Stroke, paralysis cases go up as patients put off hosp visit||Hyderabad: With many patients staying away from hospitals for fear of contracting Covid-19, number of disabilities on account of neurological disorders has seen a rise, say doctors. They say that there has been a definitive rise number of strokes and paralysis cases in the city with many emergency cases reaching hospitals later than two days from onset of symptoms. Doctors cite several examples where patients could have been saved from paralysis had they sought medical attention a couple of days earlier. Unlike previously, when even slightest symptoms were taken with utmost seriousness, since lockdown the tendency has been to delay going to hospitals due to fear of Covid-19 and unavailability of transport options, doctors reiterate. “Heart attacks and brain strokes are leading causes of death and disability. They should be treated within the golden hour,” said Dr Sudhir Kumar, senior consultant neurologist, Institute of Neurosciences, Apollo Hospitals referring to a recent case, where he received a call from a 65-year old man who developed mild weakness on his right hand and leg for 30 minutes. “Suspecting a brain stroke, I advised him to be rushed to hospital for urgent CT scan of brain. An hour later, I was informed that patient is reluctant to go to hospital due to fear of contracting Covid-19. About six hours later, his weakness worsened. He was unable to stand, walk or speak. When he finally came to hospital, CT scan showed a large clot in his brain. Clot-buster treatment could not be given as the golden hour was lost. Timely treatment could have resulted in rapid recovery, however, now, he is likely to remain disabled for months,” the doctor added. At NIMS, a patient was taken to hospital two days after onset of symptoms of brain stroke. “Patients with symptoms suggestive of paralysis, fits, brain fever, and unconsciousness should be rushed to hospital,” said a resident doctor. According to experts, attacks and brain strokes are the leading causes of death and disability today. They should be treated within the golden hour to save lives||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/stroke-paralysis-cases-go-up-as-patients-put-off-hosp-visit/articleshow/75782485.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Allahabad||Allahabad: Online exams for MNNIT fourth year students||PRAYAGRAJ: Motilal Nehru National Institute of Technology-Allahabad (MNNIT) will conduct semester exam for its final year students online in view of the lockdown enforced due to the novel coronavirus (Covid-19) outbreak. The move, which is first of its kind in the institute’s history, is likely to benefit 550 final-year students who have already landed job offers and have to join their respective firms by July. MNNIT director Rajeev Tripathi said, “The decision to conduct exams online for final year students was taken in the wake of the prevailing situation and the need for maintaining social distancing. It would also help in quick evaluation and declaration of results.” “Though we are still working out the modalities, the plan is to conduct a 30-mark online exam, while setting aside 30 marks for students’ previous performance. The marks students scored in their mid-semester and sessional examinations would account for the remaining 40 marks, which is the rule otherwise as well,” said Tripathi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/online-exams-for-mnnit-4th-year-students/articleshow/75780416.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Allahabad||Uttar Pradesh: More norms await flyers at Bamrauli Airport||PRAYAGRAJ: Brace for stricter regulations and more rules while flying from Bamrauli Airport in the near future. Airports Authority of India (AAI) has rolled out a number of steps to ensure passengers safety in the wake of novel coronavirus pandemic, whenever curbs on air travel are lifted. AAI’s regional director Sunil Kumar Yadav said, “To make trips safer for passengers, we have taken a number of steps.” Right from alighting the vehicle at the entry point to boarding the flight, the passenger will have to follow the concept of social distancing and hygiene, he added. Sharing a video with the media on Saturday, Yadav said “As passengers proceed for security check, their baggage will be sanitised and they will undergo thermal screening to check their body temperature. More counters at the airport will be equipped with web cams and public address systems. Passenger will have to show their IDs and tickets in the web cam.” “The airline staff would welcome passengers at the airport wearing personal protective equipment (PPE) and ask for their PNR numbers. The staff would print their boarding pass without letting passengers touch any machine. Passengers will follow the markings on ground to maintain social distancing while taking their luggage towards the scanning device.” As soon as the passenger leaves the trolley the same is sanitised by the staff on duty immediately. Thereafter, the passenger moves towards the checking counter and the staff of the airline has been provided a transparent shield so that there is no physical contact between him and the passengers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/more-norms-await-flyers-at-airport/articleshow/75780399.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Kanpur||Migrants carrying injured boy in cot get vehicle in Kanpur||Kanpur: A group of migrant workers carried an injured teenager on a cot all the way from Ludhiana to Kanpur as they could not afford to hire a vehicle. They were headed towards their village in Singrauli, Madhya Pradesh. When they reached Chakeri in Kanpur, someone recorded their plight and uploaded the video on social media. The clip went viral. Rajesh (15), the son of daily wager Raj Kumar, had his neck injured and could not walk. His father, however, could not arrange a vehicle. Undeterred, he found a way out and travelled with a group of 18 villagers, carrying the cot for most part of the 800km route on foot. They reached Kanpur on Friday evening. “I first tried to carry my son on my shoulder but it was difficult. So, I arranged a cot and gave it the shape of a palanquin. Except for a stretch of 50km covered on a truck, we carried the cot on our shoulders, taking turns, from Ludhiana to Kanpur,” said Rajkumar. To their relief, a police team led by Chakeri inspector Ram Kumar provided them with food and water, and arranged a vehicle. “After ensuring their well being, we sent the group in a vehicle to their village in Singrauli,” said Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/migrants-carrying-injured-boy-in-cot-get-vehicle-in-kanpur/articleshow/75782937.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
May 17, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Pulicat fisherfolk keep out Covid-19, fight to survive||CHENNAI: Thirty-two fishing hamlets in Pazhaverkadu, or Pulicat, about 50km from Chennai, have become model villages, untouched by the raging Covid-19 pandemic. They are, however, struggling to survive. The norms have been strictly implemented and the residents have cooperated fully, said P Ethiraj, head of Arangamkuppam hamlet. When the lockdown began on March 24, fearing that they would not be able to find agents to sell their catch, the fishermen decided against putting out to sea. The common net available to the community was pledged for Rs 5 lakh. “Each family was given Rs 1,000 in cash and some groceries. The fisheries department provided fishing ban subsidy of Rs 5,000 and the state government gave Rs 1,000 to each family as lockdown assistance. But this was not enough to help sustain the fishermen families,” said Ethiraj. Now, most families are struggling and have been unable to bring their plight to the attention of the authorities concerned. G Rajalakshmi, president of the women’s self-help group at Goonangkuppam village under Light House panchayat, said the state government had provided for free 20kg of free rice, atta, oil, sugar and dhal to each family. But, of the 20kg rice only 5kg was raw rice and was of good quality. The rest was of very poor quality. “Many complained of health problems. We have been unable to cook and eat three times a day,” she said. Rajalakshmi said the villagers wanted to complain to civil supplies department authorities about the poor quality of ration items and to the fisheries department about their poor condition but no officials had visited the area because of the lockdown. Unlike the fishermen in Chennai district, most of who own fibreboats and have been able to put out to sea to catch fish, those in Pazhaverkadu have been struggling at home, Ethiraj said. “Fisheries department staff and district administration officials should make a visit to the fishing hamlets in Pazhaverkadu to understand the pathetic conditions,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/pulicat-fisherfolk-keep-out-covid-fight-to-survive/articleshow/75782484.cms||P Oppili
May 17, 2020||Salem||Tamil Nadu: 50 nurses protest as co-worker gets killed in accident||DHARMAPURI: A 38-year-old government hospital nurse was killed and her colleague injured after an unidentified vehicle knocked them down from their scooter at Piyur, a village on Dharmapuri-Krishnagiri border.The Dharmapuri town police identified the deceased as P Kumutha, of Kaveripattinam in Krishnagiri district. She was a staff nurse with the Dharmapuri district government medical college and hospital. The incident took place when she was returning home after duty around 1pm along with her colleague K Balamani, 44, also from Kaveripattinam.A police officer said, “When they neared Piyur, an unidentified vehicle that was heading to Krishnagiri rammed the scooter. Both sustained severe head injuries.” The two were rushed to the government hospital in Kaveripattinam, where doctors provided them first aid and referred to the Dharmapuri district government medical college and hospital.On Saturday morning, more than 50 nurses protested at the Dharmapuri district government medical college and hospital, demanding the hospital management to set up retiring room for them on its premises.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/50-nurses-protest-as-co-worker-gets-killed-in-accident/articleshow/75782479.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur cops book 85 for lockdown violations||NAGPUR: City police have registered 85 offences against lockdown violators, detained 29 persons, and fined another 928 for breaching traffic norms on Saturday. A total of 1,042 cases were slapped on the violators. Having come under criticism for slackness on road, especially during the third phase of lockdown, city police have now decided to register more offences rather than take coercive actions. On Friday, 76 offences were registered against violators and 20 were detained. Joint CP Ravindra Kadam said many people had started taking undue advantage assuming that the lockdown has been relaxed. “There are relaxations in some sectors apart from the order of unhindered flow of the essential commodities and emergency services in the market but it does not mean that the citizens can step out without reason. Hence, we have stepped up our actions,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cops-book-85-for-lockdown-violations/articleshow/75782957.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Docs find link between Covid-19, gastrointestinal trouble in Hyd||Hyderabad: Several Covid-19 patients treated at the Gandhi Hospital (the nodal centre for treating covid-19 positive patients) showed stomach ache and diarrhoea as symptoms. While studies on patients in China have established a clear link between Covid-19 and gastrointestinal (GI) symptoms, a similar trend has also been observed in patients here, say doctors. As part of a study conducted in Wuhan (China), it was found that 16 per cent of the Covid-19 patients, showed GI symptoms. Among them the common symptoms were nausea, vomiting, loss of appetite and diarrhoea. “While we are seeing some patients with abdominal pain and diarrhoea, these patients are less in number when compared to patients with upper respiratory and renal symptoms. At the moment it is difficult to make an estimation of the percentage of patients with GI symptoms,” said Dr Narasimha Rao Netha, deputy superintendent, Gandhi Hospital. Speaking about the need for being on the lookout for such symptoms, Dr P Vinay Kumar, surgical gastroenterologist said, “We need to probably look at correlation between GI symptoms and Covid-19 and investigate patients for coronavirus based on these. Doctors need to be on the lookout especially in case of patients with diarrhoea, abdominal pain and loss of appetite. We are seeing some cases with GI symptoms in the city, including some vague symptoms like a gall bladder patient turning out to be Covid-19 positive.” . “What is unnerving about the infection is that, its effects are not limited to the respiratory system only. Other organs such as the gastrointestinal (GI) tract and liver seem to be targeted by the virus as well,” pointed out Dr Dinesh Kini, gastroenterologist and hepatologist.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/docs-find-link-between-covid-19-gastrointestinal-trouble-in-hyd/articleshow/75782519.cms||Amrita Didyala
May 17, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Over 1,000 Covid-19 cases in Royapuram, containment hard||CHENNAI: The number of Covid-19 cases in Royapuram (zone 5), the initial hotspot in the city, has crossed 1,000. As on Saturday morning, the number of cases there were 1,047 — 18% of the total cases in the city. Special nodal officer for Chennai J Radhakrishnan said they have devised a specific plan for Royapuram and it has been effected since Friday. “We have chosen ten clusters in Royapuram. Apart from regular awareness about the do’s, don’ts and hygiene, we have identified community halls to shift people living in most affected areas, which are densely populated,” Radhakrishnan said. “We have identified 10 localities within the zone and for each of them we have one area specific plans.” SM Nagar, Thideer Nagar, Anjaneyar Nagar, PK Raja Nagar and Sathya Nagar are some of the localities. “Most of them are slums and getting people to even wear masks has become a difficult task,” said a zonal staff. Officials said mass screening will be undertaken in the zone in the coming days and the residents will be given immunity boosters like kabasura kudineer, zinc tablets and other healthy foods. On Saturday, residents from SM Nagar were shifted to a community hall nearby, where they will be monitored and provided with the herbal drink and healthy foods. According to a zonal official, there are 12 community halls in the zone, apart from the government and corporation schools, which will also be used. “The community halls were used to house guest workers. Five of them are vacant now,” the official said. While the initial cases in Royapuram were linked to the New Delhi conference cluster, the rise has been attributed to lack of physical distancing in the slum areas, which has forced authorities to rethink their plans. “In areas where we were able to do effective containment, like in V R Pillai Street, we were able to control the amplification of cases. This has been difficult in the slums and so we have intensified our awareness programmes. Unfortunately, some of them still believe that they will not be infected,” a senior official said. Apart from Royapuram zone, Kodambakkam (zone 10) and Valasaravakkam (zone 11) are challenging zones for the authorities. Kodambakkam follows Royapuram with 919 cases. While Thiru Vi Ka Nagar abutting Royapuram witnessed a surge in cases overtaking Royapuram for a brief while, it has largely been stabilized and the number of cases in the zone stands at 737.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/over-1k-cases-in-royapuram-containment-hard/articleshow/75782499.cms||Srikkanth D
May 17, 2020||Hyderabad||60 civic bodies await budget nod||Hyderabad: The extension of lockdown has led to over 60 municipalities in Telangana not having approved their annual budget for 2020-21 financial year. As a result, they are deprived of utilising funds allocated in the current financial year and cannot take up developmental works.  The municipal administration department has asked urban local bodies (ULBs) to complete their budget approvals in general council meetings through teleconferences.  Seventy five municipalities, including GHMC, completed their budget meetings.“ As all the municipalities were busy with Covid-19 preventive measures, many ULBs have asked for extension and are permitted to hold meetings through teleconferences,” director of municipal administration N Satyanarayana told TOI. The municipalities have been asked to earmark 10% of their budget for development of greenery. Similarly, they have to prepare a sanitation and health plan for maintaining hygiene. “The civic bodies have been advised to allocate funds for construction of SHE toilets, development of graveyards and administrative reforms like online services,” a senior official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/60-civic-bodies-await-budget-nod/articleshow/75782496.cms||Koride Mahesh
May 17, 2020||Agra||Covid-19 tally crosses 800-mark in Agra district||AGRA: Five fresh Covid-19 positive cases were reported in Agra district on Saturday, taking the tally to 802. So far, 27 deaths have been reported in the district. Out of these, more than 500 people have been cured and discharged from the hospital. The new cases which surfaced on Saturday include a 24-year-old woman who had delivered a child on May 14. The pregnant woman was admitted in a private hospital, where her sample was collected and sent for testing at a private lab. After testing Covid-19 positive on Saturday, the woman was shifted to the isolation ward at SN Medical College. “So far, 501 people have been cured of the infection and discharged from hospital. The number of active novel coronavirus cases in the district has been reduced to 275. We have marked 17 hotspots as inactive and 10 more are likely to be included in the green zone very soon,” district magistrate Prabhu N Singh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/covid-19-tally-crosses-800-mark-in-agra-district/articleshow/75782494.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Allahabad||Special trains bring more natives, social distancing goes for a toss||Prayagraj: Continuing with efforts to bring back standard migrant labourers, students and pilgrims from various parts of the country, six Shramik Special trains arrived at various stations of Prayagraj division of North Central Railway (NCR), on Saturday. Among these, three special trains arrived at Prayagraj while one each at Kanpur Central, Fatehpur and Mirzapur stations. All the three trains, which arrived at Prayagraj junction on Saturday, brought migrant labours and other standard passengers from Surat. The first of these train arrived at Allahabad Prayagraj junction at 12:15 noon while the second arrived at around 9:30pm and the last of these train arrived late night. Each of these trains brought around 1,600 passengers from Surat. However, on Saturday the norm of social distancing of the passenger was totally absent. Passengers was seen sitting close to each other at the shelter shed located at city side of Prayagraj Junction. Beside sitting in close proximity to each other, the passengers were seen sitting next to each other in the buses, very much against the norms. Public relation officer (PRO) of Prayagraj division, SK Gupta, while commenting on the issue said that the responsibility of the Railways is to drop the passengers up to the shelter sheds from where district administration takes over charge.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/special-trains-bring-more-natives-social-distancing-goes-for-a-toss/articleshow/75780439.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Kanpur||District officials arrange buses for migrants going to their native places on foot, trucks||KANPUR: Following chief minister Yogi Adityanath’s appeal to migrant labourers asking them not to go back to their native places on foot, district magistrate Brahmadeo Ram Tiwari and DIG/SSP Anant Deo on Saturday intercepted the migrants entering into the city on trucks and private vehicles. The two officials and their team reached Kanpur Dehat toll plaza near Raipur barrier and asked the migrants to come down from trucks, and after providing them food and drinking water, told them to board UPSRTC buses which would fetch them to their respective districts. The two officers then went to Rama Devi crossing and there too they arranged buses for the migrants who were sitting on trucks. They also visited Fatehpur border and checked the quality of food being given to the migrant workers. He directed to provide lunch packet to every migrant. The DM later directed roadways regional manager to arrange buses to transport migrant workers. He also directed the RTO to acquire all private and school buses to transport migrants. He said that the district administration would provide fuel to the buses. All drivers should be kept on an alert mode round the clock, the DM further said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/district-officials-arrange-buses-for-migrants-going-to-their-native-places-on-foot-trucks/articleshow/75782941.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Meerut||UP youth who shared video of panchayat secretary, others partying during lockdown shot at by assailants||MEERUT: Mohit Rana, a youth in his 20s, who had last month shared a video of panchayat secretary, pradhan pati (husband of village pradhan) and a few others holding a booze party in Hapur during Covid-19 lockdown, was shot at by unidentified miscreants on Saturday afternoon. Police have now begun probe on the lines of retribution by people irked by video uploaded on Twitter. "As of now, the video episode is the only plausible motive behind the attack," police said. According to investigating sleuths, Rana was on his way back home from a field when unidentified assailants shot at him. A bullet struck Rana in the abdomen and he is currently under medical observation at district hospital. On April 24, Rana, resident of Sapnawat village, uploaded an 18-second video claiming that instead of helping the poor in their area during lockdown, panchayat secretary and others were "busy partying". Sushil Kumar, panchayat secretary, landed in a soup after the video of Kumar along with Satendra Singh, pradhan pati, and three others in the liquor party surfaced on Twitter. Senior administrative officials had taken cognizance of the video and panchayat secretary Kumar was suspended after the probe on April 26. Meanwhile, police claimed that family of the victim have complained against pradhant pati Satendra Singh for carrying out the attack following which he was detained for questioning. "We are looking at all possible angles. Pradhan pati Satendra Singh was also at the spot. There is a possibility he could have hired someone to carry out the attack. The family is pinning the blame on Singh. We have detained him to interrogate further," Sarvesh Mishra, additional superintendent of police (Hapur) said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/up-youth-who-shared-video-of-panchayat-secretary-others-partying-during-lockdown-shot-at-by-assailants/articleshow/75781837.cms||Piyush Rai
May 17, 2020||Coimbatore||Repeat traffic offenders to be fined Rs 1,000||Coimbatore: The city police have fined 6,361 motorcycle riders for travelling with pillion riders in the past one week. As per the state government’s direction, only a person is allowed to travel in two-wheelers during lockdown. The violators have been fined Rs 100 each. Vehicle movement has been on the rise on city roads ever since the state government relaxed lockdown norms on May 4. R Mutharasu, Deputy Commissioner of Police (traffic), Coimbatore city, said, “We imposed on them a fine of Rs 100. At least 680 challans were issued to autorickshaw drivers and 570 challans to call taxi drivers for operating vehicles during lockdown. We will collect a fine of Rs 1,000 from repeat offenders.” each for those who violated the traffic rules repeatedly.” tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/repeat-traffic-offenders-to-be-fined-rs-1000/articleshow/75782486.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Bhopal||Six coaches empty on first Shramik Spl from Bhopal to CG||Bhopal: At a time when lakhs of migrant workers are walking hundreds of kilometres or pawning their meagre belongings to buy standing space on trucks, six coaches went empty on the first inter-state train to leave Bhopal in the lockdown on Saturday.Bound for Bilaspur in Chhattisgarh, there were at least 440 seats empty when it pulled out of the station. Many more could have availed of it had information been channelized better, say sources.There was no notification issued. Migrants began turning up at Habibganj station around noon, in scorching heat, though the scheduled departure was 10pm. “We had to wait outside under the sun for almost three hours before we could enter the station. There should have been proper information about the train,” said a migrant, Nanku.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/six-coaches-empty-on-first-shramik-spl-from-bhopal-to-cg/articleshow/75782495.cms||Ramendra Singh
May 17, 2020||Coimbatore||On the run for ten months, killer held in Tamil Nadu||COIMBATORE: A 35-year-old man was arrested on Friday for bludgeoning his roommate to death in a drunken brawl at Chinnamanaickenpalayam near Sulur some 10 months ago after the latter questioned him about increasing the volume of radio. The Sultanpet police identified the accused as K Servarayan alias Jayaraj, of Achankulam in Thoothukudi district. According to police, the incident took place on July 6, 2019. “He was consuming liquor with Sreekandan, 32, from Madurai district. When Servarayan increased the volume of radio, Sreekandan didn’t like that and questioned him. Irked, Servarayan attacked him with a stone and fled.” A police officer said Servarayan and Sreekandan were among the three workers employed by L Yuvaraj, 29, and Bala Dhandapani, of Chinnamanaickenpalayam near Sulur to make concreate water tank lids. The remaining one was Magudeeswaran. A police officer said, “The trio were staying together at a room on a farmland at Chinnamanaickenpalayam from where they were making concreate water tank lids. On the fateful day, the trio told Yuvaraj that they were leaving for their hometowns. He paid them their salaries and also dropped Magudeeswaran at Sultanpet bus stop.” The next day (July 7) around 6.30am, the farmland owner contacted Dhandapani and told him that one of the workers was struggling for life. Immediately, Yuvaraj and Dhanapani rushed to the spot and found Sreekandan lay in a pool of blood. They took him to the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital (CMCH), where he died without responding to treatment on July 8. Based on Yuvaraj’s complaint, the Sultanpet police registered a case under Section 302 (attempt to murder) of the Indian Penal Code and launched a manhunt for Servarayan, who went missing. “His mobile phone was switched off. He was not having any contact with his family members. So, we could not locate his whereabouts,” the officer said. Meanwhile, police got a tip that Servarayan was roaming at Gobichettipalayam in Erode district. “Police there arrested Servarayan on Friday and handed him over to us. He has been remanded in judicial custody,” the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/on-the-run-for-ten-months-killer-held/articleshow/75782504.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Coimbatore||Protect livelihoods during lockdown, outfit tells govt||Coimbatore: Members of the Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI) on Saturday protested at several places in the city, urging the state to safeguard the livelihoods of people who have lost jobs to the nation-wide lockdown. They said the financial assistance of Rs 1,000 was not sufficient for two months of lockdown. They protested at around 30 places in the city, by ensuring physical distancing. Pointing out that many people haven’t had any jobs or means to livelihood for the past 50 days, Raja Husain, a district representative of SDPI, said, “The aid of Rs 1,000 would in no way be sufficient for running their families. Instead of helping the people with their livelihood, the state is now opening Tasmac outlets.” He said there was a tendency among both the Centre and state to spread hate against a particular community during the Covid-19 pandemic. “The Centre has not provided the required funds and GST dues to the state.” Husain said the BJP government at the Centre has been undermining the state’s rights under the cover of lockdown. “The state’s right in the Cauvery riparian issue has been undermined as the Centre has taken a decision to bring the Cauvery Water Management Authority under the Union Jal Shakti Ministry.” The protesters also condemned the Centre’s move of using the lockdown to persecute activists under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Amendment Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/protect-livelihoods-during-lockdown-outfit-tells-govt/articleshow/75782502.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Coimbatore||Tasmac shops open to lukewarm response||Coimbatore: There wasn’t much crowd at the Tamil Nadu State Marketing Corporation (Tasmac) outlets that reopened after a week on Saturday.As many as 286 outlets – 130 in the south zone and 156 in the north zone – were open for business a day after the Supreme Court stayed the high court’s direction to shut liquor shops and permitted sales through online platforms. The number of people in the queue came down within hours after the shops opened. As per the guidelines, the outlets functioned from 10am to 5pm. A Tasmac official said token system was followed in all outlets. “Only 70 tokens were distributed per hour. They were given only to those who were wearing masks and maintaining physical distance. Police personnel were deployed to prevent untoward incidents,” he said.The outlets were allowed to sell liquor to 500 people per day, the official said. “Most of the shops had 350 to 450 customers. Only a few shops distributed all the 500 tokens. We experienced low customer turnout because most of the shops were open.”While tokens were distributed to those in the queue at some shops, buyers were asked to collect tokens first before forming a queue at other places. Only 10 to 15 buyers were allowed to stand in front of the outlets.While most of the tipplers were excited after buying their favourite brands, others complained about the price hike.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/tasmac-shops-open-to-lukewarm-response/articleshow/75782510.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: See-through face masks to ease stress for the hearing impaired||CHENNAI: Living through the pandemic has been quite an ordeal, especially for those with speech and hearing impairments. Since the face masks available in the markets cover almost half the face, people who rely on lip-reading have been having a hard time communicating. In a move to remove the barrier, the state department for the welfare of differently-abled people has designed a special transparent mask with plastic sheet instead of cloth covering the lips. This pilot project was initiated by the department’s secretary C Vijayaraj Kumar, making Tamil Nadu the first state in the country to provide such masks. They will be provided to workers and educators in early intervention centers, special schools, children, their parents, caregivers, and other stakeholders. Johny Tom Varghese, director of the department, said 81,000 masks will be distributed to 13,500 children and adults who are hearing impaired and have speech difficulty. More will be distributed based on the response and need. “Parents as well as teachers who interact with the children will also need such masks. So we are providing them to not just people who are differently-abled but also to their dear ones.” The masks were made in consultation with the hearing impaired and differently-abled associations in Tirupur. The material and comfort level of the masks were also tested on teachers and students with the disability. Jesintha Rosalind, principal of the Little Flower Convent Higher Secondary School for the deaf, lauded the initiative and said the masks would help them teach their students without any hassle and also help the children live normally during this pandemic. “Since the lockdown was imposed, we found that many of our children found it challenging to carry out basic chores like going to a nearby grocery store because they couldn’t communicate. This deeply affected their confidence and made them more anxious. They will find these masks very helpful,” she said. Dipti Karnad, principal of the Clarke School for the Deaf and the Mentally Retarded, said while the masks would help the hearing impaired, it would still be a challenge to reach out to those with visual impairment and multiple disabilities. “This is the group we are more concerned about since they depend on tactile signages and they need to be in close contact with us. With the safety and social distancing norms, we are worried about how we will manage them in the coming days,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/see-through-face-masks-to-ease-stress-for-the-hearing-impaired/articleshow/75782505.cms||Aditi R
May 17, 2020||Mumbai||Cops, railways get on same track to deliver anxiety meds to Mumbai film writer from UP||MUMBAi: Police from two different states joined hands with the railways to transport medicines across 1,300km from Lucknow to Mumbai for an ailing filmwriter. Ankur Verma had tweeted to Uttar Pradesh police’s emergency helpline on May 10 that he was in urgent need of medicines for an anxiety disorder. The medicines were not available in local pharmacies nor on any portals. Within four days of his tweet, the medicines were delivered at Verma’s doorstep, thanks to some quick coordination among multiple agencies. I was in dire need of medicines which were not available here in Mumbai.I cannot thank @112UttarPradesh enough for… https://t.co/3OVom9Lr52— Ankur Verma (@theankur02) 1589491644000Verma, who lives in Andheri, said he had been consulting a neurologist in Lucknow for a year. “I visit the doctor twice or three times a year. The medicines are couriered from Lucknow by my relatives. But with the lockdown, courier companies stopped delivering. I ran out of medicines and started desperately hunting for fresh supply,” he said. @112UttarPradesh @kssinghstp Respected Sir, Me and my mother suffering from very serious problem of Anxiety and Pa… https://t.co/4U7HufaCSQ— Ankur Verma (@theankur02) 1589129931000The filmwriter dialled a number of helplines but to no avail. “I was panicking. Anxiety disorders can give one suicidal thoughts. During my darkest hour, a radio jockey saw my post on social media and alerted UP police’s ‘112’ helpline,” said Verma. By then, the helpline operators had also seen Verma’s tweet. Sub-inspector Karuna Shankar Singh, in-charge of the helpline’s media cell, dialled Verma on the night of May 10. “I could sense something was amiss...Verma was answering my questions in monosyllables. I assured him of help and that he shouldn’t give up,” said Singh. Verma told the cop his mother, who lives in UP’s Unnao district, suffers from the same disorder and needed medicines too. Within 24 hours, UP police purchased the medicines from Lucknow and got them delivered to Unnao. When Verma learnt his mother had got her medicines, his stress levels reduced a little. “Verma’s medicines were already purchased by his uncle. We approached the railway police in Lucknow to inquire which trains were leaving for Mumbai. But only goods trains were plying and we were not sure if they would reach in time,” said Singh. Railway police suggested sending the medicines to Delhi first as trains were leaving from Delhi for Mumbai more regularly. A cop fetched the medicines from Verma’s uncle, took them to Delhi, and handed them to another constable who was to travel to Mumbai. Singh had already spoken to Mumbai police and two of their personnel picked up the medicines when the train reached Mumbai. Cops delivered the medicines right at Verma’s home on May 14. The film writer said he was overwhelmed and tweeted his appreciation for all the agencies. “I spoke to Verma after he had his meds and he sounded far better. We had a long conversation about yoga and fitness,” said Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/police-rlys-get-on-same-track-to-deliver-anxiety-meds-to-city-film-writer-from-up/articleshow/75782516.cms||Nitasha Natu
May 17, 2020||Vadodara||Vadodara: Owner, employees of mobile and appliances shops held||VADODARA: An owner and employees of an electronic appliances shop and a mobile phone showroom were arrested for keeping the shops open and not maintaining social distancing norms during lockdown. Sleuths of detection of crime branch of city police raided Mobilewala on Rajmahal Road and Krish Enterprises Maneja on Saturday. “We had received information a couple of days back that the two shops were being kept open and customers allowed inside for sale so we conducted a raid on Saturday,” said inspector A B Jadeja. At Mobilewala, manager Dharmesh Mistry and other employees Umesh Shah, Abhijit Mali and Yash Mistry were arrested. At Krish Enterprises, owner Pramod Daswani and his employees Jayesh Tailor Yogesh Chauhan, Bhojraj Vasmani, Sanjay Parmar and Pratik Chauhan were arrested. Police said they used to keep the shutter doors closed so that nobody becomes suspicious. “Whenever a customer arrived, they would let him in and close the shutter again,” Jadeja added. Offences of violation of public notification were registered against them at Navapura and Makarpura police stations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/owner-employees-of-mobile-appliances-shops-held/articleshow/75780748.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Dehradun||US Nagar farmer grows colorful wheat crops||Rudrapur: A farmer from Brar Farm in Bijti Patiya village of Sitarganj in Udham Singh Nagar has cultivated different colours — white, black, purple, and blue — of wheat crops in his fields and the agriculture department officials of Govind Ballabh Pant University at Pantnagar will soon be visiting his farm to conduct a research on these wheat varieties so that this kind of wheat seeds could be made available to other local farmers as well. Talking to TOI, farmer Anildeep Mahal said that he has grown wheat in four varieties with the help of Japanese technology. Abhay Saxena, district’s Agriculture Officer, said, “We will be visiting Mahal’s farm as he has claimed that these seeds may increase farmers’ income by 50%. It is also claimed that these wheat varieties will be helpful for patients suffering ailments like diabetes, cancer, obesity, and heart-related issues.” Meanwhile, Sitarganj BJP legislator Dr Prem Singh Rana has lauded Mahal’s efforts saying, “Mahal has done a tremendous job and I will bring this to the notice of chief minister,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/us-nagar-farmer-grows-colorful-wheat-crops/articleshow/75781846.cms||Aakash Ahuja
May 17, 2020||Coimbatore||Two women commit suicide in Tamil Nadu||NAMAKKAL: Two women committed suicide by hanging themselves in Tiruchengode in Namakkal district on Saturday.The deceased have been identified as K Jothi, 31 and M Priya, 23, of Thothalai Elayampalayam village in Tiruchengode taluk. Both were friends. Jothi was a married woman and had a three-year-old daughter. “She had separated from her husband two years ago,” the police officer said. On Saturday, Jothi’s brother , came to his sister’s house when he discovered the main door closed. After knocking the door for few minutes, he peeped through the door gap. He saw both girls hanging from the ceiling.It is learnt that, Priya’s parents were making arrangements for her marriage. “Both did not want to get separated,” said a police official from Elachipalayam police station. A case was registered and further inquiry is on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/two-women-commit-suicide/articleshow/75782501.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Kanpur||One more tests positive for Covid-19, Kanpur tally now 313||KANPUR: One more person, tested positive for coronavirus on Saturday, taking the total number of cases to 313 in Kanpur. The patient is a resident of Ajitganj colony of the city, and has been admitted to the isolation ward of the Lala Lajpat Rai Hospital for further treatment, said Chief Medical Officer Dr Ashok Shukla. The reports of patients swab samples, which were sent to the COVID -19 laboratory in Ganesh Shankar Vidyarthi Memorial medical college for testing, arrived on Saturday, confirming that the person was suffering from COVID-19, he added. A team of doctors is attending on the person at the hospital. Those who came in contact with the patient were identified, CMO said, adding that they were being quarantined. He said the infected person’s house and locality are being sanitised. With this, the number of coronavirus cases in Kanpur has climbed to 313. The first coronavirus case was reported on March 23, when a 70-year-old man with a travel history to US tested positive for the disease. He also added that on Saturday nearly 20 persons, who were being treated for COVID 19, were discharged after their second report tested them negative. “A total of 13 patients were discharged from Kanshiram Trauma Centre while seven from Lala Lajpat Rai hospital,” said CMO. Total number of active cases in the City are 93. While eight City people died after contracting deadly virus. Meanwhile, the worries of the district administration officials are not ending as four new hotspots surfaced in the city on Saturday. The district officials, who had converted 13 hotspots into green zones in the last few days, have now added four new hotspots taking their tally to 16. The district administration and police officials at a review meeting held here on Friday discussed the issue and released a fresh list of hotspots. According to the new list, as many as 89,3,30 people of the city, residing in around 15,517 houses, are in the ambit of 16 hotspots. According to police, around 96 barriers have been raised to close those hotspots. Amit Mohan Prasad, principal secretary in UP government, has directed the city officials that areas which have not reported any positive case in the last 21 days could be converted into green zones. If everything is found under control, then Kotwali, Meerpur, Prem Nagar in Chamanganj, Jajmau police outpost and Juhi Parampurwa would be included in the list of green zones.  Quli Bazar has reported maximum 96 Covid 19 cases among hotspots of the city. Around 22,000 residents of this locality are locked in their houses since the last 66 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/one-more-tests-positive-for-covid-19-city-tally-now-313/articleshow/75782946.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
May 17, 2020||Hyderabad||3 persons killed in road accident||Hyderabad: Three persons from Kerala were killed in a road accident at Dichpally in Nizamabad district after the SUV in which they were travelling in hit a parked tipper truck in the wee hours of Saturday. They were travelling from Bihar to Kerala. Nizamabad police said that a school principal Aneesh Tomas,33, school teacher Steny Jose,24, and Aneesh’s daughter Analiya,1, died on the spot while two others were injured. Police said that five members who were travelling in the SUV from Bihar were heading to Kozhikode in Kerala. The injured were admitted to a government hospital in Hyderabad before they were discharged. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/3-persons-killed-in-road-accident/articleshow/75782503.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Leopard now at Himayatsagar||Hyderabad: After remaining elusive for two days, the leopard that was sighted at Katedan on Thursday was reportedly spotted at Himayatsagar by a fisherman on Saturday. After a few locals dialed 100 and informed the police, forest officials started patrolling the forest area around the ORR stretch between Shamshabad and Himayat Sagar to track the movement of the animal. “There is no need to panic as it is not near the human habitation,” said Sunita M Bhagwat, chief conservator of forests, Rangareddy district. Meanwhile, a video of the leopard trying to grab a man and a few stray dogs on Thursday went viral on social media on Saturday. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/leopard-now-at-himayatsagar/articleshow/75782512.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Safety screen for return of domestic help, drivers||KOLKATA: Most of the premium housing complexes in the city, that had till now barred entry of part-time domestic helps, drivers and other outsiders, will give them access from this Monday but with a slew of precautions. While some have already made separate zones for hand-washing and temperature checking, some are even considering installation of sanitization tunnels exclusively for maids, drivers and delivery personnel. “Our residents have toiled a lot over the past two months since we had decided to bar the entry of all outsiders. But since we have realised that we will have to live with the virus and cannot prevent entry of part-time domestic helps forever, we have decided to allow them. But they will have to carry a fitness certificate from the local police station and we will ensure they do not enter our complex without the requisite hand-washing manual and undergoing a thermal scan. We have made separate bays for them,” said Gopa Bhabani, the secretary of Urbana Welfare Association. Bhabani, however, said that they have allowed a part-time maid to work at one household only for the time being. Fort Oasis was also strongly against the entry of outsiders all this while. But after an evening meeting on Saturday, even they have decided to allow the maids in with restrictions. “There was a heated debate whether or not to allow the maids in, but finally we have decided to allow them. But they need to maintain certain strict protocols and the onus will be on the employers,” said a senior member of the apartment owners’ association. Silver Spring housing complex, which is still in two minds, has asked residents to vote on whether to allow maids or not and will take a decision on Sunday. “We will circulate a survey questionnaire on Sunday morning. Residents will have till 2pm to respond. Whichever option has more than 60% votes will be considered as the decision of the residents,” said Asok Baid, a senior member of the association. Residents of South City and Upohaar condominium said they have been awaiting a state government directive but are ready with all precautionary measures to allow maids from next week. The May 4 MoHA guidelines have allowed domestic helps, drivers and cleaners in all areas outside containment zones. However, with almost no public transport and most housing complexes not allowing them inside, thousands were yet to join work. TOI had reported a row over the issue of allowing maids had even reached the police station after a young couple had lodged a complaint of harassment against other residents of their complex in Sector V who were against allowing maids.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/safety-screen-for-return-of-domestic-help-drivers/articleshow/75782493.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
May 17, 2020||Coimbatore||Trio arrested in Tamil Nadu for smuggling ganja||COIMBATORE: The Tirupur city police have arrested three people in two separate incidents for smuggling more than 5kg ganja. According to a police source, the three were nabbed during a vehicle check on Kongu Main Road on Friday evening. “The team from Tirupur North police station stopped a water tanker and checked the driver’s cabin, where they found 3.25kg ganja. They arrested driver K Sundaramahalingam, 24, of Goripalayam in Madurai. He brought the contraband from his hometown,” the source said. The team also arrested A Mohammed Yasin, 19, of Mettupalayam, and G Pandiprabhu, 24, from Chettikulam in Sivaganga district, with 2kg ganja in their motorcycle.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/trio-arrested-for-smuggling-ganja/articleshow/75782515.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Chennai||University of Madras viva for research scholars to be partly online||CHENNAI: The University of Madras has allowed the university departments, affiliated colleges and research institutions to conduct PhD viva-voce through video conferencing till the Covid-19 lockdown is lifted and normalcy returns. The university syndicate approved to conduct the PhD viva-voce through video conferencing after considering the issues faced by PhD scholars. As per the existing norms, the scholars need to defend their thesis in public viva-voce to get the doctorate degree. “Still, the public and interested people can participate in the online viva-voce by obtaining meeting ID and password. The date and time of the viva-voce, venue of examination, app or software to be used for the video conferencing with meeting ID and password will be uploaded on the university website 15 days in advance,” said P Duraisamy, university vice-chancellor. The university had to cancel viva-voce in March and April. “More than 25 research scholars have submitted their thesis and have been waiting for viva-voce for more than two months,” he said. The research supervisor, examiner and the candidate must, however, be physically present for the viva-voce. In a circular to all colleges, the university asked them to take all necessary precautions and safety measures such as social distancing, use masks. The university also relaxed norms for submitting thesis evaluation reports. It used to accept evaluation reports from foreign and Indian examiners only through post after detecting manipulations by some examiners. “Under the present circumstance, it is not possible to send the reports through post. They can email the evaluation reports to the controller of examinations office,” Duraisamy added. There are more than 4,000 research scholars doing research in the university departments and colleges.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/madras-varsity-viva-for-research-scholars-to-be-partly-online/articleshow/75782522.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Kanpur||UP: Migrant couple dies in mishap, son survives||KANPUR: A migrant couple heading to Darbhanga from Haryana owing to the lockdown were killed when a pickup loader hit them in Bangarmau area of Unnao district on Agra-Lucknow expressway on Saturday. The accident occurred near the culvert no: 236 in Bhawani Kheda village under Bangarmau Kotwali police jurisdiction at 11.30 am. The victims were identified as Ashok Chaudhary (45), an auto driver, and his wife Choti (36), who were residents of Makanpur village in Baheda police station limits of Darbhanga. Their minor child, who was relieving himself by the roadside, survived the mishap. On information, the police rushed to the spot and after preliminary investigations shifted the bodies to mortuary for postmortem examination. According to Bangarmau police, Ashok along with his wife Choti, and their six-year-old son Krishna, from Makanpur village in Baheda police station limits of Darbhanga, had migrated to Harayna a few years ago to work as an auto-rickshaw driver. Because of the pandemic outbreak followed by nationwide lockdown, Ashok had not been getting any work in Haryana. On Friday, Ashok had left for his native village with his wife and minor son in an auto-rickshaw. As they reached near a culvert no: 236 in Bhawani Kheda village Bangarmau town of Unnao on Agra-Lucknow Expressway, the fuel tank of their auto ran empty. It was when the couple were busy filling the fuel tank, a speeding pickup loader coming from Agra side hit Ashok and his wife. The two suffered critical injuries and died at the spot. The passersby who noticed the accident immediately alerted the dial 112 police. The police rushed to the spot and launched an investigation in this regard. “We have apprised their family members in Makanpur village in Darbhanga about the tragedy and registered a case and investigation are underway in this regard,” said Circle Officer Bangarmau Gaurav Tripathi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/migrant-couple-dies-in-mishap-son-survives/articleshow/75782956.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
May 17, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand CM Trivendra Singh Rawat directs for thermal screening at district borders||DEHRADUN: Uttarakhand’s chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat has directed officials to ensure thermal screening facilities at all district borders. Currently, thermal screening is being conducted at state borders and long queues due to the process prolong travel time for passengers. In view of this, the CM has asked to conduct thermal screening at all district borders and reduce burden on state borders. Regarding locals returning to state, CM Rawat has instructed the district magistrates to make sure that teams keep an eye on them to ensure that home quarantine norms are being followed. The district authorities have to maintain the data of people returning home and details of the locations where they are being quarantined. Meanwhile, the CM also told police officials to penalise people who are not wearing masks or are found spitting in open areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cm-directs-for-thermal-screening-at-district-borders/articleshow/75781844.cms||Kautilya Singh
May 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Average blood sugar level on rise post lockdown||HYDERABAD: The average blood glucose levels have gone up in the first quarter of the year across the city, in line with the warning by diabetologists at the beginning of the lockdown. Latest findings of the India Diabetes Care Index survey suggest that blood sugar levels (HbA1c) increased from 8.30% to 8.49% between January to March, as compared to the previous quarter in Hyderabad. HbA1c test indicates the average blood glucose level over a period of three months and is recommended for the control of diabetes. “People who were part of the assessment in Hyderabad on an average were of the age of 52 years, out of which, 52% were male and 48% female. The average postprandial glucose level in the group was 244 mg/dl in the quarter and the average fasting glucose level was 172 mg/dl,” said the study, conducted by Novo Nordisk Education Foundation. Experts in the city second the findings of the survey and have said that the patients who previously had blood sugar under control, are now dealing with an imbalance. “At least 60% to 65% of the patients have seen a rise in their blood sugar levels. I see patients who earlier had controlled their HbA1c level around 7, but now have it around 9-10,” said Dr Sanjoy Paul, a diabetologist at Apollo Sugar Clinics. “Apart from inactivity due to lockdown, stress and phobia of Covid-19, and not getting insulin is a major reason for increase in blood sugar levels,” added Paul. The rise in HbA1C level comes at a time when medical studies are pointing towards an increased risk for severe complications arising from Covid-19 in people living with diabetes. “People living with diabetes are more likely to experience severe symptoms and complications if they get infected with the virus and this may even worsen if their diabetes is not managed well,” said Dr KD Modi, senior consultant endocrinologist at Care Hospital. “It can also lead to more fatalities. Therefore, following a healthy regime, indoor physical exercises and taking prescribed medications, is important to maintain the blood glucose levels in the required range,” added Modi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/avg-blood-sugar-level-on-rise-post-lockdown/articleshow/75782564.cms||Amrita Didyala
May 17, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Four cops attacked while enforcing lockdown in Karaya||KOLKATA: A police patrol team enforcing lockdown rules at Chamru Khansame Lane, close to Eidgah Maidan in the Karaya area, came under attack by a gang of locals who was reportedly led by a local ruffian. At least four policemen and two passersby were injured in the row and had to be admitted at SSKM hospital. Till Saturday evening, eight people have been arrested for their involvement in the incident. Karaya police sub-inspector Intekhab Alam, who is also the anti-rowdy officer of the police station, and his force (another sub-inspector, two constables and a police driver) was on night patrol when they received information of a disturbance from the spot. “A local criminal had threatened some traders to open shops on Wednesday. On Friday, when he tried doing the same, the cops reacted,” claimed a local source. The area has as many as 20 containment zones in a 4km radius. When the cops arrived at the spot and asked the accused’s father to call his son, a number of youths surrounded the police team. Though Lalbazar and southeast division remained tight-lipped on the actual reason behind the clash, the main accused allegedly carried a chopper with him. “The group that had gathered first gheraoed the cops and heckled them, injuring some of the policemen. On being informed, the Karaya police OC, the additional OC and other officers rushed to the spot and brought the situation under control. They have so far arrested eight people. They have been identified as Sk Nannu, Fardin Ahmed, Md Ali, Wakim Ahmed, Faisal, Sunny, Zafar and Sk Jamiluddin. A case under IPC sections 332, 333, 324 and 34 against the accused pertaining to voluntarily causing hurt to deter public servant from his duty and voluntarily causing hurt on provocation, said DC (southeast) Debasmita Das. Police sources said they have increased their presence in the neighbourhood, including establishing area dominance. This is the third incident of attack on cops after the lockdown was implemented in city, the first being reported at Entally and the second at Metiabruz.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/four-cops-attacked-while-enforcing-lockdown-in-karaya/articleshow/75782538.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
May 17, 2020||Dehradun||Kiosk run by deaf and mute siblings looted, family claims police not filing FIR||Dehradun: Owners of a kiosk, selling cigarette and soft drinks, have alleged that goods worth Rs 50,000 were stolen from their shop, which is located near ISBT in Dehradun, but the police officials aren’t lodging a complaint in the matter. A family — woman and her two sons — runs the kiosk. “My first son is deaf and the other one is mute and yet we are being forced to run from pillar to post to get our complaint lodged. We had shut our shop after the lockdown but last Sunday, we opened it only to find goods worth Rs 50,000 missing,” said Rekha Gupta, whose sons run the shop. She added that the incident and the police response thereafter has traumatised my sons. Meanwhile, a local police official said, “A complaint has now been lodged in the matter and probe is underway.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/kiosk-run-by-deaf-and-mute-siblings-looted-family-claims-police-not-filing-fir/articleshow/75781876.cms||Yogesh Kumar
May 17, 2020||Goa||Shrinivas Dempo wins Carnegie Mellon award||Panaji: Chairman and managing director of the Dempo group, Shrinivas Dempo has been selected for the Tepper Achievement award as a recognition for his role at the helm of the group and contribution to professional associations and civic organisations in India. The award will be presented at a ceremony, which has been postponed to April 17, 2021, due to the pandemic. The award is for alumni of the Carnegie Mellon University’s Tepper School of Business.“I remain extraordinarily grateful to Carnegie Mellon university for empowering my professional success. I am pleased to continue to support the university and the Tepper school in educating future business leaders,” Dempo said. Dempo assumed the leadership of the family business in 1998 as head of the third generation. An awards committee of the Tepper School alumni board selected the 2020 winners from a pool of nominations submitted by the Tepper community for contributions such as industry innovation, significant impact in a specific field or substantive value creation.the Tepper School of Business said on its website||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/shrinivas-dempo-wins-carnegie-mellon-award/articleshow/75783168.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Dehradun||Truck driver booked for smuggling 62 migrants from Maharashtra||HARIDWAR: Police have registered a case against a truck driver for allegedly smuggling 62 migrant workers in his vehicle from Maharashtra by taking Rs 3,500 each from them. According to sources, the migrants were allegedly trying to enter Tehri Garhwal through Narshan border when they were caught by the police. They said that the workers were sent home after screening while the driver was detained for questioning. Police said that the migrants had lost their jobs in Nashik due to the nationwide lockdown and decided to leave the city as they didn’t have enough money to survive. Sub-inspector Vikendra Kumar, posted at Kailash Gate checkpost under Muni ki Reti station, said, “We were conducting a routine check at Kailash Gate checkpost when we stopped a truck. As the driver didn’t have valid papers, we inspected the truck and found 62 migrant workers hiding inside the truck. While 11 of them were from Tehri Garhwal district, 51 belonged to Rudraprayag. Preliminary inquiry revealed that the driver, Bheemsen of Hathras in UP, had gone t0 Nashik to deliver essentials but returned with migrants in the vehicle.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/truck-driver-booked-for-smuggling-62-migrants-from-maha/articleshow/75781883.cms||MS Nawaz
May 17, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: No fare revision for private buses, autos, cabs for now, says government||KOLKATA: The state government on Saturday refused to approve a special lockdown fare hike to compensate for reduced passenger capacity in buses and autos. The decision puts into question the fate of private bus and autorickshaw operations from Monday when demand for transport is set to rise as more offices start functioning. Metered taxis, too, may stay off the road as their demand for a hike has also been turned down. The taxi operators had joined the fare hike bandwagon despite the social distancing norms not directly affecting their revenue. Private transport operators said the only way they could now hit the roads is if the government made good the loss by providing a ‘viability gap funding’. Setting aside suggestions of a three-fold fare hike demanded by bus operators, who wanted the base fare to go up from Rs 7 to Rs 20, state transport minister Suvendu Adhikari said the existing fares would persist despite buses being permitted to carry only 20 passengers at any given point of time and autos allowed only two persons instead of four. Demand by taxi operators to increase the minimum fare by a third from Rs 30 to Rs 40 was also turned down. “Our chief minister Mamata Banerjee always takes a humanitarian approach. When economy is under stress and people are losing jobs, we cannot allow such hike in fares. The Centre can provide relief by reducing fuel price at a time when the international crude oil price has touched an all-time low,” Adhikari said at the state secretariat. With the prospect of private operators now staying off the road, the minister promised more government buses from Monday. “People can avail of a bus every half an hour instead of one hour now. Some 1,000 app-cabs will also hit the road. We hope people will not face much problem,” he said. Around 20 trams will also start operations. Whether enhanced services by (state transport undertakings) STUs and cabs would suffice the heightening travel need can be gauged on Monday. Just by statistics, on an average weekday, under normal circumstances, private buses ferry 42.8 lakh commuters while STU buses carry 15.6 lakh passengers. If private buses remain off the road, there can be great commuting trauma. “In case of contract-carriage like cabs and other pre-paid transport mode, social distancing does not affect their business. So, there is no question of an upward revision of fare,” Adhikari said. However, the same does not hold true for stage-carriage where the fare is kept low and break-even or profit depends on passenger volume. “If the fare is not hiked, we cannot run bus. Forget the recovery of operating cost, at old fare with 20 passengers at a time, each bus operator will bleed to death. Even fuel cost cannot be recovered. If fare cannot be hiked, let the government make viability gap funding,” said Joint council of Bus Syndicates general secretary Tapan Bandyopadhayay. Earlier on Thursday, Adhikari had asked the private bus operators to decide special lockdown fare, which would have been approved by the state government, keeping in mind the fact that a reduced number of passengers would be ferried at a time in each bus. Accordingly, the bus operators prepared a fare table and sent it to the transport department for approval and notification. But on Saturday, state government decided not to raise fare, keeping in mind the current state of the economy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/no-fare-revision-for-pvt-buses-autos-cabs-for-now-says-govt/articleshow/75782568.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
May 17, 2020||Dehradun||Waste generated by families in home quarantine not segregated||Dehradun: The disposal of masks and gloves used by people in home quarantine, labeled as “domestic hazardous waste” by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), is not being handled with proper care in Uttarakhand. A total of 49,000 people are in home quarantine in the state, 4,500 of them in Dehradun, of whom six have tested positive for the coronavirus. While the health department is segregating and safely disposing of biomedical waste generated from quarantine centres and hospitals and the civic body is taking care of hazardous waste generated in containment zones, the disposables discarded by those in home quarantine elsewhere is getting mixed with other waste, increasing the risk of Covid-19 spread. A total of 3,531 persons are in self-isolation in Haridwar, the state’s only remaining red zone. In Chamoli, 6,515 people are in home quarantine, 5,276 in Tehri, 7,210 in Udham Singh Nagar and 4,460 in Pauri. As per CPCB, local authorities must maintain a list of homes where people are in self-quarantine and hazardous waste must be collected from these doorsteps in separate bags. Such waste should only be handled by trained workers equipped with protective gear. “My neighbour is in home quarantine. The practice of mixing all kinds of waste poses a great risk,” said Umesh Karanwal, a resident of Old Survey Road. Anoop Nautiyal, founder of Dehradun-based research organization ‘Social Development for Communities” (SDC), believes that the issue of collection and disposal of “hazardous waste” generated by people in quarantine is being taken lightly. “We have come to know that in the hills, there is no concrete policy for waste collection from those serving home quarantine. I would request the government to formulate a strict policy for the management of such waste, as it can trigger spread of the infection,” he said. While director general (health) Dr Amita Upreti couldn’t be contacted by TOI,despite repeated attempts, a senior health department official, who did not wish to be named, said that the department is ensuring proper disposal of biomedical waste from quarantine facilities and hospitals. “We have already shared guidelines of waste management with the Nagar Nigam. The civic body has to ensure the disposal of waste generated by people in home quarantine,” he said. Kailash Joshi, chief municipal health officer, on the other hand said that the health department should be collecting hazardous waste from homes where people are in quarantine, as there was no way for the civic body to identify such homes. “In containment zones, we give protective gears to our workers and make sure to separately collect masks and gloves used by people who might be infected. We sanitize such waste and expose them in the sun for sterilization. However, it is impossible to identify the homes where people are in quarantine in the rest of the city. With limited manpower, it is not feasible for us to collect masks and gloves separately,” said Joshi. He added that those in home quarantine must themselves collect hazardous waste in separate bags before handing it over to sanitation workers, so they can handle it with proper care. Yugal Kishore Pant, additional secretary health, said, “The families can also leave such waste at nearby hospitals, from where it will go to medical waste management plants. Otherwise, they can separate the waste and alert sanitation workers while handing it over,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/waste-generated-by-families-in-home-quarantine-not-segregated/articleshow/75781875.cms||Ishita Mishra
May 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Waive off school fee dues: Youth Cong||Hyderabad: Telanagana Youth Congress spokesperson SP Kranthi Kumar on Friday wrote an email to CM KCR, urging him to issue necessary instructions to waive off school fee dues for the academic year 2019-20. Kranthi Kumar sought to bring it to the notice of the CM that the middle class and lower middle class families are struggling to make ends meet due to extended lockdown. He also sent a copy of his representation to minister KT Rama Rao. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/waive-off-school-fee-dues-youth-cong/articleshow/75782573.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Dehradun||Haridwar mayor writes to DM over delay in construction of 500-bed hospital||HARIDWAR: Haridwar mayor Anita Sharma on Saturday flagged the issue of delay in the setting up of a 500-bed hospital at Jagjitpur on the city’s outskirts. “The hospital, which was supposed to be part of a medical college there and was to come up by April end – in view of the prevalent coronavirus crisis – does not even have had its foundation laid,” she regretted. “This is despite the fact that the state government had received a grant of Rs 325 crore for the medical college from the Union government and the Haridwar nagar nigam had allotted 50 acres of land for it.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/haridwar-mayor-writes-to-dm-over-delay-in-construction-of-500-bed-hospital/articleshow/75781890.cms||Sheo S Jaiswal
May 17, 2020||Delhi||Delhi third in domestic violence cases: Study||NEW DELHI: Delhi recorded the highest number of domestic violence cases during the nearly two-months-long lockdown period, lagging behind only Uttarakhand and Haryana. In a first of its kind effort to document who needed legal aid during the lockdown, the National Legal Services Authority (NALSA) has documented cases till May 15 under various categories, including domestic violence, in which Delhi saw 63 cases where distraught women reached out to counsellors seeking immediate help. NALSA, that reports to its executive chairman, Supreme Court Justice N V Ramana, compiled the paper after collecting data from 28 different State Legal Services Authorities (SLSAs). On domestic violence, the report shows only Uttarakhand (144) and Haryana (79) are the two full fledged states that witnessed more cases of domestic violence than the capital during lockdown. Detailing the break up of legal help extended, the report says NALSA units reached out to tenants facing eviction, migrants, labourers denied wages and prisoners. For instance, around 60,000 inmates (under trial prisoners and convicts) were released on bail or parole during the lockdown, in a bid to decongest jails to lower coronavirus threat where NALSA and state units played an active role. As per the report, a total of 42,259 undertrial prisoners were released from jails across the country during the lockdown period where Uttar Pradesh released highest number of 9,977. Delhi’s legal aid services worked to secure release of 2,177 UTPs and 1,010 convicts, apart from deputing legal aid lawyers for 250 newly arrested persons at remand stage. The report said due to extraordinary times, extraordinary measures were taken and pointed out that legal representation has also been provided to 9,558 persons at the remand stage in different States and Union Territories across the country. NALSA says during the lockdown period, several poor and needy persons approached it with grievances relating to denial of wages/salaries by employers on behalf of themselves as well as, other daily wagers. “Out of the same, 1,822 people were provided with legal aid and assistance by the Legal Services Authorities. The highest number of such cases were reported in Uttarakhand (226) followed by Haryana (221), Punjab (166), Himachal Pradesh (77) and Mizoram (38). Legal aid and assistance was provided in all such cases,” it said, adding that legal aid and assistance was provided to 1,018 people of Bihar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-3rd-in-domestic-violence-cases-study/articleshow/75783171.cms||Abhinav Garg
May 17, 2020||Vadodara||2 booked for marrying off minor girl||VADODARA: Two persons were booked in Narmada district on Friday under the Prohibition of Child Marriage Act for organising wedding of a 14-year-old girl to a 20-year-old youth in Sagbara taluka. According to police, the child marriage prohibition officer had received information about the marriage on Friday based on which he went to inspect at the house of Vanraj Vasava at Ubhariya village. It was found that Vanraj’s daughter was married off to the son of Kirit Vasava, who lives at Paati village. “Both, the girl and boy were found at the house and on questioning the girl’s father, it was revealed that they were married in a private ceremony at a temple in Rajpipla on January 25,” said a police official. Police said that the girl’s father and another person named Sandeep Vasava were only present at the wedding ceremony. “Sandeep helped by conducting the marriage ceremony so he was also booked,” police official added. Since the boy and girl are not eligible for the wedding, an alliance agreement was also signed on March 20.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/2-booked-for-marrying-off-minor-girl/articleshow/75780761.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Give Ramzan packs to poor Muslims: Cong||Hyderabad: Congress has demanded that the government distribute free Ramzan packs comprising sevaiyyan, sugar, milk and ghee to poor Muslims along with rice and other essential commodities. State Congress minorities cell chairman Shaik Abdullah Sohail, in a letter to CM KCR, said due to extended lockdown, poor Muslims do not have any money left to buy items required to prepare sheer-khorma, the Id-ul-Fitr sweet dish. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/give-ramzan-packs-to-poor-muslims-cong/articleshow/75782590.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Goa||After plaint, MLA inspects Saloi fields||Saligao: Acting on a complaint filed by farmers from Salvador do Mundo (Saloi) about saline water entering their fields due to irregular opening of sluice gates, Bardez mamlatdar Laxmikant Kuttikar, Porvorim MLA Rohan Khaunte, local sarpanch Sandeep Salgaonkar and the talathi inspected the sluice gate at Sao Paulo. The mamlatdar said that he has written to the chairman of the tenants’ association to make sure that the gate doors are closed. “If this is not done, action will be taken against the person to whom the sluice gate has been auctioned,” he said. During the inspection, the construction of an ‘illegal’ structure near the sluice gate also came to light. The construction allegedly violates CRZ rules and also does not havepermission for power connection. “It was found that land filling was being carried out in the river by cutting the mangroves,” Khaunte said.Immediate action will be taken, he said. The farmers said they will file a police complaint against the illegal structure, mangrove cutting and filling of the river bed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/after-plaint-mla-inspects-saloi-fields/articleshow/75783170.cms||---
May 17, 2020||India||End of licence Raj as monopoly on coal goes||NEW DELHI: The government will immediately offer 50 coal mines for commercial mining by private sector without end-use restrictions, removing one of the last vestiges of the licence-quota Raj of the 70s with a view to unlocking the sector’s potential to substitute imports and drive growth. The government’s move is expected to boost domestic production and lead to reduced coal imports, resulting in estimated savings of Rs 1.7 lakh crore or more. Private investments in new mines will also create thousands of jobs and big earnings for coal-bearing states. Unleashing a wave of reforms in the sector that counts as one of the largest employers in the country, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said the mines will be auctioned on revenue-sharing basis under a simplified regime to increase ease of doing business. Government will not put any eligibility restriction but only upfront payment with a ceiling with a view to attracting wider participation and creating competition. In other words, companies can bid even if they do not have experience in coal mining and sell the output in the open market. Addressing a major concern of prospective investors, successful bidders will be allowed to raise production by up to 40% from a mine every year without seeking green clearance afresh. The announcement, part of the Rs 20 lakh-crore stimulus promised by PM Narendra Modi, is seen to complete the process of unshackling coal mining from the nationalisation of 1973 and opens doors for large private investments by ending public sector Coal India Ltd’s (CIL) monopoly in the market. How far investments will come in at a time of a stressed economy is unclear, but the signal to capital is clear. Currently only CIL is allowed to sell coal to end-users. Private coal mining is allowed only for captive mining with restricted end-use such as generating power or making cement and steel. In 2018, they were allowed to sell 25% of the output but it failed to attract much investment. The minister announced a Rs 50,000-crore investment plan for creating infrastructure such as railway tracks and conveyors to evacuate coal from old and new mines and support CIL’s plan to raise production from 600 million tonne to a billion tonne in 2023-24. Rights to extract gas trapped in seams of coal (CBM) in CIL’s mines will also be auctioned to diversify investment opportunities in the sector. According to Essar Oil & Gas Exploration & Production CEO Vilas Tawde, the two initiatives will help unlock 90 TCF (trillion cubic feet) methane trapped in CIL’s lease area. Providing relief worth Rs 5,000 crore to non-power consumers of CIL, the reserve price has been reduced. The foundation of these reforms was laid in 2015 by adding an enabling clause in the Coal Nationalisation Act during the Narendra Modi government’s first term. But it was in February 2018 that the government started turning the clock back on nationalisation of the coal sector by opening up commercial coal mining to private sector. In October the same year, it allowed captive coal miners to sell 25% of their output in the open market. While both these decisions technically ended state-run Coal India’s monopoly on commercial coal mining, the situation on the ground did not reflect this as the private sector mostly stayed away from auctions. Finally on January 9 this year, the government cleared an ordinance to introduce relaxed norms for entry of private sector through amendments to the Coal Mines (Special Provisions) Act of 2015 and Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulations) Act of 1957.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/end-of-licence-raj-as-monopoly-on-coal-goes/articleshow/75783253.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Dentists meet health min, seek support||Hyderabad: Representatives of dental associations on Saturday met health minister Eatala Rajender, seeking support for their profession that is in a crisis due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Dentists representing Dilsukhnagar Dental Association and Secunderabad Dental Association, in a memorandum, urged the state to provide financial support to them. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/dentists-meet-health-min-seek-support/articleshow/75782595.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Jammu||Jammu and Kashmir: Army starts masks production in Kishtwar||JAMMU: Acknowledging that there is a shortage of masks to fight the deadly coronavirus, the Army has started manufacturing of triple layer cloth masks in Kishtwar, said a defence spokesperson on Saturday. PRO (defence), Jammu, Lt Col Devender Anand, said, “The Army in Kishtwar has started a women empowerment centre in Kishtwar for manufacturing masks. “For the task, the Army has roped in students enrolled in tailoring course,” the official said. “I used to sit idle at home after my daily chores. Now, I have joined the centre and helping the Army in manufacturing masks, besides earning some money,” said a members of the centre. “The Covid-related safety measures are being strictly followed. The initiative is being carried out in coordination with the civil administration. We aim to manufacture 700 masks to meet the present requirement. This will be increased later as per the demand,” the official said. “This centre has, in the past, also facilitated women to channelise their energy in building their career. This project will play a vital role in fighting the virus in Kishtwar region,” the defence spokesperson added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jammu/army-starts-masks-production-in-kishtwar/articleshow/75782600.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Goa||Goa: Now, government gives farmers better access to market, offers e-nam||PANAJI: The Goa government, through an ordinance, has brought about changes to the Agriculture Produce Marketing Committee (APMC) Act, eliminating the services of middlemen and giving farmers direct access to the market to sell their produce for better returns. Incidentally, the notification to this effect came on Friday, the same day on which when the Centre unleashed crucial and long-pending reforms to reshape the architecture of farmer-market ties and allowing them to sell their produce without any restrictions. Farmers will now be exempted from paying the market fee and allowed to sell their produce to private players. They will be able to directly sell farm produce to any private entity or food processing company from farm-gates and registered warehouses without the licensing mechanism of registered ‘mandis’ (agri markets) currently run under the Agricultural Produce Marketing Committee (APMC) Act. The move aims at securing better income to the farmers and giving a big push to the agriculture sector and help state become self-reliant. “There will be no agriculture tax on the produce sold. This will benefit farmers having cashew plantations, coconut groves, okra and betel nut kullagars in Goa,” said registrar of cooperative societies, Vikas Gaunekar. He said earlier the Goa agricultural marketing board used to generate a revenue of about Rs 4 cr per year in the form of tax. “Now, this money stays with the farmers,” he said. However, market fee on notified agricultural produce will still be levied only on produce which is brought into the state by traders. Farmers from any part of the country who wish to sell their produce to Goa will be exempted from the fee of 1%. “This way, the farmers will be able to carry out end-to-end marketing without the need of middle men. Also, they’re not restricted to a certain ‘mandi’ and trading can be carried out at yards or at private markets. The choice is up to the farmers,” said Gaunekar. The Act now also includes livestock, making it the Goa agricultural and livestock marketing board. Earlier livestock was merely considered to be an agricultural produce. The trading regulation issued by the state government read that all notified agricultural produce including livestock shall ordinarily be sold in the principal market yards, sub-market yards and market sub-yards licensed under this Act. “We have complied with the 2017 model law of the central government. The entire Act needs to be amended subsequently, but for now, these changes have been made in the ordinance,” Gaunekar said. The amendment also largely covers the legal backing required to facilitate the electronic national agricultural market (e-nam). Here, the farmers can directly feed details of the produce on the portal and without any middle men pay a nominal commission to the facilitator and sell the produce directly to the buyer online. Here, registration, buying and selling, billing, booking, contracting and negotiating are carried out online. “The Goa Agricultural and Livestock Marketing Board is already in the process of setting up an RKKY mandi in Ponda where it is being proposed to facilitate this service,” Gaunekar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/now-govt-gives-farmers-better-access-to-market-offers-e-nam/articleshow/75783175.cms||Nida Sayed
May 17, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan hints at cabinet expansion this week||BHOPAL: Ahead of lockdown 4.0 from Monday, chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan has hinted at the much-awaited cabinet expansion in the coming week. Sources in BJP disclosed that Chouhan is constantly discussing with the party high command on the possibility of cabinet expansion and once he gets the go-ahead, he will be ready to expand his ministerial team in the first week of lockdown 4.0 itself. “The CM had on Thursday during an interview with a local television channel confirmed that after lockdown 3.0, he will talk to the party high command on the possibility of cabinet expansion. At present, he is busy in preparations for lockdown 4.0 and if the party gives a go-ahead, the cabinet expansion will be done immediately,” disclosed BJP state spokesperson Rajneesh Agrawal.  BJP state in-charge Vinay Sahasrabuddhe also made clear that the cabinet expansion will be done at the right time. “The cabinet expansion is taking time since the government is busy in tackling the ongoing Covid crisis. It will be done at the right time,” he said. Sources in BJP disclosed that the state leadership is also making preparations for a possible rejig in the coming week and hinted that 22 Jyotiraditya Scindia loyalists, who had resigned as MLAs on March 10, will get berths and tickets for the upcoming bypolls. BJP leaders have also made it clear that the formation of the new government took place with the support of former Union minister Scindia and his supporters. The party high command has clearly indicated that they will be adjusted first, added sources. Chouhan took oath of office as chief minister amid the Covid-19 crisis and decided to form a mini-cabinet after 29 days when the party leadership gave a green signal. Five ministers were accommodated in the mini cabinet of which two are from the Scindia camp. With lockdown 3.0 nearing its end, the CM is seeking the high command’s nod for another expansion so that the functioning of the government amid the coronavirus crisis becomes effective. The CM also met governor Lalji Tandon and RSS regional head Deepak Vaspute recently. Sources in BJP disclosed that the new cabinet will accommodate 24 members with more than 8 members as ministers of state. The party leadership has also hinted that those who served as ministers in the previous Congress government will be included. Decision on other members, including senior MLAs, will be taken after discussions with the national leadership.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/cm-hints-at-cabinet-expansion-this-week/articleshow/75782603.cms||Rajendra Sharma
May 17, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Victim of violence waits to go home||NEW DELHI: Sitting on a footpath near Anand Vihar Railway Station, Sonia (20) looked dazed as she hoped to board a train to her parent’s hometown in Jharkhand. Sonia and her two-year-old son Krishna had spent two nights on the road trying to reach Delhi from her husband’s home near Mathura in Uttar Pradesh. Unlike the thousands of migrant workers on the march, it was not hunger that forced Sonia to hit the road, but domestic violence. “My husband who has a small shop used to get drunk and then beat me every night. He would beat me with anything he could lay his hands on,” she said. “In the wee hours of Thursday, I ran out of patience and left my husband’s home with my son and started walking towards the highway,” said Sonia. Fortunately, an ambulance destined for Delhi, which also had a woman doctor in it, spotted her on the highway. “The doctor said she could drop me till Delhi’s Anand Vihar area, from where I could get a bus or train to Jharkhand. She also gave me some money,” Sonia said. Sonia met another good Samaritan at the railway station – social worker Shahin Hussain (35). “I saw Sonia and her son while distributing food to the migrants. After much struggle, I managed to find a place for them to take shelter. Officials at Yamuna Sports Complex in Vivek Vihar agreed to accommodate her. Many women and families were staying there so I found the place safe for them,” Hussain said. “Officials have promised that they will soon arrange for her travel to Jharkhand.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/victim-of-violence-waits-to-go-home/articleshow/75783174.cms||Sidharatha Roy
May 17, 2020||Chandigarh||Army works with NGO to distribute ration, hygiene kits||Jammu: To achieve its goal of ‘Corona Mukt Awaam’ in the UTs of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh, the Army, in collaboration with Goonj — an NGO — distributed dry ration and hygiene kits among nomads in upper reaches of Reasi district. PRO (defence) Udhampur Lt Col Abhinav Navneet said, “Around 500 families in the region of Reasi district were benefitted from this ration and hygiene kits distribution.” "The people were also told about social distancing. They were told to wear masks and cover their face while moving out," the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/army-works-with-ngo-to-distribute-ration-hygiene-kits/articleshow/75782602.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Chandigarh||Panel approves modified DPR of Ujh multipurpose project in J&K||Jammu: The Central advisory committee for consideration of techno-economic viability of major and medium irrigation, flood control and multipurpose project proposals has accorded its approval to the detailed project report (DPR) of Ujh multipurpose project. According to an official spokesperson, the advisory committee of department of water resources, river development and Ganga rejuvenation (DoWR, RD&GR) accorded approval in its 144th meeting, which was chaired by secretary to the Government of India, DoWR, RD & GR, MoJS, U P Singh. Keeping in view the strategic importance of the project — for the utilisation and regulation of waters flowing across the border and for potential use of the stored water in an optimal manner in the future — the committee accepted the project proposal, subject to certain conditions. Pertinently, Ujh multipurpose project was declared a national project in 2008 and its DPR was initially prepared by Indus Basin Organisation of Central Water Commission in 2013. The DPR was considered in the 131st meeting of the advisory committee, which was held on November 16. Subsequently, the DPR of the project was revised so as to address the concerns regarding submergence of land. Official spokesperson said, “The revised DPR of the project was accepted by the advisory committee in its 139th meeting, which was held on January 7, 2019.” The Culturable Command Area (CCA) to be irrigated under the project was proposed as 16,743 hectare with proposed irrigation intensity of 187%. Meanwhile, the irrigation and flood control department, J&K, framed a modified proposal of Ujh multipurpose project for the inclusion of the additional CCA of 23,973 hectare — beyond the scope of the Ujh MPP already approved in the 139th meeting of the advisory committee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/panel-approves-modified-dpr-of-ujh-multipurpose-project-in-jk/articleshow/75782606.cms||---
May 17, 2020||India||Crisis-hit airlines to save Rs 1,000 crore as govt frees up airspace||NEW DELHI: Direct flight routes by making hitherto restricted airspace available to commercial airlines, which will lead to savings of about Rs 1,000 crore annually in operating cost for airlines, was among three major announcements made by finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman for India’s critically ill aviation sector on Saturday. The other two are six more Airports Authority of India (AAI) airports will be handed over for being run in public-private partnership and aircraft maintenance centres will be facilitated in India. She said, “Only 60% of Indian airspace is freely available. Restrictions on (its) utilisation will be eased so that civilian flying becomes more efficient. This will bring a benefit of about Rs 1,000 crore per year for the aviation sector through lower fuel burn and crew cost by way of reduction in flying time.” AAI had last year decided to hand over six more airports — Bhubaneswar, Varanasi, Raipur, Indore, Amritsar and Trichy — to PPP players. Bidding was held in 2018 for six airports and Adani Group had emerged as the highest bidder for all of them. All these announcements were made when PM Modi had reviewed aviation sector on May 1.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/crisis-hit-airlines-to-save-1k-crore-as-govt-frees-up-airspace/articleshow/75783256.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Nagpur||Ministry’s bid to merge NTCA offices faces criticism||Nagpur: Union environment ministry’s move to restructure its offices and centres, especially National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) offices by merging them with MoEFCC regional offices, has come in for sharp criticism from conservationists and wildlife activists. The issue was discussed at length in a meeting headed by director general of forests (DGF) Sanjay Kumar on May 2 and accordingly course of action is being planned. Both, Kumar and environment minister Prakash Javadekar did not respond to TOI e-mails on the issue. Sources told TOI this entire exercise was kept a secret and even officials in regional offices were not aware about its objectives. They said the MoEFCC was particularly interested in subsuming the regional offices of NTCA, Wildlife Crime Control Bureau (WCCB), Forest Survey of India (FSI) and Central Zoo Authority (CZA). The stated objective is to improve efficiency and better coordination. “Each of these organisations has a different mandate and purpose with some convergence– tiger conservation, tackling wildlife crime, zoo management etc— and merging these will weaken focused efforts while also losing autonomy which is critical to each task,” said wildlife author and conservationist Prerna Bindra. “The need is to strengthen and empower NTCA, WCCB, FSI, & CZA to ensure transparency and efficiency to safeguard our environment and protect forests and wildlife, whose relevance has been further underscored at this point in time,” she said. Recently, MoEFCC officials were on a controversial project clearing-spree during lockdown period affecting wildlife and now it seems they are busy restructuring regional offices. Conservationists have asked clearances granted during lockdown be stopped. Senior officials told TOI on anonymity, the reorganization exercise promoted by a section of babus of the ministry misses the wood for the trees. Agencies such as NTCA, WCCB & CZA were created by the amendment of Wildlife (Protection) Act (WPA), 1972 with a clear mandate to protect wildlife and biodiversity. “The proposed reorganization is in direct violation of the provisions the WPA and defeats the very purpose for which these specialized agencies were created by the lawmakers,” they said. DP Bankwal, ex-PCCF & IG of NTCA, Guwahati, said the intended restructuring of regional offices was fraught with risk for statutory organizations like NTCA. At practical level, under a boss who is poorly sensitized for wildlife conservation but highly driven for clearing developmental projects, the office business will ‘improve’ at the expense of conservation. “The voice of lowly AIG level officer for integrity of wildlife habitat and reducing the stress and interface between wildlife and human beings will either go unheard or be smothered,” said Bankwal. Talking to TOI, NTCA member-secretary Anup Kumar Nayak said, “Though things are yet to be decided, we have given it in writing and also clearly told even if merger takes place, NTCA’s line of command should not be disturbed. We don’t have any problem in sitting in one office. ‘Project Tiger’ has been hugely successful as India witnessed increase in tiger numbers from 1,411 in 2006 to 2,967 in 2018, mainly due to NTCA’s management inputs, village relocation and eco-tourism activities.” However, minutes of the meeting (copy with TOI) held with DGF on May 2, doesn’t reflect the stand taken by Nayak. Why NTCA should not merge * It implements ‘Project Tiger’ that has helped tiger numbers go up * Proposed reorganization may end up creating multiple hierarchies leading to administrative confusion and chaos * NTCA is perceived as anti-development it has been objecting to destructive projects across India * Reorganization may be another step to grant speedier clearances to detrimental projects * If proposed land diversion falls in tiger reserve corridors, NTCA will not be able to do an independent assessment * India is a global leader in tiger conservation due to NTCA. Reorganization may result in losing that status||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/ministrys-bid-to-merge-ntca-offices-faces-criticism/articleshow/75795628.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
May 17, 2020||Vadodara||Vadodara’s prominent hospital in dock over Covid-19 cases||VADODARA: A fact-finding committee has been formed by the Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) to look into the affairs at city’s prominent Bhailal Amin General Hospital (BAGH) after around 15 Covid-19 positive cases were linked directly or indirectly to the hospital. The string of cases linked to the hospital started with a doctor there testing positive. Following this his wife who is a gynaecologist, an intern doctor, nurses and other persons working at the hospital tested positive. Persons deployed by an agency at the hospital also started testing positive. Besides this, patients who had been treated at the hospital also got infected, leading to panic. BAGH is the first multi-speciality hospital in the city that also offered super-specialty treatment and is preferred by many in the city. The immediate reason for ordering the probe was that four persons who had tested positive for Covid-19 since Friday night were linked to the hospital by the VMC. Sources said that these included husbands of two women patients treated at the hospital and two persons who had worked at the hospital. One of the males who tested positive since Friday night is also a bank employee and this has complicated matters further. Similarly, the agency that provided manpower to BAGH for housekeeping and food is also working at other places including a company selling vegetables, grocery and similar essentials online. Despite a series of deaths over a period of time, these are yet to be put on record by the Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC). Sources said that these included deaths that took place even this week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/vadodaras-prominent-hospital-in-dock-over-covid-19-cases/articleshow/75780777.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Pune||With over 30 positive cases, SRA building in Bhavani Peth turns into coronavirus hotspot||Pune: A building in the slum rehabilitation authority (SRA) project at Bhavani Peth has turned into a Covid-19 hotspot with over 30 positive cases detected so far. The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has swung into action after the cases were identified from a single building. The swabs of over 250 residents have been collected so far while the residents are being shifted to another SRA building located in the same premises to ensure social distancing and prevent further spread of the coronavirus. There are five SRA buildings located in the area, of which three building are meant for transit housing. The building, where the residents were found to be positive for Covid-19, has been sealed and the administration is collecting the swabs of all 600 residents as a precautionary measure. Grocery kits have been distributed to every household to ensure that the residents remain indoors. Confirming the detection of cases, PMC municipal commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad said that the situation remains under control and the area is being closely monitored. “We immediately decided to shift people to the adjacent building that is vacant. Contact tracing has been done and high risk contacts are being kept in separate rooms. People are cooperating to tackle the situation,” Gaikwad said. A PMC official said that people have been asked not to step out of their homes. Further, the administration has also planned to conduct medical checks of people with co-morbidities and senior citizens residing in nearby buildings. The maximum number of positive cases in PMC limits have been reported from slums and densely populated pockets. As per an estimate, around 40% of the population in the municipal limit resides in slums. The execution of SRA schemes has been on a slow track, which has led to an expansion of slum pockets. Urban planning experts have been advocating SRA projects to curtail unauthorized slums and provide better amenities to citizens. Local corporator Arvind Shinde said that slum pockets and SRA schemes have reported a significant number of Covid-19 cases. “This is mainly because following social distancing norms has been a major challenge in the slums. Even in SRA buildings, the flats are smaller in size, which could lead to defying of social distancing norms. The administration has to pay more attention to slum pockets,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/with-over-30-positive-cases-sra-building-in-bhavani-peth-turns-into-coronavirus-hotspot/articleshow/75783012.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Delhi||Watch migrants’ movement on roads, train tracks: Government||NEW DELHI: For the safety of migrant workers, Delhi government has asked its officials to ensure that there is no uncontrolled movement of migrants on roads or railway tracks in the city. In different parts of the country, several migrant workers marching to their hometowns have been crushed to death on the roads by speeding vehicles. As many as 16 workers were recently mowed down by a goods train in Maharashtra. The government has ordered that those walking on the streets should be counselled and accommodated in shelter homes and arrangements for their return to their hometowns be made through special trains. The nodal officer has been asked to ensure running of more special trains to help the stranded migrants. If the Centre eases curbs in the fourth phase of the lockdown, surveillance at shelter homes will increase and only after fever screening will the workers be allowed to leave and enter the shelters. An order issued by chief secretary Vijay Dev on Friday asked the officials to also coordinate with the railways to facilitate faster movement of the stranded migrants to their native places. An official said that migrant workers found walking on the roads or railway tracks should be taken to the nearest government shelter and given food and water till they are sent to their homes in Shramik trains and buses. “There should be proper cooperation with the railways in running of more Shramik Special trains so that travel of stranded migrant workers is facilitated at a faster rate,” the chief secretary order stated. After an accident in Uttar Pradesh claimed at least 24 migrant labourers’ lives on Saturday, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal stated on Twitter that urgent steps were needed to mitigate the plight of migrant workers marching to their hometowns braving the blazing sun. “Closed cities are turning into graveyards of hardworking labourers. Any number of Shramik trains and shelters would not be able to control the mass displacement. Courage should be shown to open the cities while accepting the existence of coronavirus,” tweeted deputy CM Manish Sisodia. Around 18,000 people are staying in government shelters. The government has asked the northern railways to arrange for 40 trains to send migrant workers back to their native states. Scrutiny of 60,000 stranded persons who have applied for being moved to their hometowns is going on to identify the genuine cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/watch-migrants-movement-on-roads-train-tracks-govt/articleshow/75783176.cms||AlokKNMishra
May 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: 4,000 FDA-approved drugs to be tested for Covid-19 cure||HYDERABAD: Around 4,000 drugs approved by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) will be tested by a Hyderabad-based biotech startup to see if they can be used as a cure for Covid-19. For the procedure, Reagene Innovations, incubated at ASPIRE-BioNEST of the University of Hyderabad (UoH) along with Indras Pvt Ltd, Hyderabad has collaborated with Tech Mahindra, an IT giant, to identify a drug that can stop the entry of coronavirus into lung airway epithelial cells. Articial Intelligence (AI) and rational computational approaches will be used by the startup for the process, along with biological and pharmacological methods. “No one knows which drug is going to work on coronavirus. So, we have decided to go into the research in an unbiased manner and test all the drugs available,” Uday Saxena, co-founder of Reagene Innovations, told TOI. Saxena’s firm will print a human vascular lung model using 3D bioprinting technique to study Covid-19. “We can complete the printing process within a few weeks after the lockdown is lifted. Testing all FDA approved drugs using AI technology might take a few more months. We can find an effective drug against the virus in five months, approximately. With the drugs already approved by the FDA, the solution will be readily available with us,” Saxena said, adding that testing for the drugs will be done in their laboratory. The high transmission rate of Covid-19 has been attributed in part to the attachement of the virus that facilitates its entry into the lung cells. Hence, researchers have said the strategy being adopted by Saxena’s firm is pertinent as it will work toward stopping the virus from entering the cells, thereby rendering it harmless. “This collaboration will bring valuable findings in therapuetic interventions as well as add invaluable intellectual property,” said Ratnagar Palakodeti, vice president of life sciences vertial of Tech Mahindra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/4k-fda-approved-drugs-to-be-tested-for-covid-19-cure/articleshow/75782611.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Jammu||J&K schedules special trains to pick up stranded from Karnataka, Gujarat and Andhra Pradesh||JAMMU: J&K government on Saturday scheduled several Covid special trains to bring back the residents stranded in various other states due to the lockdown. “For the stranded residents in Karnatka, the administration has arranged train for J&K from Tripura Vasini White Petals, gate number 2,” a government official said. According to the official, the reporting time for the train would be from 2pm to 5pm on May 17. One can also WhatsApp on 9480800601 or call at 01912466988. “Similarly, those stranded in Gujarat will have to register on ‘digitalgujarat.gov.in’. The registration would be done at 3pm on Sunday,” the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jammu/jk-schedules-special-trains-to-pick-up-stranded-from-karnataka-guj-ap/articleshow/75782610.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Bhopal||Chouhan writes to 7 CMs for info on migrant workers||Bhopal: Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan wrote letters to the chief ministers of seven states on Saturday seeking details about information of labourers passing through Madhya Pradesh to other states. He said if timely information is available adequate arrangements can be made for their onward travel and food.In the letter, Chouhan has written to the CMs of Maharashtra, Gujarat, Rajasthan, Karnataka, Telangana, Jharkhand and Chhattisgarh that is that since MP does not get to know how many labourers from other states are reaching the state borders and at what time it is becoming to make logistics available.Chouhan said in the letter that free arrangements for food, vehicles and medicines are made by the MP government. Due to lack of prior information about the movement of the labourers, many times the system gets disturbed when large number of labourers come and create law and order situation due to panic and the labourers also have to face difficulties.In the letter, Chouhan has said that during the nationwide lockdown announced to tackle Corona, large number of migrant labourers from different parts are leaving for their respective states. Due to the geographical location of MP being in the heart of the country, the labourers going to Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Rajasthan, Jharkhand and many other states from different states are crossing MP.MP government is providing vehicles, food, medicines free of cost to these migrant labourers coming to their border, besides providing them bus facility to those walking and dropping them at the borders. About one thousand buses have been deployed to ferry the labourers of other states from the border of MP to the border of other states. MP government has ensured that no labourer walks on the soil of the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/chouhan-writes-to-7-cms-for-info-on-migrant-workers/articleshow/75782615.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Pune||24-hour case count jumps to record high of 228 in Pune||Pune: A record 228 people tested positive for Covid-19 in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) on Saturday, taking the case count in Pune to 3,795. Of the fresh patients, 202 were from Pune municipal limits.Besides, 11 patients succumbed to the contagion in the region on Saturday, pushing the death tally to 197 so far.The previous highest addition of 194 cases in PMR was recorded on Thursday. Incidentally, the positive cases have been staying above the 100-mark daily since May 7, barring May 13 when the case count was 98.Civic health officials said the rise in swab collection and testing, besides rigorous contact tracing and screening of people, have pushed up positive cases in Pune city. The PMC has introduced mobile vans and commissioned swab collection centres in the containment areas to collect samples at doorsteps, the officials added. With the Saturday’s addition, the total cases in PMC have shot to 3,308, while those in the rural parts have increased to 296, about 100 more than the patients recorded in PCMC areas. Among 11 deaths reported on Saturday, four were recorded at Sassoon hospital. These included a transgender aged 46 from Bhavani Peth, a 68-year-old woman from Tadiwala Road, a 63-year-old man from Hadapsar and a 79-year-old man from Gultekdi. A 49-year-old man died at the district hospital Aundh, while six people succumbed to infection at various private hospitals. Most of these people had co-morbidities.When it comes to the cured patients, 73 were discharged from various hospitals and quarantine centres on Saturday. About 1,642 samples were sent for testing on Saturday and about 157 patients were in critical conditions and were being treated at various hospitals, district officials said.The Khadki Cantonment Board (KCB) sent swab samples of 23 people for analysis on Saturday, said Shuja James, office superintendent, KCB. (With inputs from Siddharth Gaikwad)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/24-hour-case-count-jumps-to-record-high-of-228-in-pune/articleshow/75783015.cms||Sarang Dastane
May 17, 2020||Nashik||Shortage of workers slows pre-monsoon work on national highway||Nashik: The city division of the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has kicked off the pre-monsoon work of national highway at a slow pace due to lack of workers. The agency has informed contractors to undertake the repair work of the highway stretching from Kalyan to Igatpuri, Nashik and Malegaon. They are expected to complete the work before the arrival of the monsoon season. The important work is at prominent ghat sections at Igatpuri and Kasara, as they are more prone to landslides during heavy rain. In fact, few cracks opened up near Kasara ghat the last monsoon as vehicle movement was stopped for a few days. “These contractors used to engage migrant workers from Bihar, UP, MP, etc for the pre-monsoon work. But since a large section of the workers have returned back to their villages due to the lockdown, the contractors are facing a shortage of manpower to carry out the work smoothly,” said NHAI officials. The highway officials said that it would ensure that despite shortage of men the contractors will complete the pre-monsoon work before the arrival of rain.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/shortage-of-workers-slows-pre-monsoon-work-on-national-highway/articleshow/75781121.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Nagpur||Huge drop in income, work for Delhi’s native workers: Study||Nagpur: Almost two months into the lockdown, most poor and non-migrant workers in New Delhi have seen their incomes and working days drop by at least 57% and 73%, respectively. This was revealed in the latest study of non-migrant workers done by researchers at the University of Chicago and the University of British Columbia. Researchers found widespread compliance with public health directives important in reducing the spread of the virus, as rates of mask usage, handwashing, and social distancing increased. By early-May, nine out of 10 survey respondents stated that their weekly income had fallen to zero. Despite this unprecedented job loss, the study finds widespread compliance with public health directives. Compared to levels before the arrival of Covid-19, mask usage rose from 20% (during the air pollution season) to 90%, time spent indoors increased from 44% to 95% and regular handwashing rose from 88% to 98%. “Even for non-migrant workers in Delhi, the lockdown has been devastating economically. It also brought about a massive change in behavior. People started wearing masks more, they started staying indoors and socialized less, they washed their hands more regularly, there were even fewer reports of smoking. These habits are crucial for limiting the spread and the health impacts of the virus,” said Dr Ken Lee, executive director of the Energy Policy Institute at the University of Chicago in India (EPIC India) and the lead author of the study. The researchers pointed to the role of extreme fear and media coverage in driving these unprecedented behavioral changes. “Throughout the lockdown, 80% of people reported feeling extremely concerned about Covid-19. To demonstrate the unparalleled media coverage of Covid-19, the researchers used Twitter data to show that since March 25, Covid-19 coverage has accounted for more than 56% of all media coverage,” a release by EPIC India stated. “For this particular group of mostly non-migrant workers in Delhi, we have not yet seen alarming changes in rates of hunger, access to health care, scarcity, or security. A lot of people reported benefiting from the Delhi government’s food assistance programme. That said, the latest projections expect a surge in infections in the coming months and so the government should prepare itself to rapidly expand these types of assistance programs,” said Dr Lee. Apart from this, the study noted there were relatively high rates of mental and emotional well-being problems, ongoing challenges in food supply chains, in terms of higher prices and lower quantities, and dwindling levels of reported savings. The study was based on data collected from 1,392 non-migrant workers, many of whom live in the capital’s informal settlements. The data was collected in 2018, 2019, and during the lockdown, between March 27 and May 13. LOCKDOWN EFFECT - Incomes of non-migrant workers dropped by 57% - Working days dropped by 73% - Mask usage rose from 20% to 90% - Time spent indoors increased from 44% to 95% - Time spent indoors increased from 44% to 95%||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/huge-drop-in-income-work-for-delhis-native-workers-study/articleshow/75779937.cms||Manka Behl
May 17, 2020||Chandigarh||J&K seeks central help to bring back residents stranded in Oman, UAE & Iran||Jammu: Jammu & Kashmir chief secretary B V R Subrahmanyam on Saturday urged the central government to evacuate J&K residents stranded in Gulf countries, including UAE, Oman and Iran, under its Vande Bharat Mission. Subrahmanyam wrote to foreign secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla in this regard, seeking his intervention in prioritising the evacuation of residents of J&K. “The government of J&K has also received requests from its residents stranded in Oman, Dubai and Iran for their early evacuation. Their prolonged stay abroad has made them restless and fearful. They also desire to celebrate Eid at home,” the CS wrote. He also wrote that the evacuation of Kashmiri students from Bangladesh was being greatly appreciated by the people of Jammu & Kashmir.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/jk-seeks-central-help-to-bring-back-residents-stranded-in-oman-uae-iran/articleshow/75782614.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Goa||Goa Common Entrance Test likely in early July, diploma exams from June 15||PANAJI: The Goa Common Entrance Test (GCET) can be expected to be held in the first week of July, officials in the directorate of technical education (DTE) said. The exam is held for admissions to engineering and pharmacy degree programme seats in Goa. GCET was to be conducted originally on May 5-6, but had to be deferred due to the pandemic and the resultant lockdown. Pending semester exams for diploma programmes in the state too are likely to begin from June 15, said officials. “DTE has proposed to have GCET in the first week of July. We are hoping that everything will be fine by then. But the dates are yet to be confirmed. Once we get confirmation, the admission schedule can be fixed. The admission schedule, with dates for each admission round can be expected to be declared by June 15,” said a source. The admission rounds for professional degree programmes, based on GCET scores, are mostly likely to be held in August, official said. The GCET will be held in physics, chemistry and mathematics across 15 centres in the state. Last year around 3,400 students registered themselves to appear for the GCET. DTE was waiting for the state board to declare the dates for the three remaining Class XII exam papers to be able to decide on the new schedule for GCET. Last week, the board announced that the remaining Class XII papers will be held from May 20-22. Also, exams of different semesters for the diploma programmes in engineering, pharmacy and hotel management could not be held this year as scheduled in March-April due to the lockdown. “Semester exams for diploma programmes may also will be held from June 15 to July 15. We have five polytechnic institutes in the state, besides two hotel management schools, one each in Verna and Curchorem ,” said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/gcet-likely-in-early-july-diploma-exams-from-june-15/articleshow/75783177.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Odia migrants in Kerala in dire straits||Bhubaneswar: At least 96 stranded Odia migrant workers at two different places — Kozhikode and Kottayam — in Kerala urged the Odisha government to help them return home. As they don’t have money and ration, they are desperately trying to return, said a labourer. Bhabagrahi Barad, 35, a native of Dihakhauruni near Rajsunakhala in Nayagarh district, is stranded along with 75 others at Koothali in Kozhikode of Kerala. “We had come here seven months ago to work in a construction company. Some of us are working as masons while others are construction labourers. We came here because this Kerala firm gives Rs 600 as wage per day. The wage is high. But now we don’t have any job here so we want to return home,” he added. The workers belong to Khurda, Nayagarh and Cuttack districts. “We had last received our wages on March 20. Though the company had provided food for some days, the construction work has not yet started. Our family members are worried. We have registered our names in Odisha government’s portal. We also met local police, but in vain,” he added. Manas Kumar Pradhan, 32, a native of Begunia in Khurda district, said they don’t have money to arrange buses to return home. “Only three Shramik Special trains have been run between Kerala and Odisha. We request the government to run more such trains and provide us tickets for travelling,” he added. He said they have many aged people among them and their family members are calling them to return. “We don't know how to get tickets for Shramik Special trains. Nobody gives proper information about the special trains and the procedure to get tickets,” he added. Jitendra Behera, 32, a native of Champatipur in Nayagarh district, said he along with 19 people from Khurda and Nayagarh districts came to Kottayam seven months ago in search of work. “We were working as construction labourers in a real estate company. Our work was stopped on March 21. We do not have any job and we spent our money in purchasing ration and food. Anyhow we have to return home,” he added. He said they don’t want to walk or cycle back to Odisha. “We saw migrant people are dying on roads. We don’t want to take any risk. I am the only son of my parents, that’s why they are calling me everyday and insisting on my return. We are also feeling nervous as we don’t have money to hire a bus. We request the government to give tickets for travelling in special trains,” said Behera.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/odia-migrants-in-kerala-in-dire-straits/articleshow/75781985.cms||Hemanta Pradhan
May 17, 2020||Pune||Remdesivir vs Favipiravir & other repurpose drugs for Covid-19||India needs to urgently decide on a course of medicines for Covid-19 treatment. The virus is here to stay, at least in the near-term. A vaccine too, is a while away. There are at least 50 different drugs, from HIV protease inhibitors to anti-virals to ACE inhibitors, anti-inflammatory, pneumonia, respiratory, malaria, TB, arthritis, leprosy, alcohol dependence, immune modulators, and anti-diarrhoea that are being tested. But the Indian Council of Medical Research has approved a Lopinavir-Ritonavir fixed dose combination (FDC), that was originally prescribed for the treatment of HIV/AIDS, for Covid-19 patients. Clinical studies in drug repurposing and FDC, involve the testing of optimal dosage on limited number of patient cohorts. When time is of the essence, drug dosage and efficacy as well as side effects are clearly known for repurposed drugs. These drugs also offer the advantage of typically being off-patent (the older ones) and are already being manufactured by Indian generic pharmaceutical companies. The Task Force for Repurposing of Drugs ranked Favipiravir and Tocilizumab as the most promising to fight the disease.The fresh arrival in the treatment armoury is Remdesivir, an RNA polymerase inhibitor; it stops the coronavirus from replicating. Gilead Sciences, USA, discovered Remdesivir to combat the 2014 Africa Ebola virus outbreak. It has now resurrected this molecule through an accelerated solidarity clinical trial. Gilead owns the patent rights for Remdesivir, granted by the Indian Patent Office on February 18 this year. The manufacture and sale of Remedesivir will require terms to be negotiated between Indian drug firms and Gilead. Important observations made by the US National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases (NIAID) and US Food and Drug Administration (US-FDA) are that Remdesivir can shorten recovery from 15 days to 11 and improve death rate from 11.6% to 8%. Remdesivir is administered intravenously, which implies that patients will need to be in a hospital setting. Favipiravir is a purine nucleic acid analog and potent RNA dependent RNA polymerase inhibitor approved for use in influenza. Both “virs” act by a similar RNA virus cell disruption mechanism. A few Indian firms have been granted permission for clinical trials on Favipiravir, including the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR). Published results of a clinical trial of Favipiravir show that out of 80 patients, 35 who got the drug demonstrated significantly shorter viral clearance time compared to 45 in the control arm (those who didn't) - with median recovery of four days compared to 11. The 7 days' clinical recovery rate also increased from 55.86% to 71.43% in the drug arm. Favipiravir is a bioavailable pill marketed as Avigan by Fujifilm in Japan. Patents were filed in India around the year 2000 and its manufacturing process for economical production is largely in place. The molecular complexity of Remdesivir (formula: C27 H35 N6 O8 P), together with chirality of the molecule or a single-handedness, mean that its synthesis difficulty and manufacturing process will be a bigger challenge and with a higher cost than Favipiravir (C5 H4 F N3 O2). Remdesivir is a new drug with its synthetic route and a scale-up unoptimized as of today. Favipiravir could be an affordable COVID-19 drug, subject to favourable outcome in human clinical trials. The writer is director, CSIR-National Chemical Laboratory, Pune, and a senior professor of chemistry, Hyderabad Central University. The views expressed are personal||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/remdesivir-vs-favipiravir-other-repurpose-drugs-for-covid-19/articleshow/75783016.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Pune||NIV test can trace Covid-19 antibody just days after infection||PUNE: The blood test based on enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (or Elisa), recently developed by the Indian Council of Medical Research-National Institute of Virology (ICMR-NIV) in Pune, can pick up the antibody capable of neutralizing SARS-CoV-2 virus in as little as seven to 14 days of Covid-19 infection. Using the NIV's diagnostic tool during mass screenings across the country can determine the extent of community spread far more accurately than rapid test kits. The ICMR-NIV has now handed over the diagnostic technology to Ahmedabad-based pharma major Zydus Cadila for quick large-scale production. "Our Elisa-based blood test detects a key antibody called immunoglobulin G or IgG, which is capable of inhibiting virus replication from an infected person's blood sample in as early as seven days post-infection and in the majority of cases, within 14 days of infection or exposure to the virus, very reliably," scientist Priya Abraham, director of ICMR-NIV told TOI. The antibody test determines if there was ever infection in a body. "The test does not look for the current, but past infection or exposure to the virus. For the sick, a molecular test called PCR continues to be the gold standard," Abraham told TOI. But does the detection of the IgG antibody mean the person is now resistant to reinfection? "No, it is solely dependent on the concentration of the antibody in the blood - it's called the 'antibody titer'. It is yet to be studied for Covid-19," Abraham said. The presence of some antibodies in the blood does not guarantee protection from recurrence. There has to be that optimum concentration of the antibodies in the blood. In other words, it is the strength and longevity of the antibody in the person's blood that will determine protection against the virus to some extent, experts said. "That longevity of the antibody can be determined by our Elisa test. We can fairly predict how long the Covid-19 antibodies will last in the human body. However, the strength of the antibody needs to be determined by other assays. It is yet to be studied for Covid-19," Abraham said. One reason the development of serological or blood tests for Covid-19 has lagged behind molecular (PCR) tests is that the process requires a supply of blood from recovered (convalescent) patients. But the team of ICMR-NIV researchers, led by scientists Gajanan Sapkal and Pragya Yadav, developed the Elisa-based blood test in a record one month. The collection of blood samples from recovered patients (and negative patients) was a challenge. "Scientists at ICMR-NIV took efforts by personally interacting with Covid-19 patients in the hospital to collect blood samples," Abraham said. The Elisa test can help answer big public health questions - including how many people have actually been infected - by carrying out mass testing/surveillance activity in hotspots or particular demographics. "It was an urgent national priority to develop the Elisa test for Covid-19 and hand over the technology to an Indian firm for mass production after many imported rapid test kits were found faulty. The specificity of the ELISA test is generally higher than the rapid tests," Abraham said. One of the main challenges in containing the spread of SARS-CoV-2 is the diagnosis of a large population. "The majority of asymptomatic cases might have remained undetected due to limited resources for molecular (PCR) diagnosis. Random screenings using our Elisa test, even at specific locations that are still naive to the disease, will help determine the actual burden of the disease. It will help estimate the virus spread in the community," Abraham said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/niv-test-can-trace-covid-19-antibody-just-days-after-infection/articleshow/75783018.cms||Umesh Isalkar
May 17, 2020||Ahmedabad||Amdavadis to sweat at 42°C: IMD forecast||AHMEDABAD: The weathermen have forecast that the maximum temperature in the city is likely to be around 42 degree Celsius. The city on Saturday was reeling under 41.8 degree Celsius, while the minimum temperature was 29.7 degree Celsius which was 2.6 degrees above normal. The weathermen have forecast that there will be no large change in the maximum temperature over the state and the city for the next two to three days. The weathermen have also predicted light rains or thunder showers at isolated places in Chhota Udepur district and Bhavnagar district of Saurashtra on Sunday evening. The weathermen said that the weather in the remaining parts of the state would remain dry. On Saturday, Deesa and Surendranagar were the hottest places in the state with the maximum temperature hovering at 42.6 degree Celsius. Rajkot was the second hottest place with 42.2 degree Celsius, followed by the state capital Gandhinagar. The capital recorded 42.1 degree Celsius temperature. Even the night temperature in Gandhinagar, classified as one of the greenest cities in the country, was the highest with 30 degree Celsius, which was followed by Ahmedabad. Bhavanagar recorded 29.7 degree Celsius.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/amdavadis-to-sweat-at-42-degree-celsius/articleshow/75781987.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Chandigarh||JKCC for a committee to probe complaints about inadequate facilities at quarantine centres||Jammu: Expressing concern over numerous complaints of lack of basic facilities and observance of social distancing norms in several quarantine centres, Jammu and Kashmir Congress committee (JKCC) has asked the government to constitute a high-level committee to immediately inspect and monitor arrangements in all quarantine Centres in view of the protests and complaints from various quarters. In a statement issued on Saturday, J&K Congress Chief Spokesperson Ravinder Sharma stated that the there are numerous complaints and protests over lack of necessities and basic facilities in some quarantine Centres which can aggravate the situation further. “There is urgent need to set up high level committee to immediately inspect and monitor the Centres to prevent any spread of the disease and make the life of inmates comfortable, he added. He also regretted that the labourers who have been approaching the govt for permission are being denied or delayed the same is forcing them to start on foot journey or made alternative arrangements for their journeys. “The administration has failed to deal with the issue in an organized manner, he alleged and said, “ as a result poor labourers suffer a lot.” He maintained that large number of labourers who approached party have not been given permission despite their requests also forwarded by the Congress. Jammu TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/jkcc-for-a-committee-to-probe-complaints-about-inadequate-facilities-at-quarantine-centres/articleshow/75782622.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Row over MLA Balala removing barricades||Hyderabad: A controversy broke out on Saturday after a video in which AIMIM Malakpet MLA Ahmed Balala was seen himself removing barricades arranged by cops to block Dabeerpura flyover. Balala and a few others removed the barricades on both sides and directed the motorists to use it even as a constable watched helplessly. Hyderabad police on Saturday claimed that since the top brass’s communication to open all the flyovers in the city had not reached the lower rung officials, the flyover was still kept closed on Friday. The video soon went viral. BJP MLA Raja Singh demanded action against Balala. Since last Monday, all the flyovers which were kept closed since the lockdown have been reopened. “Due to some communication gap, the police concerned did not open Dabeerpura flyover. When the MLA saw it, he tried to reach out to the local police but he could not. Since police had already decided to open it, he removed the barricades,’’ senior officials told STOI. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/row-over-mla-balala-removing-barricades/articleshow/75782623.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Lockdown rules to ease, but night check likely||NEW DELHI: While curbs are likely to be eased from Monday onwards, movement of all individuals for non-essential activities from 9pm to 5am may be strictly prohibited in the city. Elderly people, those with comorbidities, pregnant women and children below 10 years of age may have to stay at home, except for meeting essential requirements and health purposes. Violations will invite penal action. All these are part of the recommendations on lockdown post May 17 submitted to the Centre by Delhi government. Meanwhile, standard operating procedures (SOPs) for running markets, public transport and other economic activities are being prepared by different departments to ensure that the markets, malls, shopping complexes, construction sites and public transport do not turn into coronavirus spreader if they are allowed to open. An official said that the purpose behind 9pm to 5am curbs is that enforcement of various norms like social distancing and people sticking to the public transport SOPs becomes challenging at night. “The presence of police at night is less,” the official added. In Delhi, all private offices may be allowed to work with 50% of their staff. Earlier, the limit was restricted to 33%. Frequent sanitisation of the offices, apart from other precautionary measures, may be made mandatory. In a letter to the Prime Minister, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal has stated that the relaxations may cause some increase in Covid-19 cases, but the government has made arrangements for hospitals, oxygen, ventilators, ambulances, ICU, etc, to deal with the situation. Batra Hospital and Research Centre (50 isolation beds) in Tughlaqabad industrial area and Cygnus Orthocare Hospital (40 isolation beds) in Safdarjung development area were on Saturday declared as a Covid hospital for admitting confirmed and suspected cases of the novel coronavirus. The Chamber of Trade and Industries has arranged for 100 machines for sanitisation in various markets. “The traders are committed to seeking a balance between resuming economic activities and making sure that the coronavirus does not spread,” said AAP trade wing chief Brijesh Goyal. No relaxation is expected in containment zones.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/rules-to-ease-but-night-check-likely/articleshow/75783180.cms||AlokKNMishra
May 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Cherlapally junction gets RoB, link roads||Hyderabad: Making use of lockdown, South Central Railway (SCR) has intensified efforts to build Cherlapally railway terminal. Similarly, the state government has taken up development of new roads and widening of the existing one connecting the Cherlapally station to facilitate smooth flow of traffic in the area. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cherlapally-junction-gets-rob-link-roads/articleshow/75782628.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Goa||Police fine over 11,000 people for not wearing masks in Goa||PANAJI: Goa police have fined over 11,000 people for not wearing masks in public, and 6,500 for spitting. Wearing a mask in public places has been compulsory in Goa since April 27. Goa police has also registered around 40,000 violations since lockdown began. This includes 1,335 arrests — 554 in North Goa and 781 in South Goa. Also, 738 FIRs have been registered pertaining to lockdown violations. Police patrolling has been intensified across the state. A government order issued last month had said that violators would be fined Rs 100 for non-compliance. Additionally, those refusing to pay are liable to be prosecuted under Section 188 IPC, which involves six months imprisonment and a fine of Rs 1,000, or both. The government had said that face covers, which include masks, are available with chemists, and homemade masks can also be used and reused after proper washing and disinfecting. The government order had states that face covers must be used in all public places and work places — including streets, hospitals and at working sites. Meanwhile, after confidential lab reports about Covid-19 were circulated on social media, IGP Jaspal Singh cautioned the public against sharing such information, failing which they would face action. He also said that for any verification of authenticity, citizens should call the 112 helpline.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/police-fine-over-11k-people-for-not-wearing-masks/articleshow/75783183.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Jaipur||Migrants coming to Rajasthan to get short-term skill training to suit local industry needs||JAIPUR: In a major relief to the inbound migrant workers, chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Saturday directed the Rajasthan Skill and Livelihood Development Corporation (RSLDC) to impart short-term skill training to inbound migrants to prepare them for local industries. Over six lakh migrants have arrived in the state jobless can fill the vacuum of workforce created by the departure of outbound migrants. It will help the industries and manufacturing units to get the much needed workforce. The decision came during a review meeting with the labour department by the CM. The CM has also announced to create online labour exchange platform for migrant workers returning to the state. “The online platform will help in mapping these labourers. As per their skill set they will be absorbed into sectors in the state,” said the release from the CMO. “These workers should be given training on different skill sets which are required by our units so that they can get employment and industries get a workforce to start production,” said the release. The department of labour has informed the CM that they have provided skill training to around four lakh people in the last few years with different skills. The database of these skilled people has been provided to the industries and the health department to offer them jobs in their sectors. Gehlot during a meeting also hinted about a change in labour laws to suit the changing scenario in the pandemic era. Instructions have been given to work on the reforms in the labour laws in the state. Also, in a significant move, the government has approved the formation of Non-Resident Rajasthani Workforce Welfare Fund to provide assistance to state’s workers residing in other states. The fund was announced in the state budget. Box Over 2k to arrive from abroad The state government has made PCR test compulsory for all residents arriving from abroad in the coming days on Saturday. Over 2,000 residents are expected to arrive from nine countries in 12 Jaipur-bound flights starting May 22. An official said all these residents will have to undergo 14-day quarantine at their own expense or at a government facility. These arrivals will be quarantined in Jaipur, Ajmer, Udaipur, Bikaner and Jodhpur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/migrants-coming-to-raj-to-get-short-term-skill-training-to-suit-local-industry-needs/articleshow/75783020.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat high court tells lawyers to use real names||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat high court has gotten confused by the online identities of many lawyers and has asked them to change their usernames on Zoom to their real names, so that their real identity is displayed on the screen when they request the HC to allow entry into the virtual courtroom. As the high court is hearing cases during the lockdown period through video conferencing on Zoom, its administration finds it a real challenge to allow people with ‘abstract display names’ or mostly ‘Admin’ to be part of the case hearing. Confused by these online identities, the HC has requested lawyers to see that when they call their actual, correct full name is displayed on screen when joining the court session on Zoom. The chief justice directed the HC’s registrar general to not allow any lawyer without correct identity – the actual full name – inside the virtual courtroom. The registrar general has issued a circular saying, “If the display name of a participant to join VC hearing session does not display full proper name of the advocate, such advocate will not be allowed entry in the VC hearing session.” Before issuing this warning, the HC requested all lawyers to identify themselves by their real full names by changing their usernames. “Many advocates do not have their actual correct full name as display name on the screen while joining the sessions. Many a times, the name displayed is either some username or just the first name without surname, or ‘Admin’ or some abstract display name which might have been used for joining Zoom sessions for some other purpose from the same device. This creates hardship for both the court as well as the advocates, as it becomes difficult to identify who is intending to join the video conferencing hearing session,” the HC circular reads. Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit. Mauris enim massa, eleifend sed rutrum id, molestie sed mauris. Vestibulum pellentesque erat libero, vitae tristique augue venenatis quis. Aenean mattis elit eget feugiat auctor. Maecenas nec efficitur ligula. Aenean vel fringilla mi, vestibulum feugiat dui. Integer blandit risus sit amet tellus finibus lobortis. Praesent bibendum, mauris et interdum facilisis, nibh tellus tincidunt justo, quis cursus nisl risus non purus. Ut justo urna, faucibus eu euismod sit amet, pellentesque vel nisl. Ut mollis euismod enim, eget cursus risus. Nam eu efficitur ligula. Vestibulum ante ipsum primis in faucibus orci luctus et ultrices posuere cubilia curae; Nulla vestibulum magna ut turpis suscipit tincidunt. Vivamus ultrices pretium aliquet. Suspendisse placerat massa eu purus efficitur, sed finibus diam tempus. Nunc viverra euismod neque ac aliquam. Integer est enim, pulvinar non volutpat non, commodo sed lacus. Donec non leo venenatis, ultrices risus eu, ullamcorper risus. Phasellus rutrum facilisis risus nec tristique. Class aptent taciti sociosqu ad litora torquent per conubia nostra, per inceptos himenaeos. Praesent vehicula metus ex. Proin at commodo libero. Vestibulum ac volutpat purus. Vivamus a metus elementum, tempor mauris at, scelerisque lacus. Pellentesque id congue arcu. Vivamus varius lobortis neque, in elementum risus gravida semper. Praesent rutrum eleifend ex, vitae feugiat sem viverra eget. Ut non odio commodo, efficitur arcu et, venenatis lacus. Vivamus interdum tortor at leo dapibus egestas. Vivamus lobortis dictum est. In lacinia augue risus, nec ultricies quam luctus vitae. Nulla malesuada auctor enim eu feugiat. Aenean iaculis risus ac lectus dignissim feugiat. Donec volutpat ullamcorper tortor a feugiat. Ut nisi nunc, venenatis elementum imperdiet nec, euismod et purus. Mauris tincidunt sodales nisi iaculis tempor. Nunc sed nunc vel nibh dignissim ornare. Etiam sit amet sem lectus. Nullam sagittis tempor venenatis. Fusce ac commodo nisi, vel rutrum ligula. Cras dignissim.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/hc-tells-lawyers-to-use-real-names/articleshow/75782015.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: Post Covid-19, ‘contactless policing’ likely to be norm||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Policing in the state is set to undergo a sea change post Covid-19. A set of standard operating procedures have been issued which have to be followed in day-to-day policing to ensure minimum physical contact between police and public. The guidelines were prepared by a team headed by ADGP (training) B Sandhya and ADGP (administration) Manoj Abraham. All the units and offices have been instructed that only 50% of manpower of each unit will be on duty on a given day, and arrests and remands should be avoided in minor and bailable cases. In the case of arrests, the accused should be asked to wear mask and glove, and should be made to sit one metre away from police officers in the vehicle. In lock-ups and interrogation rooms, social distancing needs to be maintained Police have been asked not to conduct routine checking for document verification, and even if a vehicle has to be intercepted, the officer should maintain a safe distance from the vehicle. A vehicle, if confiscated, should be disinfected before taking it to the station. The mediation and talks between police and petitioners and the opposite party in a case, would be through online platform, or video conferencing. Also, the document transfer by petitioners will hereafter be through email or WhatsApp to avoid direct contact between police and petitioner. Even if a person needs to be summoned to station, safety measures should be taken, and the matter should be disposed soon without making the person to wait for long. One of the biggest challenges faced by the police is regarding protests and riot control. In such cases, they have been asked to wear masks and gloves in addition to riot gear, and use maximum barricades to avoid physical contacts with the protestors. The protestors should be warned in advance about the Covid-19 spread in a crowd, and arresting of protestors should not be a routine exercise as in normal circumstances. “If arrests are to be made, violent mobsters should be separately targeted, overpowered, and arrested by a separate squad of police officials who should wear a fully covered PPE,” the guidelines say.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/post-covid-19-contactless-policing-likely-to-be-norm/articleshow/75781198.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh to increase testing with more machines||BHOPAL: In a step towards systematic surveillance for SARS-CoV-2 infection in all districts and increase routine testing as per current testing guidelines, the MP health department is to procure more RNA extraction machines from a South Korean manufacturer, according to sources. Around 16 such machines are to be supplied by the manufacturer. Two more RNA extraction facilities would be increased with the help of the Aziz Premji Foundation this month, said sources. So far, MP has 17 laboratories which are testing for Covid-19. Around 3,500 Covid-19 tests can take place in Madhya Pradesh each day, according to the Directorate of Medical Education (DME), which monitors the testing facility in these labs. The testing machines would be automated and can be pre-programmed. Another set of measures is to improve testing at the district level. It can be done with TB testing facilities with high-end machines like CBNAAT. Also, cartridge-based nucleic acid amplification test (CBNAAT) was introduced in the polymerase chain reaction (PCR) based method for detection of TB. It also detects rifampicin resistance as it targets the rpoB gene of mycobacteria. PCR testing also determines Covid-19 presence in swab samples. There are also some alternatives such as the TrueNat test, which is cheaper as it has been developed in India. Guidelines for the same are expected to be released soon, according to an AIIMS official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/mp-to-increase-testing-with-more-machines/articleshow/75782625.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Goa||Enforcement Directorate attaches assets worth Rs 7.7 crore of Goa realty firm||PANAJI: The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has attached assets and bank balance to the tune of Rs 7.7 crore of a Goa-based real estate company for allegedly defrauding foreigners. The ED, which attached 72 flats and villas under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA), 2002, initiated the investigation against M/s Sanatan Financers and Real Estate Pvt Ltd, Ankit Kumar and Sunil Kumar on the basis of FIRs registered against them by Goa police under various IPC sections. The accused illegally collected funds from foreign nationals under the guise of selling properties in a project called ‘Peace Valley’ at Sirvoi, Quepem, said the ED. Ankit and Sunil had collected the money using the Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) route in accounts of various shell companies, including Sanatan Financers, the ED found. “These gullible foreign nationals were induced to invest in the companies formed by the accused, towards the purchase of flats/villas but the ownership of the said homes was never transferred to them ,” ED said in a statement. It added that Ankit and Sunil, from 2006 to 2011, received Rs 7.7 crore and acquired 16 villas worth Rs 2.56 crore and 56 flats worth Rs 5.2 crore — all of whiuch have been attached under the PMLA.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ed-attaches-assets-worth-rs-7-7crore-of-goa-realty-firm/articleshow/75783182.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Dehradun||After armed police outpost near border, Nepalese Army officials visit area||Pithoragarh: Two days after an armed police outpost was set up by the Nepalese government near Kalapani at Chhangru, around 18 km from the Lipulekh Pass, a visit by Nepalese Army officials was reported in the area. Sources confirmed to TOI that a team of Nepalese Army personnel including a senior official visited Darchula, which borders Indian territory on Saturday, but added that they were not aware about the purpose of the visit or about any activity undertaken by the personnel there. Meanwhile, Pithoragarh’s district magistrate Vijay Kumar Jogdande told TOI, “We have found out that no construction activity has yet been started at Chhangru but a team of armed police personnel has been deployed there by the Nepalese government.” Notably, Chhangru is the last Nepalese village before the border. The increased activity by the Nepalese government near the border with Pithoragarh comes days after defence minister Rajnath Singh inaugurated an almost 80-kilometre link-road near Lipulekh Pass. During the inauguration on May 8, Singh had said that the Tawaghat-Lipulekh road would cut travel time to Kailash Mansarovar significantly. Reacting to the development, Kathmandu had expressed “regret” over India’s “unilateral” decision of constructing the road. The Lipulekh Pass is marked by the Kalapani river, one of the headwaters of the Kali River in the Kumaon Himalayas at an altitude of 3,600–5,200 meters and is claimed by the Nepalese as their territory. The Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) in New Delhi has reiterated that the area lies “well within the Indian territory.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/after-armed-police-outpost-near-border-nepalese-army-officials-visit-area/articleshow/75781158.cms||Prem Punetha
May 17, 2020||Chandigarh||Ladakh Chamber of Industries seeks held for MSMEs||Leh: A delegation from Ladakh Chamber of Industries on Saturday submitted a memorandum to lieutenant governor R K Mathur, highlighting the grievances of micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) from Ladakh. The delegation apprised him about problems faced by MSMEs of Leh and Kargil in view of the new setup of union territory of Ladakh. They requested for some safeguards for MSMEs by reviving SICOP (J&K Small Scale Industrial Development Corporation), an alternative to participate in tendering above Rs 1 lakh and to separate local MSME manufactured items from the civil works. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/ladakh-chamber-of-industries-seeks-held-for-msmes/articleshow/75782630.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Delhi||‘Let’s act as if we have the virus and a mandate to protect others’||The prolonged lockdown has helped reduce the spread of coronavirus and mortality due to it, but it has also brought all economic activities to a grinding halt. Stark economic consequences coupled with a grim realization that this new normal is no longer sustainable will force the government to allow a phased reopening of business activities. New hotspots of infection are mainly in the urban areas which are also hotspots of economic activities. Absence of a proven anti-viral drug and the non-availability of a potent vaccine in the near future means we are very much on the defensive against the virus. The only scenario that emerges is one in which the common man has to learn to co-exist with the virus, unhurt and strong. The lockdown is equivalent of a crash diet, effective but not sustainable. Crash diets inevitably fail because they are not accompanied by a sustainable change in daily dietary patterns. Once the diet ends, we go back to digging into our chocolate cakes, pastries and gulab jamuns, instantaneously undoing all the gains we made over the past month. This is more true for the fight against corona. Unless we incorporate healthy living habits, basic tenets of social distancing, hand hygiene and use of masks in our daily routine, the hardships endured during the lockdown would have been in vain. Doctors protect themselves from infected patients while performing their duty. Similarly, teachers are responsible for the physical and mental safety of students. Security personnel are expected to enforce law and order to prevent lawlessness. This overt reliance on certain small sections of the society to keep the majority safe and under check is grossly inadequate in the current scenario. TV screens were recently filled with images of humungous crowds of migrant labourers at railway terminals and serpentine queues outside liquor stores. It was left to the local administration to vainly enforce social distancing between warring individuals. Self-preservation is the strongest and most primitive of all human instincts — a will to survive, at any cost. Historically, that has meant putting selfish interests over the general good of the species. In the past few months, we have learnt that it is easier and more meaningful not to infect others than to merely protect oneself from getting infected. We need to change our mindset. We have to act as if we have the virus and we have a mandate to protect others. We have to understand our social responsibility, an unwritten law that we have to take all precautions of observing cough etiquette, wearing masks and maintaining social distancing to protect others from getting infected. In doing so, we will achieve all we want for ourselves. We, as a society, must realise that our selfish interests of protecting ourselves can only be achieved if we work as a collective group and not as individuals. We would be wise to follow the wisdom of our Shastras — “Paramarth hi param swarth hai”. As more and more individuals undertake and share this collective responsibility and understand that it is only through protecting others that they themselves can be safe, we may reach a tipping point in our fight against corona. Our first step should be make the means available to the general public to fight this virus through universal distribution of three-layered masks. Home masks may be equally good but should be validated by scientific bodies before these are recommended for wider use. The Covid warriors who are putting service before self should be supplied with N-95 masks regularly. Vending machines could be installed for providing masks at most economical rates as well as for their disposal. We have to graduate from the concept of social distancing to the more effective one of social responsibility. Of course, for non-abiding citizens, we will need enforcement and penalties, like confinement at house for 14 days. We must pledge that the basic tenets of social distancing, hand hygiene and universal adoption of masks are followed in their true spirit and not as a form of punishment inflicted by an authority. We should not require the presence of a police officer to pull our masks over our faces or to move back three paces from the person standing next in line. Patients coming to health care facilities should take the onus and make a conscious effort not to infect unsuspecting contacts and healthcare workers. Data suggests that youngsters are often asymptomatic and may become super spreaders. They can transmit the virus mainly because of their lifestyles and rapid mobility. It is time that we mentor the young. We must be the change to bring about a change. It is only through protection of the community at large that the individual will become safe. Dr S K Sarin, director, ILBS, heads Delhi government’s Covid-19 task force||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/lets-act-as-if-we-have-the-virus-and-a-mandate-to-protect-others/articleshow/75783192.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Bhubaneswar||NHRC registers complaint against Centre, Odisha for inaction over HC bench in Koraput||CUTTACK: The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) on Saturday registered a fresh complaint of inaction by the Centre and the state over the demand for the establishment of a permanent bench of the Orissa high court in Koraput. The NHRC registered the complaint (6134/IN/2020) by categorizing the citizens of Koraput as the victim. The complaint has sought payment of compensation and damages worth Rs 20 lakh on account of alleged deficiency in service and misleading of the victim. On September 10, 2019, the NHRC had directed the chief secretary to take action on a long-pending demand for a high court bench in the Koraput region, within eight weeks, on the basis of a complaint filed by Jeypore-based rights activist and advocate Anup Kumar Patro. Six months later, he received a letter from the home department, which led him to file a fresh complaint. In the letter, dated March 19, a deputy secretary said, “I am directed to say that the question of taking a decision in respect of the feasibility and desirability of a place for establishment of a permanent bench of the high court comes within the purview of the Union government. The state has been pursuing the matter with the Union government but the latter has not taken a definite decision.” Patro’s complaint contends that the people of Koraput region, mostly tribal, poor and illiterate, are deprived of access to justice due to distance from the high court bench in Cuttack. The region, since its bifurcation over two decades ago, constitutes Koraput, Malkangiri, Rayagada and Nabarangpur districts. The high court is located 647 km from Malkangiri, 550 km from Koraput, 512 km from Nabarangpur and 431 km from Rayagada. While the minimum time to travel to Cuttack by road from these places is 12 hours, the cost is as high as Rs 800 on one side.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/nhrc-registers-complaint-against-centre-state-for-inaction-over-hc-bench-in-koraput/articleshow/75782022.cms||lalmohan.patnaik
May 17, 2020||Goa||Amidst already hellish journey, relief bus bound for Goa overturns at Gadag||Panaji: It was nothing short of a harrowing ordeal for the 21 stranded Goans who boarded a relief bus on Thursday at Bengaluru. Twelve hours into the journey, around 4am on Friday at Gadag, Karnataka, the bus slipped into a ditch and fell on its side. One passenger sustained a minor head injury, while others, including the driver and conductor, had a lucky escape. “We were sleeping when the accident occured. I woke up to people screaming, and found myself lying on top of another passenger,” one traveller on the bus told TOI after arriving in the state in the early hours of Saturday. Sources on the bus said that in a bid to avoid a speeding vehicle that was coming head-on on a one-way stretch, the driver was forced to swerve sharply to the right, which is when the vehicle slipped into a ditch and overturned. The driver failed to see the ditch in the darkness, sources said. Passengers, most of whom are students and working professionals, said that the journey was jinxed right from the very onset, turning the ideally 12-hour trip into an over 30-hour ordeal involving two buses. The journey began with a an unpleasant, almost 8-hour-long wait for the bus, in the scorching summer heat at the Kempegowda bus station in Bengaluru , followed by a health scare as there was no screening of passengers for Covid-19 symptoms or even temperature, before boarding. The passengers were originally asked to report at the terminus at 8am on Thursday, but the bus was held up at the Tamil Nadu-Karnataka border for hours, as the authorities were verifying approvals. “There were two nuns and two senior citizens from Goa among us,” the passenger said, adding that they waited in the heat, surviving on biscuits and fruits.The bus arrived by late afternoon and it was only at 4.30pm that it left for Goa. “We were not screened by the bus staff before boarding the vehicle nor were we told to maintain social distancing. Some passengers even sat next to one another during the journey due to limited seats,” he said. After a long day’s wait, when the passengers drifted to sleep, the accident occurred. And then, the shaken lot had to camp on the side of the road all night, in the middle of nowhere, waiting for assistance. Sources said that the highway patrol vehicle arrived first and the ambulance followed soon after and took the young woman who sustained a head injury to hospital. Police arrived only around 7am. They were then informed that they would have to wait for a KTC bus, which was headed to Gadag to drop migrants stranded in Goa. The passengers then decided to walk in serach of help, and found a petrol station a kilometre away, where they could buy water. For the second consecutive day, they waited in the heat, for a relief bus, that finally arrived at 2 pm. “It was not an AC bus, but was much more spacious allowing us to maintain social distancing,” the passenger said. En route, they had to wait at various check posts and at the Goa border, they waited for 1.5 hours after they were screened. They had arrived at the border check post by 8pm. They were then taken to a hospital in South Goa for testing at 1am on Saturday, and thereon to the quarantine centre at Margao Residency. “The centre was willing to take only eight people, so we decided to move to another centre,” he said. The passengers were then taken to a quarantine centre at Colva Residency in the same KTC bus, and finally reached by 5am.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/amidst-already-hellish-journey-relief-bus-bound-for-goa-overturns-at-gadag/articleshow/75783190.cms||Nida Sayed
May 17, 2020||Cuttack||NHRC registers complaint against Centre, Odisha for inaction over HC bench in Koraput||CUTTACK: The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) on Saturday registered a fresh complaint of inaction by the Centre and the state over the demand for the establishment of a permanent bench of the Orissa high court in Koraput. The NHRC registered the complaint (6134/IN/2020) by categorizing the citizens of Koraput as the victim. The complaint has sought payment of compensation and damages worth Rs 20 lakh on account of alleged deficiency in service and misleading of the victim. On September 10, 2019, the NHRC had directed the chief secretary to take action on a long-pending demand for a high court bench in the Koraput region, within eight weeks, on the basis of a complaint filed by Jeypore-based rights activist and advocate Anup Kumar Patro. Six months later, he received a letter from the home department, which led him to file a fresh complaint. In the letter, dated March 19, a deputy secretary said, “I am directed to say that the question of taking a decision in respect of the feasibility and desirability of a place for establishment of a permanent bench of the high court comes within the purview of the Union government. The state has been pursuing the matter with the Union government but the latter has not taken a definite decision.” Patro’s complaint contends that the people of Koraput region, mostly tribal, poor and illiterate, are deprived of access to justice due to distance from the high court bench in Cuttack. The region, since its bifurcation over two decades ago, constitutes Koraput, Malkangiri, Rayagada and Nabarangpur districts. The high court is located 647 km from Malkangiri, 550 km from Koraput, 512 km from Nabarangpur and 431 km from Rayagada. While the minimum time to travel to Cuttack by road from these places is 12 hours, the cost is as high as Rs 800 on one side.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/cuttack/nhrc-registers-complaint-against-centre-state-for-inaction-over-hc-bench-in-koraput/articleshow/75787393.cms||lalmohan.patnaik
May 17, 2020||Bhopal||Add more items in essentials list: Madhya Prdesh traders||BHOPAL: Hit hard by the lockdown, traders in the region want the state government to expand purview of essential services and bridge the widening demand-supply gap. They have demanded to include electronics, electric, auto parts and repairing centres under the umbrella of essential services.  Supporting the decision of extended lockdown due to rising positive cases, trade associations have asked the government to allow markets open in phases and on fixed days in a week. Ahilya Chamber of Commerce and Industry’s president Ramesh Khandelwal said, “We understand the seriousness of the situation and do not want to open at once. But at least some sectors should be allowed in first phase and then gradually others be permitted to operate.” Traders have demanded the government to allow shops in non-containment zones of red zones to open for fixed timings and accept orders on phones. Many grocers, stationery, electronics dealers demanded they should be allowed to accept orders on phone and make home deliveries. Sunil Agrawal, a grocery owner said, “Administration has allowed only those grocers to function who have a large fleet of delivery boys. But small ones are more vulnerable and should be allowed to clear stocks and recommence sales by means of home deliveries.” Trade associations said, such a long gap in business has created shortage of raw material disturbing the whole supply chain while industries associations have also claimed hampered productivity due to lack of proper supply chain. Pithampur Audhyogik Sangathan’s president Gautam Kothari said, “Industries have received permissions to function but they are not able to utilize even the agreed capacity due to lack of supply chain. Until all the stakeholders are up in the market with their products and services, industries or any business cannot run because everyone is dependent on each other.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/add-more-items-in-essentials-list-traders/articleshow/75782631.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Rajkot||Officials of 3 states coordinate pregnant woman’s passage to village||AHMEDABAD: There was an example of sensitivity displayed by administrative officials of three states as an eight-months-pregnant woman, based in Ahmedabad, was reunited with her family in Rajasthan. Ahmedabad district administration officials got the woman aboard a Shramik Special train bound for Agra in UP on Friday night. Officials of Dholpur district in Rajasthan got an ambulance ready at Agra station, which took her Badagam, her village in Dholpur district on Saturday. Priti Kushwah’s husband, Pintu Kushwah, and brother-in-law had left for Rajasthan to drop off their mother just before the lockdown. She was left alone at her house in the Khodiyarnagar area of Nikol, as her husband was unable to return to Ahmedabad due to the lockdown. Even as Ahmedabad district collectorate officials were making plans to send the woman and her two-year-old child by a special ambulance to the Rajasthan border, they got in touch with the Dholpur district administration. “We coordinated with the Rajasthan officials as well as with the Agra administration about this case. Arrangements were made for her transportation from Agra to Dholpur,” district collector K K Nirala said. Dholpur district collector R K Jaiswal said the officials were constantly in touch with Priti, and told her to switch off her phone at night to conserve battery power for the morning. “We had an ambulance posted at Agra with special permission. A team of doctors and the woman’s brother-in-law accompanied her back to Dholpur. We provided them ration kits and dropped them off at her village.” Collectorate officials said Amit Dhaka, special secretary to Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot, played a crucial role in ensuring the safe passage for the woman. “When we contacted him, he made immediate arrangements to ensure that the woman and her child were picked up from Agra and taken safely to their home in Dholpur district,” said a collectorate official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/officials-of-3-states-coordinate-pregnant-womans-passage-to-village/articleshow/75782034.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Mangaluru||Karnataka: Health department carries out ‘surgical’ strike on Dakshina Kannada over cluster outbreak||MANGALURU: Did state health department carry out ‘surgical’ strike on the district health authorities? It seems so, if varying accounts on the probe that the state government had ordered on First Neuro Hospital, supervised isolation centre located in Padil, are anything to go by. While the district administration on Friday maintained that the team is yet to come, the authority that constituted the team said the report has been submitted. The government has ordered the probe with regard to the identification of P-0 at this cluster outbreak. The health department had directed Dr S Sacchidanand, vice-chancellor of Bengaluru-based Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences (RGUHS) to set up a team to probe the turn of events at the hospital. The two-member team, set up by Dr Sacchidanand, visited the hospital and submitted its report to the government. “The team comprised two doctors from a local medical college,” Dr Sacchidanand told STOI. Not going into the contents of the report or the committee’s brief, Dr Sacchidanand said that he had merely followed the directions given by the government. “It is for the government to comment and act on the report,” he said. The team’s visit was also not known to local elected representatives, including Mangaluru City North MLA Y Bharath Shetty. The legislator said he only knew about the team being asked to probe the hospital. District health and family welfare officer Dr Ramachandra Bairy told STOI that he came to know about the RGUHS probe team through a WhatsApp forward on May 12, the day the health authorities were busy with handling the first flight under Vande Bharat Mission at Mangaluru International Airport. “I have no knowledge about their visit or their report,” he said, adding they would have presented all details that they had collected as part of their own probe had the team sought them. DC Sindhu B Rupesh, who confirmed the probe by a team under RGUHS at a press briefing on Friday, said the administration was not kept in the loop about the team’s visit nor was it aware about the team submitting the report to the government. In its interim report, a six-member expert committee led by Dr Bairy had sought time to examine reports of patients from Kerala who had undergone treatment there. “We have sent a request letter to the health department to seek concurrence of their counterparts in Kerala. Once that is approved, the committee will work its way towards identifying P-0 as far as First Neuro Hospital is concerned,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/health-dept-carries-out-surgical-strike-on-dk-over-cluster-outbreak/articleshow/75779163.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
May 17, 2020||Kozhikode||Kerala: Work on Tata hospital in Kasaragod nears completion||KANNUR: The health scenario in Kasaragod is fast changing in the Covid days, with more facilities coming up in the district.The work on the specialty hospital by Tata Group is fast progressing, and the installation of the prefabricated structures has started after completing the earth work. The hospital is coming up at Thekkil at Chemmanad. Also the taluk hospital at Mangalpadi in Manjeshwaram has got 10 dialysis machines. The work on the isolation unit of the hospital has started and it is expected that the entire hospital, being built using prefabricated technology, would be completed in the next couple of weeks. The hospital, announced by Tata Group as part of its corporate social responsibility (CSR) initiative, is expected to cost around Rs 15 crore and it would be functioning as a permanent facility, which could also handle an emergency situation like Covid. The hospital will have 540 beds, isolations wards, ICU and other facilities. Meanwhile, since the general hospital in Kasaragod is back to routine functioning, it would also benefit the patients. The facilities have been improved here to treat Covid patients. The 10 dialysis machines at the taluk hospital at Mangalpadi were donated by Aishal Foundation, a charitable trust based in the district. The machines, which cost around Rs 75 lakh, were handed over to the hospital authorities by the trust members on Friday. This is a simple gesture of the support that the private sector is extending to the health centres in the government sector and this would help reduce the dependence on the Mangaluru hospitals for dialysis, said the trust chairman Abdul Latheef. The hospital, under Manjeshwaram block panchayat, has already set up the dialysis block by spending Rs 50 lakh from the fund of former MLA (late) P B Abdul Razak, and they were waiting for the machines, said panchayat president A K M Ashraf. Using these machines, around 20 dialysis can be done in two shifts in a day. Till the government appoints the staff, the panchayat is planning to appoint them by setting up a society. There are hundreds of people who go to Mangaluru for dialysis and now the district has the facility to do dialysis of over 100 patients a day, according to the district administration, which expects that the district would soon be self-reliant at the health front.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/work-on-tata-hospital-in-kgod-nears-completion/articleshow/75781175.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Jammu||Lockdown: Going beyond ‘line of duty’, cops shift brain tumour patient to Jammu||JAMMU: Going beyond the line of duty, Udhampur police under its #JKP CARES campaign set an example by managing to shift a sick person to hospital. A police spokesperson from Udhampur said, “Police received an information that one boy, namely Rohit Kumar, a resident of Bachhal-Sudhmahadev, was operated few days ago for brain tumour and his health condition had deteriorated. His parents were unable to take him to Jammu for treatment due to lockdown restrictions.” On getting information, a police party from Sudhmadev, led by sub-inspector Arun Singh Slathia, arranged for inter-district movement pass and vehicle for the patient to reach the hospital in Jammu. “Exhibiting a humane gesture, the police party also contributed Rs 5,000 as financial help for the needs family. “Relatives and locals appreciated the efforts of police, due to which the ailing person was shifted to hospital timely and his treatment too has started,” the police spokesperson added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jammu/lockdown-going-beyond-line-of-duty-cops-shift-brain-tumour-patient-to-jammu/articleshow/75782641.cms||Sanjay Khajuria
May 17, 2020||Goa||Goa: Reduce house tax, power and water bills, Congress urges government||SALIGAO: Congress has demanded that the government grant 50% reduction in house tax for 2020-21 and also a 50% reduction in electricity and water bills from March-September for every household in the state. President of committee, Vijai Bhike told reporters that since people were under compulsion to stay indoors during the lockdown, they have faced losses in business and income. “We demand that the government should take drastic steps and the chief minister should shrink the size of the cabinet and function with only five cabinet ministers,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/reduce-house-tax-power-water-bills-cong-urges-govt/articleshow/75783188.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Kozhikode||Kerala: Covid-19 patient, 81, leaves hospital after 42 days||KANNUR: An 81-year-old Covid-19 patient, undergoing treatment for the last 42 days at Government Medical College Kannur, Pariyaram, has been discharged after his two consecutive tests were negative. On April 5, he tested positive and became the first primary contact in the district to be infected. The octogenarian, who apparently contracted the disease from his grandson coming from Dubai, had serious health problems when he tested positive. Ten people of the family, including immediate relatives, had contracted the disease but they were all discharged from hospital earlier. The octogenarian had to be given oxygen regularly even before hospitalization as he suffered from respiratory problems. Adding to the woes, he suffered a heart attack but prompt treatment saved his life, said hospital authorities After his condition improved, swabs were tested 16 times. On Friday, two of his samples tested negative from the same PCR laboratory, following which he was discharged on Saturday afternoon. “It is a big achievement that the patient was discharged after 42 days of treatment,” said medical college principal N Roy. Besides medical college staffers, MLA T V Rajesh was among those present to see off the senior citizen. With this, all those admitted here in first phase have been discharged. Now there is a patient from Kasaragod, who was admitted recently as he tested positive on return from Maharashtra after borders were opened.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/covid-patient-81-leaves-hospital-after-42-days/articleshow/75781192.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Nagpur||From direct sales to overcrowding, liquor vendors still violating norms||Nagpur: Several liquor shop owners in city were found furtively selling to customers without checking permits on Saturday, the second day of liquor sale. Following heavy crowding at many shops in the outskirts of city, collector Ravindra Thakare permitted only home delivery of liquor permissible in entire police commissionerate. At this, police also withdrew their deployment from liquor shops paving the way for illegal activities. It is learnt two flying squads of the state excise department were pressed into action but they took no action despite blatant violations throughout the day. Keeping shutters down, some shop owners were found supplying liquor directly to customers from a concealed place in the vicinity instead of delivering at home. This led to crowding at many places violating Covid distancing norms. Collector Thakare said he would ask officials to be vigilant. Joint CP Ravindra Kadam also said there would be strict action now on the errant shop owners and customers. Apart from rampant violation of the instructions issued by the collector regarding home delivery of liquor, there was none to even control the crowds outside the liquor shops. SP, state excise Pramod Sonone, said he would cancel the licence of liquor shops if they were caught engaging in violations. “We have issued 150 licences to home deliver liquor which is highest in the state,” he said. TOI also witnessed several shop owners selling through their delivery boys. At Indora, there was substantial crowding outside a beer shoppee with cops standing less than 100 metres away. The beer shoppe owner would lift the shutter to make deliveries after directly accepting cash from customers. Many customers were also found outside the shoppe without masks. In north Nagpur, a liquor shop owner was seen taking orders from customers. He would walk back into a lane beside the shop and bring the customer their choice of the liquor. Another shop owner at Pachpaoli was found supplying bottles to his customers from a place in the adjacent lane. A constable was also present outside the shop when several customers visited for making clandestine purchases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/from-direct-sales-to-overcrowding-liquor-vendors-still-violating-norms/articleshow/75782651.cms||Soumitra Bose
May 17, 2020||Nashik||Policemen to get special wrist bands||Nashik: The Nashik city police are all set to get special wrist bands which will update them about real time information related to their health, including blood pressure, body temperature, etc. On getting the concerned information, senior police officers will be able to take swift decision of getting health check-up done of the concerned police employee. While Bollywood actor Akshay Kumar, who is the brand ambassador of the wrist band company, has given 500 wrist bands to the city police, another city-based company has donated Rs 53 lakh to to the police to purchase 2,700 wrist bands for their staff. Police department is in the process of setting up a system through which the senior officers would get real time information of the health condition of their subordinates so that necessary steps regarding their healh can be taken, especially at a time when the world is dealing with Covid-19 pandemic. Commissioner of Police Vishwas Nangare-Patil said that the wrist band monitoring the heart rate and body temperature will feed the data to the police officer’s or employee’s cell-phone. This data will be sent to the command centre through the company’s cloud application.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/policemen-to-get-special-wrist-bands/articleshow/75781193.cms||Santosh Sonawane
May 17, 2020||Kozhikode||Kerala: Three Covid-19 positive cases in Kozhikode||KOZHIKODE: The district medical officer Dr V Jayasree here on Saturday informed that three more Covid-19 positive cases were reported in Kozhikode. Two cases were of a 51-year-old hailing from Omassery and a 55-year-old native from Perambra, both of whom arrived from Kuwait. The third case is of a 43-year-old Narippata native, who arrived from Chennai.The first two arrived at Karipur from Kuwait on May 13. They were taken to Omassery by the district administration directly from the airport. The 51-year-old native of Omassery was admitted to the medical college on May 14, and 55 year-old Perambra native on May 15, following detection of suspected Covid-19 symptoms. The 43-year-old person from Narippetta commenced his journey from Chennai on May 9 and reached Walayar at 10am and stayed there till late evening. He reached his house at Narippetta on May 11 and was undergoing home quarantine. He was admitted to the medical college after showing symptoms on May 13. All three of them have been found to be stable. With this, the total number of Covid confirmed cases in the district has reached 31. Of this, 24 have recovered. At present, seven people from Kozhikode, one from Malappuram and one from Kasaragod are undergoing treatment at the Kozhikode Government Medical College Hospital. The health department has sent 52 swab samples for testing. A total of 2,754 samples were tested, and 2,602 samples tested negative.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/three-covid-positive-cases-in-kozhikode/articleshow/75781212.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Goa||Amidst already hellish journey, relief bus bound for Goa overturns at Gadag||Panaji: It was nothing short of a harrowing ordeal for the 21 stranded Goans who boarded a relief bus on Thursday at Bengaluru. Twelve hours into the journey, around 4am on Friday at Gadag, Karnataka, the bus slipped into a ditch and fell on its side. One passenger sustained a minor head injury, while others, including the driver and conductor, had a lucky escape. “We were sleeping when the accident occured. I woke up to people screaming, and found myself lying on top of another passenger,” one traveller on the bus told TOI after arriving in the state in the early hours of Saturday. Sources on the bus said that in a bid to avoid a speeding vehicle that was coming head-on on a one-way stretch, the driver was forced to swerve sharply to the right, which is when the vehicle slipped into a ditch and overturned. The driver failed to see the ditch in the darkness, sources said. Passengers, most of whom are students and working professionals, said that the journey was jinxed right from the very onset, turning the ideally 12-hour trip into an over 30-hour ordeal involving two buses. The journey began with a an unpleasant, almost 8-hour-long wait for the bus, in the scorching summer heat at the Kempegowda bus station in Bengaluru , followed by a health scare as there was no screening of passengers for Covid-19 symptoms or even temperature, before boarding. The passengers were originally asked to report at the terminus at 8am on Thursday, but the bus was held up at the Tamil Nadu-Karnataka border for hours, as the authorities were verifying approvals. “There were two nuns and two senior citizens from Goa among us,” the passenger said, adding that they waited in the heat, surviving on biscuits and fruits.The bus arrived by late afternoon and it was only at 4.30pm that it left for Goa. “We were not screened by the bus staff before boarding the vehicle nor were we told to maintain social distancing. Some passengers even sat next to one another during the journey due to limited seats,” he said. After a long day’s wait, when the passengers drifted to sleep, the accident occurred. And then, the shaken lot had to camp on the side of the road all night, in the middle of nowhere, waiting for assistance. Sources said that the highway patrol vehicle arrived first and the ambulance followed soon after and took the young woman who sustained a head injury to hospital. Police arrived only around 7am. They were then informed that they would have to wait for a KTC bus, which was headed to Gadag to drop migrants stranded in Goa. The passengers then decided to walk in serach of help, and found a petrol station a kilometre away, where they could buy water. For the second consecutive day, they waited in the heat, for a relief bus, that finally arrived at 2 pm. “It was not an AC bus, but was much more spacious allowing us to maintain social distancing,” the passenger said. En route, they had to wait at various check posts and at the Goa border, they waited for 1.5 hours after they were screened. They had arrived at the border check post by 8pm. They were then taken to a hospital in South Goa for testing at 1am on Saturday, and thereon to the quarantine centre at Margao Residency. “The centre was willing to take only eight people, so we decided to move to another centre,” he said. The passengers were then taken to a quarantine centre at Colva Residency in the same KTC bus, and finally reached by 5am.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/amidst-already-hellish-journey-relief-bus-bound-for-goa-overturns-at-gadag/articleshow/75783196.cms||Nida Sayed
May 17, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Doctors give new life to teen||Bhubaneswar: Amid the coronavirus fear, doctors at Apollo Hospitals here gave a fresh lease of life to a 19-year-old-girl found with a rare syndrome causing her to have two cervices, two uteruses, two vaginas and one kidney. Doctors said the girl was suffering from OHVIRA (Obstructed Hemi-vagina and Ipsilateral Renal Anomaly), an extremely rare syndrome causing congenital birth defect of the lower abdominal and pelvic organs. “This is a rare syndrome and occurs in one female out of 10 lakh,” said Dr GSS Mohapatra, senior obstetrics & gynaecology consultant of Apollo Hospitals. The girl from Rourkela came to the hospital around one-and-a-half months back with complaints of severe pain in the lower abdomen. “An ultrasound report revealed she had two uteruses. Her MRI report showed that the cervix was duplicated and so was the vagina,” said Mohapatra. Due to lockdown, the surgery had to be postponed to Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/doctors-give-new-life-to-teen/articleshow/75782039.cms||Minati Singha
May 17, 2020||Chandigarh||First meeting of committee to accelerate recruitment process in J&K||Jammu: Jammu & Kashmir principal secretary Naveen Choudhary on Saturday chaired the first meeting of a committee constituted to speed up recruitment process in the new union territory. The committee was entrusted to accelerate recruitment process, besides ensuring certain principles of transparency and inclusiveness in recruitment procedures. During its first meeting, the members discussed broad perspectives for speeding up the recruitment process, especially for class IV vacancies, which will be submitted to competent authorities for approval. While deliberating on the matter, the committee directed authorities to ensure that the vacancies were filled on immediate basis. The committee also discussed issues regarding strengthening of infrastructure in Service Selection Recruitment Board (SSRB), for which necessary decisions were taken in the meeting. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/first-meeting-of-committee-to-accelerate-recruitment-process-in-jk/articleshow/75782646.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Goa||Goa: One month on, garbage marring Benaulim beach still not lifted||COLVA: Huge amounts of garbage lie strewn along the Colva-Benaulim beach stretch, left uncleared by the beach cleaning agency for over a month now. On April 10, TOI had reported that the garbage deposited by the sea was not cleared from the beach. Later, the Karnataka Commercial and Industrial Corporation (KCIC), which is contracted by the government to maintain the cleanliness of the beach, collected the garbage off the shore, but dumped the waste in piles amongst the shrubbery at the foot of the sand dunes along the same stretch. Tourism director Menino D’Souza had then said that the garbage collected was kept for drying and it would be segregated into plastic and other waste and then would be transferred to the garbage treatment plant. He also had said that tree branches and wood would be stacked there, as it is not accepted by the plant.When contacted, D’Souza said he is unaware of the garbage not being cleared . The government had engaged Karnataka Commercial and Industrial Corporation (KCIC) to collect wet waste from shacks from Arossim to Cavelossim and maintain cleanliness on the beach. Presently, there are no shacks operating along the beach stretch, so there is no generation of garbage, yet the agency has failed to keep the beach clean, said a shack owner, whose has not dismantled his shack yet, as it houses his employees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/one-month-on-garbage-marring-benaulim-beach-still-not-lifted/articleshow/75783194.cms||Nisser Dias
May 17, 2020||Jaipur||Covid-19: 128 prisoners, senior jail official test positive in Jaipur||JAIPUR: A total of 128 prisoners at the Jaipur district jail have tested positive for Covid-19 in two days, accounting for almost 40 per cent of the 332 new cases reported in Rajasthan since Friday. Migrant workers who have returned to their native places comprise the second largest cluster of infections confirmed in the past 48 hours. While 24 of the inmates have been admitted to SMS Hospital because of age or co-morbidities, the rest are being monitored at a treatment facility set up on the jail premises. A senior jail official who tested positive on Saturday has been hospitalised, too. Much to the relief of health officials, none of the samples collected from the larger Jaipur central jail next door, which has 1,172 inmates, came out positive for the virus. “When the first case was reported in the district jail on May 11, we started mass screening and testing of all staff and inmates. With a treatment centre on the jail premises itself, we are hopeful of containing further spread of the virus,” said chief medical health officer (Jaipur-I) Narottam Sharma, who has been camping at the prison with his team for two days now. The district jail currently houses 423 prisoners, of whom a few are recent entrants. One of the first two inmates to test positive for Covid-19 is from Jamwarangarh in Jaipur district and had been brought to the jail on April 13. The other inmate to test positive along with him had been arrested by Bajaj Nagar police on May 9 and put in a cell with 18 other prisoners on May 10. He was diagnosed with Covid-19 the very next day. Of the 18 who had shared the cell with him, two have tested positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/128-inmates-official-corona-positive-in-jaipur-district-jail/articleshow/75783027.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Mangaluru||Karnataka: Two trains carrying over 3,000 migrant workers leave for Uttar Pradesh||MANGALURU/MYSURU: Two Shramik Special trains – one from Ashokapuram (Mysuru) to Gorakhpur and the other from Kabakaputtur (Dakshina Kannada) to Lucknow -- with 1,520 passengers each left for their destination on Saturday. Scheduled as per the state government’s request, each train has 18 sleeper and two general second class compartments. While the Gorakhpur-bound train is scheduled to reach the destination at 6am on Monday, the other is slated for arrival in Lucknow at 6.30am the same day. The Indian Railways has made it mandatory for all registered passengers in Shramik Special trains to wear masks. For maintaining personal hygiene, adequate quantity of soap and sanitizer has been provided in all compartments. Before boarding, passengers were explained about the precautions to be observed. The railway staff, after thermal temperature check of the passengers, guided them to their coaches. As per guidelines issued by ministry of railways, empty rakes were sanitised following the standard protocols. Six Railway Protection Force personnel will be escorting each train. IRCTC has made arrangements for supplying food and water to passengers of these trains. Senior officials of the Mysuru division of South Western Railway were present both at Ashokapuram (Mysuru) and Kabakaputtur. Mysuru deputy commissioner Abhiram G Sankar and superintendent of police CB Ryshyanth were also present during the departure at Ashokapuram. The migrant workers were first brought to Bannimantap Torchlight Parade Grounds from various parts of Mysuru district on special buses before their departure to Ashokapuram railway station. Officials collected their address, end-to-end destination and other details. “They were taken to the railway station in buses after having their medical check-up, collecting their address, end-to-end destination details. Only medically fit persons were allowed to board train and food packets were also distributed by the state government to the migrants,” said assistant director of labour Thammanna. Earlier this week, a Shramik Special left Kabakaputtur for Bapudham Motihari in Bihar, taking the total number of such trains originating from Mysuru division to three, Priya Shetty, divisional commercial manager and PRO, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/2-trains-carrying-over-3000-migrant-workers-leave-for-up/articleshow/75781209.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Jaipur||Carry out intensive study of Covid-19 deaths: Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot||JAIPUR: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot has directed the officials to carry out an intense study on the 125 deaths related to the Covid-19 in the state. In a review meeting of health department late on Saturday, Gehlot directed the health officials to reach out to the family members of those who died of Covid-19 and prepare a detailed report on their travel history, health background and other details to make a detailed analytical report aiming to minimize the casualties and prepare a better strategy to fight the spread of virus. Reacting on the avalanche of cases in the Jaipur prison recorded on Saturday, Gehlot said Covid-19 protocol should be followed in all prisons across the state. He directed the officials that if need be they should carry out Covid-19 tests in all prisons which are vulnerable. During the meeting it was also announced that the government will reach out to the experts to prepare a set of rules or protocols which would help people live with Covid-19. He stressed on the need of micro-management in health system to provide better medical facilities to everyone. “People shouldn’t hide their illness. They should come on their own and report the illness so that those down with the virus can get timely treatment,” said Gehlot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/carry-out-intensive-study-of-covid-19-deaths-cm/articleshow/75783026.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Academic sessions in schools by June-end||GANDHINAGAR: The government of Gujarat has initiated discussions with school managements of the state to begin the academic year by June end with stringent social distancing and hygiene measures in place. However, the government is yet to open a dialogue with parents’ bodies. A key source in the state education department confirmed that discussions have begun between the government, GCERT, teacher’s bodies and school authorities on when the academic year in schools can be initiated. “We have proposed the idea of running schools in two shifts to ensure social distancing, running schools on an odd-even pattern, making masks compulsory, changes in the syllabus, regular sanitization of schools and even holding online sessions to whatever extent possible,” sources in the government said. “We are beginning to gather feedbacks and suggestions from school managements on the possible measures that can be adopted so that schools can begin functioning even while the safety of students is maintained at all costs. The government will take a decision on this issue in the next few days,” the sources said. Archit Bhatt, president, Ahmedabad Progressive School Management Association however said that the government has still not consulted the body. “Our CBSE school members have begun online courses from April itself and these will continue so that education of the students does not get compromised. Under normal circumstances, schools start from June 8, but since vacations in colleges has been extended, we expect extension in school vacations as well,” said Bhatt. Schools are of the opinion that maintaining social distancing might turn out to be a very challenging task in schools. “Classrooms in most schools are small and maintaining social distancing might be difficult to implement. Moreover, measuring temperatures of students on a daily basis will be very challenging. Sanitizing the entire school premises on a daily basis is not an affordable option,” Bhatt said. Schools feel that all these issues need to be discussed in detail before any directions are issued by the government. “As far as syllabus is concerned, the CBSE decides it. However, the government needs to have wider consultations with all stakeholders before finalizing anything,” Bhatt said. Bhaskar Patel, president, Gujarat state school management association said that earlier, a class had 45 students, which has increased to around 65 now. “Cost of doubling shifts for social distancing, using masks, sanitization of schools and all such measures have major impact on fee structure. The government needs to clear all these issues and even announce support measures to schools,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/academic-sessions-in-schools-by-june-end/articleshow/75782050.cms||Kapil Dave
May 17, 2020||Pune||Pune: Nana Peth man dies after long wait for ambulance||PUNE: A 23-year-old youth from the barricaded Nana Peth helplessly saw his father collapse to death as ambulances refused to take the latter to a hospital after he experienced chest pain around Thursday midnight despite a policeman’s intervention. The ordeal of the youth, Max Francis, continued for about four hours. He finally managed to take his father, Yesudas (54), to Sassoon General Hospital in a vegetable delivery pickup van with the help of constable Deepak Tate from the Samarth police station. But doctors declared Yesudas dead on arrival around 4.15am on Friday. Yesudas was a heart patient. After he complained of chest pain, Max with the help from neighbours, made him sit in a chair and brought him to the road so that they could take an autorickshaw to the hospital. Unfortunately, Francis being overweight, could not get into the autorickshaw. Max immediately called the 108 ambulance service but could not get through. His call to police yielded response and constable Tate reached the spot in 10 minutes, Even Tate’s calls to the 108 and other ambulance services did not yield any positive response. Many private ambulance service providers asked if the patient had a medical certificate to prove that he was not a Covid-19 patient. Pune municipal commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad told TOI that he had ordered a probe into the incident and sought an explanation from the “108 ambulance service” provider. Baramati MP Supriya Sule said in a message on a social media group, “This was a ghastly story. I have spoken to the administration and taken it up.” Max said, “How can the ambulances not come at a time of emergency? Everybody tried calling the ambulance, but either we could not get through, or when we did, the service providers said it would take an hour to reach our place or just refused to come citing that they did not know if my father was infected with coronavirus. The KEM Hospital is nearby and Sassoon is just 10 minutes away from my home. Yet, I lost my father just because ambulances refused to come.” Constable Tate had reached the spot by 12.30am on Friday after he received a call from the police control room while he was doing the rounds. “Apart from calling the ambulance service providers, we tried hailing three-four ambulances plying on the road. While a couple of their drivers said they were on way to pick up a patient, the others refused help citing that they did not know if the patient was coronavirus positive. Finally, we saw the pickup van around 4am on Friday,” said Tate. Social activist Sudhir Dhawale, present at the spot right from the beginning, said, “The driver of the pickup van going to Market Yard from Nigdi finally stopped. The moment we told him what the problem was, he agreed to help. All the systems have collapsed in the containment zones. The barricades are one of the reasons for many ambulances not coming in and the other factor is coronavirus fear.” Azhar Sayyed, a neighbour of Max, said Yesudas was not the only person in the area to have died because of delay in reaching the hospital on Friday. He said, “The entire area is barricaded and there is no space even for an ambulance to ply. One of my neighbours, around 50-year-old, felt chest pain around 1am on Friday. We took her to the hospital in an autorickshaw. KEM Hospital is just half-a-kilometre away from our place and it usually only just five minutes to reach there. But it took us 15 minutes to reach the hospital on Friday because of the barricades. She was dead by then.” Sayyed had posted the video of Francis’ death online. The police had called him for inquiry.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/nana-peth-man-dies-after-long-wait-for-ambulance/articleshow/75783024.cms||Ardhra Nair
May 17, 2020||Jaipur||Removing stock limit is better for farmers, consumers: Experts||JAIPUR: Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman’s proposal to deregulate pricing and stock limit of agriculture produce and opening the market for retailers, traders and processors is a pragmatic step which aligns with many of the decisions recently taken in Rajasthan. Many of the sectoral experts that TOI spoke to said liberalising the market from the clutches of cartels operating in mandis will help farmers get better price for their produce and the scope for monopoly in the current environment is not a potential threat. Ramesh Mittal, senior director at National Institute of Agriculture Marketing under the ministry of agriculture said, “Removing the stock limits will allow farmers discover better price for their produce. In the existing policy regime, even if the farmer has more produce and wants to sell, the wholesaler cannot buy after a limit even if he desires so. This leaves the farmer no option but to sell at distress rates as he keeps on approaching buyers.” Mittal said currently there are not many buyers as food processing units are closed and arranging logistics for transportation is not easy. While some raised the issue of rising monopoly, a government official said the expansion of storage infrastructure has increased vastly over the past few years. “The private sector has built huge storage capacity. What used to be an advantage for them is now available to everybody. There could be some retail hoarding but they cannot have the capacity to influence the pricing. In addition, the electronic trading of farm produce is gaining strong ground, especially in Rajasthan,” said the official preferring anonymity. The finance minister also said the Centre would bring in reforms for marketing of agriculture produce to give more choices to farmers to sell. Today, mandis operate through members and cartelization is deep-rooted. “Reforms have been taking place like the introduction of electronic trading portal, National Agriculture Market (eNAM). But the membership structure in mandi committees, which allows cartelisation should go. Mandis should be liberalised which will benefit farmers and consumers,” said Pradeep Mehta, secretary general of CUTS International. The state government has amended the Agricultural Produce Marketing Committee Act. Now the food processing units or the bulk users do not need to buy from mandis and can directly purchase from the farmers. But they need to get licences from the state government. There are around 1,900 buyers who have been given licences by the state governments. But the Centre’s reforms, details of which are yet to be announced, may go one step further by not making it necessary to have licences. Agriculture is a state subject but trade and commerce of the produce across the country can allow the Centre to prescribe broad guidelines that the states can legislate. Rajasthan has been the first state to introduce eNAM trading platforms in all its 144 mandis. It also has allowed private warehouses to operate as mandis. To lure them, the state recently exempted them the Rs 15 lakh fees and the criteria of 40 bigha land. “We wanted to give the farmers more choices to get better prices and that’s why gave incentives to private warehouses to operate as mandis,” said the government official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/removing-stock-limit-is-better-for-farmers-consumers-experts/articleshow/75783030.cms||Srikanta Tripathy
May 17, 2020||Goa||Goa: Cabbies seek monthly dole of Rs 12,000||PANAJI: Taxi operators in the state have given a representation to the transport department demanding Rs 12,000 as monthly allowance till their businesses run at pre-lockdown status. The operators said that they have bank installments to pay but don’t have any business due to the lockdown. “Taxis receive maximum business from hotels and tourism in Goa. How can we resume operations if the hospitality industry is not active?” said Laxman Korgaonkar of the North Goa Tourist Taxi Owners’ Association. The association has also demanded relief in road tax, passenger tax, renewal of vehicle permit, renewal of authorisations, renewal of driving licence, fitness certificate, PUC certificate, among others. “Unless tourism resumes, we will not be able to stand on our feet again which is why we require relaxation on these taxes. Locals do not rely on taxis on a daily basis,” Sanjay Vengurlekar, executive member of the association said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cabbies-seek-monthly-dole-of-rs-12000/articleshow/75783198.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Vijayawada||Students Won’t Have To Visit Colleges For Forms||Vijayawada: The Andhra Pradesh state council of higher education (APSCHE) has decided to conduct online admissions for regular undergraduate courses from the 2020-21 academic year. The online admission process is expected to benefit students as it will do away with the need of visiting colleges to obtain application forms and submitting the same. Students will be able to apply to as many colleges as they wish to. The higher education council has directed universities to obtain information with regard to affiliated colleges in order to pave way for online admissions. Council chairman Prof K Hemachandra Reddy said that there are around 2 lakh seats in 1,500 colleges in the state. “The undergraduate admissions will be conducted online from the next academic session. There is also a proposal to implement the same for postgraduate courses from the 2021-22 academic year,” Reddy said. The chairman further appealed to students to follow all Covid-related precautions and practice social distancing. “This will help reduce the risk of contamination, cut down the chain of transmission and bring down the chances of the rapid spread of the novel coronavirus,” said Prof Reddy. Meanwhile, the council has deferred processing of proposals for sanctioning new or additional undergraduate and postgraduate courses including change in media of instruction, conversions and withdrawals of courses. The higher education council has made it clear that its focus right now is to conduct the required examinations and subsequently the evaluation processes once the lockdown in lifted.  The council is working on a skill-based curriculum and an online admission process to be implemented from the 2020-21 academic year. It was viewed that processing applications, inspections and rectification of deficiencies may not be possible before the commencement of the new academic year due to the lack of time, the on-going lockdown situation, the threat of Covid spread, etc. The proposals are likely to be considered for the next academic year 2021-22, the council said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/students-wont-have-to-visit-colleges-for-forms/articleshow/75781232.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
May 17, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Returnees add to state Covid count with 65 more testing +ve||Bhubaneswar: People returning from other states continue to add to the state’s Covid headache as 65 tested positive on Saturday, taking the total number of cases to 737. Of the 65, barring one, all are migrant returnees. West Bengal accounted for 35 cases and 28 were those who returned from Gujarat. A health department statement said 62 of those testing positive are returnees staying in quarantine centres while three are in home isolation. Government authorities said 30 of those testing positive in Jajpur were from West Bengal, besides in Puri and one in Khurda. This apart, a Jharkhand returnee also tested positive in Jajpur, taking its day’s count to 31. Among the 28 Gujarat returnees, 13 tested positive in Ganjam, six in Cuttack, four in Kendrapada, two each in Mayurbhanj and Nayagarh besides one in Khurda. Another person in Khurda is a close contact of a West Bengal returnee. With this, the number of positive cases in Ganjam went up to 277 while those in Jajpur touched 122. The number of positive cases in Balasore also crossed 100 and is now 102. Additional chief secretary (health) Pradipta Kumar Mohapatra said keeping in view the impending cyclone, the health department has asked the district collectors of Balasore, Bhadrak, Kendrapada and Jagatsinghpur to relocate temporary medical centres within 3 km from the seashore to safer places. “Special medical teams have been constituted to oversee the situation in these districts. Covid test of people in quarantine centres in these areas are being done on priority so that those testing negative can be moved to home quarantine,” Mohapatra said. He also said that the government is taking steps to ensure adequate stock of fuel, generator, medicines, anti-venom injections and bleaching powder in these districts. As many as 17,855 more Odisha natives returned to the state on Saturday, increasing the number of returnees to 1,33,245. Among them, 55,567 returned to Ganjam while 11,368 returned to Balasore and 8198 to Cuttack. “The health condition of migrants are being checked on a daily basis in the quarantine centres. Those showing symptoms are being shifted to Covid care centres,” Mohapatra added. Currently, 718 people are in hospital isolation. EoM||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/returnees-add-to-state-covid-count-with-65-more-testing-ve/articleshow/75782052.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Kochi||Dubai flight lands in Kochi in Vande Bharat phase-II||KOCHI: The phase-2 of Vande Bharat Mission has begun as a repatriation flight carrying Keralites stranded in the United Arab Emirates reached Kochi on Saturday evening. The Air India Express flight (IX 434) from Dubai carrying 181 passengers, including four infants, landed at Cochin International Airport Ltd (Cial) at 6:27pm as scheduled. Also, a ferry flight that arrived from Saudi Arabia has flown back from Kochi with 235 Keralites, most of them working as medical professionals there. The Saudi Airlines flight (SV 775) from Riyadh was specially sent by the Saudi government to airlift the Malayali medical workers who got stuck in Kerala due to the lockdown. The flight left Cial at 6:50pm. The health check of all passengers was done and one woman was found symptomatic. She was sent to the isolation ward of Ernakulam Medical College, Kalamassery. As part of phase-2, there will be 19 flights to Kochi till June 3. Ten flights are operated by Air India and nine by Air India Express. There will be stopover flights (via Delhi/Mumbai/Bangalore) from San Francisco, Melbourne, Paris, London, Rome, Dublin, Yerevan (Armenia), Kyiv (Ukraine) and Manila (Philippines). The direct flights are from Dubai, Abu Dhabi, Muscat, Doha and Kuala Lumpur. Air India will operate wide-body aircraft for bringing Indians from far-off countries. 187 pravasis return from Abu DhabiRepatriation flight of Air India carrying 187 stranded Indians returned from Abu Dhabi to Karipur on Saturday night. Among the total passengers of the special flight, one person is from Mahe and another is from Tamil Nadu. The remaining 185 passengers are from Malappuram (93), Alappuzha (1), Ernakulam (1), Kannur (13), Kollam (2), Kozhikode (51), Palakkad (16), Thrissur (1) and Wayanad (7) districts. Five persons of above-65 age group, 23 children and 21 pregnant women are among the passengers of special flight. They would be allowed to be in home quarantine. Others would be shifted to Covid care centres in different districts by KSRTC buses. Symptomatic persons would be directly shifted to Kozhikode and Manjeri medical colleges. Meanwhile, the district medical authorities have decided to increase number of Covid tests at Covid lab in government medical college Manjeri. Currently, 100 to 150 samples are tested at the lab daily. Hospital authorities have decided to appoint additional staff at the lab and NHM authorities have started procedures to recruit staff.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/dubai-flight-lands-in-kochi-in-vande-bharat-phase-ii/articleshow/75781247.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Nashik||Jalgaon’s Amalner emerges as new Covid hotspot in N Maha||Nashik: Amalner taluka of Jalgaon district has emerged as a Covid-19 hotspot in north Maharashtra. State government sources said the scenario is Amalner is gradually turning out to be like Malegaon town of Nashik district. Although the number of cases in Amalner is fewer then in Malegaon, the population here is smaller too. “The state government is paying special attention to Amalner ⁠— as it is doing in the case of Malegaon ⁠— to prevent the spread of the infection,” added senior government sources. So far, 104 positive cases have been reported from Amalner taluka and nine of them have succumbed to the infection. Also, 27 patients have been discharged after recovery. At present, there are 10 containment zones in Amalner, including nine within the jurisdiction of the Amalner municipal council. Sources in the civic body said that the old areas of Amalner are very congested, aiding in the spread of the infection. According to sources in the Jalgaon government medical college and hospital, the majority of the Covid-19 patients who died in the hospital were brought in serious conditions. “The situation in the taluka is improving. In the last couple of days, there have been no positive cases from the taluka. The local authorities are undertaking a survey of the 28,000-strong population in the taluka to detect Covid-19 patients and quarantine them,” medical officer of Amalner municipal hospital Vilas Mahajan told TOI. The infection first spread here after an owner of a grocery shop tested positive for the novel coronavirus. Thereafter, about 30 of his family members and close relatives tested positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/jalgaons-amalner-emerges-as-new-covid-hotspot-in-n-maha/articleshow/75781228.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Goa||Turtle carcass washes ashore at Sernabatim||Colva: A large Olive Ridley turtle was found dead on Sernabatim beach on Saturday morning. The shell of the endangered turtle was cracked open, but it could not be ascertained whether it landed on the beach injured or was already dead. Deputy conservator of forests Anil Shetgaonkar sent his personnel to pick up the carcass.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/turtle-carcass-washes-ashore-at-sernabatim/articleshow/75783197.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Jaipur||BJP accuses Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot of playing politics over stimulus package||JAIPUR: BJP state president Satish Poonia has accused chief minister Ashok Gehlot of playing politics over the stimulus package by the central government rather than focusing on providing relief to the state’s residents suffering due to the effects of Covid-19. In a press conference held on Saturday, Poonia questioned the state government for creating a problem by not running trains for both inbound and outbound migrants. “It is unfortunate that despite railway minister Piyush Goyal offering an end number of trains to all the states, the Congress-ruled states, including Rajasthan, are playing politics by not running required number of trains. Due to their politics, migrants are marching to their homes on foot,” Poonia said. Reacting on Gehlot’s video conference with the BJP MLAs and MPs recently, Poonia said it turned out to be a public relations stunt by the CM for taking suggestions from everyone, but not implementing a single suggestion to contain the situation. “Our party leaders have raised several issues, but the government showed no interest in taking the opposition along,” Poonia added. He questioned the state government for reducing the number of tests in the hotspots, including the Ramganj area of Jaipur. He said testing being increased in areas outside Ramganj shows the government is hiding something. Leader of opposition Gulab Chand Kataria has called out the government for registering over 16 lakh inbound migrants who showed interest in heading home, but not making any efforts for the same. Kataria said, “The government allowed only 16 trains for inbound migrants and if this speed continued, then it will take another six months to bring back all the migrants.” Kataria also asked the government to nullify the Dholpur district administration’s gag order on news portals for publishing and disseminating any information which can be termed as journalistic activity. Notably, the Dholpur and Kota district collectors issued orders preventing news portals which are not registered from publishing or uploading any information that can be news.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bjp-accuses-gehlot-of-playing-politics-over-stimulus-package/articleshow/75783033.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Udaipur||Online wedlock for Rajasthan groom in coronavirus hotspot and bride in Maharashtra||UDAIPUR: Coronavirus lockdowns and travel restrictions have forced people around the world to delay their nuptials but this couple from two states, 650 kilometers away from each other, were too ‘desperate’ to get married that they took the virtual way. Saurav Jain, the groom from Adarsh Colony in Nimbahera town of Chittorgarh and bride Shraddha Kothari, daughter of Heeralal Kothari from Aurangabad in Maharashtra, entered into wedlock through live streaming on Friday. A pandit in Aurangabad read aloud the mantra from his home, while the bride and groom, in their respective homes with parents and close relatives, connected through video conferencing and performed the marriage rituals. A day before wedding, other programmes like Ganapati sthapana, mehndi, haldi and ladies sangeet too were performed the same way. “Ours is a love marriage and we were engaged in November last year. We have been in a relationship for 6-7 years and inspite of being from the same caste, Shraddha’s family was a bit hesitant in accepting our union because of the distance between our cities, they wanted her to settle in Maharashtra only,” Saurav told TOI. The couple managed to convince their families and the wedding was decided for May 15 at Nimbahera. The lockdown, however, played a spoilsport. “We thought everything would be normal maybe within a month and hence did not cancel the bookings but as Nimbahera too turned into a corona hotspot, our families suggested to postpone the wedding,” Saurav said. The couple feared that the delay in marriage could cause complications further if any of the elders in the family changed their mind and reconsidered the alliance. To avoid such a situation, Saurav suggested the online wedding idea, which was agreed to after initial reservations. The families have accepted the virtual wedding as a real one. “The pandit solemnized the wedding as per the vedic rituals. Few things like jaimala, mangalsutra, sindoor bharai and saptapadi (pheras) would be performed later on in our reception which we plan to organise in Udaipur soon after the lockdown is lifted,” said Saurav. The groom owns a production house and makes documentaries and short films, while the bride is an actress working in serials aired on Marathi channels. Saurav’s father Sushil Jain has pledged to donate a percentage of the amount, which he had planned to spend on the wedding, for social cause.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/online-wedlock-for-raj-groom-incorona-hotspot-bride-in-maha/articleshow/75783032.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Nagpur||Day Two: Liquor sale led to more than Rs 1 crore in revenue for govt||Nagpur: The government earned around more than Rs1 crore revenue from the liquor trade on the second day on Saturday after the ban was lifted amid much debate and speculation. On the first day, transactions of more than Rs17.77 crores were reported in the district.After the ban was lifted on the first day on Friday, there was sale of around Rs16.96 lakh for country liquor and another Rs17.32 crores for foreign liquor.Revenue of around Rs92.97 lakhs was generated for the government coffers after the first day sale. More than Rs4.9 lakh was collected through issuing of 359 permits for the consumers. It’s learnt that on the first day, the counter sale had to be stopped after over-crowding and chaos were noticed. Soumitra Bose | tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/day-two-liquor-sale-led-to-more-than-rs-1-crore-in-revenue-for-govt/articleshow/75782663.cms||Soumitra Bose
May 17, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Cyclone may affect 7L in coastal Odisha, CM makes saving lives the priority||Bhubaneswar: Nearly seven lakh people living in 649 villages of coastal Odisha could be severely affected by Cyclone Amphan, the state government said on Saturday based on initial projection by the India Meteorological Department (IMD) which also hinted that the landfall may be in West Bengal. “As always, saving lives is our priority. We should put our best efforts to save every precious human life,” chief minister Naveen Patnaik said while reviewing the state’s preparedness in a video-conference with senior officials and collectors of the districts likely to be affected by the cyclone. Quoting the IMD, chief minister Naveen Patnaik said the districts of Ganjam, Puri, Jagatsinghpur, Kendrapada, Bhadrak, Balasore, Mayurbhanj, Jajpur, Cuttack, Khurda, Nayagarh, Gajapati could be affected by strong wind and heavy rainfall. Government authorities anticipate the impact may be very severe in the districts of Balasore, Bhadrak, Jagatsinghpur and Kendrapda. A statement from the chief minister’s office said preparations are on to accommodate 11 lakh people in 567 cyclone centres and 7000 other concrete buildings. Three teams of National Disaster Response Force (NDRF), 12 teams of Odisha Disaster Rapid Action Force (ODRAF) and 355 units of Odisha Fire Services personnel are being deployed to tackle the situation. Chief secretary Asit Tripahy said standing crops in lakhs of hectares, particularly paddy ripe for harvesting, pulses, oil seeds, cashew, mango, coconut and vegetables are likely to be damaged in the heavy rainfall and wind that the cyclone is expected to bring. An IMD Bhubaneswar bulletin issued at 5.30 pm said the depression over southeast Bay of Bengal and its neighbourhood is likely to intensify into a cyclonic storm during the next 12 hours. It is expected to turn into a severe cyclonic storm during the subsequent 24 hours and rapidly turn into a very severe cyclonic storm by Monday morning. It is very likely to move north north-westward initially till Sunday and then re-curve north north-eastward across northwest Bay of Bengal towards West Bengal and adjoining Odisha coasts between Monday and Wednesday. The IMD said wind speed on the Odisha coast could be between 45 km to 55 km per hour (gushing up to 65kmph) on Tuesday and may increase to 75 km to 85 km per hour (gushing up to 95 kmph) on Wednesday. The chief secretary said 403 cyclone shelters have already been identified in the areas likely to be affected. Around 105 such shelters are presently being used as temporary medical camps and quarantine centres for Covid-19 care. “Covid test of those staying in these centres are being done expeditiously so that persons testing negative can be sent to home quarantine. As a contingency, alternative buildings have been identified for use as cyclone shelters, in case the need arises,” said Tripthay who has conveyed the developments to cabinet secretary Rajiv Gauba. Meanwhile, following discussion with the Centre, the state has decided not to allow Shramik special trains to coastal Odisha between Tuesday and Thursday, an official said. EoM||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/cyclone-may-affect-7l-in-coastal-odisha-cm-makes-saving-lives-the-priority/articleshow/75782064.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Bhopal||Allow markets, malls in safe zones to open: Madhya Pradesh traders||BHOPAL: Paralysed after almost two months of coronavirus-triggered lockdown , the industry, trade and service sector is restless ahead of the Lockdown-4.0 beginning May 18. There has been a growing demand to revive “earnestly” the businesses and markets to put the economy back on the track. Business organisations have also recommended several steps to the government to revive the production in factories and reopen the shopping complexes, markets and malls. The business community is demanding to open the markets with an argument that if the trade of essential commodities and pharmaceutical sector could start, then other shops could also start as well. The state unit of the Shopping Centres Association of India (SCAI) has also “requested” the government to revive the business of malls and shopping complexes. While malls and markets wait for the government’s nod to restart their businesses, the industrial estates, many of which got the permission to operate units, face an all together different problem. The problem is contradictions in government orders. Referring to the issues faced by the industrialists of Madhya Pradesh, president of the Confederation of MP for Industry, Service and Trade (COMPIST) Govind Goyal said, “On one hand, the government issues circulars — one after another — to open the industries, on the other hand district administrations deny. The government must chalk out strategy to revive the business as soon as possible as the unemployment will create an altogether different problem.” A recent survey of Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FICCI) has also recommended “Smooth movement of raw material and finished goods; ensuring availability of trucks, drivers and loaders among others .” It has also recommended “Approvals to mobilise workforce from non-containment zones of Red Zone cities like Bhopal, Indore to nearby notified industrial areas.” FICCI said that 80% of industries come under Red and Orange zones defined for the Covid19 — 54.7% in red while 25.6% in orange zones. President of the Federation of MP Chambers of Commerce and Industry Dr RS Goswami said, “Sincere efforts are required to start the industrial areas. The government should also renew the licences of all the industries for the next 10 years and the fees can be deducted from the subsidies given to the MSMEs”. Gautam Bhandari, president of Pithampur Audhogik Kendra said, “The government orders to open the industrial areas are not implemented in letter and spirit. How would skilled workers, managers and supervisors move out of Indore, a red zone?” More than 500 industries have got permission, but hardly 200 are working. “Even those units which are opened, they are opened for maintenance of machines and equipment,” he said. “There are many demands from the government, but then you need someone to give a positive response. Even in the last meeting with the MSME department, we asked for waiving off the minimum and fixed heads of the power charges and defer the state GST for one year among others.” There is a huge problem of labourers, looking at the crisis, many of them are demanding advance payment of three months of wages as one of the conditions to return from places in Madhya Pradesh. The SCAI urged the government to consider the graded opening of shopping centres and malls in Madhya Pradesh, which are not situated in containment zones. “The SCAI members drawing on their collective experience over the years, have devised state-of-the-art and comprehensive standard operating procedures (SOPs) that address each and every process and aspect of efficient and safe functioning of shopping centres and malls amidst such testing time,” the MP writes to the chief minister. The SCAI also shared a summary of the SOPs to be followed in case the malls and shopping centres are permitted to start.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/allow-markets-malls-in-safe-zones-to-open-traders/articleshow/75782061.cms||Deshdeep Saxena
May 17, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: At least 33 per cent staff needed to reopen campus, demand colleges||BHOPAL: With the start of Lockdown-4.0 from May 18, the colleges have also raised their demands. A delegation of representatives from engineering colleges met Governor Lalji Tandon and presented a memorandum to press for their demands. Colleges said that the administrative staff of the colleges should be allowed to function. “All activists of the colleges are closed for past two months. It will take sometime to resume work, if we are asked to open the campus. Therefore, administrative staff should be allowed to work with at least 33% of total staff. It will help in opening the campus properly. Else, it will be a big problem in opening the campus,” said JN Chouksey, chairman of association of professional and technical institutes. He said the state government should ensure that the scholarship amount of SC/ST and OBC students may kindly be released as early as possible. “Scholarship is credited to students’ accounts as Direct Beneficiary Transfer, it is requested that this time it may kindly be transferred to college account, so that colleges can pay salary of April and May,” said Chouksey. He also urged that the technical university of Madhya Pradesh (RGPV, Bhopal) and Barkatullah University, Bhopal may kindly be advised not to take affiliation fee for the year 2020-21. The association also demanded that discoms should not charge any fixed charges on electricity bills and only the actual unit consumption charges should be billed for the month of April, May and June 2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/at-least-33-staff-needed-to-reopen-campus-colleges/articleshow/75782080.cms||Ramendra Singh
May 17, 2020||Delhi||What’s in the online cart?Masks, sanitisers, gloves||New Delhi: What are the “new essentials” that the National Capital Region is ordering online? Apart from the the usual grocery items, masks, sanitisers, gloves and face shields topped the shopping list of people in March with such products becoming an integral part of their lives, according to e-commerce companies.A spokesperson of Snapdeal said, “The NCR alone accounted for 22% of the masks sold across India. Gurgaon had the largest market share of 30%, Noida and Greater Noida 22%, Delhi and Ghaziabad 18% each and Faridabad 9%. The sale of masks has more than tripled in the last 30 days because of greater awareness, easy availability and reduced prices.”“The sale of hand sanitisers went up by 60% in the last one month with 500ml and multi-pack bottles of 50-60ml being the most preferred. Just like masks, Gurgaon was the biggest market accounting for 40% of sanitiser sales in the NCR. Orders for personal protection equipment like face shields, shoe covers and goggles have also gone up,” the spokesperson added.While non-essential items can’t be delivered in Delhi as it is a red zone, e-commerce companies have started taking orders for permitted items from neighbouring Gurgaon and Ghaziabad. Industry insiders revealed that a substantially high volume of Delhi customers searched for smartphones, laptops, headphones, laptops and phone chargers, books and stationery, among other non-essential products.An Amazon India spokesperson said, “Sellers on our platform have received orders for smart devices, electronics, kitchen appliances, clothes, toys and games and other work and study from home products from customers in orange and green zones.”“As we support the economic revival of small and medium businesses, we urge the government to allow an expanded list of priority products in red zones. This will not only serve urgent needs and spruce up economic activity, but also ensure safety of citizens in a high-risk area,” added the spokesperson.Asked for comments, Flipkart said it didn’t have anything to share regarding online shopping trends at the moment.The next on the most-searched list after masks, sanitisers and smart devices were personal grooming products such as trimmers, shavers and hair removal products, followed by weighing scales and blood pressure monitors.With the onset of summer, customers also searched for airconditioners, coolers, fans and refrigerators in the appliances category. Summer also meant a demand for men’s T-shirts and shorts, kurtis for women and western summer dresses, apart from innerwear and nightwear. People also looked at buying kitchen and home appliances such as toasters, dishwashers, mixers, blenders and grinders.With families spending a lot of time together, board games like Ludo, Chess, Carrom and Monopoly have become popular again, apart from PC games and toys. Books remained a favourite with customers looking for both fiction and non-fiction or textbook genres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/whats-in-the-online-cartmasks-sanitisers-gloves/articleshow/75795197.cms||Sidharatha Roy
May 17, 2020||Nashik||3 new containment zones drawn up in Nashik city||Nashik: Three more containment zones were chalked out in Nashik city after fresh Covid-19 cases were detected on Friday night. This has taken the tally of containment zones in Nashik to 27. After two people working at the Nashik civil hospital tested positive for Covid-19, containment zones were drawn up in Kumbharwada in the Old City area and Siddheshwar Nagar in Dasak. The third positive case was reported from Gosavi Wadi in Nashik Road, where the exercise of tracing the close contacts of the patient is underway. Commissioner of Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) Radhakrishna Game visited the containment zones on Saturday and assured the residents every possible help that the civic administration could give. While visiting the area, Game directed shifting the civic clinic from Rangar Wada to NMC school 36. He also issued instructions to start another health centre at a building in the area used by the administration during Simhastha Kumbha mela. He also ensured that disinfection drives and other cleanliness-related activities were being undertaken at the containment zones. Meanwhile, the recovery rate of Covid-19 patients in Nashik district is steadily improving. While 71% of the total Covid-19 patients in Nashik city and Malegaon have recovered and been discharged from the hospitals, 51% of the patients have been cured in Nashik rural. Of the 775 Covid-19 positive patients in the district, 534 patients have recovered taking the recovery rate to 68%. Of the 45 patients detected in Nashik city, 32 have been released. The total number of active cases in the city stands at 13, including the three new cases detected on Friday. 428 of the 602 positive patients identified in Malegaon have been discharged. Official sources said that the containment zones would remain in effect 28 days from the day the first positive case was reported, provided there were no new positive cases thereafter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/3-new-containment-zones-drawn-up-in-nashik-city/articleshow/75781257.cms||Abhilash Botekar
May 17, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Major street of Silk City a no-go zone||Berhampur: Shankarpur street, located in busy market area of Silk City, the biggest business hub of southern Odisha, became a no-go zone from Friday night. Berhampur Municipal Corporation (BeMC) declared the area as access control zone apprehending several residents in the area might come in contact with Covid-19 positive patients. “On the basis of local inputs, it is apprehended that persons residing in the area might come in contact with some Covid-19 positive persons. It is necessary to declare the street as access control zone to safeguard the public and control the spread of Covid-19,” said BeMC commissioner Chakravarti Singh Rathore. Since the street is located in the wholesale market in Bada Bazaar, the major business centre of the city, hundreds of people across the district visit the area daily for business purposes. The measure of the civic body will help restrict community spreading of the virus in the city, said the commissioner. “No public will be allowed to move into the access control zone. All the residents of the area will remain in the home quarantine till the further order,” said Rathore. All the business establishments may be closed immediately, he ordered. Around 150 families are residing in the street. BeMC authorities, however, did not clarify if any Covid-19 positive patient was found in the area. The supply of essentials and medical requirement will be ensured by the civic body through different teams formed by the corporation, he said. The civic body has entrusted four officers in the area with strict surveillance measures and supply the requirements to the residents following the imposition of restriction, an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/major-street-of-silk-city-a-no-go-zone/articleshow/75782086.cms||Hrusikesh Mohanty
May 17, 2020||Kochi||Route map of Idukki Covid-19 patient released||KOTTAYAM: The Idukki district administration on Saturday has released the route map of the district’s only Covid-19 patient from Nedunkandam block. A bakery owner, 39, who contracted coronavirus was identified in the sentinel surveillence conducted by the health department in Idukki on Thursday. He resides in Karunapuram panchayat of Nedumkandam block and the bakery is in Puttady of Vandanmedu panchayat. The person remained at home due to lockdown during March 23-May 2. In between, he visited the ration shop near his house and the grocery shop. On May 3, he went to Puttady to clean his shop. He travelled in his own rickshaw and was in the shop for less than an hour. During May 4-10, he travelled to the bakery that functioned from 7.30am-5pm. On May 11, he went to Kattappana taluk hospital for swab collection. He visited Maliyekkal agency and E M Baby agency in Kattappana. He also went to the petrol pump in Puliyanmala. On May 12 and 13 he travelled alone in his vehicle to the bakery. On May 14, he worked at the shop till 3pm. He was then admitted to the government hospital in Thodupuzha. The district administration has urged people present at these places during his visit to report to the Covid control cell or helpdesk. Contact number is 04862 233130, 232221.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/route-map-of-idukki-covid-patient-released/articleshow/75781275.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Rajkot||Covid positive woman’s joy doubles, delivers healthy twins||PALANPUR: It was a risky proposition all the way. She is 30, pregnant with twins, one of which was breech (oblique) and on top of it, she herself is infected with coronavirus. Therefore, doctors at the Vadnagar medical college knew that their task was uphill informed the relatives about the critical situation and sought permission before risking an operation. However, that’s all in the past when the mother of two from Malipur village, a containment zone located 5km from Vadnagar, delivered a set of healthy twins — a boy and a girl — on Saturday. The icing on the story is that that all the three of them are safe, said HD Palekar, medical superintendent of the college. After testing positive for Covid-19, the woman was admitted in the Vadnagar medical college in Mehsana district. Looking at the risks involved with her operation and infection, the doctors were worried about her and the babies’ safety. The relatives knew their chances and relied on the experts. “We arranged a separate operation theatre and our medical team carried out the operation that took quite long. Finally, the team was successful in their tough task. The patient is being given treatment in accordance with health ministry guidelines and she too is responding well. Both the babies are healthy, though their Covid tests can be done only after 24 hours of birth and on Monday,” said Palekar. Palekar further added that the doctors in the hospital added a feather to their cap of achievements by undertaking the first such risky operation probably since its inception.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/covid-positive-womans-joy-doubles-delivers-healthy-twins/articleshow/75782084.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Residents pan Covid-19 centre plan for Wankhede stadium||MUMBAI: Several Marine Drive residents have opposed the BMC’s move to set up a Covid-19 care centre at Wankhede Stadium in their neighbourhood. Raj Purohit, vice-president of Garware Club House, located inside Wankhede premises, wrote a strongly worded letter to BMC commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal on Saturday to oppose the decision. TOI reported on Saturday that the BMC has taken over Wankhede and Brabourne stadiums for Covid-19 care in preparation for a “worst-case scenario” due to a marked rise in cases. “I would like to bring to your notice that the Wankhede Stadium is surrounded by highly well-known destinations like the Marine Drive, Nariman Point, Churchgate, Queen’s Road, New Marine Lines, Cooperage and the Oval Maidan. The residents and the businessmen of the area have become afraid after they came to know about the starting of the coronavirus treatment centre and quarantine/isolation centres at the Wankhede Stadium, which is near their houses. Representatives of various residents and business associations approached me in large numbers to strongly oppose this move,” wrote Purohit, a former Maharashtra cabinet minister, a six-time MLA and a senior BJP leader, in his letter to the BMC. Purohit sent a copy of the letter to police commissioner Parambir Singh. Dhruv Sayani, who resides in a building on D Road opposite the stadium, said, “There are many other open spaces in non-residential areas that the BMC can use for this purpose, including Azad Maidan and the gymkhanas ahead of Marine Drive. There is no need to make this area a ‘red zone’ by using Wankhede Stadium, which is surrounded by residential buildings with a high ratio of senior citizens.” Shailesh Shah, a 64-year-old resident of C Road, said while he supports the BMC’s Covid measures, the civic body has several open spaces that could be taken over first. “We residents need to stop Wankhede stadium facilities from being taken over for Covid-19 care. The main reason is that Marine Drive and Churchgate are residential areas and least affected by Covid-19 for now,” said Aditya Dalmia, a resident of Vishnu Mahal located opposite the stadium. “All buildings in our area are old and a majority of the residents are retired senior citizens. It is extremely wrong to make a Covid-19 quarantine facility in the middle of such a zone which has the most vulnerable population,” he said, Naresh Kapur, a member of International Human Rights Council and a resident of C Road, said, “This is against the ministry of health, government of India, guidelines which state that no quarantine centre can be set up in a residential area.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/residents-pan-covid-centre-plan-for-wankhede/articleshow/75782667.cms||Gaurav Gupta
May 17, 2020||Nashik||Nashik admin closely monitors cases in district||Nashik: Although industries and shops in the city and the district have started functioning with limited numbers of employees and social distancing norms, the Nashik district administration has warned that it would be forced to shut down these establishments in case there is even limited community spread of the novel coronavirus. Though the number of positive cases reported daily has slowed down a bit, the administration warned it could not be claimed that the district was in a safe zone and things are going to improve from here on. “With restrictions relaxed significantly in the third phase of the lockdown, trade and industrial units have opened up since May 4 with certain norms. By the end of the fortnight (May 20), we will get to know if the people are taking adequate precautionary measures to contain Covid-19 or not. The slightest abnormal rise in the number of patients will call for serious action by the administration in the form of withdrawal of the relaxations,” the officer said. The officer also hinted that the lockdown 4.0 could see more shops in and around complexes or malls opening on alternate days. The officer, however, struck down any chances of the public transport system being restarted any time soon, though radio cabs could be cautiously allowed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-admin-closely-monitors-cases-in-district/articleshow/75781271.cms||Abhilash Botekar
May 17, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: Relax transport, workforce rules to revive business, say industry bodies||BHOPAL: As Madhya Pradesh government prepares blueprint for lockdown 4.0, industries in the region hope for restriction-free environment with smooth movement of goods and mobilizing workforce from non-containment zones to industrial areas. Industries demanded smooth movement of transport vehicles and workforce claiming manufacturing units cannot run in isolation as delay in supply of raw material and dispatch of finished goods is adversely hampering productivity in factories. They sought relaxation on movement of workforce from non-containment zones of red zones to notified industrial belts Pithampur and Dewas. Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FICCI) MP chairman Dinesh Patidar said, “In red zones, manufacturing could be allowed with specific standard operating procedures including entry and exit of workers. Smooth movement of raw material and finished goods should be ensured for industries to operate efficiently.” Ahead of kharif sowing season, FICCI has stressed on the manufacturing and market availability of farm machinery stating any kind of delay or miss on cropping window may lead to shortage of produce. Industries also asked the government to release pending Goods and Services Tax and subsidy refunds to ease liquidity crunch in the market. CII Madhya Pradesh State Council’s vice-chairman Saurabh Sangla said, “Manufacturing units should be allowed to run at 70% capacity in all shifts to achieve their break-even cost. Government should also focus on easing liquidity crunch in market by releasing blocked refunds after quick verification.” Industry demanded government to allow correspondence with banks and government offices through digital mode without the need to submit physical documents for time being. Industry associations demanded permission to operate without a cap on number of workers and productivity, claiming this will help stop mass migration of workers to their native villages. Association of Industries Dewas president Ashok Khandelia said, “Capping number of workers in a shift is not going to solve any purpose, on the contrary it will hit productivity and overall economy. No industry would want to shut down by flouting safety norms.” Manufacturing units and textile mills have sought waiver of fixed electricity charges from March to June and demanded bill on actual consumption in line with other states like Punjab, Haryana, Andhra Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh. MP textile mills Association chairman Akhilesh Rathi said, “State government should offer a relief package to boost exports of textiles and clothing. Industries should get relaxation on rent and maintenance charges. Water bill should be calculated as per the actual consumption.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/relax-transport-workforce-rules-to-revive-business-say-industry-bodies/articleshow/75782097.cms||Meenakshi Sharma
May 17, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh: Cyclone Amphan to form over Bay today||VISAKHAPATNAM: Cyclone Amphan, 2020s first storm, will form over the Bay of Bengal on Sunday. The cyclone is not expected to affect Andhra Pradesh, but may cause light to moderate rain in parts of north-coastal Andhra Pradesh on Sunday, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD). According to V Vijaya Bhaskar, director of Cyclone Warning Centre (CWC) Visakhapatnam, a deep depression appeared over the sea on Saturday evening. The deep depression will turn into a storm on Sunday morning and then into a cyclone. IMD director K Nagaratna said that the size of the cyclone seems to be big as per observation and models. If the cyclone is big, there will obviously be large layers of outer bands of the storm. “The outer bands of the storm may cause light to moderate rains along coastal Andhra Pradesh, but it is still too early to predict. “We will get a clearer picture once the storm is formed,” Nagaratna said. While there may not be an impact on land, but fishermen are advised not to venture into the sea till the storm passes, said another senior IMD weatherman. The system moved at a speed of 5-6kmph on Saturday. Owing to the system’s slow movements, it may gain moisture and thus turn into a severe cyclone, said another expert from IMD. Sources informed that the Odisha government has already sounded a ‘red alert’ in 12 coastal districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/cyclone-amphan-to-form-over-bay-today/articleshow/75781280.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
May 17, 2020||Rajkot||Junagadh cops help a doctor reunite with her son in Thane||RAJKOT: It was a forced separation from her two-year-old son due to the lockdown order that tormented her the most. However, Pradeepsinh Jadeja, Junagadh deputy superintendent of police, brought to an end of Dr Disha Patel’s miseries by reuniting her with her son. “I practise in Thane of Maharashtra. My parents live in Junagadh. As my mother was taken ill, I had come to Junagadh. However, after the lockdown was enforced, I was unable to return to Thane,” says Dr Patel. For the past one-and-a-half month, Dr Patel had been stuck in Junagadh, not being able to return to her son in Thane. “Seeing my grandson crying for her mother through video call was heart-wrenching. To send my daughter back to Thane, I sought the help of Mr Jadeja, who along with traffic sub-inspector A C Zala, head constable Zaver Giri and deputy mamlatdar D K Baria coordinated with the district collectorate and helped my daughter procure a travel pass. After this, I drove my daughter in my car to Thane,” says Magan Poshiya, Dr Patel’s father and resident of Maheshweri Nagar near Sakkarbaug in Junagadh. The way the Junagadh police helped her, impressed Dr Patel so much that she called up Junagadh DySP office after reaching Thane and thanked the Junagadh police for extending their help. “By setting such an example, we have proved once again that police are a true friend of public,” said an official from the Junagadh DySP office.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/junagadh-cops-help-a-doctor-reunite-with-her-son-in-thane/articleshow/75782094.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Mumbai||Layoff compensation will be taxed as salary||MUMBAI: Layoffs, including in India, have been an inevitable fallout of the coronavirus pandemic. Typically, retrenchment compensation is given and employees need to be aware of the tax incidence. Owing to the narrow scope of the definition of a ‘workman’ under the Industrial Disputes Act (IDA), a plain, vanilla retrenchment compensation (say, 1-2 months’ salary) to a white-collar employee is likely to be classified, as a ‘profit in lieu of salary’ under section 17(3) of the Income Tax (I-T) Act. “On such ‘salary’ income, the employer will be required to deduct and deposit tax at source under section 192 of the I-T Act,” said Puneet Gupta, Director, People Advisory Services at EY India. A few years ago, a labour court in Chennai had held a retrenched senior service programmer at a large IT company to be a ‘workman’ — thus busting the myth that the definition applies only to blue-collar workers. However, based on facts, courts have also held otherwise. If an employee who is retrenched qualifies as a ‘workman’ and the retrenchment compensation paid is as per the provisions of the IDA, then under section 10(10B) of the I-T Act, an exemption of up to Rs 5 lakh can be claimed, with the balance compensation, if any, being taxed as salary income. However, the term ‘workman’ is narrowly defined. Gupta explained, “Under the IDA, any person who is engaged mainly in a managerial or administrative role is not a workman. It also rules out those who have a supervisory role and earn wages of more than Rs. 10,000 per month. Thus, not all retrenched employees will fall into its ambit.” Gautam Nayak, tax partner at CNK & Associates said, “Given the narrow definition of a workman under the IDA, the employer, in case of white-collar employees, is likely to err on the side of caution and will deduct TDS from the compensation amount.” He added that the employee could, at the time of filing his I-T return, claim that the amount is exempt under section 10(10B), but it's likely to result in litigation. “If the compensation sum is not significant, taking such a path is best avoided,” he said. Key employees, who have entered into non-disclosure agreements, and consequently on retrenchment are paid a given sum, will have to pay tax on this amount. “Post an amendment to section 56 of the I-T Act, it is no longer possible to treat such a one-off payment as a non-taxable capital receipt. If this compensation figure does not constitute profits in lieu of salary, it will be taxed as income from other sources,” said Nayak. The amendment could also cover compensation received from a foreign head office, said Gupta.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/layoff-compensation-will-be-taxed-as-salary/articleshow/75783046.cms||Lubna Kably
May 17, 2020||Jaipur||Amending Essential Commodities Act will benefit private players: Rajasthan farmers||JAIPUR: Farmers in Rajasthan on Saturday said the Centre must allow them to just sell their produce at minimum support price (MSP) anywhere in the country, and nothing less than that. Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Friday said the government will amend the Essential Commodities Act to enable better price realisation for farmers by opening up multiple channels to sell produce and deregulating agriculture produce like cereals, edible oils, oilseeds, pulses, onions and potato. They said, currently only 7% of the total agriculture produce is being sold at MSP in the country and the rest is sold at a cheaper rate. The move will only benefit the private buyers as they can purchase agriculture produce from anywhere in the country with a single license (i.e. one holding a license of a mandi in one state can purchase agriculture produce from any other state) and having no stock limits on produce will only encourage hoarding and lead to inflation. They further said the government of India, by doing this, is only trying to hide its weakness because it is unable to purchase food grains from the farmers and store it in FCI godowns. “There are no restrictions for the farmers to sell their produce anywhere in the country. Even now, they can sell their agriculture produce anywhere - be it in the mandis, markets, colonies or roadside. They can also go to other states and sell their produce. The government of India will only make it official now by amending the law. This move will only benefit the private buyers as they can purchase agriculture produce from anywhere in the country with a single licence. Only good thing is there will be no stock limit on these commodities. But, this will move also help the businessmen because it will encourage hoarding and lead to inflation,” said Dashrath Kumar, a farmer from Kota. “Instead, the government should have allowed them to sell their produce at MSP anywhere in the country. Nobody should be allowed to purchase the produce at a rate less than MSP. Else, the government should compensate the farmers. This move would have benefited the farmers,” he added. Another farmer from Banswara, Manilal Mandana, also echoed similar sentiments while saying, “Now, the farmers can sell their produce anywhere without any restrictions and can get profitable rates. This will benefit the farmers. Also, the private purchasers will not have to pay 2% mandi tax if they buy the produce from the farmers outside. But, the government should allow selling of maximum agriculture produce at MSP anywhere.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/amending-essential-commodities-act-will-benefit-private-players-farmers/articleshow/75783035.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru Urban produces 15% of Karnataka’s Covid-19 biomedical waste||BENGALURU: Karnataka has generated 135 tonnes of Covid-19 biomedical waste since March, of which 21 tonnes came from Bengaluru Urban alone, according to Karnataka State Pollution Control Board (KSPCB) data. The Trauma Care Centre at Victoria Hospital in Bengaluru, a dedicated Covid-19 facility, produces 300-350kg of Covid-19 biomedical waste per day, which is handed over to Medicare Environmental Management Private Ltd. Dr Asima Bhanu, infection control officer at the centre, says over 250kg comes from Personal Protection Equipment (PPE) kits alone. Bengaluru Urban, a red zone, has 107 active cases as on May 16. KSPCB identified 26 facilities in the state that are equipped to handle Covid-19 biomedical waste. They have dedicated vehicles, which pick up the waste from designated hospital and hotels. Donning PPEs, waste handlers disinfect the yellow bags before collecting them. “These facilities treat regular biomedical waste too. But Covid-19 biomedical waste is treated separately as per protocol. We are equipped to handle 15-20 times the biomedical waste being generated at present, in case the situation worsens in future. The incinerators used for all types of biomedical waste are the same, but it’s not mixed,” said Vijayakumar Gogi, chairman, KSPCB. “Data vary from day to day in every district, depending on the number of persons quarantined and Covid-19 cases,” said KSPCB officials. However, according to Seshi Reddy, AGM (operations), Medicare Environmental Management Private Ltd, his firm collects about 1 tonne of Covid-19 waste from institutional quarantine centres like hotels, designated Covid hospitals, the Trauma Care Centre and fever clinics in Bengaluru. “When we started collecting Covid-19 biomedical waste in March, the quantity wasn’t more than 200kg a day. But now, it has gone up to 1-2 tonnes. It largely comprises PPE kits and waste discarded by Covid-19 patients and quarantined individuals,” explained Reddy. According to KSPCB, which monitors daily data in each district, belongings of deceased persons like pillows, bed and blankets are also found in Covid-19 biomedical waste on some days. “This is a strange thing we have observed in some districts,” said Gogi. Box: Separate washing machine The Trauma Care Centre has a separate washing machine and drier to clean clothes and blankets of Covid-19 patients. The clothes, including hospital uniform, are disinfected twice with chemicals before they are washed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bluru-urban-produces-15-of-states-covid-biomedical-waste/articleshow/75782574.cms||Sunitha Rao R
May 17, 2020||Jodhpur||Jails in Rajasthan identifying spaces within premises to isolate coronavirus suspects||JODHPUR: Jails in Rajasthan are gearing up to receive prisoners, some of whom could be Covid-19 positive, once the lockdown is lifted. The jail authorities believe that as police and the courts get back to their normal routine after the lockdown ends, prisons across the state will receive new inmates. To deal with situations where new prisoners test positive for Covid-19, a move has been initiated to create separate spaces that would act as isolation or quarantine wards in jails. The authorities are identifying space within state jails that have not been of any significant use or have been left unused for long, to keep new inmates under isolation. “The move is aimed at creating more space in the central jails, especially with a view to accommodate new inmates that are expected to be received in bigger numbers in comparison to the lockdown period,” said DIG (Jail) Kailash Trivedi. In this pursuit of creating space, female inmates have been shifted to other jails so that the cells for them could be used for keeping the new inmates. “We have shifted female inmates of Jodhpur Central jail to Ajmer jail and have planned to keep the prisoners from Jodhpur, Phalodi and Bilara at Jodhpur jail,” Trivedi said. Similarly, female inmates from Kota have also been shifted to Ajmer, while those from Bharatpur and Alwar have been shifted to Jaipur Central Jail and so on. Terming it a temporary arrangement, Trivedi said the spurt in the number of inmates post-lockdown might take the government off-guard and the administration will rush for exploring a solution. “So, we are ensuring that adequate space is generated in jails well in time to ward off the threat of infection,” the officer said. Jodhpur Central Jail has received over 100 inmates in 50 days of lockdown and all of them have been kept at the industrial facilities of the jail. But since they are old buildings, the jail administration will be accommodating new inmates in the women’s jail, which is newly constructed. As a matter of fact, all jails have stepped up practicing precautionary measures with the reports of inmates in Jaipur Central Jail testing positive for Covid-19. The entire premises of Jodhpur central jail was sanitised twice on Saturday. District & Sessions judge Siddheshwar Puri also visited the jail on Saturday and gave necessary directions to the jail administration. It may be noted that by the order of the District Legal Services Authority, all the new inmates are being taken only after their screening by the district administration so as to avoid any prospect of infection on the jail premises.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/jails-identifying-spaces-within-premises-to-isolate-corona-suspects/articleshow/75783042.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Mangaluru||Padil cluster case: RGUHS team submits report to govt||Mangaluru: Did state health department carry out ‘surgical’ strike on the district health authorities? It seems so, if varying accounts on the probe that the state government had ordered on First Neuro Hospital, supervised isolation centre located in Padil, are anything to go by. While the district administration on Friday maintained that the team that the govenrment had set up was yet to visit, the authority that constituted the team said the report has been submitted. The government has ordered the probe with regard to the identification of P-0. The health department had directed Dr S Sacchidanand, vice-chancellor of Bengaluru-based Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences (RGUHS) to set up a team to probe the turn of events at the hospital. The two-member team, set up by Dr Sacchidanand, visited the hospital and submitted its report to the government. “The team comprised two doctors from a local medical college,” Dr Sacchidanand told STOI. Not going into the contents of the report or the committee’s brief, Dr Sacchidanand said that he had merely followed the directions given by the government. District health and family welfare officer Dr Ramachandra Bairy told STOI that he came to know about the RGUHS probe team through a WhatsApp forward on May 12. “I have no knowledge about their visit or their report,” he said, adding they would have presented all details that they had collected as part of their own probe had the team sought them. DC Sindhu B Rupesh, who confirmed the probe by a team under RGUHS at a press briefing on Friday, said the administration was not kept in the loop about the team’s visit nor was it aware about the team submitting the report to the government. In its interim report, a six-member expert committee led by Dr Bairy had sought time to examine reports of patients from Kerala who had undergone treatment there.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/padil-cluster-case-rguhs-team-submits-report-to-govt/articleshow/75780149.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
May 17, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: Cyber cops warn against online frauds||JAIPUR: The cyber cell has issued an advisory to be extra cautious while dealing with unknown numbers, links, apps and messages to avoid being duped by frauds. During the lockdown, 90% of the crime cases have been of financial frauds in which new ways, including calls for health details for coronavirus data, are being devised to dupe people. “As the lockdown is in place, people are devising ways to come up with fraud ideas. People have to be extremely cautious while dealing with unknown callers and even those which might be known to the person being called. Confidential information must not be shared irrespective of the purpose. This is the reason we regularly issue advisories/ suggestions,” said an official of the cyber crime cell, Jaipur. While selling on sites like OLX, Quicker and others, people also have to be careful as in many instances the conmen pretend to be buyers and claim that they will transfer the money in the seller’s account, but instead money is withdrawn using various methods of hacking if account details are shared. The advisory also says that a person should always use ATM card alone without taking help from strangers in the booth. Also ATM machines in isolated locations should be avoided as these are easy target for fraudsters who put skimmers on these ATMs. Unconfirmed and dubious SMSes and links should also not be forwarded. The official added, “While no bank asks for account details on phone, the one-time-password (OTP) must not be shared at any cost. In case a fraud does happen, then police must be informed immediately. Recently, we had a case in which we got information about the fraud soon after the money was deducted from the account. Although the money was deducted from the complainant’s account, we managed to stop it from getting transferred to the fraudster’s account.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cyber-cops-warn-against-online-frauds/articleshow/75783036.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Kozhikode||Kerala: Two more test Covid-19 positive in Palakkad||PALAKKAD: Two persons who had come from Dubai and Chennai have tested Covid-19 positive in the district on Saturday, taking the total number of Covid patients to 9 including a person from Malappuram district under treatment in the district hospital. Those tested Covid-19 positive are 43-year-old native of Pattambi who came from Dubai via Karipur airport on May 7 and a 49-year-old Karakurissi native who came from Chennai through Walayar check post on May 8, said district medical officer Dr K P Reetha. The man who came from Chennai was running a juice shop there and he came to Palakkad with 10 co-workers and a driver, in a tempo traveller with passes. His swab sample was collected at Mannarkkad taluk hospital on May 14 and he was sent back home for observation and his result came as positive on Saturday, the DMO said. The Pattambi man came from Dubai on May 7 through Karipur airport and went home in a taxi. He came home as his mother had passed away on May 5. He was under observation in his house at Pattambi. On May 14 he went to Ottapalam taluk hospital and his swab was sent for test. It tested positive on Saturday, she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/two-more-test-ve-in-palakkad/articleshow/75781331.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Ajmer||Jails in Rajasthan identifying spaces within premises to isolate coronavirus suspects||JODHPUR: Jails in Rajasthan are gearing up to receive prisoners, some of whom could be Covid-19 positive, once the lockdown is lifted. The jail authorities believe that as police and the courts get back to their normal routine after the lockdown ends, prisons across the state will receive new inmates. To deal with situations where new prisoners test positive for Covid-19, a move has been initiated to create separate spaces that would act as isolation or quarantine wards in jails. The authorities are identifying space within state jails that have not been of any significant use or have been left unused for long, to keep new inmates under isolation. “The move is aimed at creating more space in the central jails, especially with a view to accommodate new inmates that are expected to be received in bigger numbers in comparison to the lockdown period,” said DIG (Jail) Kailash Trivedi. In this pursuit of creating space, female inmates have been shifted to other jails so that the cells for them could be used for keeping the new inmates. “We have shifted female inmates of Jodhpur Central jail to Ajmer jail and have planned to keep the prisoners from Jodhpur, Phalodi and Bilara at Jodhpur jail,” Trivedi said. Similarly, female inmates from Kota have also been shifted to Ajmer, while those from Bharatpur and Alwar have been shifted to Jaipur Central Jail and so on. Terming it a temporary arrangement, Trivedi said the spurt in the number of inmates post-lockdown might take the government off-guard and the administration will rush for exploring a solution. “So, we are ensuring that adequate space is generated in jails well in time to ward off the threat of infection,” the officer said. Jodhpur Central Jail has received over 100 inmates in 50 days of lockdown and all of them have been kept at the industrial facilities of the jail. But since they are old buildings, the jail administration will be accommodating new inmates in the women’s jail, which is newly constructed. As a matter of fact, all jails have stepped up practicing precautionary measures with the reports of inmates in Jaipur Central Jail testing positive for Covid-19. The entire premises of Jodhpur central jail was sanitised twice on Saturday. District & Sessions judge Siddheshwar Puri also visited the jail on Saturday and gave necessary directions to the jail administration. It may be noted that by the order of the District Legal Services Authority, all the new inmates are being taken only after their screening by the district administration so as to avoid any prospect of infection on the jail premises.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/jails-identifying-spaces-within-premises-to-isolate-corona-suspects/articleshow/75783614.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Vadodara||Priest dies at SSG, family alleges medical negligence||VADODARA: A controversy surfaced at state-run SSG Hospital after 42-year-old priest of the famous Kashi Vishwanath temple at Lalbaug died early on Saturday morning. Family members of the deceased – Ashwin Dave – alleged negligence by a neurosurgeon, alleging that he did not attend the patient for at least three hours despite their desperate requests. Dave had had met with a road accident on May 11 when he had gone out to purchase some groceries. He was taken to SSG Hospital and discharged after treatment. “But his condition deteriorated on Friday and hence brought him to the SSG Hospital where doctors of orthopaedic department referred the case to neurosurgery department as his spinal cord had got damaged,” said another relative. SSG Hospital’s medical superintendent Dr Rajeev Daveshwar said that the hospital has asked the neurosurgery department to respond to the allegations in writing. “Prima facie, when the patient was first brought to our hospital, he was advised operation by the neurosurgeon. But the family members went against medical advice. We have this in writing with signatures of two members of the family,” said Dr Daveshwar. “On Friday, he was again brought to our hospital in unconscious state and was given the required treatment. But early morning, the family took him out of the hospital without the knowledge of the staff and and shifted him to some private hospital. I have been informed that the patient died outside our premises,” said Dr Daveshwar Authorities are still inquiring whether there was any lapse from the hospital side in handling the case. Hospital authorities, however, refuted the claims and said that Dave was twice shifted out of the hospital even as the doctors had advised him to undergo surgery. “Since my uncle was referred to neurosurgery department, I approached the doctor with the file at around 5.30am. He said he would reply after two hours. Even as I kept on insisting that the patient is critical and needs urgent attention, the doctor simply refused to listen to my pleas,” said Prathmesh Dave, the deceased’s nephew. Dave’s family members refused to take possession of the body, demanding action against the doctor. It was only after police intervened that the body was sent for post-mortem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/priest-dies-at-ssg-family-alleges-medical-negligence/articleshow/75780800.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Hubballi||Electricity bills leave Hescom customers shocked||Hubballi: Owing to personnel from the electricity supply companies not permitted to entering homes to take the reading from the meters, the government asked the authorities to collect a sum that was the average of three months’ bills. However, citizens were shocked when they beheld the amount that they were asked to pay. Many of them have taken to Twitter to decry the ‘loot’ by Hubballi Electricity Supply Company (Hescom). MP, a Twitter user from Bailhongal in Belagavi district, in his tweet, wherein he tagged @HubliHescom, complained that his bill was not the average, but the sum of two months’ bills. Tagging the Karnataka chief minister’s Twitter handle, @CMofKarnataka, he questioned the benefit that the residents had derived in paying their bills in advance, when they were being charged inflated rates. Shambuprasad, another Twitter user, asked the CM to judge if demanding such hefty sums in electricity bills did not amount to a ‘scam’. He affirmed that he would not settle the bill unless Hescom clarified how it had arrived at the sum. “What arrears have Hescom officials added to the bill, and how are we to trust them?” he asked. Venu G Soganadgi, another resident who took to social media to express his outrage at the exorbitant sum he had been asked to pay by Hescom, said, “On average, I paid a sum of Rs 1,000 in electricity bill per month. But this time, the sum was a staggering Rs 5,500. This is unreasonable even if the bill is for a period of two months.” Hescom, however, has been responding to all complaints. “The bill reflects the sum of two months’ power consumption, and cancelling the last month’s average bill. Payments, if made in April, are also being considered. The method that Hescom has adopted to generate bills is in accordance with the rules. For more information, citizens can contact the sub-division office,” said a Hescom statement. Veeresh Sharma, a businessman, opined that Hescom could have done the people a good turn by waiving charges during the lockdown. However, there are those who have been asked to pay bills, the amount of which is slightly lower than what they pay, on average every month. “Each month, the electricity bill we were asked to pay came up to Rs 900, but it was less by Rs 50 this time around. We are worried about receiving a much higher amount in the coming months now,” said Amit Kulkarni, a tax consultant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/electricity-bills-leave-hescom-customers-shocked/articleshow/75781102.cms||Sangamesh Menasinakai
May 17, 2020||India||J&K: Cop killed in Kulgam, 5 LeT workers held in Budgam||SRINAGAR: A head constable of J&K Police was killed when terrorists opened fire at a checkpoint in south Kashmir’s Kulgam district on Saturday, reports Saleem Pandit. The constable, Mohammad Amin Bagad, was shot in the head at the checkpoint in Kulgam’s Frisal Chowk. He was taken to a hospital but was declared brought dead by doctors. Meanwhile, in central Kashmir’s Budgam district, security forces busted a Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) module and arrested five overground workers and seized arms and ammunition from their hideout, police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/jk-cop-killed-in-kulgam-5-let-workers-held-in-budgam/articleshow/75783258.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Rajkot||Five Covid-19 patients discharged after recovery in Bhavnagar||RAJKOT: Five persons, including three from the same family, were discharged from Sir T hospital of Bhavnagar after they recovered from Covid-19 infection, on Saturday.According to doctors, Ranjitsinh Machchhar (27), Agam Vora (18), Anand Vora (18), Angi Vora (13) and Jubeda Pathan (38) were discharged on Saturday. All these patients are discharged as per new guidelines after completion of 10-day hospitalisation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/five-discharged-in-bhavnagar/articleshow/75782119.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Nagpur||Power use fell 19.7% last month, emissions down 11%||Nagpur: In the last one month, the country’s lockdown has led to electricity consumption plummeting 19.7%, finds a new data tracker developed by researchers at the Energy Policy Institute at the University of Chicago. The tracker also finds an 11% drop in particulate pollution during this period. The dynamic tracker, which shows the impact of the coronavirus on electricity consumption and particulate pollution, includes data not just for India but also for China and the United States among others. The tracker indicates that China’s electricity consumption dropped by approximately 15% in January. In the United States, demand has fallen by an average of 3.5% since the nationwide stay-at-home recommendations were issued, compared to December 2019. As reported by TOI last month, power consumption in the country has fallen by 18.72%. The emissions of particulate matter during the initial period of lockdown saw a nearly 7% decline. “A drop of 19.7% is a stark decline — larger than the reductions we have seen in China, the US, or Europe as a whole, and similar to Italy between mid-March and mid-April. This indicates that the Indian economy has been strongly affected by the Covid-19 pandemic and associated lockdowns, in line with the strict policy actions taken in India to stop the spread of the virus,” said Fiona Burlig, assistant professor at the University of Chicago Harris School of Public Policy. Burlig along with Anant Sudarshan, South Asia director of the Energy Policy Institute at the University of Chicago, and Steve Cicala, assistant professor at the University of Chicago Harris School of Public Policy, carried out the analysis presented in the tracker. Declining and increasing consumption has historically preceded economic recessions and recovery. Explaining why the findings of the tracker can be crucial, Sudarshan says, “A major challenge with fast-moving economic events like Covid-19 is that our normal statistics, which tell us about the health of the economy — GDP, job creation etc — are reported relatively slowly (often quarterly). Electricity consumption is a metric available in near-real-time, making it informative about the overall health of the economy as well as the response of the economy to policies like the nationwide lockdown.” Apart from indicating the electricity consumption pattern, the data tracker also gives insights into the situation of particulate pollution of different countries around the world. Talking about India, Sudarshan adds, “Particulate pollution is on average 11% lower than what would have been expected using a pre-Covid model of particulate matter. And that means that the declines we’re seeing are after adjusting for seasonality in particulate matter. We see the largest reductions in March (20% on average), while April levels are less low (6% on average).”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/power-use-fell-19-7-last-month-emissions-down-11/articleshow/75795700.cms||Manka Behl
May 17, 2020||Jaipur||Sodala elevated road work resumes after long break||Jaipur: The Jaipur Development Authority (JDA) began construction work of its long-pending infra project in the city, the Sodala elevated road on Saturday.After missing several deadlines in the past, the civic body had announced to complete the project by November 2020. But, in the aftermath of Covid-19, the work is now expected to be completed by March next year.Following the directions of UDH minister Shanti Dhariwal, the civic body resumed several works at construction site including segment launching, pier cap work near railway line and reinforcement of earth wall. JDA commissioner T Ravikanth said, “The elevated road from Ambedkar Circle to Sodala is being constructed after spending Rs 250 crore. The work has been resumed with intent to complete the project on time for public.”An official informed that partial work, which is constructing of launching segments, is being carried out in the casting yard at Mahapura. For this, 300 labourers are deployed, of which 200 are from outside states. “The project agency has provided accommodation and other necessary facilities to all the labourers. They are also adhering to the Covid-19 advisory issued by the state government,” he said.Once completed, the commuter would reach Sodala from Ambedkar Circle within 7 minutes via Hawa Sadak. Construction of the elevated road to decongest the area came to a grinding halt after the lockdown. An official said the JDA will launch 1,130 segments in the entire project. So far, around 760 segments have been completed. “It will take around a year to complete the project.”Sources added that the project, which was due to be completed in January 2019, has already been delayed almost by a year and is expected to be delayed further. According to a JDA source, the firm, Simplex Infrastructures, had also expressed helplessness to continue the project at the existing cost. A senior source at JDA said estimated cost of the road project between Ambedkar Circle and Sodala is Rs 250 crore. “The project cost has been increased by at least Rs 25 crore due to constant delays,” the JDA official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/sodala-elevated-road-work-resumes-after-long-break/articleshow/75783044.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Gurgaon||Workers’ bid to leave Gurugram in truck foiled||GURUGRAM: A driver and a migrant worker from West Bengal were arrested on Saturday after they were caught trying to leave the city in a truck from Ashok Vihar 3. Officers said they received a tip-off that a truck would leave from Chottu Ram Chowk with migrant workers to West Bengal. Acting on the information, a team from Sector 5 police station reached the spot just as the workers were climbing into the vehicle. “There were around 15 workers and they ran away when they saw us. We nabbed the truck driver — Jai Prakash — and a man named Rafiqul Islam who had planned the escape and negotiated with the truck driver,” said an officer. An FIR has been registered under sections 188 and 269 of the IPC. “He said that he will charge Rs 1.2 lakh irrespective of the number of people going in the truck,” Islam told the police. Cops have not yet been able to ascertain the total number of workers who were supposed to pay for the journey. This is the second such incident in the city this week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/workers-bid-to-leave-city-in-truck-foiled/articleshow/75782965.cms||Shubhra Pant
May 17, 2020||Bhopal||MP has sufficient capacity to conduct Covid-19 tests, says CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan||BHOPAL: Madhya Pradesh can handle the volume of samples for Covid-19 tests coming from across the state and there is no need to send the samples out of state, now, said chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan. Chouhan was reviewing the coronavirus situation in the state at mantralaya here on Saturday. He directed for compulsory health screening of migrant labourers returning from different states at the state borders. The chief minister also issued directives to district officials to make sure proper transport arrangements for the migrant workers “There should be no overloading in vehicles and social distancing norms must be maintained,” he said. Chief minister said as per the announcement of Prime Minister Narendra Modi free ration for two months is to be given to migrant workers of all states. Appropriate arrangements should be made for this. Chief secretary Iqbal Bains directed to prepare lists of such beneficiaries in all districts. During the review of Panna district, it was informed that a single Corona patient had come to the district from Mumbai who was now discharged after recovery. Now Panna is free of Corona infection. Additional chief secretary, health, Mohammad Suleman informed that record 5,828 Corona tests were conducted the in the state. Of these, 3,924 tests were done by 14 test labs and remaining 1904 in the labs outside the state. He informed that two Corona testing machines have arrived in Indore and one in Bhopal. Now there will be no need to have tests conducted outside the state. He said that Contact Tracing App is very useful for Corona related surveillance. It may be used in urban as well as rural areas. Additional chief secretary Manoj Shrivastava informed that employment has been given to about 20 lakh labourers under MNREGA. Wages are being paid to them. Chief minister directed that if migrant workers from other states seek job in MP, their job cards should be prepared and employment be given to them. Appropriate arrangements should be made to continue some works under MNREGA during monsoon. Principal secretary Sanjay Dube informed that so far over 3.4 lakh e-passes have been issued for movement in different places of the state. Now the number of calls for e-pass has reduced. DGP Vivek Johari also attended the meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/mp-has-sufficient-capacity-to-conduct-tests-says-cm/articleshow/75782132.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Jaipur||For fourth day, Rajasthan reports over 200 cases in a day as cases near 5,000 mark||JAIPUR: Bhilwara, which was praised for its ruthless containment strategy, reported seven more Covid-19 positive cases on Saturday taking the count to 50. Out of those are six migrants who had travelled from other states. Meanwhile, for four days in a row, For the state has reported more than 200 cases. As many as 213 persons tested positive on Saturday taking the tally to 4,960. One person died in Jaipur, the city’s 64th casualty and 126th in the state. In the last two days, one person has died across the state due to the infection. Districts which reported the cases are Jaipur (131), Dungarpur (27), Sirohi (10), Udaipur (9), Ajmer (7), Bhilwara (7), Jodhpur (7), Nagaur (3), Tonk (3), Barmer (1), Bharatpur (1), Bikaner (1), Chittorgarh (1), Jhunjhunu (1), Kota (1), Pali (1), Sikar (1), and one from another state. In Jaipur, 128 jail inmates tested positive in the last two days. The six migrants who tested positive in Bhilwara returned from Mumbai and Raigarh of Maharashtra and Surat from Gujarat. One of the six is a 23-year-old man from Mandal who returned from Mumbai on May 11 riding a bike with his friend who belongs to Rajsamand. He was employed at a dairy in Mumbai. Similarly, a 26-year-old man from Sahara in Bhilwara travelled from Raigarh on bike with his friend from Rajsamand on May 12. He has also tested positive. A shop owner, who sold items under the public distribution system in Surat and returned to his village along with his family and others by bus, tested positive. A driver of a truck who came from Delhi has also been diagnosed with Covid-19. Apart from Bhilwara, migrants are testing positive from different parts of the state. So far, 384 have been found infected with coronavirus since May 1. Out of those, 57 tested positive on Saturday including 24 in Dungarpur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/for-4th-day-state-reports-over-200-cases-in-a-day-as-cases-near-5k-mark/articleshow/75783048.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Jaipur||Lockdown effect: Ashes pile up in Jaipur crematoriums||JAIPUR: Crematoriums in the city are piling up with ashes of the deceased as their kin are unable to visit Haridwar or Pushkar for immersion of the remains due to lockdown. This has emerged as a big challenge for crematorium owners who are running out of space to keep the ashes. Halighati crematorium Prem Chandani administrator of says that the lockers provided at the crematoriums are full. “We provide lockers to people who can keep the ashes for a time being till they are able to go to Haridwar or Pushkar. People usually go for immersion on the third day of death but these are unusual times. For months, ashes are lying in the lockers. All the lockers are full and now we have to open our store room to make space for ashes,” said Chandani. Similarly, Cheelgati crematorium administrator Anil Sharma said because of space crunch, they are keeping containers of ashes in whatever place is available. “Lockers are full and we are forced to keep ashes on the floor. It will be a while when people will be able to travel for immersion. Till then we are expecting that piling up will continue,” said Sharma. Residents of the city are demanding some relaxation in rules for immersion. City resident Krishna Mahrishi said, “I went for a funeral of my close relative a few days back. The fact we were not able immerse the ashes has affected our family emotionally. I don’t know for how long this will continue, but the government should give us some passes to immerse it in Pushkar city.” Before lockdown relaxations, crematoriums were facing shortage of firewood.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/lockdown-effect-ashes-pile-up-in-crematoriums/articleshow/75783041.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Visakhapatnam||ENC gets ready for relief, rescue ops||Visakhapatnam: With the depression over south-eastern Bay of Bengal likely to intensify into a cyclonic storm over the next 12 hours, the Eastern Naval Command (ENC) is getting ready to provide necessary humanitarian assistance. ENC sources informed that Indian naval ships in Visakhapatnam are standing by to go to affected areas to undertake Humanitarian Aid Distress Relief (HADR), evacuation, offer logistical support as well as provide medical aid. The ships have additional divers, doctors, inflatable rubber boats as well as additional divers, doctors, inflatable rubber boats and relief material including food, tents, clothes, medicines and blankets. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/enc-gets-ready-for-relief-rescue-ops/articleshow/75781309.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Nagpur||Maharashtra: Jobless youth at quarantine centre ends life||YAVATMAL: A young labourer lodged at an institutional quarantine facility hanged self from a tree in Gondburada village under Maregaon police station on Saturday. According to sources in police, the deceased identified as Ramu Vithu Atram (23), a tribal, had fled from the quarantine centre at the local ZP primary school on the night of May 13. Neither the sarpanch nor the police patil noticed that the youth was missing, said sources. Atram and two of his friends Hanuman Atram (22) and Suresh Atram (21) were employed at a petrol tank manufacturing firm at Velu locality in Pune. After being rendered jobless due to lockdown, the trio had reached Yavatmal on May 11 by ST bus arranged by the government. They reached their native village Gondburada on foot the next day. The disaster management committee sent them to institutional quarantine facility. Nobody turned up to inquire about them and only tiffins were served to them from their homes, said sources. Sources said after passing away of his father, Ramu was responsible for well being of mother and two younger brothers. Maregaon police conducted the spot panchnama and sent the body for post mortem. Accidental death has been registered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/jobless-youth-at-quarantine-centre-ends-life/articleshow/75782683.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur's Jhalana forest sees rapid growth in leopard count||JAIPUR: Jhalana reserve forest, where the country’s first Project Leopard was started two years ago, is becoming a nursery for leopards in the state. This year has seen a rapid growth in leopard population at the city’s Jhalana Leopard Safari Park. The most recent sighting was of leopardess Jalebi with one cub captured on trap camera. This is the fifth leopardess to give birth in the park since January and now the population stands at 22 adults and 10 cubs, according to the forest official. “This year, a leopardess called Flaura was sighted with three cubs in the beginning of the year. The other three female leopards LK, Mrs Khan and Sharmili gave birth to cubs subsequently resulting in an increase in the young population,” said a forest official. After the pictorial evidence, security arrangements have been stepped up in the forest area. The forest department officials are monitoring the movement of the new cub. A senior forest official further elaborated, “The leopard count has been steadily increasing in this particular forest area, mainly due to efficient monitoring as well as significant efforts to provide a protected environment to the wildlife.” Although, the population increase is good news for wildlife lovers, sources at the park involved in its management claimed that Jhalana has more leopards than its capacity. “Jhalana is spread over 22sqkm and the big cat population is higher than its carrying capacity. There are four dominant males (Rambo, Bahadur, Bageehra and Sultan) in Jhalana and two (Bluethunder and Prince) in Galta region. The young leopards do not have any territory and possibilities of straying into residential areas are high,” said an expert. Currently, there are approximately 35 leopards, including the young offsprings, in the safari park which means less than one square kilometre per animal, once they grow up, claimed experts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jhalana-forest-sees-rapid-growth-in-leopard-count/articleshow/75783047.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Bhopal||Ray of hope: In 8 districts, no active Covid-19 cases||Bhopal: With 134 people testing positive for Covid-19 on Saturday, tally of positive patients in Madhya Pradesh reached 4808. Meanwhile, in eight of the total 44 infected districts there are no active patients — that is, patients who reported positive in these districts have either recovered or have died. Apart from these, three casualties were also reported — two from Bhopal and one from Mandsaur. With these new deaths, the Covid-19 toll in state stands at 243. The districts where cases were reported on Saturday include Bhopal (46 new cases), Burhanpur (27 new cases), Khandwa (15 new cases), Ujjain (12 new cases), Gwalior (12 new cases), Jabalpur (seven new cases), Bhind (four new cases), Mandsaur (three new cases), Tikamgarh (two new cases), Betul (two new cases) and Neemuch, Morena, Sagar and Umaria districts where a case each was reported. Incidentally, it was the first case to be reported from Umaria district, making it the 44th state to be infected with the deadly virus. As per the state health bulletin, 32 people who were admitted at different hospitals across the state also recovered taking the total number of the people recovered so far in the state to 2,315. This is now more than the number of active patients who are admitted at different hospitals across the state, which is 2,250. On the brighter side, of the 44 districts where cases have been reported so far eight districts, namely Barwani, Agar Malwa, Shajapur, Sheopur, Alirajpur, Anuppur, Harda and Shahdol, have no active patients. Besides, in the eight districts of Guna, Mandla, Seoni, Panna, Damoh, Umaria, Ashok Nagar and Dindori only one active patient each remains. So far, a total of 99,677 test reports have been received by the government out of which 4,808 have tested positive. Administration has declared 613 localities in these 44 districts as containment zones and movement of people inside and outside of these containment zones is strictly prohibited. GFX District New Cases Bhopal 28 Burhanpur 27 Khandwa 15 Ujjain 12 Gwalior 12 Jabalpur 7 Bhind 4 Mandsaur 3 Tikamgarh 2 Betul 2 Neemuch 1 Morena 1 Sagar 1 Umaria 1 Total New Cases 116 District with more than 10 cases District Total Cases As On May 16 Indore 2378 Bhopal 954 Ujjain 296 Jabalpur 175 Burhanpur 149 Khargone 99 Khandwa 96 Dhar 96 Raisen 65 Mandsaur 60 Dewas 58 Neemuch 50 Gwalior 48 Hoshangabad 37 Ratlam 28 Morena 26 Barwani 26 Sagar 18 Bhind 16 Vidisha 14 Agar Malwa 13 Rewa 11 Total Cases As on May 16 4790||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/ray-of-hope-in-8-districts-no-active-covid-19-cases/articleshow/75782144.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Mysuru||Mysuru: In a first, district officials get a shower of petals from politicians||MYSURU: It’s a common thing for elected representatives to complain against officials for their inefficiency in work. However, on Saturday, politicians showered flower petals on officials of district administration for bringing down the Covid-19 cases in Mysuru to zero from a whopping 90. While the central and state governments have earlier showered petals on medical officers, nurses and police personnel, even from helicopters, for the first time, top officials received such an honour for their work in controlling the spread of infection. District incharge minister ST Somashekar, former minister and MLA GT Devegowda, MLAs SA Ramadas and L Nagendra and MP Pratap Shima showered flower petals on deputy commissioner Abhiram G Sankar, MCC commissioner Gurudatta Hegde, DCP AN Prakash Gowda, SP C B Ryshyanth, district health officer R Venkatesh and other officials at a ceremony. During the programme, minister Somashekar, while appreciating the work of DC Abhiram Sankar, said during the crisis, some DCs did not step out of their chambers and gave instructions to their subordinates sitting in their air-conditioned chambers. “However, Abhiram Sankar did not sit in his chamber but travelled all over the district extensively and took measures to control the virus. The credit for controlling the spread of virus should go to all department workers,” he said. Rs 3,000 for ASHA workersMinister ST Somashekar said the government, recognising the services of ASHA workers, has decided to give Rs 3,000 for each worker. “The government is spending Rs 12.37 crore for the initiative. There are 40,500 ASHA workers in the state,” he said. The initiative was launched by distributing the cheque to 180 workers in Mysuru. Later, while Mysuru District Cooperative Bank and MyMUL jointly donated Rs 35 lakh for the welfare of Asha workers in the district, the AYUSH department officials issued chavanprasha immunity booster kits to ASHA workers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/in-a-first-district-officials-get-a-shower-of-petals-from-politicians/articleshow/75781350.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Jaipur||Stressed over lockdown, Rajasthan's Alwar youth hangs self||JAIPUR: A 28-year-old man committed suicide in Alwar on Saturday. No suicide note was found but initial investigation suggested he was under stress due to the lockdown. He had recently reopened his bakery store. According to sources, he was worried about the earnings. The suicide victim has been identified as Manoj Samaria who was found hanging from the fan in his room on Friday afternoon. Vinod Samaria, SHO, NEB police station said, “On Friday, around 1 pm, Samaria returned home from his shop and after lunch, went upstairs where he had his living arrangements. When he did not come down after couple of hours, the family got worried and went upstairs.” The family saw that Samaria had hung himself using a ‘dupatta’ which they cut and laid him down following which the cops were informed. “We found no suicide note and according to the family there was also no conflict or dispute because of which the deceased took this step,” said the official. The deceased lived with his parents and sibling and was unmarried. According to sources, he had a shop which he had reopened but was also under stress due to lack of business though at present the cops have neither confirmed nor denied this possibility.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/stressed-over-lockdown-alwar-youth-hangs-self/articleshow/75783049.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Nashik||Nashik post office disburses Rs 12L/day||Nashik: The Nashik post office is disbursing more than Rs 12 lakh every day through the Aadhaar Enabled Payment System (AEPS) in Peth, Surgana, Igatpuri, Sinnar, Trimbak and Nashik talukas The postmen are going door-to-door to disburse the amount to those who have accounts registered under the Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana. Approximately, 900 people have benefitted from AEPS in Nashik. The postmen carry a hand-held machine on which the beneficiary has to give his thumb impression to withdraw the money. The beneficiaries can also use the one time password sent on their registered mobile numbers to use the service. The postmen have to mandatorily wear masks while working on the field. Apart from the Jan Dhan account holders, people can withdraw upto Rs 10,000 from the India Post Payments Bank (IPPB) or any other nationalised bank.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-post-office-disburses-rs-12l/day/articleshow/75781367.cms||pragya jain
May 17, 2020||Delhi||Virtual hearings a real challenge for trial courts||New Delhi: The ongoing “restricted functioning” of Delhi’s courts has had a mixed impact on litigants. While Delhi high court has gone high-tech to help litigants participate in virtual hearings, it is the trial courts where the real challenge has become apparent. In the pre-lockdown times, these courts would usually see footfall of lakhs of litigants and lawyers every day. In absence of physical court hearings, the six court complexes scattered across the capital have all of a sudden been exposed to operating virtually even if only in extremely urgent matters, such as bail. Judges and lawyers say the dependence on physical movement of files and status reports is much higher in trial courts than high court, while litigants complain they are unable to participate. A source said that litigants are being represented through their counsels via videoconferencing, but “if the court deems fit depending on the nature of litigation, a litigant can appear on its directions.” This may now happen at least in bail hearings relating to sexual offences. The high court last week directed all trial courts to first hear the stand of complainants/victims before granting any relief to the accused. Neeraj Arora, a litigant whose eviction case is pending in Tis Hazari, said he was waiting for the courts to re-open. “My long-pending case was in a critical stage of cross-examination of the defendant. Since courts are shut, no hearing has taken place,” Arora told TOI. His lawyer Arpit Bhargava added, “In absence of litigant participation in virtual hearings, it becomes difficult for me to get proper briefing from the client. We have decided to wait for the courts to open.” However, not all are complaining. Ajay Bhutani appeared in a case from home before a high court bench recently, where his lawyer Prabhjit Jauhar argued via videoconferencing. Bhutani found the experience wonderful. “Going to court involves a lot of hassles, crowd and scrimmage. This was my first such experience and it turned out to be a very relaxed one. The court gave ample time for parties to be heard. Though one doesn’t get the feel of the courtroom, I found it more convenient and effective,” he said. Jauhar said efforts could be made even in trial courts. “Everybody has a smartphone these days. Perhaps once the lockdown norms are relaxed, a litigant can meet his/her lawyers and do videoconferencing together till courts don’t resume normal functioning,” he added. What remains to be seen is if the litigant-friendly practice being followed in high court can be rolled out on a much larger scale in district courts too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/virtual-hearings-a-real-challenge-for-trial-courts/articleshow/75795245.cms||Abhinav Garg
May 17, 2020||Nagpur||Govt agrees to IMA’s demand to treat docs with dignity||Nagpur: The Maharashtra government has agreed to the Indian Medical Association’s (IMA) demand to treat doctors with dignity. It also agreed to constitute a state coordination committee comprising government secretaries and officers with the inclusion of the IMA Maharashtra president and members. The government further consented to provide personal protection equipment (PPEs) kits to even private doctors and health care workers.All these major decisions came after IMA's crucial meeting with chief secretary Ajoy Mehta, where many important discussions on various crucial issues took place and some solutions were agreed upon. Principal health secretary Dr Girish Vyas and health services director Dr Archana Patil participated in the meeting. From IMA, state president Dr Avinash Bhondwe, past presidents — Dr Ravindra Wankhedkar, Dr Jayesh Lele and Dr Ashok Tambe, former secretary Suhas Pingle and secretary Pankaj Bandarkar — took part. Maharashtra Medical Council president Dr Shivkumar Utture also attended the meeting held in Mumbai.According to the IMA president, the medicos at various places are treated rudely by the government administrators and officers. “They should be treated with dignity and their suggestions and complaints should be listened to with the satisfactory solutions. The chief secretary accepted our demand and agreed to send a notification to all the collectors, municipal commissioners and other administrators,” Bhondwe said.Both sides also came to an agreement to constitute a state coordination committee comprising government secretaries and officers along with the IMA state chief and members. The government established the committee after seeking governor’s nod and also named sub-panels in each district comprising collector and respective IMA president.The IMA team suggested a uniform policy about the fees and the hospital charges for the Covid and non-Covid patients treated by the private hospitals. According to it, the advisories issued by the various collectors are contradictory and inconsistent. They suggested acquisition of private hospitals under Mahatma Jyotiba Phule Yojana and be paid accordingly.The government granted its nod for IMA’s proposal to acquire the private hospitals for Covid-19 treatment as per the health ministry’s guidelines. It was concluded that all the orders, decisions, protocols of centre and state should informed to the IMA for smooth functioning of the Covid-19 control campaign.The IMA team further pressed for providing the government approved PPE Kits with the fixed price to the private doctors and those should be made available at the medical/surgical stores and GST and SGST should be waived of.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/govt-agrees-to-imas-demand-to-treat-docs-with-dignity/articleshow/75782688.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
May 17, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Intense heat drives migrants to spend time out in the open||Bhubaneswar: The scorching summer has forced migrants putting up in quarantine centres to abandon their rooms and sleep under the open sky on the centres’ premises in several districts, endangering their lives. On Friday, a man was bitten by a snake at a quarantine centre in Balangir’s Sindhekela village. In most villages, schools, community halls and panchayat offices have been converted into quarantine homes and most do not have fans. This has added to the woes of migrants already under stress due to the extension of quarantine from 14 to 28 days. And the centres that have ceiling fans, the radiation of heat from the concrete roofs both during the day and night, has made it unbearable for people to stay inside the building. In Balangir district’s Agalpur block, the migrants mostly spend their time under the shade of the tree on the quarantine centre premises. They just keep their belongings in the rooms. “It is difficult to sleep inside the room. A person will keep sweating and feel exhausted because of dehydration. We come out after lunch leaving behind our luggage and just bring a mat with us to sleep on. We take a nap under the shade of the tree during the afternoon. The evenings are bearable though,” said Upendra Suna, who has returned from Tamil Nadu. But Suna is always fearful of being bitten by insects and reptiles while sleeping. “During the summer, small reptiles often come out of their hiding places. One may be caught unawares,” Suna added. Mohan Putel, vice-chairman of Agalpur block, said some migrants sought permission to sleep outside their room because of the heat. “We had to allow them to sleep in the open as they still will be within the premises and there is a boundary wall around the centre. They keep their belongings in the rooms and come out to chill. We have people to keep watch on the migrants at the quarantine centres,” he said. There is no scarcity of drinking water with a tube well on the premises. In Bhadrak district, thousands of migrants blocked National Highway-16 protesting against poor quality of food and accommodation provided to them. The batch of 47 migrants, all natives of Bargarh district, had arrived at Charampa railway station. They came from Coimbatore. Later police intervened and cleared the road blockade and took the labourers to a temporary shelter from where they will be sent to their native places in buses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/intense-heat-drives-migrants-to-spend-time-out-in-the-open/articleshow/75782162.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Jaipur||Owner contests letter of apology by migrant for stealing his cycle||Jaipur/Alwar: A letter has gone viral as the writer says he is a migrant worker and he stole a cycle from a villager in Bharatpur to reach his home in Bareilly, Uttar Pradesh.The writer has apologised for stealing the cycle, claiming that he has a physically challenged son and had no means to travel. The letter has garnered much attention and sympathy across the country.However, the owner of the bicycle brushed aside the letter and has alleged that his cycle was stolen by someone from his own village. As per the owner, the thief from his village is trying to blame the migrant workers by writing a fake letter. No FIR has been filed in the matter.The cycle was stolen from Rarah village in Bharatpur district in the wee hours of Monday and belonged to Prabhudayal’s family. He said, “Around 4 am on Monday, we found that my younger brother Sahib Singh’s cycle was missing. We found an apology note for stealing the cycle which was signed by a Mohammad Iqbal who claimed that he was from Bareilly and was traveling with his son. But the note is all hogwash and the cycle was stolen by someone from the village who we will catch soon.” The note which went viral said that the labourer was the culprit but was helpless and had to reach Bareilly, but the owners do not think any migrant took the cycle. “The cycle would not even cost Rs 300 which is why we did not register a FIR as it was an old cycle and was just parked close to the house. I am certain someone from the village wrote the note and the matter is unnecessarily being highlighted. It is not the work of an outsider but someone local,” added Prabhudayal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/owner-contests-letter-of-apology-by-migrant-for-stealing-his-cycle/articleshow/75783051.cms||Yeshika Budhwar
May 17, 2020||Rajkot||Tobacco shop plundered and set ablaze||RAJKOT: A shop selling tobacco products was plundered and set ablaze by some miscreants in Veraval town of Gir Somnath district on Friday morning. Police said the accused, whose numbers and identities could not be ascertained, broke into the shop owned by Bharat Sonaiya near Veraval bus stand and looted cigarettes, bidis, tobacco and betel nuts worth Rs1 lakh. “Before setting ablaze the shop, the accused also stole Rs10,000 cash from the cash box of the shop,” said D N Modhvadia, police sub-inspector of Veraval city police station. “The accused had gained entry into the shop by breaking the rear shutter which is in a lane. The front shutter of the shop opens in front of Veraval bus stand,” added Modhvadia.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/tobacco-shop-plundered-and-set-ablaze/articleshow/75782154.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Nashik||Cantt residents told to get water lines cleaned||Nashik: Residents of a housing in the Deolali area were in for a rude shock when the Cantonment board asked them to get the lines supplying water to their houses cleared themselves. The residents had complained that they were not getting water supply properly and that the board should resolve the issue. Chief executive officer of the Cantonment Board Ajay Kumar told TOI, “The board cleans up only the main line of water. The responsibility of clearing the sub-lines diverted to the housing societies are to be borne by the residents.” Bharat Shah, a resident of the housing society, said, “The board told us that they will arrange for a licenced plumber but that we will have to bear the expense. The board should take the responsibility of all the lines as the water meters in our houses belong to them and we pay the charges for it,” said Shah.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/cantt-residents-told-to-get-water-lines-cleaned/articleshow/75781355.cms||pragya jain
May 17, 2020||Nashik||300 convicts released on parole from Nashik prison||NASHIK: Close to 300 convicts at the Nashik Road Central Prison have been released on parole for 45 days to prevent the spread of Covid-19. DIG (prison) Dilip Zalke said, “On the backdrop of the Covid-19 outbreak, a decision has been taken to release the convicts and undertrials on parole. In addition to the 300 convicts who have already been released, close to 500 more will be sent on parole in the next few days.” Zalke said that inmates who have been convicted for serious offences under MCOCA and POCSO would be not be released. Only the convicts who have been granted leave under parole and furlough on at least two occasions before will be considered for parole. Menwhile, last month, the central prison roped in a private school close to the jail to accommodate the new suspects remanded in judicial custody. The facility for the new suspects has been set up to prevent the chances of infection spread in the central jail. Around 100 suspects can be kept at the newly-acquired facility on a temporary basis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/300-convicts-released-on-parole-from-nashik-prison/articleshow/75781387.cms||Santosh Sonawane
May 17, 2020||Nagpur||BMPS opposes fin min statement||Nagpur: The RSS’ trade union, Bharatiya Pratiraksha Mazdoor Sangh (BMPS), which has a significant presence in the ordnance factories, has opposed finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman’s statement on corporatisation of the ordnance factory board (OFB). It has said that the government has backtracked on its assurances given during the negotiations following last year’s strike, when it was stated that unions will be consulted over any further move on corporatisation. BMPS had actively taken part in the indefinite strike last year when the government had first announced its plans to corporatize the OFB. BPMS is a unit of Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh (BMS), the trade union arm of RSS. BPMS has said through a press release that the move was against the terms accepted during the negotiations as now a decision has been taken unilaterally. In a meeting held on August 23 last year, following the strike, the government had assured that any decision on corporatisation will be taken after consulting the unions. Mukesh Singh, the general secretary of BPMS, said there are plans to submit a memorandum to the government following which a protest may be held if the permission is secured. Shirram Batwe of BPMS’ Nagpur unit, too. criticized the move calling it to be a betrayal in times of crisis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/bmps-opposes-fin-min-statement/articleshow/75782701.cms||Shishir Arya
May 17, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Draw up SOP for lockdown 4.0, says CM YS Jaganmohan Reddy||VIJAYAWADA: With the government set to begin lockdown 4.0 in a few days, the chief minister has asked officials to draw up standard operation procedures (SOP) to deal with the fourth phase of the lockdown. Jaganmohan Reddy, at a review meeting on the coronavirus situation in the state on Saturday at his camp office, directed the officials take up campaign to dispel the social stigma surrounding the disease. “There is no reason to ostracise the corona positive people and this message must be driven home,” the chief minister said. Only this will encourage suspected cases to voluntarily visit hospitals and get themselves tested. This will also help the state contain the virus, he said. The chief minister wanted the officials, particularly the health department, to come up with pamphlets with safety tips and symptoms of coronavirus that should be distributed across the state. The pamphlet should also carry the toll-free number to which a Covid-19 positive patient and others can call for assistance. Referring to the proposed village clinics to be opened in the state, the chief minister wanted the officials to make corona testing equipment available in all the clinics. “The clinics in the containment zones should be equipped on a priority basis after the lockdown is lifted,” he said. He also directed the officials to implement the SOP in public transport, theatres, restaurants and malls once the lockdown is lifted and the markets are opened. He wanted the officials to ensure that physical distancing is strictly followed in all the public places, safety measures like wearing of mask and carrying of sanitizers are followed. Deputy chief minister Alla Kalikrishna Srinivas, minister Kurasala Kanna Babu, chief secretary Nilam Sawhney, health principal secretary, Jawahar Reddy and others were present at the review meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/draw-up-sop-for-lockdown-4-0-jagan/articleshow/75781372.cms||Gopi Dara
May 17, 2020||Bhopal||Some cheer as 50 per cent Covid-19 patients recover in Jabalpur||JABALPUR: As more than 50% of Covid-19 patients of Jabalpur have already recovered — the district administration will not increase restrictions, but instead ensure status quo in the containment zones of the city. Talking to TOI, Jabalpur collector Bharat Yadav said, “We are dividing the city into several zones, and in zones where there are no active cases, there may be some relaxations. But in containment zones, things will remain the same. However, no new restrictions will be imposed.” So far in Jabalpur district, test reports of 4,447 people have been received. Of them, 175 people tested positive, but 95 of these 175 have already recovered and there are only 72 active cases. In a press statement, Yadav said that there are 17 containment areas in Jabalpur and vigil is being kept in all those areas. Strict action would be taken if anyone is found violating norms, he said. Appealing to those who are coming to Jabalpur from outside, he said that they should ensure that they remain in home quarantine for 14 days. The administration is working to ensure that these people are provided employment through various schemes such as the MNREGA, the district collector said. The collector also appealed to various volunteer organisations in the district to assist migrant workers who are returning to the district through various means.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/some-cheer-as-50-covid-19-patients-recover-in-jabalpur/articleshow/75782164.cms||---
May 17, 2020||India||More power to India-US ties, says PM as US plans to donate 200 ventilators||NEW DELHI: The US will donate ventilators to India to help it in its fight against Covid-19, the “invisible enemy”, President Donald Trump announced as he reiterated that the US stood with PM Narendra Modi and India during this battle against the pandemic. Responding to questions by Indian journalists, Trump said: “India has been so great and as you know your PM has been a very good friend of mine. ...We are working very much with India and we have a tremendous Indian population in the US and many of the people are working on the vaccine too. We are working very closely with India. Say hello to your PM”. On Saturday morning, PM Modi tweeted a thank-you to Trump after the latter announced that he would be sending 200 ventilators to India. “Thank you @POTUS @realDonaldTrump. This pandemic is being fought collectively by all of us. In such times, it’s always important for nations to work together and do as much as possible to make our world healthier and free from Covid-19. More power to India-US friendship,” Modi said. On Friday, Trump told journalists that the US would donate ventilators, following up from an earlier declaration that once the US started manufacturing enough ventilators, they would “share” some with “friends.” “I am proud to announce that the US will donate ventilators to our friends in India. We stand with India and @narendramodi during this pandemic. We’re also cooperating on vaccine development. Together we will beat the invisible enemy,” Trump had tweeted. According to the US state department spokesperson, some of these ventilators would be repurposed. After the pandemic hit the US, Trump had ordered companies like GM to manufacture ventilators. India lifted its ban on hydroxychloroquine exports after Trump requested for consignments to the US. Following this, the US sold six Roche high-capacity testing machines to conduct RT-PCR tests in India. India plans to buy some more in the coming weeks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/more-power-to-india-us-ties-says-pm-as-us-plans-to-donate-200-ventilators/articleshow/75783261.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Nagpur||Despite HC orders, ICMR yet to supply rapid antibody kits||Nagpur: Despite directives of Nagpur bench of Bombay high court to supply rapid antibody kits to the statewide hospitals for surveillance purposes, the Maharashtra government expressed its inability to do so while passing the buck on Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR). Even the ICMR was told by the HC to supply these kits to government, but it was yet to supply it till date. In its affidavit before the HC through government pleader Sumant Deopujari and additional pleader Deepak Thakre, the deputy director of health services in Nagpur circle, SK Jaiswal, informed that after receiving these kits those would be used for surveillance as per court’s directives. The affidavit was filed in the PIL filed by Citizens’ Forum of Equality President Madhukar Kukde through counsel Tushar Mandlekar praying for directives to use rapid antibody test on front-line warriors fighting against the Covid-19 virus, including the doctors, health care workers and police. Quoting the ICMR’s advisory of April 4, 17, and 22, to start rapid antibody test as a screening and surveillance tool as first mandatory step to test the suspected patients, the petitioner prayed for its immediate supply to the hospitals. In last hearing, Justice Manish Pitale told the government that since the rapid antibody test results are quick, it would assist the government in deciding its strategy to deal with areas where there is rapid spread or apprehension of Covid-19. AGP Deepak Thakre then informed that the government received 71,000 rapid antibody test kits for distribution in the Covid-19 hotspots across the state and those could be best used for the surveillance purposes. However, the ICMR later issued advisory that those kits were imported from China and its results were not up to the mark, therefore its usage was stopped till further orders. The petitioner had also prayed for directives to conduct RT-PCR tests on the doctors, nurses, paramedical staff, pharmacist, and police doing the Covid-19 duties. ICMR guidelines for testing patients All symptomatic individuals who have undertaken international travel All symptomatic contacts of laboratory confirmed cases & health care workers All patients with acute respiratory illness (Fever, cough & shortness of breath) Asymptomatic direct & high risk contacts of a confirmed case to be tested twice||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/despite-hc-orders-icmr-yet-to-supply-rapid-antibody-kits/articleshow/75782705.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
May 17, 2020||Jaipur||Owners to get 45% of developed land as compensation: Draft||Jaipur: The much-awaited Land Pooling Act is expected to come into force soon in the state as the law department has cleared the draft on rules and regulations. Now, the draft requires final nod of the urban development and housing (UDH) minister Shanti Dhariwal for its implementation. Once implemented, owners whose land is acquired will receive 45% of developed land as compensation which was earlier 25%. As per the provision, the civic body would give developed proportionate piece of land with all necessary infrastructure, including roads, parks and open spaces to the land owner. While as a facilitator, it can earn revenue by way of its share (including development cost), landowners get good value for their share of the land. An official source said, “The development authority can ask expression of interest (EOI) from the farmers. Owners having a particular size of land can come forward,” he said. Land pooling policy was devised as an alternative to the cumbersome process of land acquisition for development. As per the Act, part of land will be used for urban infrastructure development with the consent of the owner, under the Land Pooling Scheme, instead of the UDH acquiring the land. A senior official said, “Under the scheme, land owners can come and give their lands and authorities would act as a facilitator and develop the land as per layout rules. In Rajasthan too, the government would promote the Land Pooling Schemes (LPS), as the model is successfully implemented in many cities like Mumbai,” he said. The bill passed by the previous BJP government could not be implemented as the department failed to frame rules and regulations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/owners-to-get-45-of-developed-land-as-compensation-draft/articleshow/75783069.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Delhi||With plastic as Covid-19 shield, Delhi’s Madhu Vihar police station goes ‘contactless’||NEW DELHI: In a first, east Delhi’s Madhu Vihar police station has initiated contactless policing after several officers tested positive for the novel coronavirus. This will ensure minimal exposure of the uniformed personnel to the citizens without affecting policing responsibilities. Jasmeet Singh, DCP (East), elaborated, “Four teams have been formed to implement the contactless policing system. The first team has officers working at the police station, commuting daily between home and the police station. Another team will be on picket duty, a third will include those who patrol their specific beats. Members of these two teams will also commute between police station and home or guesthouse accommodation. The fourth team comprising 15 officers will stay at home for 10 days in reserve to attend to emergencies if some of the officers get infected.” Inspector Rajeev Kumar, SHO of Madhu Vihar police station, said that people coming to the police station have to first dip their footwear in a disinfectant solution at the gate. Then they proceed towards an automatic system of a 20-second handwash. This is followed by thermal scanning. The duty officer is the first point of contact at every police station, and an automatic sensor sanitiser has been placed outside the entrance. “Any room that is likely to see a public interface will have temporary partitions,” Kumar disclosed. The complaint room has been covered with transparent plastic sheets that act as a barrier between the complainants and the police officers attending to them. In case anyone wants to show a document or their identity details, the officer will take a picture of the document furnished before the complaint is submitted online. The receipt number is sent on the mobile phone. All documents submitted will undergo a protocol of sanitisation for 24 hours before they are put into the files. The SHO stated that if on a given day, more people visited the station and some of them were unable to meet the officers concerned, then the said officers, including the SHO, would try to make a video call to them. “People want to meet officers face to face to reassure themselves that their complaints have been heard,” said Kumar. “Whenever too many people come to the station, we note their contact numbers and call them on WhatsApp video. We will be encouraging people to minimise physical interaction and instead file online complaints or make video calls in case of any issue.” If anyone has work in other units, such as the record room, malkhana or the reader room, they will not be allowed to go there themselves, but will have their work facilitated by the police station staff. During the lockdown most of the calls and cases have pertained to family disputes, minor quarrels and neighbourhood fights. Beyond all these special measures, sanitisation of the police station is routinely carried out each and every day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/with-plastic-as-covid-shield-madhu-vihar-ps-goes-contactless/articleshow/75782709.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Mysuru||Carpenter leaves Mysuru with heavy heart||Mysuru: Labhuram, a carpenter, was in tears when he left for his home in Barabanki district in Uttar Pradesh on Saturday. Mysuru means a lot for him – for it is the city that that gave him livelihood for three years. A portion of his decent earnings would go to his parents back home. Beleaguered due to the Covid-19 lockdown, he had no option but to return to his homeland. “I have worked at various places since the past few years but I’m leaving Mysuru with a heavy heart,” he said. Similar was the emotion with many passengers of the Shramik Special train to Gorakhpur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/carpenter-leaves-mysuru-with-heavy-heart/articleshow/75781402.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Delhi||File FIR against two Apeejay School branches: Directorate of education||NEW DELHI: The education department has written to Delhi Police asking it to register an FIR against two branches of Apeejay School for allegedly forging emails stating the directorate of education (DoE) had permitted them to increase fees. The schools, however, said they had been working with DoE to dispel this “false and malicious allegation” and had “repeatedly demanded an urgent independent investigation”. The letter was submitted to the station house officers of Saket and Malviya Nagar police stations on Saturday against the Saket and Sheikh Sarai branches, respectively. On May 4, the department sealed both premises for alleged violation of the fee hike order. Enforcing the Disaster Management Act (DMA) and the Delhi School Education Rules, the department had ordered the action, including filing of an FIR. On May 5, following a plea by the school authorities, Delhi high court asked the department to de-seal the premises and give both branches a hearing. According to the department letter, though the schools’ fee-hike proposals for 2017-18 was rejected and the same for 2019-20 are still under consideration, the branches “are unauthorisedly charging the increased amount of tuition and other kind of fees, unduly pressurising the parents and adopting coercive practices”. No proposal was submitted for 2018-19, it added. “Thus use of fake emails to unauthorisedly increase the fee is an offence under relevant provisions of IPC and DP Act,” DoE alleged in the letter. The department also claimed that nobody on the schools’ behalf appeared for a meeting scheduled with the director of education on December 18, 2019. “The school being very old and reputed is expected to know it well that such proposals for increased of fees are not granted on email, thus there is a wilful foul play by way of cheating, forgery and fraud besides extortion of unauthorisedly claiming arrears and increased fees from parents,” the letter stated. In a statement, the schools said, “We are actively working with DoE to dispel these false and malicious allegations and have repeatedly demanded an urgent independent investigation, but till date DoE has not responded.” Quashing “previous similar action” by DoE, the high court has directed it to follow a proper process, the school authorities pointed out. “We have complete faith in the law and shall also be taking all legal action against miscreants who threaten the future of our students and tarnish the good name of our parents. With 50+ years of excellence, our values prevent us from bowing down to extortion and corruption at any level,” it added. The school also wrote to DoE on Saturday asking it to appoint a mutually “agreed independent computer forensic professional or agency to review, verify, examine the veracity and certify the origin of the key approvals”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/doe-file-fir-against-two-apeejay-school-branches/articleshow/75795258.cms||Shradha Chettri
May 17, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Missing man’s body found in temple well||JAIPUR: The body of a man who had gone missing three days ago was fished out of a well in Karauli city on Saturday morning after a two-hour operation by the civil defence team. Police are investigating if he was pushed into the well or fell accidentally or intentionally. The deceased was identified as Rajendra Goyal whose family had reported him missing on May 13. The body was found in a well situated within the complex of a temple in the city. “Due to the lockdown, the shops and businesses were also closed and usually vegetables vendors sit near the temple. On Saturday, when few of them opened their outlets, they got a foul odour and decided to check the nearby areas suspecting that it was the stench of a decomposing body,” said an official of Karauli Kotwali. When the cops were informed, rescue teams were called in who took out the body.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/missing-mans-body-found-in-temple-well/articleshow/75783061.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Vadodara||15-year-old boy cancels lavish birthday bash to help poor||VADODARA: This year’s birthday for 15-year-old Aman Vania was slightly different from the earlier razzmatazz that the celebration entails every year. But Aman nevertheless made the day special not just for him, but for 100 others too. Seeing his mother give a facemask and a pair of gloves to the sanitary worker who comes to their house to pick up garbage, Aman, who recently took his Class X exams, started worrying about other sanitary workers who may not be able to afford the mask. “A day before his birthday on April 27, Aman came to me and said that he wants all sanitary workers and vegetable vendors be given reusable face masks and hand gloves on his birthday,” said his father, V R Vania, an inspector at Laxmipura police station. “It was not possible to distribute masks in the entire city, but we decided to distribute masks and gloves in areas under my police station,” Vania added. “I wanted to distribute the masks and gloves since it was my birthday, but I also didn’t want to violate the lockdown norms and so I did not go out and only asked my father to distribute my gifts,” said Aman. The masks and gloves were distributed among sanitary workers, vegetable vendors and staff of Laxmipura police station. “We explained the vendors how deadly the virus is and how they could avoid spreading it as they could be potential carriers,” inspector Vania said. The vendors were asked to take pledge that they will wear the masks and gloves daily and make sure that social distancing is maintained around their cart.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/15-year-old-boy-cancels-lavish-birthday-bash-to-help-poor/articleshow/75780822.cms||Bharat Pathak
May 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Rain & gusty winds pound city, weathermen say more in store||Hyderabad: Rain accompanied with thundershowers and strong winds hit several parts of the city on Saturday. The city recorded 16.9mm rain till 8.30pm as per the India Metrological Department, Hyderabad. Mahesh Palawat, chief meteorologist, Skymet, a private weather forecasting agency, said, “The thundershower was a result of a deep depression over the Bay of Bengal. The depression will turn to cyclone Amphan by Sunday morning. Humid winds are feeding moisture in coastal Andhra Pradesh and parts of Telangana. Short spells of rain and thundershowers are likely Sunday and Monday.” Following this, Palawat said the wind concentration would be around the cyclone, which would leave the city facing two or three days of dry and hot weather. IMD Hyderabad director K Naga Ratna said, “The rains were light to moderate in nature, accompanied with wind speeds of 40-50km/hr.” Up to 7pm, Yousufguda circle received the highest rainfall of 55.3 mm, followed by Khairatabad with 54.3mm, and Jubilee Hills with 45.5 mm. Among the districts, Rangareddy recorded 50.3mm of rainfall, Medchal-Malkajgiri 41.8mm and Nalgonda 23.3mm. Taken by surprise, city residents enjoyed the respite from the heat. “The rains have immediately brought down the temperature and it feels much cooler,” said Priyanka Mallik, a resident of Serilingampally. Namrata Sadhvani, a resident of Begumpet, said, “While I am relieved there won’t be many people on the roads as we are still under a lockdown, my heart goes out to people still on the streets - particularly migrant labourers.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/rain-gusty-winds-pound-city-weathermen-say-more-in-store/articleshow/75782716.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Nagpada police see off 1,400 UP workers at CST||MUMBAI: Three days after it sent 1,300 migrant workers and their families to Uttar Pradesh, Nagpada police on Saturday arranged to get the second batch of 1,400 on another Shramik Special train. It left CST for Lucknow around 3.25pm amidst cheers and claps. Workers with families or in groups queued up at the station from 12.30pm. They were allowed to board the train after their travel papers and health certificates were verified. Nagpada police personally monitored the situation at the railway station. “We have sent 1,400 migrant workers and their families to their hometown by train today. We are trying to help everyone as best as we can,” said Shalini Sharma, senior inspector of Nagpada police station. On the morning of May 13, around 1,000 migrants had gathered near a hotel in central Mumbai’s Nagpada demanding a train for their native place. Police had to resort to lathi charge to disperse the mob. Later, cops began to call them, and the same night, a train with 1,300 migrants left from LTT for Lucknow. Nagpada, known as the birthplace of the Mumbai underworld, is a major migrant hub. It is close to Mumbai Central, Nair and J J hospitals, Chor Bazaar and Bhendi Bazaar. It provides jobs to 30,000-plus migrants in zari units, leather bag and belt making units, garment and cloth shops, hotels and bakeries. All suppliers of mashkeeza—a leather sack in which water is transported—are from UP and Bihar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/nagpada-police-see-off-1-4k-up-workers-at-cst/articleshow/75782710.cms||Mateen Hafeez
May 17, 2020||Nashik||Nashik: 68 booked for venturing on streets||NASHIK: The city police on Friday booked 68 people from different parts of the city for violating lockdown rules on the backdrop of the Covid-19 outbreak. Senior police officers said that most of the people were booked for venturing out of their houses without any valid reasons. The aim behind booking the people was to ensure that people do not come out of the houses for the smallest of reasons. The officers said that they found many people venturing on the streets in the night hours. “After 5 pm all the shops and commercial establishments are closed after which there is no reason for people to move out,” he said. So far, the police have taken action against 5,745 people in the city under Section 188. Action is also taken against people who are found moving out without wearing the mask. On Friday, the police also booked 18 people who were found moving without wearing the mask. The police said that the action against people would continue until the lockdown was clamped in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/68-booked-for-venturing-on-streets/articleshow/75781406.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Jaipur||Congress worker files case against Sambit Patra in Jaipur||JAIPUR: A case has been registered against BJP national spokesperson Sambit Patra by former NSUI president and Congress leader Deepak Dandoriya at Bagru police station in Jaipur for writing objectionable posts on social media against former Prime Ministers Pandit Jawahar Lal Nehru and Rajiv Gandhi. The case was registered on Friday and Brij Bhushan, SHO, Bagru police station said, “We received the complaint and have started an investigation. According to the complainant, Patra wrote objectionable content on social media on May 10.” Cops have asked the complainant to bring proof of the content written on social media as well as any other documents which can be looked at for further investigation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cong-worker-files-case-against-patra/articleshow/75783064.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Trichy||Driven to despair, hairdressers in Trichy keen to resume business||TRICHY: Hairdressers in the district are still clueless if they can resume work once this phase of lockdown will end on Sunday. They are planning to petition the district administration on Monday if the uncertainity persists. Hairdressers have agreed to ensure safety measures, claiming that if Tasmac outlets can be allowed to operate they too should be permitted. “We are ready to wear facemasks and hand gloves, like other commercial establishments that have been permitted to operate amidst the lockdown; we will ensure social distancing,” said P Dharmalingam, secretary of Trichy District Hairdressers’ Association. As barbershops have been closed for the last 54 days, the association said that their members are struggling to pay outstanding rent for shops as well as their homes for the last two months. There are about 1,050 shops in the city while the district has 10,000 shops. The city alone employs 5,000 hairdressers. Hairdressers said that they should be at least allowed to do haircutting, and not shaving as involves close contact with customers. “Our debts are mounting; it is getting difficult to pay even electricity bills without doing business for the last two months. There is a huge demand from people, they enquire about availability. But, we are not willing to open shops illegally,” said T Nagarajan, a hairdresser from Cantonment. A section of hairdressers added that they are turning down the opportunities they get from gated communities, inviting to do hairdressing for a bulk number of customers, fearing legal actions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/driven-to-despair-hairdressers-keen-to-resume-business/articleshow/75783075.cms||Deepak Karthik
May 17, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad full lockdown extended||Aurangabad: The Aurangabad city police’s orders of a complete lockdown for three consecutive days starting from Friday was extended by another three days by revenue divisional commissioner Sunil Kendrekar on Saturday. While issuing the orders, Kendrekar directed the district administration, civic body and the Aurangabad city police chief to ensure that the orders are strictly implemented and those unnecessarily stepping out of their homes face action. During the extended lockdown, no markets or other entities are allowed to function. Only pharmacies are exempted. Sources said the police authorities too were upset over not being taken into confidence before the orders were issued. “Lockdown is a luxury for the people who have foodgrain in their houses, but for the poor people, it is a punishment,” said a senior police officer, who suggested that there could have been a day’s gap before issuing the fresh lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/aurangabad-full-lockdown-extended/articleshow/75781414.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Trichy||330 migrants leave for Bihar from Ariyalur||Trichy: The Ariyalur district administration has sent back 330 guest workers to their native places in Bihar by a special train from Villupuram on Saturday. The workers were sent by 14 buses to Villupuram from where they boarded the train to Bihar. The workers had registered their interest to return home during the lockdown while about 300 of them decided to stay back at their workplaces in Ariyalur. Officials said the 330 workers were employed in private cement plants in various parts of the district. The workers had sought the help of the district administration through their employers. After processing their requests, the workers were brought to a multi-purpose sports stadium in Ariyalur. District collector D Rathna visited the workers and provided them lunch before they departed to Villupuram. The district administration said that Rs 3 lakh was spent on the train tickets and provide food during their travel. Each train ticket cost Rs 910, officials added. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/330-migrants-leave-for-bihar-from-ariyalur/articleshow/75783067.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Rajkot||Atmanirbhar Gujarat Sahay scheme from May 21||RAJKOT: Under the Atmanirbhar Gujarat Sahay scheme being implemented from May 21 by the central government, Gujarat is likely to get Rs 5,000 crore, claimed a release issued by the state government. Under this scheme which aims to make the beneficiaries financially independent, each applicant will get a loan of up to Rs 1 lakh with two percent interest for three years. For initial six months, the loanee will not have to pay the instalments. This scheme is likely to benefit about 10 lakh small time businessmen in the state including grocery shop owners, vegetable vendors and autorickshaw drivers. “A scheme like this is a boon for us. With the help of this scheme, I will be able to buy items needed in my shop, once the lockdown opens,” said Nilesh Sapia, a grocery shop owner in Jamnagar. Echoed Hiren Sharada, a mechanic shop owner in Jamnagar: “A Rs 1 lakh loan is very precious to small time businessmen like me, and the six months leeway period only adds to the sheen.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/atmanirbhar-gujarat-sahay-scheme-from-may-21/articleshow/75782193.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Ajmer||5,000 UP workers to leave Ajmer on Sunday||AJMER: Around 5,000 migrant workers from Uttar Pradesh will leave for their homes districts by special trains on Sunday. Their registration was completed on Saturday as they gathered at the Patel Stadium while following social distancing. These people have been stuck in Ajmer with their families since the lockdown. Dharmender Yadav came to Ajmer to work on the overbridge construction site on Beawar Road and got stuck due to the lockdown. The contractor asked him to leave and he went to a shelter home with his family and later to a quarantine centre. “We got food and even medication for my children. We are happy that the centre has provided good care and even books to my children,” said Dharmender. He said that now he wanted to return to his house in Bareilly. Around 5,000 labourers from UP have registered to return and screening was carried out on Saturday as the trains will carry them on Sunday and Monday. Earlier, two trains left with labourers and devotees from West Bengal in addition to roadways buses carrying labourers to different destinations. “We will provide them food, water and medical facilities,” said an official. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/5000-up-workers-to-leave-ajmer-today/articleshow/75783072.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Visakhapatnam: Drunk doctor beaten up by police, held for nuisance||VISAKHAPATNAM: Anaesthetist doctor Sudhakar Rao of Narsipatnam was beaten up and taken into custody on Saturday after he came on to the road inebriated and half-naked and made a nuisance. The doctor was, earlier in April, suspended for allegedly making false allegations against the government with regard to handling of coronavirus in the state. A video of him being beaten while his hands were tied has gone viral, following which a constable was suspended. In their defence, cops said that Rao had threatened them. City police commissioner RK Meena told media persons that cops received a call on 100 that a person was creating nuisance at Akkayyapalem. On reaching the spot, cops of fourth town police station identified him as Dr Sudhakar. He allegedly took away the cops’ phones and threw them away. “The doctor has been mentally unwell for the past few weeks,” the police chief said. The doctor was taken to the police station and from there to KGH for alcohol test. A case under section 353 of IPC was filed against him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/drunk-doctor-beaten-up-by-police-held-for-nuisance/articleshow/75781418.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Rajkot||Uncle fires at nephew over land dispute, booked||RAJKOT: A father-son duo was booked on Friday night for allegedly opening fire at their relative following a land dispute on Thursday in Likhada village of Savarkundala taluka in Amreli district. Police said the accused Bhupat Vaghela and his son Shailesh, fired at Bhupat’s nephew Haresh Vaghela (30). In his complaint, Haresh has alleged that his uncle has usurped his ancestral land and does not give it for sharecropping to his brothers — Batuk and Himmat Vaghela. Haresh is the son of Batuk who has three sons. Eight years ago, a case was also filed in a Savarkundala court in this regard. Four years ago, Bhupat had opened fire at Batuk and his family members. On the fateful day, when Haresh was returning home from his farm on his bike in the evening, Shailesh waylaid him with his tractor. Both got into a scuffle after which Haresh fled home on his bike with Shailesh pursuing him on his tractor. Nearing Haresh’s house, Shailesh rammed into Haresh’s bike deliberately with his tractor, following which Haresh abandoned the bike and fled inside his house. “On Thursday night, both father and son came to Haresh’s house in an SUV. While Shailesh carried an axe, Bhupat was armed with a 12 bore gun. Shailesh started hitting Haresh’s door with his axe. Haresh tried to run away and climbed up on his terrace, when Bhupat fired one round from his gun,” said A P Dodiya, sub-inspector with Savarkundala rural police station. Cops raided Bhupat’s house the same night to arrest the accused, but the duo fled before the police arrived. “However, we managed to seize 27 live cartridges, 75 spent cartridges, three swords, a matchet, a knife, an iron pipe, a deer’s horn and Rs 1.40 lakh cash from the house,” added Dodiya.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/uncle-fires-at-nephew-over-land-dispute-booked/articleshow/75782205.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Aurangabad||59 new cases take tally to 901 cases in Aurangabad,||,Aurangabad: The number of Covid-19 cases in Aurangabad district jumped to 901 with 59 fresh cases reported on Saturday. Meanwhile, three Covid-19 casualties were reported over the last 24 hours. These included a 57-year-old man from Shahnoormiya Dargah, a 40-year-old man from Himayat Nagar and a 60-year-old woman from Rahul Nagar. With this, the Covid-19 casualty toll in the city went up to 26. The Covid-19 cases defected in Aurangabad on Saturday included three each from MGM Medical College, Ram Nagar, Sanjay Nagar, one each from Hanuman Chowk, Chikalthana, MIDC, Kiradpura, Bajaj Nagar, Jinsi Ramnaspura, Old Mondha-Bhawani Nagar, Jahagirdar Colony, Adarsh Nagar, Roshan Gate, Kailas Nagar, Chaus Colony, Jadhavwadi, New Baijipura, Sambhaji Colony- Cidco N-6, Kat Kat Gate, Jatwada, Rahul Nagar and Labour Colony, two each from Jalan Nagar, Amar Housing Society Cidco N-8 and Maqsood Colony, four each from Sadat Nagar and Hussain Colony, seven from Shambhu Nagar and 10 from Baijipura. These cases include 33 men and 26 women. On Friday, a 57-year-old man from Shahnoormiya Dargah died due to bilateral pneumonia with acute respiratory distress syndrome in a known case of diabetes mellitus and a 40-year-old man from Himayat Nagar died due to bilateral pneumonitis due to Covid-19 in case of seizure disorder with mental retardation and diabetes mellitus type 2, Arvind Gaikwad, nodal officer for media interaction at the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) said. On Saturday, a 60-year-old woman from Rahul Nagar died while undergoing treatment at the GMCH. The women tested positive for Covid-19 later. The cause of her death was said to be bilateral pneumonitis due to Covid-19 in a known case of diabetes mellitus, Gaikwad said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/59-new-cases-take-tally-to-901-cases-in-aurangabad/articleshow/75781433.cms||Arpita Sharad
May 17, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: May hasn’t been that scorching this year||JAIPUR: Change in climatic conditions, short spells of rain, dust storm and hailstorm, the first fortnight of May has been less warmer compared to the last 10 years. During May, the average maximum temperature of the state is around 44°C, but this year it has been hovering around 40°C. Previous years data show that the last week of May usually records maximum temperatures on and above 45°C. Jaipur recorded a maximum of 44°C to 47°C this month in the last 10 years. However, this year it clocked 40°C on a very few days. Likewise, the state’s average temperature this month has been 40°C, almost 4 degrees less compared to otehr years. Attributing this to the prevailing upper air cyclonic circulation and western disturbances, Jaipur Met office said similar conditions will prevail in the coming weeks. “This is now a subject of research to find out why there has been prolonged cyclonic circulation and western disturbances. Can we correlate it with the less pollution in the environment and other factors? These are the things which are under research. Usually rainfall, dust storm and hailstorm were witnessed from March up to mid-April in previous years, but this year this has been extended,” said an officer with the IMD, Delhi. Meanwhile, mild showers, dust storm and hailstorm were recorded in some parts of the state on Saturday bringing the mercury down during the morning. However, in the afternoon the cloud cover vanished. Barmer remained hottest clocking 42.7°C. Jaipur recorded a minimum temperature of 26°C and a maximum of 39.5°C. Relief for calamities: The state government on Saturday allocated a budget of Rs. 55.38 crore for the relief of those whose crops were affected due to hailstorms and a compensation of Rs 52 lakh for the families of the deceased. There are 57,211 affected persons in six tehsils of Bharatpur district who lost 33 per cent crop has been damaged, said Siddharth Mahajan, secretary, disaster management. He informed Mahajan informed that 13 people lost their lives in the state on May 3 and 4. “An amount of Rs 52 lakh has been allocated for the families of the deceased. The amount has been transferred to the accounts of affected persons," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/may-hasnt-been-that-scorching-this-year/articleshow/75783068.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Rain floods roads, uproots trees and gushes into cellars||HYDERABAD: Waterlogged roads, uprooted trees and water gushing into cellars was the result of Saturday’s downpour in parts of the city. According to GHMC records, more than 110 complaints pertaining to uprooted trees and tree branches falling were reported. Road no.1 (Banjara Hills), the road near ESI Hospital (SR Nagar), the stretch near Biodiversity Flyover, Erramanzil road, Mythrivanam (Ameerpet) were among the roads where people had to wade through waterlogged stretches. The water on these stretches reached knee height, and tyres of cars and bikes on these stretches were not visible due to rainwater. “The streets are waterlogged. Additionally, water from the flyover is falling on commuters who are using the road under it,” said P Rishwant, a commuter near the Biodiversity Flyover.  Banjara Hills road no. 8, Madhura Nagar (Yousufguda) and Kukatpally Housing Board are some places where water gushed into cellars and damaged vehicles. In Nanal Nagar (Karwan), the roof of a tin shed house was damaged and parts of it fell inside the house following gusty winds. “More than 100 complaints pertaining to tree falls have been attended in parts of city. Waterlogging was cleared by disaster response teams,” said Viswajit Kampati, director of Enforcement, Vigilance and Disaster Management (EVDM), GHMC. Pertaining to water gushing into bylanes, GHMC officials said, “There were instances where residents did not grant a part of land from their society to lay storm water drains, but GHMC is building injection borewells and box drains to control waterlogging.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/rain-floods-roads-uproots-trees-and-gushes-into-cellars/articleshow/75782736.cms||Nabinder Bommala
May 17, 2020||Kolhapur||Six held for kidnapping & extortion||Kolhapur: The Radhanagari police on Friday arrested six people for allegedly kidnapping a youth and extorting of Rs 5 lakh from him. All the six people were produced before the court and sent to police custody till May 17. According to complainant Gajendra Bapuso Kusale (31), he was returning home on Friday morning when an SUV obstructed his motorcycle on Buranbali-Dhamod road and dragged him into their SUV. They took Rs 42,000 that Kusale was possessing and dropped him near a closed petrol pump. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/six-held-for-kidnapping-extortion/articleshow/75781430.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Jaipur||550 reach Jalore||Jaisalmer: A special train with 550 residents of Jalore, Sirohi, Pali and Barmer districts reached Jalore on Saturday. The migrant labourers who reached Jalore from South India thanked the state government and the district administration for the arrangements. The passengers were later taken to Shah Poonjaji Genaji Stadium by roadways buses. These passengers were sanitised, screened and registered before being sent to their respective destinations by roadways buses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/550-reach-jalore/articleshow/75783073.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Pune||Pune: Industries reopen, but less than 7% staff back to work||PUNE: Industries have resumed operations to an extent in the 17 MIDC zones in the district, but official data show that about 66,000 employees have actually reported to work till Saturday. The 17 zones together provide employment to over a million people. The regional office of the MIDC is also tracking the number of employees, of the nearly 1,000 units allowed to reopen, working from home — about 2.25 lakh, mostly in the IT industry, fall into this category. Industry insiders said the start has been far from smooth, considering these numbers and other restrictions in play. “We have just 10 employees. Do they think any work is possible with three employees?” said the a manager of a small company in PCMC limits said, referring to the 33% strength directive. In Chakan, the hub of auto and allied components industry, about 14,000 employees have returned to work. Four lakh people are employed in Chakan. Manufacturing industry representatives said for their sector, work from home was impossible. “Manufacturing is a manual industry. Workers cannot work from home and we cannot continue like this. Just 6% of employees coming to work is meaningless,” the HR representative of an automotive company said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/industries-reopen-but-less-than-7-staff-back-to-work/articleshow/75782733.cms||Satyanarayan Iyer
May 17, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Will get helicopters to combat locusts, says Union minister Kailash Choudhary||JAISALMER: Union minister of state for agriculture and farmer welfare Kailash Choudhary has said that a plan has been prepared to get rid of the locusts this time through aerial control. Five helicopters for the purpose will be ordered from Britain, but due to ongoing worldwide lockdown, the plan is getting delayed. Choudhary spoke to the local media through video conferencing from Delhi on Friday night. The minister said that the state government has given a step motherly treatment to farmers by not making proper arrangements for purchasing crops from them and by failing to stop locusts. Mentioning the various steps taken by the Central government for farmers, migrant labourers and general public, he said that in the time of crisis too, various schemes are being managed well in agriculture sector and farmers are getting benefits of every scheme. Replying to the questions on checking locusts, Choudhary said that this time, locusts have come to Rajasthan one month in advance and have spread to many districts in 500km area. Apart from this, there is information of locusts getting into a few areas of Punjab. Considering this, efforts are being made for effective control of locusts by strengthening the locust prevention system formed by the Central government, effective coordination between the state and Centre, use of tractors and machines on rent by farmers, purchase of new machines and drones, helicopter sprays, TD surveillance and mobile applications etc. An order has been placed for five helicopters from Britain and payment has been sent in advance, but due to lockdown, the delivery is getting delayed. He said by stopping the summer breeding, the crisis can be averted. On the other hand, locust swarms are continuously coming from Pakistan. Locusts are wreaking havoc in Mohangarh canal area, Pokhran, Ramdeora and other areas in Jaisalmer district and have also reached up to Jalore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rajasthan-will-get-helicopters-to-combat-locusts-says-union-minister-kailash-choudhary/articleshow/75783074.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Mourning families struggle to find space to let loved ones rest in peace||NEW DELHI: With the two cremation grounds designated as Covid-19 facilities having limited number of CNG furnaces, cremation process in the capital has been hit hard. A long list of protocols and an increased number of bodies are resulting in huge delays of late. Sometimes, the grieving families have to wait even more than 24 hours for the cremation. Lack of infrastructure and staff has put increased pressure on the management of the two cremation facilities. Meanwhile, two of the four furnaces in Punjabi Bagh are lying defunct. Three CNG furnaces in Nigambodh Ghat have also not been functioning for a long time. A senior South Delhi Municipal Corporation official told TOI that the Punjabi Bagh facility had received more than 36 corpses of Covid-19 patients (positive and suspected cases) in the last three days. “We have only two furnaces there. Sometimes, we receive more than 15 bodies at a time and hence, they start piling up. Each body takes more than 2 hours for the complete cremation in a CNG furnace,” the official explained. A similar problem exists at Nigambodh Ghat. As per the data from North Delhi Municipal Corporation, it received 10 bodies of corona patients for funeral on Monday, 16 on Tuesday, 10 on Wednesday and 13 on Thursday. Suman Gupta who heads the NGO that manages the operations of the ghat said that only three out of six furnaces were operational. “We were about to get two more furnaces installed, but before the work could begin, the pandemic started. Now, even labourers are not available,” he said. “With the number of such cremations rising and people having to wait the entire day, more cremation grounds should be designated as Covid facilities to ease the pressure,” Gupta added. “Yesterday, we received 19 bodies and we already have a list of over 15 bodies to be cremated today. In the last three days, 44 bodies have been processed,” Gupta said on Saturday. A senior corporation official said there was a plan to create another CNG facility at Dwarka, but that did not materialise. “We should definitely have more electric and CNG units. We may have to resort to wood-based cremations if the load increases beyond capacity,” the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/mourning-families-struggle-to-find-space-to-let-loved-ones-rest-in-peace/articleshow/75795269.cms||Paras Singh
May 17, 2020||Chennai||Experts differ over number of tests; Tamil Nadu records 477 new cases, three deaths||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu reported 477 new Covid-19 cases and 939 patients were discharged from hospitals on Saturday while the state’s public health authorities remained divided on whether enough people were being tested for the infection. The state recorded three Covid-19 deaths on Saturday, taking the toll to 74. A patient who underwent heart and lung transplant admitted to government hospital with Covid-19 was among those discharged, said health minister C Vijayabaskar. Chennai recorded 332 new cases, Tiruvallur 10, Chengalpet 13 and Kancheepuram four. The new cases on Saturday include four passengers who returned from Dhaka, 81 from Maharashtra, seven from Gujarat and one from AP. In Tirunelveli, 44 people from Maharashtra tested positive. The district along with Thanjavur and Sivaganga recorded cases only among people who came from other states. The number of people tested dropped to 8,270 from 10,883 on Friday. The state has recorded a 40% drop since May 7 when it screened more than 14,000 people. On May 6, it had screened 13,281 people. While some members of the expert panel including National Institute of Epidemiology deputy director Dr Prahdeep Kaur and infectious disease expert Dr V Ramasubramanian have been pushing for testing as per ICMR protocol, some other members differed. For instance, former city health officer Dr P Kuganandam said the state need not test asymptomatic contacts anymore. “It was required in the initial stages of the epidemic. Now, we should focus on protecting the aged and vulnerable people. Resources should be spent on testing, isolating and treating patients who need it most. This will ensure judicious use of testing,” he said. “More than anything else, it will protect the vulnerable, particularly in crowded cities like Chennai,” he said. Senior officials maintained the high number of fresh cases should not be a cause for concern as long as the recovery rate is going up. On Saturday, the recovery rate was more than 33% and more people are likely to be discharged on Sunday. “We can’t chase the virus. We have to live with it,” said Greater Chennai Corporation special nodal officer J Radhakrishnan, who accompanied, health minister C Vijaya Baskar to containment zones in Chennai. “We need to promote “herd masking” and social distancing norms,” he said. The total number of people who tested positive for Covid-19 in TN is 10,585 and 3,538 people have been discharged from hospitals. Six days after a 65-year-old woman admitted on May 9 at private hospital died in Chennai, the state added her into the Covid death registry. The media bulletin from the Directorate of Public said she had “community acquired pneumonia” and active respiratory illness. “This does not mean there is community spread of Covid-19. It means the patient who acquired pneumonia from the community was tested positive for the viral infection,” said a senior official, who did not want to be named. Two men – a 55-year-old with old pulmonary tuberculosis and a 78-year-old with diabetes mellitus and hypertension -- died on Friday. At the end of the day, 6,970 patients were still under treatment for Covid-19. Senior officials in the health department said the state will soon empower police to fine people who do not wear mask or maintain social distancing norms. According to health minister C Vijayabaskar, Erode has not registered a case for 21 days and Tiruppur has recorded no case for the last 15 days. “While many districts have not had a case for more than a week, we are seeing new challenges. We are having influx of passenger from other states. At least 20% of passenger are now testing positive,” he said. So far, 10 flights have landed in Tamil Nadu and 13 people who came in three flights were tested positive. All passengers in these flights have been quarantined. More passengers coming by train and trucks are being tested, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/experts-differ-over-number-of-tests-tn-records-477-new-cases-3-deaths/articleshow/75782735.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Pune||Strapped for supplies, food joints struggle to deliver||Pune: Restaurants in Pune are finding it difficult to continue offering home delivery as they are faced by a barrage of problems, including shortage of essential ingredients. A shortage of staff and non-availability of essentials like capsicum, French beans, carrots and Indian spices have affected restaurants during the lockdown. The demand for home deliveries has dropped by 90% compared to normal times, adding that if this persists, the few restaurants offering home delivery may also stop. “The wholesale vegetable market has been closed for a month, affecting supply, while a vegetables like capsicum, carrots, French beans come from outside Pune and the state,” Ganesh Shetty, president, Pune Restaurants and Hoteliers Association, said. “Restaurant-cooked food needs hundreds of spices, many of which are not available. Since supply to the city has been hampered, restaurants are finding it difficult to maintain quality,” he added. Shetty said roughly 50 restaurants started home delivery a few weeks ago. Of those, around 40 have stopped, while an additional 10-15 started recently. “Everyone is at home and many do not feel the need to order from outside. The demand for home deliveries has dropped by 90%,” he added. “We are just maintaining 35-40% of order volumes in Pune and other cities currently,” a source from a popular food delivery-based platform said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/strapped-for-supplies-food-joints-struggle-to-deliver/articleshow/75782738.cms||Neha Madaan
May 17, 2020||Visakhapatnam||‘Disinfect schools before reopening’||Visakhapatnam: The recent announcement by education minister Adimulapu Suresh that class X examinations will be held from July 10 to 15 has raised calls for the state government to ensure that schools and classrooms are safe to conduct examinations after nearly four months since they were closed in mid-March. Narava Prakasa Rao, member of the organisation Right to Education (RTE) Forum Southern States steering committee said disinfecting and sanitising school buildings should be a priority as many schools, especially government and zilla parishad schools, have been used to quarantine Covid-19 suspects and shelter migrant workers. In a letter to the education minister, Rao wrote, “It is also very important to sensitise and create awareness among students and parents on how they need to keep themselves clean, practice social distance while sitting or on the grounds, wear mask, wash hands and so on.” Rao added that the education department must prepare a blueprint for disinfecting the schools at least 20 days before examinations, in coordination with line departments. The state government, he suggested, should start working on different strategies to sanitise schools and not open them in one move. The letter also suggests that government schools make use of national television and radio broadcasters rather than online platforms as many students in government schools do not have access to smartphones. Deputy district education officer, Visakhapatnam, Prem Kumar, said they are waiting for guidelines on social distancing and other Covid-19 precautions for students. “We will implement whatever guidelines are issued by the government in true letter and spirit,” said Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/disinfect-schools-before-reopening/articleshow/75781446.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Delhi||Teacher dies, East Delhi Municipal Corporation says not on Covid-19 duty||NEW DELHI: One more primary teacher of a East Delhi Municipal Corporation school passed away after contracting Covid-19 in Bhajanpura area. Also, another teacher who was engaged in ration distribution from a school in Shakarpur had been found Covid-positive. Her contacts were sent for home isolation of 14 days. Meanwhile, spokesperson of the east corporation said that the primary teacher passed away from Covid-19, but he had not been deputed on ration distribution duty. “The teacher had pre-existing conditions related to liver. We had not deployed the teacher on Covid-19 duty. His family would get compensation as per normal benefits,” the spokesperson added. Teachers unions, however, alleged that the civic body was trying to suppress the matter so that paying ‘special compensation’ could be avoided. “We demand that Rs 1-crore compensation should be given. All teachers would protest by wearing black armbands while doing the duty,” Khatri said. The primary teacher was admitted to a private hospital on April 29 and was sent to Lok Nayak Hospital after being tested positive for Covid-19. He passed away on May 11. In the past two weeks, several cases of teachers getting infected during ration distribution at centres being run from corporation schools had been found. With frequent complaints of crowding and mismanagement, teachers unions had been demanding that teachers should not be deployed for this duty. Kuldeep Khatri of Shikshak Nyaya Manch Nagar Nigam said that though teachers were not being paid regularly, they were asked to expose themselves to crowds with high possibility of contacting the infection. Khatri said that he was also on ration distribution duty and had interacted with over 4,000 people in last two days. “So many cases had been detected but no one was doing anything,” Khatri rued. So far, Covid-positive cases had been confirmed from seven civic schools.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/teacher-dies-e-corpn-says-not-on-covid-19-duty/articleshow/75782744.cms||Paras Singh
May 17, 2020||Pune||Pune: 60,000 litres of craft beer may go down the drain||PUNE: Over 60,000 litres of ready craft beer stocked in 16 micro-breweries in the district may have to be discarded in the coming days because of the lockdown. Craft beer loses its taste, aroma and texture unless it is consumed within a few months of its production. Nakul Bhosale, president, Craft Brewers Association of India, Maharashtra chapter,said, "We are not benefitting even though liquor stores have opened. The outlook for restaurants and bars doesn’t look positive for 2020." Watch 60,000 litres of craft beer may go down the drain in Pune||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/60k-litres-of-craft-beer-may-go-down-the-drain/articleshow/75782742.cms||Rujuta Parekh
May 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Couple die as toll booth collapses||Hyderabad: A couple, who are agriculturists, died after an under-construction toll booth fell on them when they went to take shelter underneath it during the heavy rains which lashed Mahaboobnagar on Saturday. Krishna, 42, and Pushpa, 38, took their stock of paddy to dry it on the road. When it started to rain heavily, they went to the nearby toll plaza, which is being constructed at Mannanur. Due to the heavy rain, the under-construction toll booth fell on them and the couple died on the spot. On knowing about it, police reached the spot and removed the dead bodies. Later, they were shifted to a hospital for post-mortem examination.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/couple-die-as-toll-booth-collapses/articleshow/75782743.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Ajmer||400 labourers sent to MP from Ajmer||Ajmer: Over 400 labourers from different parts of Madhya Pradesh residing in the city lost patience and got ready to walk to their homes on Saturday. Ajmer police came to their rescue and assured them to arrange roadways buses. After screening these people, about 16 buses took them to Baran district in the evening. Rupesh from Bhopal of Madhya Pradesh said they worked as labourers for a construction company here. “We made our huts here and started living, but lockdown has forced us to return,” added Rupesh. They were all with their families. On Saturday, these labourers hit the road and staged agitation to return to their homes by walking. “We have arranged screening of every labourer and assured them for buses. Meanwhile, the district administration arranged buses for them,” added Priyanka. She said the buses will take them to Baran, on the border of Rajasthan and from there they will enter Madhya Pradesh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/400-labourers-sent-to-mp-from-ajmer/articleshow/75783076.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Sree Chitra’s RNA extraction kits in market soon||KOCHI: Giving impetus to government’s efforts to increase number of tests to diagnose Covid-19, RNA extraction kits developed by Sree Chitra Tirunal Institute for Medical Sciences and Technology (SCTIMST) are all set to hit the market soon. Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) approved commercial production and National Institute of Virology, Alappuzha, completed final validation of kits and gave its nod on Saturday. Agappe Diagnostics Ltd, a Kochi-based pharma firm, entered into agreement with SCTIMST to commercially produce the RNA extraction kits. The national-level launch of the kit will be held at a function in Delhi next week, said sources. “Shortage of RNA extraction kits was a major reason for low number of Covid-19 tests in the country. Currently, RNA extraction kits are imported. With competent agencies approving commercial manufacturing of the kits, it will solve the shortage issue of RNA extraction kits,” sources close to SCTIMST said. “Since all components of the kit are indigenously made, it will facilitate speedy production of RNA extraction kits on a large scale,” sources added. “We are all set to produce the RNA extraction kits on a large scale as we have received all clearances required for commercial manufacturing. We have already got inquiries from across the country,” said sources with Agappe Diagnostics. The firm is planning to produce at least 1 lakh kits this month. From June onwards, 3 lakh kits will be produced every month, sources with the company said. “Currently, the cost of imported RNA extraction kits is around Rs 300 apiece. Once we start production, we will be able to supply the kit at half the rate,” sources said. Meanwhile, SCTIMST researchers modifying LAMP-N, a kit developed by the institute as a cheaper, faster and more accurate alternative to existing kits for RT-PCR tests. The technology has been transferred to Agappe Diagnostics and the firm is gearing up for its commercial production. Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR), which is authorized to approve production of the kits, suggested certain modifications after initial rounds of validation. Once the kits produced by the private firm clears validation, the company can apply for licence from Drugs Controller General of India which is the final nod for commercial production of drugs and diagnostic kits. Once the Chitra Gene LAMP-N is marketed, it can reduce the time and cost for diagonizing Covid-19. Currently, an RT-PCR test kit costs around Rs 4,500. Chitra Gene LAMP-N can be sold at around Rs 1,000 per kit, sources with Agappe said. Time required for generating results can also be reduced considerably.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/sree-chitras-rna-extraction-kits-in-market-soon/articleshow/75781457.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Nashik||Kin of Covid-19 deceased share harrowing experience, AMC says will check their plaint||Aurangabad: Two families who lost their loved ones to Covid-19 spoke out about their traumatic experiences while getting the bodies and the way different agencies dealt with them. After the death of a 58-year-old Covid-positive man on April 5, the family members were left to fend for themselves from arranging the ambulance to carrying out the cremation. “We arranged for the ambulance and conducted the last rites without any PPE,” a family member said. The family of a 94-year-old woman, who died at the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) on May 12, said even when they took her to the hospital, nobody was willing to touch her. They themselves took her to the various departments for check-ups and swab collection. She died a few hours later and the family members took the body to the mortuary. The family members were told to go home and return the next day, by when, the Covid-19 test result was expected. “At 11pm, Chikalthana police entered our lane sounding sirens and told us to go to the GMCH. In a few minutes, a van from the Satara police station also came. At 11.56 pm, we got a call from the hospital asking us to take the body immediately,” the woman’s relative said. The next day, the family had to run between the GMCH and Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) to get the death certificate and get their own swab tests done. “The AMC officials told us that they don’t have the manpower. They handed us two PPE kits and asked to get the cremation done ourselves. After making a few calls, finally, two men were deputed to us. It was a traumatic experience,” the relative said. When asked, GMCH deputy dean and head of the department of forensic science Kailash Zine said the hospital informs the AMC about the Covid deaths immediately. “Like in Pune and Mumbai, in Aurangabad too, it is the responsibility of the municipal corporation to arrange for the ambulance, manpower, PPE kits and disinfectants for cremation or burial of the Covid-19 deceased,” Zine said. When asked, municipal health officer Nita Padalkar told TOI that the civic body has roped in an NGO to take care of providing hearse, workers and PPE kits for relatives of Covid-19 casualties. “The NGO is to ensure that the dead body is disposed of as per the government guidelines. Their contact number has been shared with the GMCH too. However, if the patient's kin were denied assistance, then we will look into the matter," Padalkar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/kin-of-covid-19-deceased-share-harrowing-experience-amc-says-will-check-their-plaint/articleshow/75781438.cms||Arpita Sharad
May 17, 2020||Aurangabad||Sillod man & driver sent to quarantine||Aurangabad: The Aurangabad city police, on doctor’s recommendation, have sent a 30-year-old man and his driver to institutional quarantine at the Deogiri Boys’ Hostel after they found the man with a ‘home quarantine’ stamp on his hand moving around in his car with the driver. The resident of Dongargaon in Sillod taluka was caught by the policemen on duty at the Harsul t-point. Harsul police station inspector Sachin Ingole told TOI: “The car was intercepted late on Friday evening. Our personnel on duty noticed the home quarantine stamp on the man’s hand.” It was then revealed that the man had come from Sillod, 60 km from here, to visit a hospital, where he underwent a swab test. The doctor on duty stamped him for home quarantine adding that he will have to return depending on the test result. The man did not disclose that he had come to Aurangabad with his driver. “Our men contacted the doctor, who advised us to send both men to institutional quarantine,” said Ingole.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/sillod-man-driver-sent-to-quarantine/articleshow/75781441.cms||Mohammed Akhef
May 17, 2020||Kolhapur||Temple shut till May 31||Kolhapur: The Mahalaxmi temple in Kolhapur will remain shut till May 31 according to the officials of Paschim Maharashtra Devasthan Samiti which looks after the temple . Mahesh Jadhav, the president of PMDS said, “As per the instructions issued by the state government, temples including Mahalaxmi temple and Jotiba temple will remain shut.” “We will take the decision about opening the temple depending on the directives from the government,” he said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/temple-shut-till-may-31/articleshow/75781442.cms||Vivek Waghmode
May 17, 2020||Pune||Gultekdi grain market to stay shut from May 19||Pune: Six traders working at the wholesale grain market in Gultekdi, Market Yard, tested positive for Covid-19 on Saturday, prompting the Pune Merchants Chamber to shut down the market indefinitely from May 19, during which loading and unloading of supplies won’t be allowed. Poptalal Ostwal, president of the chamber, told TOI, “We cannot risk the safety our of traders by keeping the grain market functional in the face of the rapid spread of the virus. We cannot be sure when the grain market will reopen.” A grain trader from Market Yard said, “The two grain traders who were infected have a firm here, which is big time into hotel supplies. Two from the other four infected were working at a shop in Market Yard.” Dhaval Shah, the director of Jairaj Group in Gultekdi wholesale market, Pune, said, “The Mumbai and Vashi grain markets have been closed since days, and Pune wholesale grain market may follow suit. The traders in Pune had been under immense pressure since the contagion spread began.” A PMC health department official said 35 people from the Market Yard area had tested positive on Saturday. “These include the number of cases from the entire area, and not just the wholesale market,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/gultekdi-grain-market-to-stay-shut-from-may-19/articleshow/75782746.cms||Neha Madaan
May 17, 2020||Mysuru||Four-year-old girl among three who test +ve in Shivamogga||Shivamogga: Of the three individuals who tested positive in Shivamogga on Saturday, one was a four-year-old girl. All three had returned to Shivamogga from Mumbai. The girl and her 42-year-old father, who has also been confirmed infected, had returned from Mumbai. The family is native to Ripponpet town in Hosanagar taluk. In addition to the father-daughter duo, a 38-year-old woman from Sagar taluk too tested positive for novel coronavirus, taking the district tally to 12. They have all been quarantined at the McGann Hospital, which the designated Covid-19 facility in Shivamogga. Shivamogga MP BY Raghavendra said that the health department was tracing primary contacts of the three patients. He attributed the rise in the number of cases in the Malnad district to the return of Shivamogga residents from Mumbai. “We cannot do anything to stop them,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/four-year-old-girl-among-three-who-test-ve-in-shivamogga/articleshow/75781454.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Pune||Voluntary curfew in Shirur||Pimpri Chinchwad: Traders from Shirur would be observing “janata curfew” till May 20 to prevent the Covid-19 spread, said Vaishali Wakhare, the president of Shirur Municipal Council. Positive patients were reported in nearby villages. SMC CEO Mahesh Rokade said no positive patient was found in Shirur. “The administration did not decide on the curfew, it was the traders’ voluntary decision. — Siddharth Gaikwad||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/voluntary-curfew-in-shirur/articleshow/75782754.cms||Siddharth Gaikwad
May 17, 2020||Jaipur||Curfew withdrawn in Pokhran after 40 days||Jaisalmer: Curfew was lifted in Pokhran after 40 days on Saturday following report of no corona positive case in the last 20 days. It was imposed after 35 people tested positive for Covid-19 in early April. Jaisalmer district magistrate Namit Mehta withdrew the prohibitory orders issued on April 6 from the town after the situation returned to normal. Collector and district disaster management authority chairman under Section 30 and 34 of Disaster Management Act 2005 and under Section 2 of Rajasthan Epidemic Diseases Act 1957 had declared Pokhran a prohibited area for being the high-risk zone. In the order, it is pointed out that now all residents of this area will stay in their homes and could move out only for necessary and permitted reasons. No person will move out or come into this area without the permission of SDO. Essential commodities related services, provision, medical, vegetable and fruit shops will remain open and milk collection and distribution will be permitted. There will be no need for pass for these services. Apart from this, under the order issued by the home department of the state government on May 2 and May 13, the permitted activities will be allowed after the permission from the SDO. The permitted shops will have to abide by the prescribed security measures and social distancing, wearing mask, no to sell items to customers who do not wear mask, regular sanitization etc. Mehta in this regard said that corona spread in Pokhran due to Tablighi Jamaatis came here after taking part in Markaj and first patient came to light on April 6 and since then 35 people were found infected. The big relief is that all 35 patients have been tested negative and have returned to their homes. He said that in last 20 days there was no positive case from Pokhran due to which the curfew has been lifted from Friday night, but prohibitory orders will continue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/curfew-withdrawn-in-pokhran-after-40-days/articleshow/75783078.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Jodhpur||Help pours in for needy workers||Jodhpur: Six migrants of Madhya Pradesh stuck in Jodhpur and desperately willing to return to their homes found empathy towards their woes in some officials of a bank. Those officials not only arranged a vehicle for them to their destination, but also provided with food for the travel. “We learnt about six people, including two children, seeking help in returning to their homes in Ratlam and Mandsaur,” said Bhawani Singh Shekhawat, an official with a private bank. Similarly, some youths in Bhawad village near Jodhpur spotted some poor migrants walking with children to their home in UP on Friday. This family of eight, mostly children, had begun its foot march from Morbi in Gujarat 10 days ago and had been consistently walking since then. A member of Bhawad Mission Group, Mahipal Bishnoi shared their ordeal with other group members. “We arranged a vehicle for them with some money contributed by the members and obtained required permissions from the SDM,” Bishnoi said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/help-pours-in-for-needy-workers/articleshow/75783077.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Rajkot||Three test positive in Bhavnagar||RAJKOT: Three persons tested positive in Bhavnagar on Saturday. According to district administration, a man aged 58 years and two women aged 55 and 20 years have tested positive. They came from the Surat a few days back and were moved to government quarantine facility. In Rajkot, a 43-year-old man of Dhoraji taluka tested positive. He is accused in several offences. His samples were sent for testing after he was arrested by the police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/three-test-positive-in-bhavnagar/articleshow/75782221.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Hubballi||Problem of plenty haunts mango growers, traders||Dharwad: Earlier, it was feared that the mango yield this season will be less due to the withering of flowers. Now, growers and traders in Dharwad district are facing the problem of plenty. The change in weather resulted in good harvest, but the growers’ happiness was short-lived due to Covid-19 lockdown. In the normal course, hundreds of tonnes of mangoes grown in the district would be sent to Hubballi, Mumbai, Nagpur, Gujarat and Tamil Nadu, which house mango-pulp factories. Since these factories are closed due to lockdown, there are no buyers for the fruit. The factories, which restarted, reduced their intake of the fruit due to the shortage of labour. Transport facilities are also less, making it difficult for the growers to send them to other markets. While the growers are dumping the fruits with the traders, the latter are unable to move them forward due to the lack of transport facilities and a decline in demand. The price of mango, which used to be Rs 40,000 per-quintal, has come down to Rs 18,000. A driver from Navalur on the outskirts of Dharwad (P-673), who had taken 29 people to Maharashtra for selling mangoes, tested positive for Covid-19, adding to the miseries of the mango growers and traders. The amount that has reached the local market so far is just 20% of the total yield. "We are in distress at a time when we have had a good yield. We were expecting to make some profit this time. But the Covid-19 crisis is not letting that happen," rued a mango grower. There are eight mango trade centres between Kelgeri and Alnavar on Dharwad-Goa Road, where one can see heaps of fruits lying unsold.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/problem-of-plenty-haunts-mango-growers-traders/articleshow/75765839.cms||GURURAJ JAMKHANDI
May 17, 2020||India||Rahul Gandhi meets migrants, helps them go home||NEW DELHI: Congress MP Rahul Gandhi on Saturday hit the streets, interacting with migrant workers near Sukhdev Vihar flyover in the capital and asking them about “the problems they were facing” even as he called for the Centre to put money in the hands of the poor. The AICC released a video in which migrants spoke about their chat with Rahul and also photographs showing the Congress member wearing a mask and sitting on the pavement, talking to them. Congress sources said Rahul Gandhi’s interactions were designed to understand the problems faced by the migrants and the reasons why they were still walking to their hometowns. Earlier, at a press conference, while expressing disappointment with the Centre’s relief package, Rahul said “Mother India” should not behave like money lender to its “wounded children”, asking Modi government to give people cash support and not offer them loans. About the group Rahul spoke to, sources said they were around 20 people from Jhansi region in MP who were working in Ambala but were forced to leave after their employers refused to pay their outstanding salaries. “They were walking for three days,” an aide said. Rahul is learnt to have arranged vehicles from Delhi Congress unit which took them to UP border and from there they would be transported to MP border. An aide earlier had said police came with buses to detain the people, but later backed off.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/rahul-gandhi-meets-migrants-helps-them-go-home/articleshow/75783263.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Private hospitals to get 2.5 times higher rates||AHMEDABAD: After negotiations between the private hospitals and Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) over requisition of hospitals under Epidemic Diseases Act, the civic authority on Saturday announced new policies. Under the new rules, the hospitals can keep 50% of the beds and charge the patients at rates fixed by AMC and for the 50% beds, AMC will pay the hospitals on the revised rates which are up to 2.5 times higher than the earlier estimates. With new hospitals notified on Saturday, the total 42 private hospitals in Ahmedabad will now be admitting Covid-19 patients. The list however omitted several hospitals which were earlier taken by AMC which raised questions on the parameters based on which they were taken over. The Gujarat high court had earlier asked the state government to ensure uniform and affordable charges in all private hospitals and make large number of beds available for more and more patients. The court had observed, ‘At any cost, private hospitals should not be permitted to demand exorbitant amounts for the purpose of treatment of Covid-19 patients. These are difficult times and not the time to do business and earn profit.’ Rajiv Kumar Gupta, additional chief secretary (forest & environment), who is given special charge to oversee Covid-19 operations in Ahmedabad, on Saturday announced that they had revised the rates considering the requirements of Ahmedabad as a mega-city. “After deliberation with the principal secretary (health), senior officers of the state government, municipal commissioner and representative of Ahmedabad Medical Association, it has been decided that all the private hospitals designated as Covid-19 treatment facilities shall provide 50% of total number of beds for patients referred by AMC. The rest 50% of capacity can be used to admit and treat patients on their own,” said Gupta. Ahmedabad has the second-highest number of positive cases in an Indian city after Mumbai and has remained a subject of intensive focus by the state government to reduce cases and mortality. Several hospitals and associations had opposed the rates, terming it too low and not covering the base cost for treatment and operations. The new rates vary from Rs 4,500 to Rs 11,250 per patient per day based on categories they are admitted to. However, the rates for unoccupied beds have remained unchanged. In another major decision, the AMC fixed the ceiling for private hospitals to charge patients who are admitted on their own. The hospitals will not be able to charge the patients more than Rs 10,000 to Rs 23,000 per day based on the category of their admission, mentioned a notification. The rates however would not include cost of special medicines, doctors’ visit and lab facilities along with special requirement such as dialysis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/pvt-hospitals-to-get-2-5-times-higher-rates/articleshow/75782806.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Pune||NGOs bat for road safety measures||Pune: The recent data released by Road Safety Network, a coalition of road safety NGOs and experts from across the country, stated that 1,176 road accidents and 321 fatalities were recorded during the lockdown.  The Road Safety Network wrote to the Union home secretary and chief secretary of state with a set of 15 recommendations to ensure safety of commuters. “Empty roads are leading to speeding. It is crucial that the police ensure road safety laws strictly,” Sandeep Gaikwad, road safety coordinator at Parisar, a member organization of Road Safety Network, said. — Rujuta Parekh||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/ngos-bat-for-road-safety-measures/articleshow/75782767.cms||Rujuta Parekh
May 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Two fogging machines for every division||Hyderabad: To fight vector-borne diseases ahead of the monsoon, the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) has decided to press into service two portable fogging machines in every division and two vehicle-mounted machines in every circle. Spraying of pyrethrum to kill mosquitoes and intense anti-larval operations are also part of the action plan this year. On Saturday, which is also national dengue day, GHMC entomology staffers conducted awareness programmes. “Portable fogging machines will cover at least 2 km every day and the vehicle-mounted machines should cover at least 18 km every day,” said a GHMC official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/two-fogging-machines-for-every-division/articleshow/75782769.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Kolhapur||Don’t allow travel to Kolhapur, DGP told||Kolhapur: Minister of state for home and district guardian minister Satej Patil has ordered state police chief Subodh Kumar Jaiswal not to allow people to travel to Kolhapur for a few days. District collector Daulat Desai had written to the director general of police (DGP) on Friday requesting not to allow people to travel to Kolhapur district without his approval. The demand comes in the wake of several patients testing positive for Covid-19 after coming to Kolhapur district from Mumbai and Pune—the cities worst affected the by the infection. The district administration claimed that so far, 80,000 people have arrived in the district in the third phase of the lockdown. “We are yet to receive the test results for most of them. We have made the throat swab sample collection compulsory for people arriving from Mumbai and Pune. They are released only if they test negative or turned to quarantine centres, if positive. The current arrangements are not enough to accommodate everyone. Hence, it is better to stop issuing travel passes to the people wanting to travel to Kolhapur district,” said Patil. The district administration is checking entrants at the 20 checkpoints. Over 800 four-wheelers are arriving in the district everyday. The huge rush at the 13 screening centres set up in the district is putting a lot of strain on the existing staff. “We already have two Covid-10 patients who travelled from Mumbai. I request people to stay back where they are for a while as after coming here, they will have to undergo the mandatory health check-up and not be allowed to return home unless the test results arrive,” said the district guardian minister. Those returning from other places are advised home-quarantine for at least seven days. “The village administrations have been asked to make quarantine arrangements with a capacity to accommodate 50 people. However, in some villages, the quarantine facilities are falling short against the number of people arriving,” said a district official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/dont-allow-travel-to-kolhapur-dgp-told/articleshow/75781467.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Bareilly||Two pool tests of migrants found +ve in Bareilly||Bareilly: Two pool tests - which was done on migrant workers - were found positive for Covid-19 in Bareilly on Saturday. Officials said they will now conduct individual tests of these people to identify the infected persons. District surveillance officer Dr Ranjan Gautam said, "Two pool samples were collected of two families of migrants at 300-bed government hospital on Friday after they returned to Bareilly. One pool comprised five samples and other pool is of four samples. We will again collect individual samples of these people to know how many of them are infected." Chief medical officer Dr Vineet Shukla said one family is from Delapeer area of Bareilly city while the other is a native of Singhai village under Bhuta police station. All people are quarantined at the 300-bed hospital. Bareilly has reported 14 cases of Covid-19 so far. Of these, 10 have been discharged from hospital while one died of the virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/two-pool-tests-of-migrants-found-ve-in-bareilly/articleshow/75781470.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
May 17, 2020||Udaipur||Dubai teacher reaches Kerala for dad’s funeral||Udaipur: After the Centre’s intervention, authorities in Dubai gave priority to a Udaipur-based teacher to return home on humanitarian grounds so that she could see her father's body one last time before the final rites. Deepti Menon, who had written a letter to Prime Minister Modi to help her get back home after her father’s demise on May 13, landed in Kochi around 7.30 pm on Saturday. TOI had reported her plight in a news published on May 15 wherein the woman had pleaded the government to help her reach home since she was the only child of her parents and her 64-year old mother was alone and helpless. After the news was published, senior leaders of the BJP swung into action. Udaipur MP Arjunlal Meena spoke to officials of the ministry of external affairs and apprised them of the woman's plight. BJP Yuva Morcha state vice-president Gajpal Singh Rathore, district dehat president Chandra Shekhar Joshi also approached cabinet minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat in getting help from the government to fly the woman back home. Chittorgarh MP CP Joshi too spoke to the ministry officials and the integrated efforts reaped results. Speaking to TOI over phone, Deepti said, “I cannot thank enough all those who were touched by my grief and helped in every possible way to get me back home.” Deepti’s sworn brother Rakesh Prajapat informed that the funeral would be held on May 18. Deepti has been taken to a quarantine facility and the local administration has allowed her to see her father's body for some time just before the funeral so that she may pay her last tributes to him. She would be let home only after the two weeks’ quarantine period.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/dubai-teacher-reaches-kerala-for-dads-funeral/articleshow/75783079.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Jaipur||50,000 migrants avail 41 shramik special trains to return home||Jaipur: At least 50,000 migrant workers were sent to their respective districts from the state till Friday while nearly 17,000 migrants arrived from other states to Rajasthan. Transport department officials said the number of migrant workers who applied to leave the state were dipping. TOI on Saturday spoke to officials of the transport department and railways to know the efforts taken for the safe transportation of migrant workers. “Till May 15, we sent nearly 50,000 passengers including 30,000 migrant workers and 20,000 coaching students to their home states. We have sent 41 shramik speicial trains from Rajasthan to other states which included 27 trains to Bihar, eight to Uttar Pradesh, three to Jharkhand and one train each to West Bengal, Uttarakhand and Andhra Pradesh,” said transport commissioner Ravi Jain on Saturday. He added that Rajasthan had received 17,000 migrant workers from various states. “We have not charged a penny from these passengers and have spent nearly Rs 1.36 crore for their fare, food and other things,” he added. In the current scenario SDMs are empowered to issue inter-state passes for transporation of migrant workers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/50000-migrants-avail-41-shramik-special-trains-to-return-home/articleshow/75783082.cms||Ashish Mehta
May 17, 2020||Aurangabad||MSEDCL seeks 5k cr help from Centre||Aurangabad: Maharashtra energy minister Nitin Raut has sought financial help of Rs 5,000 crore from the Centre to overcome the losses that Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL) faced due to poor recovery of monthly bills in the wake of the current lockdown. Raut demanded necessary release of money from the funds associated with the National Disaster Relief Fund. “The MSEDCL has incurred losses to the tune of Rs 7,200 crore in the last two months amid the outbreak of Covid-19. The bill recovery was hardly 40 per cent during April and expected to dip further to 25 per cent during May,” an official release said, quoting Raut. Referring to the financial help of Rs 90,000 crore announced by the Centre to power companies in the country, Raut said there was no clarity on the help would be extended to states. “We demand that the financial help to power companies must be offered in the form of a grant and without charging any interest. This will help MSEDCL to issue dues of power-purchase, salaries of staff, and other expenses,” the minister said. Raut has also sought clarity on the rate of interest and tenure of repayment if the financial help from the government and whether it will come in the form of credit through competent bodies such as Power Finance Corporation and Rural Electrification Corporation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/msedcl-seeks-5k-cr-help-from-centre/articleshow/75781469.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Pune||Wildlife lovers aid forest guides||Pune: A group of wildlife enthusiasts, including a number of wildlife NGOs and personalities from various walks of life, have pooled in funds to provide financial aid and rations to tourist guides and daily wage workers involved in anti-poaching programmes at the Nagzira and Panna tiger reserves. The NGOs -- Nature Walk, Jividha, and Wildlife Unlimited -- handed over the aid to the guards and guides in cooperation with the respective forest departments in Maharashtra (Nagzira) and Madhya Pradesh (Panna), respectively. Nagzira is part of the larger Melghat forest range in Vidarbha. Due to the lockdown, hundreds of guides across national parks and sanctuaries in the country have been rendered jobless. This prompted Nature Walk and other NGOs to start a fundraiser for them, according to Anuj Khare, managing trustee of Nature Walk. He added that a number of personalities from all walks of life, including classical music exponent Kaushiki Chakraborty, donated for the cause, along with a number of political figures and forest department officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/wildlife-lovers-aid-forest-guides/articleshow/75782766.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Trichy||Trichy Corporation seizes 80kg of banned plastic||TRICHY: Trichy Corporation on Friday confiscated 80kg of banned single-use plastic products including carry bags and teacups from 105 shops in Trichy city and levied a penalty of Rs25,000. But, activists say that enforcement has been too little to prevent the resurgence of banned plastics. Civic body officials said that the plastic contrabands are door-delivered during the night as godowns for the banned plastic products are situated in the outskirts. “Meat stalls are getting the plastic carry bags at their doorsteps. Trucks carrying essential commodities are used to transport the plastic carry bags in bulk from other parts of the state,” said KC Neelamegam, an environmental activist. As parcel services in eateries and grocery stores are taking precedence due to lockdown restrictions, plastic carry bags have become essential for delivery. Locals said that traders are desperate to source single-use plastics to sustain their business as people are not carrying vessels or bags with them during the purchase. “Not only door-delivery, some shops are still selling the banned plastic items clandestinely,” an eatery owner under the condition of anonymity added. Authorities said that they are considering a soft approach to tackle the situation as traders are already dejected over the poor business during the lockdown. “It is not that we gave up on acting against the circulation of banned plastic products. Penalisation will continue, the public should cooperate by carrying a cloth bag with them during purchase,” an official with Trichy Corporation said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/corpn-seizes-80kg-of-banned-plastic/articleshow/75783080.cms||Deepak Karthik
May 17, 2020||Bareilly||Muslims for ‘quieter’ Eid, fear community can be targeted if gatherings lead to spike in Covid cases||Bareilly: With Covid-19 cases refuse to die down, Muslims in Shahjahanpur have decided to have a “quieter Eid” and limit their exchange of greetings mostly to social media, fearing that large gatherings may increase the risk of infection and the community could be targeted for the Covid spike. Divulging details, Shahjahanpur Eidgah Committee secretary Sayed Qasim Raza said the decision was taken by the members at a recent meeting of the committee. “The pandemic is gradually gripping our country. Our mosques are closed and we have been offering prayers at home. Thus, we have decided not to go out for buying clothes or shopping. Eid will be a quieter affair this year.” Mohammed Aadil, a mobile shop owner, told TOI, “We don’t want news channels to debate that the Covid cases surged due to the Eid gatherings. For us, there is no Eid without ‘Alvida’ (main Eid namaz prayer). We can’t hug each other, can’t invite people, can’t read ‘tarawih’ prayers in groups and will not be able to follow all the guidelines of Ramzan. People are dying of coronavirus and the future is uncertain. So, all my relatives have decided not to buy clothes and rather support the people in need.” Mohammed Irfan, a sports teacher, told TOI, “My wife and I have decided not to buy clothes and donate money among needy people. However, I have bought a dress for my five-month-old daughter as it’s her first Eid. I will pray to Allah to finish the disease and save humanity. Every day, I burst into tears after reading about the condition of migrants workers. I wish I had the power to improve their condition.” Another local who wished not to be named told TOI, “We are very scared. So, we have decided to stay at home to avoid any untoward situation. Often we are ill-treated and people stare at us suspiciously. Communal harmony is dying and Covid-19 is being used as an opportunity to target our community.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/muslims-for-quieter-eid-fear-community-can-be-targeted-if-gatherings-lead-to-spike-in-covid-cases/articleshow/75781478.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
May 17, 2020||Kolhapur||Property tax breaks sought from KMC||Kolhapur: Activists from the city condemned the civic administration for offering a concession in property tax payment that is already in place and not offering tax breaks to them. On Friday, Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC) declared that those who paid the propert tax as early as possible would get a 6% concession. The 6% concession is in place if citizens pay the property tax within the first three months of the fiscal. As a result, many citizens rushed to the facilitation centres and the civic body managed to collect over Rs 40 lakh. Activist Baba Indulkar said, “Wooing citizens with concessions which are already there in the tax rules is an insensitive decision. The KMC should announce the tax concession only after the lockdown ends and people go to the work. If people do not pay tax after the lockdown, the KMC can impose a fine.” Activists claimed that many tenants were being harassed to pay the rent and clear other bills so that their owners could avail of the concession offered by the KMC in property tax payment. Chief property tax superintendent Sanjay Bhosale said, “We are not forcing anyone to pay the tax. Citizens can pay the property tax by June 30. We have declared a concession which is already there in the rule books. There is no such policy for tax breaks.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/property-tax-breaks-sought-from-kmc/articleshow/75781458.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Kolhapur||Ganesh idol makers rush to finish work before monsoon||Kolhapur: Ganesh idol makers from Kolhapur city are busy with last minute preparations and are rushing to get the idols ready before the commencement of Ganesh Chaturthi festival. This year, the festival begins from August 22 and last for 10 days. The idol makers are struggling to finish their work before monsoon. Last year, most of the idol makers from Bapat Camp and Kumbhar Galli of Shahupuri had suffered heavy losses due to damage caused to the idols in August floods. However, this year, they are yet again facing a new challenge — Covid-19 pandemic.Sagar Kumbhar, an idol maker from Bapat Camp, said, “This year, I have received orders only from the mandals which are associated with me since last several years. The demand for idols is low. We are planning to shift the idols to our godown located near Shahu market once they are made. Last year, many idols were damaged due to floods. Despite the losses, some mandals helped us in one way or the other. Now, they, too, are going to celebrate the festival in a simple way due to the current Covid-19 situation. Many people have not yet approached us for selecting idols as they too think that if the lockdown continues, they will not be able to celebrate the festival.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/ganesh-idol-makers-rush-to-finish-work-before-monsoon/articleshow/75781479.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Nashik||Two arrested in Satana murder case||Nashik: The Satana police have arrested two persons, including a woman, in connection with the murder of a 49-year-old man on the intervening night of Wednesday and Thursday. The victim – Rajendra Dinkar Sardar of Siddharth Nagar – was found murdered in his car at the Dogheshwar Ghat in Satana on Thursday morning. Some unidentified person(s) had struck him on the head with a blunt object to kill him. The killers had then pushed the victim’s car off the road to make it look like an accident. Soon after the incident came to light, the Satana police swung into action and arrested two persons – Ravi Khalale (36) and a woman. The police said they used the victim’s records to track down the two people who were eventually arrested. Police said that according to the arrested woman, Sardar had been harassing her for the past few months, and that is why she decided to kill him with Khalale’s help.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/two-arrested-in-satana-murder-case/articleshow/75781474.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Ahmedabad||CM Vijay Rupani holds meeting to finalise Ahmedabad’s Covid control plan||GANDHINAGAR: Chief minister Vijay Rupani held a video conference with elected and administrative leaders of Ahmedabad city to finalize an action plan to control the spread of Covid-19 in the city. A massive health check-up and surveillance programme will be conducted in ten wards of the city over the next 15 days. The CM interacted with the mayor, deputy mayor, chairman of the standing committee of Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation, the leader of the ruling party in the AMC as well as ACS Rajiv Gupta, who has been specially appointed to control the spread of Covid-19 in the city, and municipal commissioner Mukesh Kumar. Other civic body officials also joined video conference, which was aimed at ensuring “containment-free zones, corona-free wards”. Using mobile medicine vans, intensive health checks and surveillance activity will be taken up at 160 locations in ten wards that have been worst hit by the pandemic. These medical teams will repeatedly visit these wards to ensure that people with common ailments are provided medicines, while suspected Covid cases are tested. The mobile medical vans will be accompanied by a team of comprising an allopathic doctor, an AYUSH doctor, lab technicians, pharmacists and paramedical staff. Each van will be deployed at four points every day for the next 15 days. The van will focus on testing as well as treating people with common cold and fevers. In addition, homeopathic and ayurvedic medicines that boost immunity will also be distributed. Under this action plan, the chief minister gave instructions to carry out intensive health check-up campaigns at 160 locations. Six are in Central zone, two in South zone, one in East zone and one in North zone by forming different teams through 40 mobile medical vans or Dhanvantari Raths. The chief minister made it clear that the fight against Covid-19 is to be intensified to ensure that the maximum number of infected patients recover in time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/cm-holds-meeting-to-finalize-citys-covid-control-plan/articleshow/75782815.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Nashik||NGO’s devises model to help needy||Aurangabad: In a successful model developed at Misarwadi in the city, NGO Care to Care Charitable Foundation has identified all the needy families and provided them with grocery kits to sustain for 25 days in a way that there is no repetition yet inclusion of all families. The NGO has now begun implementing the model in Naregaon. As part of the modus operandi, the NGO develops and maintains a healthy relationship between the three key links of their ration distribution chain i.e. the donors, the co-ordinators and the beneficiaries. According to Shaikh Waseem of the NGO, a lot of people come forward to donate food and ration to needy during the lockdown period. However, due to lack of co-ordination and data, not all needy receive the benefits while a selected few are repeatedly benefited, he said. “We have decided to form a committee of 20-25 persons to identify the total need of the entire area so that we can target towards closure and trace individual donations with small number of kits easily. Committee members identified needy families around respective mosques to track required number of food kits. Based on this data, the individuals and organisations willing to donate are posted about the requirements,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/ngos-devises-model-to-help-needy/articleshow/75781490.cms||Arpita Sharad
May 17, 2020||Trichy||Trichy: In this restaurant, mutton comes with a mask||TRICHY: In times of the pandemic, what better way to boost one’s business than by contributing your mite to driving away the dreaded coronavirus. A non-vegetarian eatery in the city is doing precisely that by incentivising customers with gloves, masks and sanitizers depending on their food orders. The restaurant, ‘Only Biriyani’, provides reusable face masks and hand gloves besides hand sanitizers along with orders worth over Rs 300. “People are expecting offers but instead of giving cash discounts, we thought of promoting preventive measures to overcome Covid-19. A few customers were seen without face masks, so we planned to give protective gear as gifts along with the food to encourage them to stay safe,” Mohandoss Balaji, proprietor of the Thillai Nagar-based outlet said. People giving orders for more than Rs 1,000 get hand sanitizer bottles and those above Rs 300 face masks. Reusable cotton hand gloves are gifted to those who place an order for over Rs 600. However, the gifts, worth between Rs 10 and Rs 250, are not applicable for customers who place their orders through online food agregators. “As the response was good, we have planned to continue the gifts for takeaway orders till May 31” Mohandoss added. Since dining-in is prohibited during the lockdown, eateries here are desperate to attract customers as many still hesitate to buy even takeaway food. While some of the eateries have slashed prices of takeaways, a few restaurants have come forward to offer free home delivery too. While pointing out that restaurants are struggling to stay afloat despite the relaxations in lockdown, food entrepreneurs said they are keenly awaiting the full-fledged resumption of offices to shore up their business.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/in-this-restaurant-mutton-comes-with-a-mask/articleshow/75783083.cms||Deepak Karthik
May 17, 2020||Pune||Magicians cast spell online with bag of tricks||Magician Kunal Newar peers into the laptop’s video camera, tears out a page from a writing pad and sets it on fire. The paper crumbles and morphs into a sanitizer. His viewers, spread across Pune, Mumbai, Delhi and Bengaluru, squeal with delight. Welcome to the world of online magic. With remote working being the norm during the lockdown, many magicians in Pune have gone online with their bags of tricks and feats of mentalism. “The decision to go online was born out of sheer desperation. After my last show on March 19, I didn't know what to do. So, I went on Instagram and performed a few magic tricks. Then, I pitched the idea of virtual magic to corporates and event managers. Now, even families are approaching me to host shows for their friends and relatives,” said Pune-based Newar. The idea of virtual magic has caught on among many illusionists in the city. Magician Shardul has set up a studio at his home in Undri to give viewers the feel of a live theatre show. “Most people are bored sitting at home because they have limited sources of entertainment. I try to relieve their stress and bring some happiness to their lives,” he said. A typical show begins with Shardul rubbing sanitizer on his hands. “I tell the viewers that for the next few minutes they are in safe hands,” he smiled. Shardul then asks the audience about their dreams and aspirations. When they tell him about their dreams, he fishes out a piece of paper where he had already written them down. “It's all mind reading,” said Shardul, who has live-streamed his shows in Bangalore, Kolkata, Delhi and Mumbai apart from Pune. The duration of the shows varies between 20-45 minutes. Mentalism takes the cake among the feats performed by magicians online. “This is because people might find magic amazing, but mentalism appears to be believable,” said Amit Kalantri, a city-based magician and mentalist. For the magicians, the live-streaming platforms provide a more engaging medium. “As a performer, I feel connected to the viewers since it is a closed environment and I have their undivided attention,” said Kalantri. For now, the magicians know that there is very little chance of them performing on stage anytime soon. “Online shows are the way to go,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/magicians-cast-spell-online-with-bag-of-tricks/articleshow/75782780.cms||Avijit Chatterjee
May 17, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad : ‘Revised rates welcome but grey areas remain’||AHMEDABAD: The association of hospitals welcomed the move by the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) to revise their compensation rates, to about 2.5 times. They, however, added that some operational issues remain to be resolved, for which they would soon hold a meeting with the civic body. Dr Bharat Gadhvi, president of Ahmedabad Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association (AHNA), said the rate revision was a great step and was one of the demands of the association to ensure the best treatment for the patients. “The sharing formula is not according to the suggestion put forth by us. A few grey areas have remained for which we will be writing to them soon,” he said. The members pointed to the criteria based on which hospitals are identified and acquired. “Cost was one part of the issue we put forth to the AMC,” said Dr Niket Shah of Bopal ICU. “Our hospital is located in a commercial complex and there is no separate elevator for patients. We have made a representation on such issues to the authorities. It’s not possible to treat all hospitals by the same parameters.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/revised-rates-welcome-but-grey-areas-remain/articleshow/75782816.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Bareilly||ICMR team to conduct Covid-19 seroprevalence survey at 10 locations in Bareilly||BAREILLY: A 25-member team of Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) will reach Bareilly on Saturday night to conduct Covid-19 seroprevalence survey in the district. Officials said that the survey will check for community transmission, if any. Four urban and six rural areas have been identified where the experts will conduct the survey. The seroprevalence survey – which will check for the level of a pathogen in a population, as measured in blood serum – will be conducted on Sunday and Monday. The ICMR team will leave on Tuesday. According to officials, the team will collect 400 blood samples – 40 from each identified location. District surveillance officer Dr Ranjan Gautam said, “The survey will be done in municipal ward numbers 18 and 52 in the city, while one village each has been selected in Baheri, Meerganj, Aonla, Nawabganj, Bareilly Sadar and Faridpur. One ward each of Fatehganj West and Sheeshgarh has also been selected.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/icmr-team-to-conduct-covid-19-seroprevalence-survey-at-10-locations/articleshow/75781511.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
May 17, 2020||Madurai||Tamil Nadu women go on long march on empty stomach in search of jobs||MADURAI: Every day, 55-year-old V Velammal of Kalmedu village on the outskirts of Madurai makes a 14km journey to the city and back on foot in the blazing summer heat in search of a job. It’s been four days since she last found one, but for the construction worker who sustains on government’s free rice and doesn’t have money even to buy a cup of tea, the arduous journey can make all the difference between life and death. She had exhausted all her little savings in the prolonged lockdown, and her two sons who live separately with their families, too, are finding it hard to help her as they don’t have jobs themselves. Not just Velammal, hundreds of villagers make the perilous trip on foot to Madurai city each day looking for the elusive job that may get them Rs 450 per day. P Shenbagam, 50, of Sakkimangalam, too, has not got any work for the last three days. “It’s 9.30am, but I haven’t got any work. Only a few have been lucky today. I will wait for another 30 minutes, and if I don’t get a job, I will have to walk back 10km to my village. It has been nearly 45 days since I earned any money,” she said. The labourers start walking from their villages around 7am and reach places like Ambiga Theatre Junction at Anna Nagar in the city and wait for contractors or households to pick them up for jobs. If they don’t get one, they must walk back to their homes with empty pocket and stomach, only to repeat the ritual the next day. There are at least seven places such as Anna Nagar in Madurai where the labourers congregate every day. During normal days, at least seven thousand workers come to Madurai a day in search of jobs. At least 70% of them manage to get a job, and work is available at least 20 days a month. But now things are difficult, and jobs are hard to come by. Next to agriculture, the construction industry employs most of these semi-skilled workers in Madurai district. While locals get employed in small construction activities, 40% to 50% workforce in government contracts and major construction projects are migrant labourers. Although the government has given its nod to start construction activities, it is yet to begin in full swing in the district. R Ilankovan, state secretary, CREDAI, said only a few realtors have started work, and others are waiting for the state government to bring down the price of steel and cement which has increased considerably. Prices of M-sand and bricks, too, have increased due to hike in price of diesel. Those who have started work are aiming to complete existing projects and no new projects are being taken up, he said. A Rajendran, president, Madurai district construction labourers’ union attached to CITU, said in the absence of public transport facilities, construction workers have to walk long distances for work. The Rs 1,000 given for unorganized sector workers is not adequate and government should come forward to give more relief, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/tn-women-go-on-long-march-on-empty-stomach-in-search-of-jobs/articleshow/75782776.cms||Devanathan Veerappan
May 17, 2020||Aurangabad||Barricades obstruct water tankers||Aurangabad: While the authorities are appealing to people to maintain hygiene in view of novel coronavirus pandemic, the residents of the city are high and dry with water supply once in 5 days for about 50 minutes. Some areas, which do not receive piped water supply are facing severe water crisis as tankers are unable to reach there due to the Covid-19 containment barricades. According to Pratibha Abhijit Nagdeve, who lives opposite Milind College, her locality does not get tap water and is dependent on tankers. “Due to the barricades put up for Covid-19 containment plan, the tankers cannot enter our locality and we face sever water crisis,” Nagdeve said. When asked, water supply executive engineer Kiran Dhande said that he had visited several areas where tanker routes are obstructed due to barricades. “We cannot remove the barricades as it can be dangerous. So, I have identified substitute routes which are longer than the regular routes and asked the tanker drivers to use those to continue providing water,” Dhande said. Rajendra Sonawane, a resident of the Cidco N-2 area, had a dialysis appointment at a private hospital. However, just when he and his wife had to leave for the hospital, water supply was resumed after a delay of one day and six hours. The couple narrowly missed their appointment as they had to stay back for storing water. Renuka Chautmal, a resident of Jaibhim Nagar, which had had 70 confirmed Covid-19 cases until Saturday, said that they are getting water supply once in eight days. Civic activist Rahul Ingle said that it is nearly impossible for people to sustain in the supply provided by the Aurangabad Municipal Corporation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/barricades-obstruct-water-tankers/articleshow/75781503.cms||Arpita Sharad
May 17, 2020||Mangaluru||Covid-19 patient passes away in Udupi||Udupi: Close on the heels of six Covid-19 cases being detected in a little over 24 hours, Udupi recorded its first death of a Covid-19 patient. The victim is a 54-year-old man from Mumbai, who died due to a heart attack on Thursday. His reports came back on Saturday, and confirmed that he had Covid-19. The Udupi district administration has arranged to carry out his last rites as per government designated guidelines for Covid-19 victims. A medical bulletin issued by the superintendent of Kasturba Hospital, Manipal, stated that the patient was admitted due to a heart-related issue on May 13. Some members on the team that treated the patient have been quarantined. The hospital’s emergency department will operate as usual, and the outpatient department will operate as usual from 8.30am to 1pm, following government guidelines, the bulletin said. Deputy commissioner G Jagadeesha said that since the patient was from Mumbai, the authorities collected his swab sample for testing, as a precautionary measure. The man suffered from chest pain, and was initially taken to the taluk hospital at Kundapur from where he was shifted to Kasturba Hospital, due to the seriousness of his condition. The doctors operated on him on May 13, and he suffered a severe heart attack on May 14 and died, the DC said. “Three hospital staff without PPE kits, who attended to the patient, have been quarantined,” the DC said, adding that the operating doctors and nurses had worn PPE kits. In addition, 5 others who travelled with the person from Mumbai and 57 people with him at the Kundapur isolation centre, have been designated as primary contacts, and 38 others as secondary contacts, and quarantined. The staff at Kundapur taluk hospital too had taken precautions in handling the patient, the DC said. Udupi presently has six active cases, including a 1-year-old child and 5 others, all of whom returned from Dubai on May 12.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/covid-19-patient-passes-away-in-udupi/articleshow/75781507.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Kolhapur||Kolhapur district count is21 as 6 more test positive||Kolhapur: Six new cases of Covid-19 were reported in Kolhapur on Saturday, taking the total number of patients in the district to 21, most of whom have travel history of Mumbai, officials said. Meanwhile, three patients were discharged after recovery while two are in serious condition, added the officials. The district administration is going all out as far as testing is concerned. Swabs of as many as 3,000 people, who returned to Kolhapur district from red zones and covid hotspots, were sent for testing in the last three days. The administration is collecting swab samples — symptomatic as well as asymptomatic — of the migrants who travelled into the district from high-risk areas. However, the health directorate has communicated to the district administration that this policy is not as per their guidelines. According to the health directorate, the swabs of only symptomatic people should be taken for testing. The basis of the directive by the health directorate is unknown. Some sources claimed that this may be to avoid the expenditure on tests, each of which costs around Rs 3,500. On Saturday, the district officials deliberated over the letter issued by the state health directorate for a couple of hours. An official privy to the discussion said it was decided to continue to collect the swabs of all those returning from high-risk zones. “So far we have the lowest death rate, mainly due to paying attention to asymptomatic migrants. ,” said the official on condition of anonymity. One more case in Satara After five days, Satara district recorded one Covid-19 case. The patient is from a village near Karad, who has a travel history to Dehu-Alandi. Satara has currently 66 active cases. 4 more test +ve in Sangli Sangli reported four more Covid-19 cases on Saturday. The four patients include an eight-year-old boy from Salshingi village in Khanapur taluka . He came into close contact with a woman who had tested positive earlier.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/kolhapur-district-count-is21-as-6-more-test-positive/articleshow/75781498.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Aurangabad||Kin of Covid-19 deceased share harrowing experience, AMC says will check their plaint||Aurangabad: Two families who lost their loved ones to Covid-19 spoke out about their traumatic experiences while getting the bodies and the way different agencies dealt with them. After the death of a 58-year-old Covid-positive man on April 5, the family members were left to fend for themselves from arranging the ambulance to carrying out the cremation. “We arranged for the ambulance and conducted the last rites without any PPE,” a family member said. The family of a 94-year-old woman, who died at the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) on May 12, said even when they took her to the hospital, nobody was willing to touch her. They themselves took her to the various departments for check-ups and swab collection. She died a few hours later and the family members took the body to the mortuary. The family members were told to go home and return the next day, by when, the Covid-19 test result was expected. “At 11pm, Chikalthana police entered our lane sounding sirens and told us to go to the GMCH. In a few minutes, a van from the Satara police station also came. At 11.56 pm, we got a call from the hospital asking us to take the body immediately,” the woman’s relative said. The next day, the family had to run between the GMCH and Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) to get the death certificate and get their own swab tests done. “The AMC officials told us that they don’t have the manpower. They handed us two PPE kits and asked to get the cremation done ourselves. After making a few calls, finally, two men were deputed to us. It was a traumatic experience,” the relative said. When asked, GMCH deputy dean and head of the department of forensic science Kailash Zine said the hospital informs the AMC about the Covid deaths immediately. “Like in Pune and Mumbai, in Aurangabad too, it is the responsibility of the municipal corporation to arrange for the ambulance, manpower, PPE kits and disinfectants for cremation or burial of the Covid-19 deceased,” Zine said. When asked, municipal health officer Nita Padalkar told TOI that the civic body has roped in an NGO to take care of providing hearse, workers and PPE kits for relatives of Covid-19 casualties. “The NGO is to ensure that the dead body is disposed of as per the government guidelines. Their contact number has been shared with the GMCH too. However, if the patient's kin were denied assistance, then we will look into the matter," Padalkar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/kin-of-covid-19-deceased-share-harrowing-experience-amc-says-will-check-their-plaint/articleshow/75781514.cms||Arpita Sharad
May 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Indian students in UK seek fee waiver, extension of visas||Hyderabad: An Indian student has started an online petition urging the UK parliament to come to the aid of students in the wake of the disturbances to the academic year because of the lockdown. The petition sought extension of tier-4 visas and waiver of third-term tuition fee for international students. Lalitha Sai Chandrika Kamisetti’s petition has already got more than 5,500 signatures against the target of 10,000 with the deadline being November 11. A large number of Telugu students have signed the petition. “We request the government to extend the tier-4 visas of all the international students by six months,” the petition said. This request was made for whoever joined any one-year PG course in September 2019. The petition explained that all international students in the UK were paying huge fee for the postgraduate courses. “But, we are unable to use most of the university’s resources because of Covid-19. We are not delivered the value for money that we have paid. This is not the problem of students from just one university. It is a problem that every international student in UK has been facing. So, we believe that only government can help in this situation as the number of people getting affected is huge,” the petition said. “We request you to waive the third term tuition fee as we are not able to use most of the university’s resources except online teaching,” it added. Lalitha Sai is pursuing MSc International Business at the University of Nottingham, according to her Linkedin profile, and specialises in business strategies, accounting and lives in Nottingham, UK. She was earlier a systems engineer at Infosys and studied in Sathyabhama University, Tamil Nadu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/indian-students-in-uk-seek-fee-waiver-extension-of-visas/articleshow/75782804.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
May 17, 2020||Pune||No humidity boost for virus across most of India: Study||Pune: A recent study by Indian Institute of Technology, Delhi, which linked absolute humidity with the spread of Covid-19, has also shown that a majority of states and territories fall outside the 'risky’ absolute humidity range in 2020.Absolute humidity (AH) is the measure of water vapour (moisture) in the air, regardless of temperature. The researchers identified an AH range of 3 to 9 grams of moisture per cubic metre of air (g/m3) as 'risky' and a much narrower AH range of 4 to 6 g/m3 as 'very risky'.Their findings have been published in 'Science of the Total Environment’, an international weekly peer-reviewed science journal. The effect of these humidity ranges on infection spread has been termed as a 'weather-based spread'. “Using existing and projected weather data for January-December, 2020, it was found that a majority of Indian states fall outside the 'risky' absolute humidity range throughout 2020," said Arnab Chanda, lead researcher from the Centre for Biomedical Engineering at IIT-Delhi.“States and territories with some risk of weather-triggered spread are Sikkim, Jammu and Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh, Gujarat, Rajasthan, Chandigarh, and Haryana. Out of these, J&K and Sikkim fall in the 'very risky' absolute humidity range during January, February, March, November and December. One of the worst affected, Maharashtra, is not expected to experience any weather or humidity-triggered Covid spread anytime in 2020 due to its high humidity levels. But social distancing is crucial for states to claim this benefit,” Chanda said.He added that in the monsoon period of June-September, 2020, none of the Indian states are likely to fall within the risky AH ranges. According to this analysis then the upcoming rainy season is not expected to impact the spread of Covid-19 in the country this year. “However, the research showed that as absolute humidity starts to dip in some regions after the monsoon, some Indian states in the north may experience risk in terms of Covid-19 spread," Chanda said. "But most other states, including Maharashtra, are projected to have absolute humidity levels above 9 g/m3 until the end of 2020."The researchers said absolute humidity is just one of the factors that determine rate of spread. While it is always beneficial for a region to have absolute humidity levels in the safe range, this benefit may account to naught if social distancing norms are not followed.“The risky and very risky humidity ranges will help classify areas in different countries. They will help policymakers take steps to prevent weather-based Covid-19 spread in the upcoming months,” Sonal Gupta, another IIT-Delhi researcher involved in the study, said.Some recent studies have shown that the spread of Covid-19 is expected to be stronger during colder and temperate weather, similar to the behavior of seasonal respiratory flu viruses and previous viruses from the Coronaviridae family (SARS-CoV-1 and MERS).The IIT-Delhi researchers also identified risky weather ranges in the United States. “We found that 90% of new cases in US — January to April — were reported when states were in the 'risky' AH range of 3-9 g/m3,” said Gaurav Raghuwanshi, second author of the study.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/no-humidity-boost-for-virus-across-most-of-india-study/articleshow/75782785.cms||Neha Madaan
May 17, 2020||Nagpur||BMPS opposes finance minister’s statement on privatising OF||Nagpur: The RSS’ trade union, Bharatiya Pratiraksha Mazdoor Sangh (BMPS), which has a significant presence in the ordnance factories, has opposed finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman’s statement on corporatisation of the ordnance factory board (OFB). It has said that the government has backtracked on its assurances given during the negotiations following last year’s strike, when it was stated that unions will be consulted over any further move on corporatisation. BMPS had actively taken part in the indefinite strike last year when the government had first announced its plans to corporatize the OFB. BPMS is a unit of Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh (BMS), the trade union arm of RSS. BPMS has said through a press release that the move was against the terms accepted during the negotiations as now a decision has been taken unilaterally. In a meeting held on August 23 last year, following the strike, the government had assured that any decision on corporatisation will be taken after consulting the unions. Mukesh Singh, the general secretary of BPMS, said there are plans to submit a memorandum to the government following which a protest may be held if the permission is secured. Shirram Batwe of BPMS’ Nagpur unit, too. criticized the move calling it to be a betrayal in times of crisis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/bmps-opposes-finance-ministers-statement-on-privatising-of/articleshow/75782781.cms||Shishir Arya
May 17, 2020||Rajkot||Mumbai couple rides 800km on scooter to Kutch||RAJKOT: Like most Mumbaikars, 30-year-old Ashish Rathod too preferred local trains for all travel purposes than rely on his scooter. The two-wheeler came handy only when he had to reach his shop from Nala Sopara, a town in Palghar district but part of Mumbai Metropolitan Region. But on May 9, it was that very two-wheeler that ferried Rathod and his wife Jyoti through an arduous 800 km-long road journey from their house in Nala Sopara to their native Bhachau in Kutch. The couple took a good 16 hours to reach Bhachau on May 10 with the only source of energy being a cup of tea offered to them by Bharuch police on the highway. “We had carried some food, but since I was riding at night, it could have made me feel sleepy,” Rathod told TOI. “We had applied for permission to travel to Kutch and received the official pass on May 9. We did not think twice and immediately started our journey at 6pm,” said Rathod, who had earlier thought of hiring a cab. “As such I am facing cash crunch and I would have lost the advance paid to cab company had my application to travel got rejected. There was no public transport available and therefore I mentioned my scooter’s registration number in the form,” said Rathod. Ashish has settled in Nala Sopara for the past 12 years and the couple got married two years ago. He is engaged in screen printing business and gets order from the bigger printers who make identity cards for schools. He gets job work done and peak business season is from April to October. However, the nationwide lockdown dragged down his business and family’s income started drying up fast. “I used to pay a house of rent of Rs 5,000 per month and my monthly income was around Rs 25,000. But for the past two months, I had not earned anything,” he told TOI. Moreover, his family in Bhachau was constantly anxious about the couple’s well-being after getting know about the daily spike of Covid-19 cases in Mumbai. “All the highway hotels and restaurants were closed and the roads deserted. We took halts at few petrol pumps to take some rest and freshen up. Only a policeman offered us tea near Bharuch after checking our permit that was the only food we had.” he said. Watch How this Mumbai couple rode 800km on scooter to reach Kutch||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/couple-rides-800km-on-scooter-to-kutch/articleshow/75782257.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
May 17, 2020||Ahmedabad||Covid-19 in Ahmedabad: Super spreader cases lead to ‘data mismatch’||AHMEDABAD: In a single day, Ahmedabad district’s total case tally jumped from 7,171 to 8,144 – an addition of 973 cases. The rise was explained by Jayanti Ravi, principal secretary (health & family welfare) as addition of 709 positive cases that Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) found from 6,587 tests conducted on vegetable or fruit vendors/grocers in past one week. “The cumulative figure has been added today to Ahmedabad's tally so that there is no discrepancy in data,” she said. But the explanation did not clarify several facts, pointed out experts. “AMC, which was providing daily list of cases in the category of ‘super spreaders,’ ceased to do so May 10 onwards. Till then, 255 persons were already mentioned in the said category. Then why a cumulative figure of 709 all of a sudden? Why was it not provided to the state health department on daily basis?” asked a public health expert. Experts also pointed out that from May 9 to 15, AMC had identified 1,877 Covid-19 positive persons in city. If one adds 709 to the tally, which comes to 2586, 27.4% of the total persons tested positive were the vendors or grocers. Senior AMC officials were not available to verify the claim. Moreover, the 11am report of AMC on Covid-19 scenario mentioned that from May 12 to 15, the civic body collected and processed 1,278 samples out of which 214 were found to be positive. “The figure doesn’t match the details provided by the AMC or state health department, claiming that the persons have been found from 6,587 samples. Moreover, from May 5 to 11, out of 997 tests, 94 were found to be positive. There needs to be clearer explanation on the issue,” said an expert.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/super-spreader-cases-lead-to-data-mismatch/articleshow/75782812.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai woos live-in help with more pay, wifi||MUMBAI: As Lockdown 4.0 looms, Mumbaikars want to be better prepared. In the bargain, the best offers are going out to domestic staffers to convince them to convert from part-time to live-in. The biggest premium is a higher salary, but other fancies thrown into the deal include the wifi password for data access, a movie during the weekend and a home visit every fortnight. The three phases of lockdown have clearly left women pining for the maids. While societies are still debating whether maids should be let in or not, some families are clear — they want to avoid the coming and going of bais. Anupam Sinhal of online maid agency Bookmybai said they have been getting at least 80 to 100 inquiries for live-in maids per day since the beginning of Lockdown 3.0. Sinhal said they placed as many as 45 live-in maids in the city on May 12. Priya Tandon, a Powai resident, said: “I had a live-in for several years but she got married and is now doing odd jobs at several homes. I’ve now approached her to join me temporarily till the air is clear on the lockdowns.” Many of Sinhal’s clients have also been requesting their part-time maids to work full-time. However, Sinhal, whose firm made around 2,000 calls on May 12 to part-time workers asking whether they would like to change, says only three agreed. “Not many maids are agreeing as they have their families, children and other obligations,” said Sinhal, who believes the situation might change when the part-time workers find themselves without jobs. Ankita Singh, a resident of Wadala who used to work in a mall toilet, is one of those willing to change. She grabbed the chance when a man from her slum who works as a security guard in a residential tower offered her a job to join a family as a live-in. “Close to 30 women of my area who were in malls and shops have been offered higher salaries by different homes in that society,” she said. “We also get Wifi connection to make a video calls to our families. We get some time off every day. And since we can’t step out, we will get to see TV every weekend,” she said with a smile. Another online domestic help provider Mychores.in has been getting almost 6 to 8 enquiries per day for live-in maids, chiefly from working couples across the city. “The demand for live-in help has been more or less consistent through the lockdown but it has gone up in the last week or so,” said Andrew V, founder and CEO, adding that they have been unable to meet the demand due to restrictions on the movement of domestic help.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/city-woos-live-in-help-with-more-pay-wifi/articleshow/75783087.cms||Sharmila Ganesan Ram
May 17, 2020||Trichy||Tamil Nadu: Tea stall vendors switch from glasses to banned paper cups||TRICHY: The tea shops in Trichy and several other districts have started are serving tea and coffee in banned plastic-coated paper cups instead of glass or stainless steel cups since shops reopened last week as customers are vary of using glasses used by others. Tea shops have been closed from March 25 to May 11 as part of restrictions during the lockdown. The shops were allowed to reopen with only take-away service. However, it has become a challenging for the tea shop vendors to follow the regulations. Tea Stall Vendors Association district president S Rowthar Sha said that most of the customers preferred having tea or coffee at the stall instead of take-away. “They also demand paper cups instead of glasses out of fear of spread of infection.” “Given the situation, as customers shy away from drinking tea and coffee in glass or stainless steel cups, we have no other option than opting for the banned paper cups,” said Sha. “Lockdown has impacted our business a lot. The reopening of shops does not make any major difference because the take-away orders are very low as offices are yet to open fully,” said Sha, adding that Trichy has around 600 tea shops. Association vice-president N Abul Hasan said that they had to face the wrath of the police if more than two customers are found in the shop at a time. “We are asking customers to step away from the shop and have their tea or coffee to avoid police action,” said Abul. Meanwhile, food safety and drug administration department said that the vendors should not make it an excuse for bringing back paper cups. “This excuse cannot be accepted because paper cups are banned already. Properly cleaning glasses using dish washing soap will kill the virus, if any. Our action against the violation will commence shortly,” said designated officer of food safety department Dr R Chithra on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/tea-stall-vendors-switch-from-glasses-to-banned-paper-cups/articleshow/75783086.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Kolhapur||As liquor shops reopen in Kolhapur, drinking in open becomes common again||KOLHAPUR: After the state government allowed liquor shops to restart operations, drinking in the open has become common across the city. People are buying liquor and gathering in groups in gardens, vacant plots and other open spaces to consume alcohol. Police have taken note of this and have increased vigilance. In the past, Kolhapur police had initiated action against such activities and filed cases on people found consuming liquor in the open. During the lockdown, such activities had stopped, but now they have started again. “We have received complaints from residents about people gathering at open spaces to consume liquor. We have initiated night patrolling to stop such activities. We have a list of places that people used for these open bars at night time and have issued instructions to the police to increase the patrolling there,” said a senior police officer. “Earlier we used to book people under sections of the Bombay Prohibition Act, 1949, but now, we will invoke other sections of the IPC for violating lockdown rules also if anyone is found drinking liquor in the open,” he said. According to police officials, the open bars mushroomed in the city after the bars and liquor shops along the national and state highways were shut. Police had taken action against the culprits then, but the action was discontinued after some time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/as-liquor-shops-reopen-in-kolhapur-drinking-in-open-becomes-common-again/articleshow/75781536.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Pune||RTOs can open with 10% strength: Maharashtra govt||PUNE: The state government on Saturday allowed RTOs in red zones to operate with 10% of their strength, provided they are outside containment zones. The order issued by the chief secretary further said RTOs in orange and green zones must adhere to the existing guidelines on government offices in these areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/govt-rtos-can-open-with-10-strength/articleshow/75782798.cms||Joy Sengupta
May 17, 2020||Bareilly||BMC distributes masks, gloves among 2.5k sanitation workers||Bareilly: The Bareilly Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Saturday distributed masks and gloves among around 2,500 sanitation workers, including permanent and contractual, for their protection. Speaking to TOI, mayor Umesh Gautam said, “Our sanitation workers have been fighting the battle against the pandemic and are most vulnerable to infection as they visit several places across the city and hotspot areas. They carry out disinfectant spraying in containment zones and hotspots, and also visit dumping grounds as part of their duty.” “They also collect solid wastes visiting door-to-door. Thus, in an effort to ensure their safety, we have distributed protective masks and gloves among around 2,500 workers of the civic body. Good quality (elbow length) gloves are washable and can be reused, while masks are for single use,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/bmc-distributes-masks-gloves-among-2-5k-sanitation-workers/articleshow/75781533.cms||Maria Khan
May 17, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Visakhapatnam airport ready to receive Indians from abroad||VISAKHAPATNAM: The Visakhapatnam district administration has constituted a nine-member team to manage passengers arriving in Visakhapatnam from abroad. Four Visakhapatnam-bound flights are being operated by Air India to bring back Indians stranded in other countries due to the lockdown. The team, headed by an Indian Foreign Service (IFS) officer, has been tasked with ensuring hassle-free immigration and keep transport arrangements ready at the airport to help people reach their homes in respective districts. Speaking to STOI, a member of the team said, “Most of the passengers on these flights will be from Visakhapatnam and neighbouring districts like Vizianagaram, Srikakulam, East Godavari and West Godavari. We will arrange transport for passengers and they will be in quarantine in their respective districts.” “However, a decision on what is to be done if there are passengers from other districts except those mentioned is yet to be taken,” the team member said. The team is in discussion with city hotels, private and state-run hospitals so that passengers from Visakhapatnam can check into them. “The only problem is that we are not sure about the exact number of passengers. So, we have to be very careful while making arrangements,” the official, who is a member of the team, added. Inside the airport, airline officials, Airports Authority of India (AAI) staff, immigration, customs and CISF will use PPE kits on duty. As soon as the flights land, passengers will head straight towards the immigration counter. At the immigration counter, once the immigration stamp is given, passengers would be segregated according to their destinations and would be escorted into the parking lots where buses will wait for them. “We have six immigration counters at the arrival lounge. Additionally, in order to smoothen the immigration process, we will also use the two e-visa counters at the airport to clear immigration as there won’t be any foreign passengers on board in these flights,” said an immigration official||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/city-airport-ready-to-receive-indians-from-abroad/articleshow/75781528.cms||Arpit Basu
May 17, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: ‘Bopal’s Pirana’ loses height in lockdown||AHMEDABAD: The lockdown may have seen a reduction in daily waste collection in Ahmedabad city, but the Bopal-Ghuma nagarpalika grabbed the opportunity to reduce the height of its own garbage dump, popularly known as ‘Bopal’s Pirana’, near the Delhi Public School. Jigisha Shah, the president of Bopal-Ghuma nagarpalika said, “One will find a visible difference in the dump site as the height has been reduced considerably. Taking advantage of the lockdown, we ensured that the heap was levelled using earthmover vehicles (JCBs) and trucks.” The Bopal-Ghuma nagarpalika has been processing the garbage daily for the last three months using trommel machines like the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation. Shah said that in the next two-three months the garbage dump, which was a eyesore for passersby, will see further improvement. The Bopal dump site had nearly 50,000 tonnes of garbage and had a height of 8 ft which has currently been cut down to 4 ft. Nearly 200 to 250 tonnes of garbage is generated daily in the nagarpalika. Sources said there has been a 20% reduction in collected garbage during the lockdown. The nagarpalika does not receive construction or garden waste at the dump, but only kitchen and other waste. Hemant Patel, chief officer of the nagarpalika said that the trommel machine had stopped work since the lockdown, and taking this opportunity the nagarpalika levelled the heap in the area. “We have asked the contractor to process 300 tonnes of garbage daily,” he said. “We are expecting the site to be totally free of garbage by the end of November this year,” said a senior member of the nagarpalika. He said that garbage had been overflowing onto the road making it difficult to drive. But now it is far from the main road and the area looks better.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/bopals-pirana-loses-height-in-lockdown/articleshow/75782808.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
May 17, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: RAI wants malls, stores to reopen||AHMEDABAD: The Retailers’ Association of India (RAI) on Friday urged the government of Gujarat to allow the resumption of retail and economic activity, with safety measures in place, in green and orange zones. A representation regarding this was made to Gujarat CM Vijay Rupani. The association has sought the reopening of malls and shopping centres, as they provide a controlled public environment which can allow for extensive measures to be undertaken for public health and safety needs. “The mall ecosystem is critical to the economic revival and employment generation in manufacturing and retail sector. Malls act as the front end for 45% of India’s organised retail. Over 100 million jobs are directly and indirectly affected by the closure of malls,” the representation states. RAI assured the government that the industry will deploy standard operating procedures based on government orders and WHO guidelines, if granted permission.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/rai-wants-malls-stores-to-reopen/articleshow/75782813.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Aurangabad||YCMOU to conduct open book exams||Nashik: The city-based Yashwantrao Chavan Maharashtra Open University (YCMOU) has decided to conduct online open book examinations of all courses unlike the traditional universities. It would be the first time in history for the varsity to do so since its formation. After the state committee for examinations said that offline examinations should be conducted only for final year students, YCMOU decided to opt for online examinations for students of first and second year too. E Vayunandan, vice-chancellor of the varsity, said “We will conduct open book examinations this year which would be an online method of conducting the examinations. The students would not have to come to the examination centres. In this way, they will appear for the examinations without putting their lives in danger.” The V-C told TOI that due to the online open book examination, teachers will have to be careful while setting the papers. They will have to ensure to give behavioural questions so that even if a student tries to copy, he will have to use his personal reasoning to answer the questions. Also, the answers should not be readily available on the internet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/ycmou-to-conduct-open-book-exams/articleshow/75781519.cms||pragya jain
May 17, 2020||Bareilly||Former MLA’s son, owner of cinema hall, shoots self to death||Bareilly: A 56-year-old Moradabad resident, Sanjay Singh —son of former MLA Om Prakash Singh and owner of Saroj cinema — allegedly shot himself dead on Friday. Singh, who was staying in Dehradun, had visited Moradabad on Wednesday and shot himself dead early Friday morning. Police suspected family feud behind his taking the extreme step. Additional superintendent of police (ASP) Deepak Bhuker said after staying for two months in Dehradun, Singh and his wife visited Moradabad a few days ago. Upon getting information, Civil Lines police rushed to his Sai Garden residence and sent the body for post-mortem examination. Singh is survived by wife, a son who works in Australia and a daughter who lives in Bengaluru. According to police, Singh’s wife runs a resort in Dehradun and hardly comes to Moradabad to see her parents-in-law. Police said the incident took place around 2am on Friday. “Singh was alone in the room when he shot himself dead. Police broke open the door and found him lying in a pool of blood,” said police, adding that they were investigating all angles and the body would be handed over to the family after the autopsy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/former-mlas-son-owner-of-cinema-hall-shoots-self-to-death/articleshow/75781524.cms||Pankul Sharma
May 17, 2020||Kozhikode||Kerala: Irresponsible behavior a headache for health workers||KOZHIKODE: Despite repeated advisories, irresponsible behavior by a few are giving headaches to the health department officials. Several close relatives visited a home-quarantined pregnant woman and her husband a day before the couple tested positive for Covid-19. The 25-year-old woman and her husband had returned from the Middle East on May 7 and had been in quarantine at their residence in Cheeral, Wayanad. The couple were shifted to the Mananthavady district hospital after tested positive for Covid-19 on Saturday. Two of the couple’s primary contacts and 15 secondary contacts have been identified. In another instance, also reported from Cheeral, a 29-year-old man allegedly violated quarantine norms and crossed the Tamil Nadu border to buy liquor from Thaloor, which he consumed with his friends back home. The man, who was to remain at home as part of quarantine protocol, tested Covid-19 positive on Friday. The youth and a friend had received his brother, who had returned from Koyambedu near Chennai on May 7, at Lakkidi. The brother tested positive on May 9. The youth had visited Tamil Nadu to buy liquor on May 8. The Noolpuzha police have registered a case against him. There are 20 persons in his first contact list and 82 persons in the second contact list, who are now under observation. “Such irresponsible behavior would help spread the virus,” a health department official said. Meanwhile two Covid-19 patients, who were under treatment at the Mananthavady hospital, recovered on Saturday. The recovered include the 85- year-old mother of the truck driver, who tested positive after his return from Koyambedu on May 2 and the 20-year-old son of the truck cleaner. The woman has been shifted to a pay ward room as all the other members of her family are undergoing treatment for Covid- 19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/irresponsible-behavior-a-headache-for-health-workers/articleshow/75781546.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Kolhapur||Admin seeks 2 NDRF teams as precaution||Kolhapur: The district administration has sought deployment of two teams of national disaster response force (NDRF) before June 15 to take precautions in case of flooding Two teams each with 25 rescue jawans and five rescue boats will be deployed at Kolhapur city and at Shirol. Both the places had faced the ravages of floods in August last year. District collector Daulat Desai said, “I have written to the department of disaster management to make the boats available between June 15 and August 31. Availability of the rescue teams in advance will help us to ensure the safety of the people living in the villages, towns located along the banks of the river.”tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/admin-seeks-2-ndrf-teams-as-precaution/articleshow/75781529.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Nagpur||Mask vending kiosk at Nagpur rly station||Nagpur: In an attempt to tackle Covid-19, the Nagpur division of Central Railway has set up an automatic vending kiosk at platform number 1 to supply sanitizer bottles and masks to the passengers at low cost. An innovative idea of senior divisional commercial manager (SrDCM) Krishnath Patil under the commercial activities to boost non-fare revenue, this is the first such kiosk across the Indian Railways. The kiosk will be operational from Monday. The three-ply face mask will be available for Rs10 while a 100ml bottle of sanitizer will be sold at Rs50. The Nagpur Central Railway will get an annual license fee Rs12,000. “While the railway will benefit from the revenue, the kiosk will go a long way in protecting passengers from Covid-19,” said Patil.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/mask-vending-kiosk-at-nagpur-rly-station/articleshow/75780387.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Vacant public health department posts will be filled in 30 days, says health minister Rajesh Tope||MUMBAI: Health minister Rajesh Tope said on Saturday that all vacant posts in the public health department will be filled within a month. “It is a fact that at a time when we have launched a massive war against coronavirus, a large number of posts in the public health department are lying vacant. We will ensure all are filled within a month,” said Tope in response to a TOI report on May 12 that 66% posts in the public health department were vacant and 41% in medical education. In a statement, the health department confirmed the report and admitted that out of two director posts, one has been filled and for the second, the general administration department’s opinion is sought. Of the three additional director posts, one is sub judice and a proposal for the other two is pending with GAD. For the district health officer cadre, out of 285 posts, only 121 have been filled while 30 have been referred to MPSC and another 30 to the divisional selection board. For the civil surgeons cadre, out of 667 posts, 294 have been filled. For the remaining posts, a proposal for 123 has been submitted to the selection board and another has been submitted to GAD for filling 107 posts via promotion. For the cadre of super specialists, out of 520 posts, 128 have been filled. Veteran bureaucrat Mahesh Zagde, who was the first to raise the issue, welcomed Tope’s move.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/vacant-public-health-dept-posts-will-be-filled-in-30-days-tope/articleshow/75782931.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Several areas in Hyderabad report power outages of up to five hours||HYDERABAD: Several areas in the city plunged into darkness, soon after rains hit lashed Hyderabad on Saturday afternoon. According to officials, about 160 power cuts were reported from across localities in Jubilee Hills, Begumpet, Banjara Hills, Mehdipatnam, Ameerpet, Sanathnagar, Lingampally among others. Residents said that the duration of these power outages ranged from anywhere between two and five hours. “Since the time rains started has been no electricity in our area. It has already been more than four hours and power has not been restored yet. Our daily schedule has gone for a toss as we can’t work, cook and do our day-to-day household chores due to the power cut,” said S Praveena form MLA Colony, Road no. 12, Banjara Hills. Not too far away on Road no. 10, residents said that did not have electricity for at least five hours. Similar apathy was aired by those living in Jubilee Hills. “Since 2 pm, we don’t have electricity and residents in our locality are suffering. Authorities should be prepared so that people don’t face inconvenience,” said Peddi Reddy, VP of Road no. 10 MP MLA Colony, Jubilee Hills. In some areas such as Somajiguda, the outages were erratic – 15 to 20 minute power cuts through the day. Working from home, the new norm among most employees these days turned out to be a struggle for many, owing to the prolonged power cuts. According to Telangana State Southern Power Distribution Company Ltd (TSSPDCL), the disruptions were caused due to tree branches falling on power lines and cables snapping. Officials said as many as 110 electric poles and 10 transformers were damaged in the rain.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/several-areas-in-city-report-power-outages-of-up-to-5-hours/articleshow/75782902.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra: For a price, state buses to make last-mile drops||MUMBAI: Migrants from Maharashtra will now get a state-owned bus to drop them right to their destination villages in other states. MSRTC launched this service on Friday night. This means that apart from Shramik Special trains, migrants can now get buses that will take them directly to other states. They will, however, have to pay from their pockets for travel outside Maharashtra. MSRTC managing director Shekhar Channe said, “We are sending a fleet of buses with migrants to Odisha. It will ferry them free of cost till the state border, after which the journey till their native villages will be chargeable.” Ten buses left for Odisha on Friday night with 200 migrants. Around 30 more are expected, said sources. The concept is simple—free rides are applicable till the state border (in accordance with funding approved by CM Uddhav Thackeray) and migrants have to hire the entire bus for onward journey for as much as Rs 44 per km. They have to pay for the to and fro ride after crossing the Maharashtra border, and this could come to anywhere between Rs 2,000 and Rs 3,000 per passenger, said sources. “Those who are willing to pay huge sums for trucks and tempos don’t mind paying for the bus travel which is secure and safe,” said an MSRTC official, adding there have been mishaps involving trucks, tempos and autorickshaws with migrants on highways. As a special facility to such passengers, MSRTC will also send a breakdown-maintenance van along, each bus will have two drivers and one official from the corporation who will pay for the diesel and show permits to officers at border check posts. Sources said the next lot of buses will go to villages in Andhra Pradesh. “We want to promote such services as these bring in additional revenue. We have an 18,000-strong bus fleet in Maharashtra but only 1,000 to 1,500 buses are running daily. A large number of buses are lying idle at our depots and we also have a huge manpower of 40,000 drivers and conductors who can be deployed for the special buses,” said Channe. RTO is working in tandem with MSRTC to stop the illegal plying of trucks with migrants. “We have caught 500 trucks and asked migrants to shift to MSRTC buses,” said a transport official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/for-a-price-state-buses-to-make-last-mile-drops/articleshow/75783092.cms||Somit Sen
May 17, 2020||Bareilly||One succumbs to Covid-19 in Moradabad, 30 fresh cases reported in Sambhal, Rampur||Bareilly: Eleven new persons have tested positive for coronavirus in Sambhal district on Saturday, according to nodal officer for Covid-19 Dr Afzal Kamal. The district’s tally has reached to 45. On the other hand, 19 fresh Covid-19 positive cases were reported from Rampur district, taking the district tally to 34. Meanwhile, a 57-year-old man, resident of Galshaheed area in Moradabad, succumbed to coronavirus on Saturday. He had tested positive for the virus on May 13. Now, death toll in Moradabad has reached to 9. According to the health department, it was the first time when a double-digit increase was reported in a single day. Among the fresh 11 cases, six are Covid warriors including three health workers – two policemen and a sanitary worker working at the Sambhal community health centre. In Rampur, all new cases were migrant labourers who had arrived from Ahmedabad on a Sharmik Special train. All labourers – residents of different villages and localities in Rampur – are quarantined.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/one-succumbs-to-covid-19-in-moradabad-30-fresh-cases-reported-in-sambhal-rampur/articleshow/75781559.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Aurangabad||231 farmers ended lives in Marathwada in past four months||AURANGABAD: Marathwada has witnessed 231 farmers’ suicides from January to April during the current year, of which Beed district alone has reported 62 such cases. The number of such incidents in the region, comprising eight districts, was 36 during the lockdown in April — lowest in the first four months of the year 2020. As per official data, the eight districts reported 231 farmer suicides, of which 126 have been declared eligible for financial help and 32 ineligible. A decision on 73 cases is . Aurangabad reported the second highest of 32 cases, Nanded and Osmanabad (30 cases ech), Latur 24, Parbhani 19, Hingoli 16 and Jalna witnessed 10 suicides. Beed district collector Rahul Rekhawar on Saturday said the agrarian crisis and financial issues are the main reasons for suicides across the region. “We have total 25 cases pending for inquiry and necessary investigation into the same will be completed by the middle of next week,” he said. In terms of month-wise break-up of incidents of farmer suicides in Marathwada, maximum 73 were reported in March, followed by 63 in January, 59 in February and 36 in April. Veteran farmers leader Govind Joshi of Shetkari Sanghatana said the number of farmers’ suicides during the first four months of this year was relatively lower as compared to past years. “The release of government aid into bank accounts of farmers under different relief and welfare measures has offered some relief to the peasant community. However, over 230 farmers losing lives in four months is still a matter of concern and needs official intervention,” he said. Joshi said that the ill-effects of the lockdown on the farming sector and lives of farmers would start manifesting gradually. “The farmers have received a setback due to the lockdown as there is no expected returns for their produce,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/231-farmers-ended-lives-in-marathwada-in-past-four-months/articleshow/75781540.cms||Prasad Joshi
May 17, 2020||Trichy||Bouquets, brickbats from farmers for farm package||TRICHY: There were mixed reactions from farmers to the Centre’s announcement of reforms in the farming sector with one section saying they mean nothing without the waiver of crop loans. However, Bharatiya Kisan Sangam welcomed the Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan economic stimulus package. “Small and marginal farmers will benefit largely from the announcement as there is allocation for beekeeping, dairy farming, inland fishery etc. Also 100% insurance for cattle, amending an act to enable farmers to get better price are welcome”, sangam state spokesperson N Veerasekaran said. Cauvery Irrigation Farmer’s Welfare Association’s Mahathanapuram V Rajaram said there were no concrete measures to enable farmers to get a better price for their produce. “Building agriculture infrastructure will only help middlemen”, he said. Secretary of Thanjavur District Cauvery Farmers Protection Association Swamimalai S Vimalnathan said all announcements made earlier with regard to farming sector have remained only on paper.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/bouquets-brickbats-from-farmers-for-farm-package/articleshow/75783090.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Mangaluru||Quarantine was harsh, death almost inevitable||Mangaluru: The dramatic steps taken to combat Covid-19 across the world have introduced almost three generations to the implications of what living life in a ‘quarantine’ entails. Words such as isolation and containment, along with quarantine, will be definitive terms associated with the experience of the young. However, for thousands of elderly citizens in their 70s and 80s in the country, quarantine, without the term hardly ever used, was an essential part of their growing-up years; the disease they dreaded was small pox. In the 1940s through the 1970s, Urwa Market, now incorporated within the city limits of Mangaluru, lay on the outskirts of the coastal town, and it was here that around 25 sheds were erected to house those suffering from small pox. A solitary shed still remains, a visible reminder of those terrifying times. The Karnataka state gazetteer, published in 1971 shows that the region was struck by cholera, small pox, malaria and many other fevers. Although cholera accounted for more fatalities, the administration quarantined only those who had small pox. “People in infected areas are inoculated, and are advised against entertaining relatives and friends. Most cases are coming chiefly from adjoining districts and Bombay,” the gazetteer noted. In 1945, the small pox epidemic claimed the lives of 254 in the erstwhile South Kanara district, while the number dropped to 49 in ’59, to 41 in ’60 before ultimately coming down to zero in ’70. Former corporator and secretary of Besant Institutions Devananda Pai, 68, recalled days from his boyhood when Urwa Market was forbidden territory. “A thrashing awaited us at home if we ventured there. Those who were quarantined were largely thought of as being on their deathbeds. Most people who were isolated did not reunite with families,” Pai added. Christine Lobo, who will turn 100 on June 24, recalled her father telling her about the epidemic sweeping through Kulashekar in 1890. “My father told me that small pox claimed lives every day in Kulashekar. The then parish priest Father Alexander Dubois, who presided over the final rites, would be forced to dig the graves himself when he could not find anyone to do so. Since I lived in Chikkamagaluru in the 1940s, I never caught small pox, though I have suffered from malaria,” Christine said. Jessy Castelino, 74, wife of former mayor PM Castelino, was a class VIII student when the small pox epidemic struck the district. “I lived in Kinnigoli, around 30km from Mangaluru. It was a small town but was shut for eight days, and were not even allowed to go outside and play,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/quarantine-was-harsh-death-almost-inevitable/articleshow/75781577.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Kolhapur||Solapur records 17 new Covid-19 cases||Kolhapur: Solapur registered 17 fresh Covid-19 cases on Saturday. With this, the total number of active cases in the district has gone up to 360. While there have been 24 casualties, 113 patients have recovered. Of the 17 patients, 10 are men and seven are women. According to the official information released by the district administration, 17 of 148 people tested positive. District guardian minister Datta Bharne has appealed to the citizens not to panic. He said that number of cases was on the rise as the administration had increased the number of tests for the suspected people in the containment zones. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/solapur-records-17-new-covid-19-cases/articleshow/75781552.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Ahmedabad||Infant girl among 14 who died of Covid-19 in Ahmedabad on Saturday||AHMEDABAD: A 3.5-year-old girl from Saraspur area of Ahmedabad city was the youngest among the 14 victims of Covid-19 reported on Saturday within city municipal limits. She succumbed to the disease at SVP hospital on Saturday. Eight of the 14 victims whose deaths were reported on Saturday had no co-morbidities. Except for a 30-year-old man from Jamalpur rest of the victims were all aged above 40 years. In western Ahmedabad, an 81-year-old man from Naranpura railway crossing area had succumbed to the disease. Of the 14 victims, six had spent only three to five days in hospital. One 65-year-old man who had no co-morbidities had only spent a day at Sola civil hospital. Sources claim that the victim had come at a critical state to the hospital. “People still consider reporting the disease as a last resort. Till then, they try to treat the disease at home or prefer to go to the general physician instead of testing early,” said a Sola civil hospital doctor. Most of the victims belonged to Bapunagar, India colony, Saraspur Rakhial, Jamalpur, Vatva, Indrapuri, Danilimda and Shahpur. Among the co-morbities that were reported were hypertension, diabetes, asthma and kidney disease.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/infant-girl-among-14-who-died-on-sat/articleshow/75782823.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Vadodara||Village in Godhra stays locked down with a smile||VADODARA: While bigger cities might be struggling to implement the lockdown for Covid-19 in the right earnest, this village has no such issue. The residents have adopted to the restrictions well and the village panchayat is ensuring that they stay safe. Motal village located about 20km from Godhra had started gearing up for Covid-19 ever since reports of the disease spreading outside China started coming in. When the lockdown was announced on March 25, those at the helm of affairs in Motal reacted swiftly. The village already had CCTV surveillance and it ensured that all the entry points to the village were covered with the existing cameras. Strict monitoring of the feed of these cameras also done by officials and elected representatives of the panchayat. Village sarpanch Ajaysinh Solanki said that those villagers who were settled elsewhere or had gone outside the village were also advised to avoid coming back. “They too understood the situation. We put barricades to ensure the main road leading to the village was closed,” Solanki said. According to Solanki, the village was self-sufficient when it came to milk. “We identified a villager who had a three-wheel goods carrier for other purposes. He agreed to bring grocery and medicines after taking orders from our villagers. The villagers got things at their doorstep and he also got some money for the service he provided. He earned a bit despite the lockdown,” Solanki said. The goods carrier owner Gopalsinh Solanki said that because the panchayat gave the work to him, villagers didn’t have to travel outside the villages for grocery and medicines. A couple of youths from the villages volunteered to help Solanki with the process. The village gave washable masks and sanitizers to its residents. A part of the expense for this was borne by the panchayat and the rest by donors. Sanitizing of streets of the village was done twice so far. This was done once by the panchayat and once by the dairy cooperative of the village. Even if the lockdown is lifted in the coming days, the only major concession that the village is looking to give is allowing its residents to come back if they are stranded outside the village. “We will ensure that they self-quarantine for two weeks,” said the sarpanch.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/village-in-godhra-stays-locked-down-with-a-smile/articleshow/75780849.cms||Sachin Sharma
May 17, 2020||Mysuru||With zero income and no relief, sex workers struggle to survive||Mysuru: With zero income, no government package to bail them out and the neverending wait for the food kits, thousands of sex workers in Mysuru are now dependent on the mercy of good samaritans to meet their basic needs. Speaking on the condition of anonymity, sex workers said the silence of state and central government on a dedicated package or financial aid for the community has rendered them helpless in the face of the novel coronavirus outbreak. “We have to pay for everything, ranging from visits to hospital to medicines, including antiviral drugs. With all hotels and other businesses shutting down due to the lockdown, we are left with no work. Due to the social stigma, family issues and other reasons, we can’t fight for any rights as several of us have to maintain secrecy of our identity,” they said. According to Prathima, director of Mysuru-based sex workers collective Ashodaya Samithi, and its programme manager Venu Kumar, Covid-19 crisis has posed a number of challenges to the community, including starvation. “In Mysuru, donors like MLA SA Ramadas and several NGOs have helped us with the food kits. However, we continue to face a number of other challenges which are the direct impact of lockdown. We have written to the National Aids Control Organisation, seeking help. It is an unprecedented crisis for the community,” said Prathima. “Department of women and child welfare authorities have informed us that the state government is considering a scheme for the sex workers. We are hopeful that like all other disadvantaged sections of the society, sex workers community also get a special package at this hour of crisis,” said Venu and Prathima. According to Roopa Hassan, a former member of a committee formed by Karnataka government in 2017 for sex workers, the state has around one lakh sex workers. “So far no scheme has been announced for sex workers. I have written to health minister B Sriramulu explaining the plight of the community and requested immediate intervention. He has written to health department, home minister, and project director of state AIDS prevention society,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/with-zero-income-and-no-relief-sex-workers-struggle-to-survive/articleshow/75781380.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Nagpur||Walk of history||The Panjra toll booth on NH-44, also called the Mumbai-Jabalpur-Kolkata highway, is the gateway to north, east and west. Over the last few days, thousands have exited from here on different means of transport. TOI travels with the homebound up to Khawasa, the Maharashtra-Madhya Pradesh border point, to make sense out of this forced cavalcadeNagpur: Even with the chattering in the background, there is an unexplained stillness. Under the hurriedly built shamiana at Panjra toll booth, about 15 kms from the iconic Zero Mile Stone in prosperous Nagpur, are distinct huddles marked by worried frowns. Three women are feeding their babies, pallus draped firmly over the head. Their older children are playing games on their own. Their husbands await some kind of advice. The youths among them have their own ideas. Behind the shamiana is the toll booth office. Nameless, faceless people have donated material for food which is cooked there itself by the condescending toll staff. Blue water coolers provide some solace from the mercury which is threatening to streak into the 40s. “Bhai, aa jao, nashta kar lo,” the man at the food counter hails out pleasantly to no one in particular. In another section of the shamiana, men wait in a queue that creeps forward ever so slowly. Covid distancing — however little — is ensured by their hastily filled, bulging 10 inch backpacks. A few volunteers in blue tees, which identify the NGOs they volunteer for, are conscientiously jotting down cell and identification numbers, and addresses on formatted papers. Details given, the numbers wait for empathy. It’s 9.30am today, yesterday and tomorrow. The scene is no different from an idyllic village anywhere in India. Within minutes, the locale changes. Like insects scurrying out of a disturbed ant hill, people arrive at the spot atop overburdened goods trucks, ready-to-collapse bicycles, two-wheelers from Neanderthal times, inside trailer-trucks with doors kept open for ventilation, pickup vehicles with hoods over its human contents, and any other motorable means. “How do we get to Gorakhpur from here? We have driven our two-wheeler from Karnataka and it has taken us four days. We cannot use Google maps as our cell phones have discharged. No, we don’t want to enter Nagpur city, some police harass us, though many are helpful,” says Rathod. After initially making people alight from trucks and trailers, police are indiscreetly now encouraging this mode of transportation. People do not want to be held back, don’t want to stand in queues don’t want to be shifted to shelters. The promise of free food, free bus or train travel, albeit with a minimum two-day layover, is not reassuring. “Truck drivers are charging us Rs2000 per person. As a group of five, we have hitchhiked from Bengaluru and are heading for different villages in Uttar Pradesh. We bargained for Rs800 per head. Forced to alight here, we are now looking for options. Is it true that trains are plying, can we board them,” asks Durgesh, his worn-out jeans unfashionably torn in many places. How did so many people reach the south of Vindhyas? Someone’s brother-in-law, an elder sibling, father, uncle initiated the movement, and the move. The chain extended, and many more ventured out to earn that extra income. Some earned Rs800 a day and managed to survive on Rs200. The rest were savings that were sent back home to needy and ailing family members. With lockdown, the cash in hand got exhausted. Where would the next meal come from? “These empty paint buckets hold all my possessions. My landlord did not throw me out but I didn’t have any money left. I registered for a train in Hyderabad where I worked but was told it would take 2-3 days. I can’t wait for so long when there is no guarantee,” says Pushpendra, who is heading to Kishanganj district in Bihar with five other friends. All their footwear, used by the affluent as bathroom slippers, is aged by several summers and unlikely to outlast Covid-19. A man and two women, benevolence overflowing, have just hailed down a trailer-truck little ahead. Packed in their hatchback are biscuit packets of a popular brand, khichdi, cold water, paper plates and glasses. Packed in the trailer are men, women, children and babies. The man takes a head count and stops, realizing the futility. The younger and fitter ones are accommodated on top of the trailer. Bedsheets and sari pallus give them meaningless protection from the sun. “Arre behenji, aap mat utro, yeh lo catch karo. Do you have any vessels, I can give you food, it will last till night, bahut hai, sab ke liye hai, koi bhookha nahin rahega,” says the man. Those walking with thailas, bags and paint boxes have set a furious pace. They are heading towards Bihar, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Jharkhand, Bengal, Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh. The distances they still have to cover are more than a thousand kilometres. They have already traversed between 500-800 kms. Their tone declares an inexplicable confidence. They can almost see their destinations on the near horizon. “We are cycling from Aurangabad; managed to buy three second-hand ones. We are heading to Katni (east MP). As masons, we earned a decent amount. Now there is no work,” says the youngest of the trio. “You are delaying us,” said the older one. On his cycle handle is an undergarment with holes in the unmentionables. A man is hawking belts and cheap goggles. He eyes the third of the Katni cyclists as a potential customer. The man’s apparently oversized pant — what is left of it — is held together by a tight coir string. On the blazing highway is a shirt, blouse, torn gamcha, a boy’s cap. Did they offer protection, or did they fly off while being air-dried to get rid of the sweat? At the point where the Bhandara slipway climbs to the highway, a few state transport buses are parked. There are some cops stopping the walkers and politely requesting those in trucks to board the buses which will take them free of cost to the Madhya Pradesh border. From there, they can board another bus to the next destination, and from there to the next… “I am going by this bus to the MP border. I have to get to Kolkata. I used to work in a factory in Nagpur. Oh, should I have been in a bus to Chhattisgarh,” asks Joy Sheel. In the same bus is Ibrar Ahmed and others who have come from Hyderabad and are on way to Balrampur in UP. Trucks and trailers are driving at Schumacher-speed. People are holding on for dear life. Some adventurers are making it exciting by hanging out from the half-shut ‘doors’. Guardedly trying to plot their way through are two auto rickshaws with their number plates and colour conveying their place of origin. “I have been plying this auto for five years now in Bengaluru. My friend and I are taking turns to drive. Four of us are on way to Madhubhani (Bihar). Since autos were not allowed to ply, there was no staying back. Once this settles, I will return as I have a loan to repay,” says Krishnadev, now fluent in Kannada. His three friends are in coloured singlets. Their feet and heads are trying to find space in the luggage-filled three-wheeler. “We are from Nalasopara (Mumbai). We didn’t have money to pay our landlord. So we decided to leave with my wife, two kids and two friends. We are carrying our own food,” says Yogendra Jaiswal, heading to Uttar Pradesh, clearly on the wrong route. The beautifully paved four-lane road with intermittent tollbooths is a pleasure to drive on. Unless one makes a mistake, mishaps will not happen. But the stretch has nothing to offer for shade. The trees have long been cut, legally and surreptitiously, when the road was widened. Under the only green seen for several miles, four dark, considerable specks sit crouched. “We are six of us and waiting for the other two lagging behind. We are coming from Hyderabad and going to Kishanganj (Bihar). The police put us on trucks, but the driver asked us to get off after some distance as we didn’t have the money he was demanding. We are trying to save whatever little we have for food. Many kind people did feed us along the way,” said Gopal. Their only belongings are in a cloth bag that many use to buy vegetables. The rest, or whatever is left of it, is on their bodies. Two-wheelers are aplenty on the stretch. None of them is on a joyride. Most vehicles hold a family of five and their personal wealth in huge sacks. The driver has barely enough space to manoeuvre the handles. A child is resting its head on them. Behind him is his wife. Between them is another kid. And behind them all is the mounted ‘samaan’. The lighter and modern ones zip past, the ancient ones snail. A moped made popular in the 80s by doodhwalas is shockingly still on the road. It is towing another of the same kind with a clothesline. There are women and children in this group. “We are going to Jalaun district in UP from Latur. The vehicle broke down on the way. I have been towing this for 50 kilometres now. There were women with us whom we managed to send ahead in trucks. We purchased these mopeds before the lockdown,” says Pradip Baharhal. More trucks, more trailers, more two-wheelers, more autos, more cars with number plates from different states are quickly scything their way through tiger-bearing Pench with no moment to stand and admire what is remaining of the forest on either side of the highway. At Khawasa, where Maharashtra meets Madhya Pradesh on this stretch, the travellers are made to alight. Those not going to districts of MP and parts of Uttar Pradesh are allowed to proceed in the same discomfort. Those from MP are made to stand in another queue for a medical check-up, and then yet another queue where their final destination is listed. The stretch from Khawasa to Nagpur has movement of empty trucks and buses, perhaps readying for more northward sorties for more Durgeshs, Rathods, Pushpendras, Joys and Krishnadevs. It appears as if half of north India was in south India, but is going back home. Or as far — and as close to home — as they can get.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/walk-of-history/articleshow/75783107.cms||Sunil Warrier
May 17, 2020||Nagpur||‘Micro management, planning are need of the hour for migrants’||Professor Sneha Deshpande is head of Nagpur University’s department of economics as well as director of its IQAC. She specializes in agricultural economics, gender economics and development studies. In a chat with TOI, she throws light on the exodus of migrants across the country. Excerpts from the interview...Q. What is the size of the internal migrant movement? A. The 2017 Economic Survey of India estimates that the magnitude of inter-state migration in India was close to 9 million annually between 2011 and 2016. According to the 2011 Census, the total movement of internal migrants, inter and intra-state, was 139 million. Uttar Pradesh and Bihar are the biggest source states, followed closely by Madhya Pradesh, Punjab, Rajasthan, Uttarakhand, Jammu & Kashmir and West Bengal. Major destination states are Delhi, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat, Andhra Pradesh and Kerala. The internal migrant labourers migrate mainly due to the absence of employment opportunities. Q. Could governments have handled the lockdowns and subsequent exodus better? A. Yes, the problem could have been better handled by city administrations rather than waiting for a green signal from the Centre which should have been pushed to start transport facilities like Shramik trains by the second week of the lockdown. This would have saved migrants from a lot of pain. Beside it would have eased the pressure on civic authorities and NGOs who provided food to these workers during the lockdown. Q. Why are migrants rushing back to their hometowns? A. Migrant labourers were misinformed about Covid-19 and its possible dangers. They were only aware that there is some virus which can kill them. So, they believed, ‘Marna hai to ghar jakar marege’. They were also going home because they were told told ‘ghar me hi raho’.Where are their homes? Due to lockdown, suddenly they found themselves ‘beghar’ for which they were not prepared at all. Their psychological needs pushed them to be close to their near and dear ones. This was the main reason why migrant labours started travelling to their permanent homes. During the first lockdown, they received food and other help from their employer. However, during the second and third lockdowns, even the employer themselves were helpless due to loss in business and could not support these labourers. All levels of governments failed to plan the transfer of these migrants to their hometowns during the first lockdown, which could have helped to avoid many hardships to both the government and labourers. Q. How will the absence of labourers from cities impact the economy? A. Many industries in urban areas will face acute problems. They will either have to hire local labourers at a higher price or hire unskilled labour for skilled task requirements. These migrants may now prefer getting employment at a lower wage near their hometown rather than travelling to distant areas. Only a few are likely to return to their original workplace. Unless state governments implement a good policy to help the well-being of labourers during calamity, labourers will hesitate to travel to far off places. There is also a possibility that migrant labourers will go back to urban areas or their old employment after the economic activities restart. Q. Should there be a separate policy to protect their interest in case of an emergency? A. Yes, the videos on social media have drawn the attention on protecting the rights of migrant labourers who directly contribute towards industrialization and building smart cities. We treat them as a problem because they result in creation of slums in urban areas. The dual economy always persists in the phase of development. Policy planners have a huge responsibility to ensure that the interests of migrant labourers are protected. Q. What’s the need of the hour? A. Micro management and planning is the way out. Plan housing for labourers and lease them to industrialists, give tax incentives and maintain list of labourers with their bank accounts. NGOs and government administration must work in conjunction. Government-recognised placement agencies should be set up to maintain data. Payment should be fixed according to Minimum Wage Act and transferred directly to the labourer’s bank account. Vocational training is also important to create a skillset. Give more relaxations to employers if they employ labourers from local areas. Reforms in labour laws and decentralizing powers to provide amenities to the migrant population is important. Their basic human rights need to be preserved. States must follow the Kerala government model.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/micro-management-planning-are-need-of-the-hour-for-migrants/articleshow/75782834.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
May 17, 2020||Kozhikode||Kerala: Now, police team to trace contacts of Covid-19 patients||KOZHIKODE: It has been found that several Covid-19 patients in Wayanad had traveled extensively and it is going to be a daunting task for health authorities to trace their contacts. Against this backdrop, district police have stepped in with an ‘ABCD model’ by putting to use the department’s technical and investigative capabilities to effectively implement contact tracing. Police will prepare a separate contact list for each of the Covid-19 patient and will hand it over to the district administration for cross checking it with the list prepared by the health authorities. According to district police chief R Ilango, four separate teams have been constituted for implementing the ‘ABCD model’. The A team will compare separate contact lists prepared by the district administration and the police and look for discrepancies. The B team will provide backend support in preparing the contact lists. The C team will be made up of a separate contact tracing team, which will prepare distinct list for each patient, deploying technological and technical expertise. The D team, headed by the district police chief, will be the district-level interrogation team comprising two DSPs who will interrogate persons who go into hiding or withhold information or mislead authorities during contact tracing. “The objective of the ABCD model is to enable quick and accurate contact tracing. The team will help district and health authorities in the contact tracing exercise and the separate contact list prepared by the police will be submitted to the district administration,” Ilango added. The route maps of three policemen who tested positive for Covid-19, along with two patients belonging to the Koyambedu cluster, released during the last two days have shown extensive travel, covering several days. For instance, the brother- in-law of the truck driver who has been running a shop at Panavalli has 64 primary contacts, including many tribespeople. Also, the route maps of the two policemen shows extensive travel, with one policeman’s travel extending from April 28 to May 13, covering over 70 points, including Mananthavady police station, locations where he was posted, visit to a petitioner’s house, shops, etc. The route map of the policeman from Kannur also shows wide travel from April 26 to May 13. He has been to various places, including Arakkal Palace, the residence of deceased NRK expatriate Arakkal Joy on his funeral day, along with visits to his house at Kelakam in Kannur, police station mess and multiple shops.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/now-police-team-to-trace-contacts/articleshow/75781589.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Dehradun||Police, administration warn of action under Disaster Act against those flouting home quarantine norms||The DGP has urged residents to be vigilant and inform the police regarding any violation in quarantine norms.Dehradun: Uttarakhand director general of police (DGP) Anil Raturi on Saturday made an appeal to the people, who are returning to Uttarakhand from other states, to strictly follow home quarantine norms. He warned that those who are found violating home quarantine norms will be booked under the Disaster Management Act. The DGP also urged residents to be vigilant and inform the police regarding any violation in quarantine norms. At present, more than 4,424 people have been put under home quarantine in the state. Among them, 24 people have been home quarantined in containment zones of Dehardun. “We all are aware that not only the country but the entire world is battling Covid-19. In such times, best possible efforts are being made in Uttarakhand to keep the situation under control. To prevent the spread of the virus, we need everyone’s support,” said DGP Raturi in a video message. He added, “Home quarantine is mandatory for people who are returning from other states. Therefore, we appeal to them to complete the quarantine period. This is for their safety and that of the society. A person may be booked under Disaster Management Act if he or she is found violating the stipulated norms.” To recall, a few days earlier, Dehradun police had booked a man under relevant sections of IPC and the Disaster Management Act for violating home quarantine norms. Meanwhile, the Doon district administration has released two landline numbers — 0135-2729250 and 0135-2722142 — for people to report any violation of home quarantine. Dehradun’s district magistrate Ashish Kumar Srivastava told TOI, “We are monitoring people who have been put under home quarantine. The identity of the person who reports any home quarantine violation will be kept confidential.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/police-administration-warn-of-action-under-disaster-act-against-those-flouting-home-quarantine-norms/articleshow/75780428.cms||Kautilya Singh
May 17, 2020||Bareilly||Police thrash boy for selling fruits, Akhilesh tweets video||Bareilly: Former Uttar Pradesh chief minister Akhilesh Yadav has tweeted the video clip of a 12-year-old boy from Bareilly who was allegedly thrashed by police in Baradari area of the city while he was selling fruits on a cart on Saturday. Additional SP (city) has been tasked to conduct a departmental investigation after the incident. In the video, the boy could be seen crying uncontrollably and showing his swollen hand, claiming that two policemen had beaten him with a stick. The incident was reported from Sindhunagar locality under Baradari police station - a densely populated area. The boy's father sells vegetables outside his house and he sometimes joins him at work. Harsh Gupta, the 12-year-old boy, said, “My father went for a bath. So, I was selling fruits in his absence. As I was dealing with a customer, two cops arrived on a bike. They then started hurling abuses at me and beat me with a stick.” Harsh's father Umesh said, “The government has allowed selling of vegetables and fruits during Covid-19 lockdown, but don't know why the police keep harassing us. A few days ago, I was assaulted by local police outpost in-charge. Today, after seeing my son facing a similar harassment, I have made an official complaint on dial 112.” Sanjay Gupta, an eyewitness, told TOI, “I felt really bad when I saw two policemen beating up this boy. The boy was only trying to support his father.” Trying to put forth the cops' version, Bareilly SSP Shailesh Pandey said that prima facie it seems to be accidental as the police were trying to reprimand the crowd for not following social distancing norms and the boy was probably hit. He added that the boy was taken to a hospital and there was minor injury on his hand. Sources said both the cops belong to 2018 batch and they told their seniors that they were only acting on a complaint that several people have gathered in the area and were not following the necessary guidelines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/police-thrash-boy-for-selling-fruits-akhilesh-tweets-video/articleshow/75781590.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
May 17, 2020||Bhopal||Dying migrant forced out of truck, friend sticks with him till last breath||BHOPAL: On a dusty, sun-baked highway in MP’s Shivpuri, a migrant worker sat cradling a friend in his lap on Saturday afternoon, calling out to passersby for help. No one stopped. A local resident took a picture of the moving scene, but by the time it went viral, the friend was dead. Heartbroken, Yakoob Mohammad is now waiting to receive his friend Amrit Kumar’s body - and their Covid-19 reports - at Shivpuri District Hospital. Even the virus couldn’t get between their dosti. Yakoob was the only one in a truckload of migrants to stay with Amrit till he died, disregarding the risk of infection if Amrit had Covid-19. Yakoob and Amrit worked in Surat and decided to return to their native places in UP after losing their jobs in the lockdown. They paid Rs 4,000 for standing space in the back of a truck and set off with a large group, via Nasik and Indore, said Yakoob.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/dying-migrant-forced-out-of-truck-friend-sticks-with-him-till-last-breath/articleshow/75782314.cms||P Naveen
May 17, 2020||Trichy||Tamil Nadu: Tasmac outlets reopen with better crowd control measures||TRICHY/MADURAI: There was another wave of rush by tipplers as the Tasmac outlets resumed business on Saturday in the central region following a Supreme Court directive. Sale of liqour through Tasmac outlets in Madurai city was better organized on Saturday, when the shops were opened for the third time after lockdown. Although various measures such as token system, police crowd control were in place, it was low turnout that has helped in maintaining organized sale. In Madurai, as many as 220 of the total 265 shops retail units opened on Saturday. The shops in containment areas and those without stocks did not open for business. Tipplers were issued tokens. Officials said that only 70 tokens were issued for every hour. This has helped prevent jumping of queue and ensure social distancing. “We have been told to limit sales to 500 people in each store. However, customers were allowed to purchase any number of bottles,” he said. K Manikandan, a resident of Sellur, said that though he was happy that Tasmac shops were opened again, unavailability of beer was a disappointment. Meanwhile, in Trichy, Tasmac has opened 150 of the 183 shops in the district. Customers started crowding from the morning. Tokens printed in seven colours for seven days were issued to customers by 10 am. The shops remained open till 5 pm for the token holders for Saturday. Police personnel deployed at shops were busy regulating crowds. Even then, social distancing could not be followed in some of the shops. Barricades were put up in front of all the shops to maintain social distancing. But, people cramped up together while waiting with the tokens for entering the barricade queue. Tasmac elite shops also witnessed long queues. Unlike on May 7, chairs and shades were not provided to the tipplers to wait in the queue in Trichy on Saturday. Several shops closed the sale by afternoon as all the 500 tokens for each shop were used by the tipplers. Police also used public addressing systems to regulate the crowd. There was no cap on the quantity of liquor. However, Tasmac officials said that they were not allowing bulk purchase. A senior official said that the 33 shops fell under 19 containment zones in the district. Reopening of these shops was ruled out.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/tasmac-outlets-reopen-with-better-crowd-control-measures/articleshow/75783097.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Covid patient’s body found at BRT station||AHMEDABAD: In a shocking incident, the body of a Covid-19 patient man was found at the bus rapid transit system (BRTS) station near Danilimda Crossroads in the city on Friday. Chagan Makwana, 67, had reportedly gone to the 1,200-bed Covid-19 hospital on the Civil Hospital campus on May 10 and tested positive. On May 14, he was assessed to be an asymptomatic patient. Danilimda police inspector V R Vasava said the deceased and five others who tested positive and had filled sought home isolation were made to sit in a bus that would take them home on Friday “The man was dropped off at the Danilimda bus stand and said he would walk to his home at Rohit Park Society. The same day at about 1pm, his body was discovered by the security guard who tried to wake him up, thinking he was asleep,” said Vasava. Police sources said the guard at the BRT bus stand then informed his superior, who rushed to spot and informed police. “We reached the BRT bus stand at about 3pm and sent the body to VS Hospital for a postmortem. The VS hospital authorities said they found a chit in the man’s pocket with a mobile phone number on it. When we dialled the number, Makwana’s son, Dharmendra, picked up the phone,” added Vasava. He was shocked to learn what had happened. He only knew that his father had gone to Civil for treatment on May 10. Dharmendra arrived at VS Hospital and told us about his father’s medical history. “After the postmortem, Makwana’s body was cremated according to the rules for Covid victims,” said Vasava.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/covid-patients-body-found-at-brt-station/articleshow/75782475.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Trichy||Server at Trichy sub-post office down, customers suffer||Trichy: Server problem at a sub-post office in Trichy has left around 15,000 customers in the lurch as the problem, which has been recurring for more than two years, was not resolved. Customers alleged that their repeated representations and grievances were unheard. Technical snag in the servers in post offices has become common in the postal department, particularly in the sub-post office in Woraiyur in Trichy city as the server was down for nearly two years. Customers are often raising the issue with the postmaster concerned and other staff, however, the postal employees themselves are clueless about how the problem could be resolved. Payments such as Kisan Vikas Patra, monthly income scheme, recurring deposits (RD), senior citizen savings scheme, national savings certificates, Sukanya Samridi Yojna and time deposits are affected due to the server problem. Customers are forced to wait for at least 15 to 30 minutes and their payments printed during their next visit to the post office, said a customer who has RD accounts with the Woraiyur post office. The employees say that the server problem has remained unsolved for nearly two years. Sources in the postal department said that BSNL is the primary service provider and Sify Technologies Limited is a secondary service provider, which is also acting as a mediator for BSNL and the postal department. “For any queries, authorities concerned from the postal department have to first contact Sify. Then they would take the issue to the BSNL and then they would attend the issue”, a senior official from the postal department said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/server-at-trichy-sub-post-office-down-customers-suffer/articleshow/75783104.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
May 17, 2020||Madurai||Baby dies after falling into 40ft-deep well||Madurai: An eight-month-old baby died after it slipped from its aunt’s arms and fell into a well on Saturday. The child was identified as S Sivadarshan, son of Sivakumar-Thalachi couple from Vasuki Street in Anupanadi. Sivakumar is a loadman. According to police, Thalachi’s elder sister Uma took Sivadarshan to her house located nearby. Uma was holding the child in her left hand and tried to draw water from the well. The child accidentally slipped and fell into the 40ft well, which had only a few feet of water. A shocked Uma screamed for help. Neighbours rushed to the spot, but they could not rescue the child. They called up the fire and rescue personnel. By the time they entered the well, the child was already dead. The body was shifted to the Government Rajaji Hospital. Based on a complaint, a case was registered with the Teppakulam police station under the CrPc section -174- suspicious death. A police officer said the incident seems like a genuine accident. However, a detailed inquiry was under way to ensure that no foul play was involved.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/baby-dies-after-falling-into-40ft-deep-well/articleshow/75783111.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Hubballi||Drinking water crisis in Indi taluk in Vijayapura||Vijayapura: Although not a single Covid-19 case has been reported in Indi taluk in Vijayapura district, it is facing its own set of problems. Hemmed in by regions that have been declared ‘Red’ zones, Indi taluk is struggling to meet its water requirements. The soaring mercury levels have resulted in most of the local water sources drying up, and although Indi has received showers, it has proven inadequate to fill up the lakes and ponds, and avert a crisis. The number of villages staring at a drinking water crisis has only been steadily been rising. Tadavalaga, Gangavalaga, Agasanal, Bisanal and Anjutagi are among the villages that are grappling with scarcity of water in Indi taluk. Indi taluk panchayat chief executive officer Vijayakumar Ajur said that they were supplying water through tankers to villages facing water shortage. “Panchayat development officers of all GPs have been asked to monitor the situation closely and ensure that no village goes dry,” he added. On the one hand, Indi town continues to get water round-the-clock from the Bhima River, but 11 villages across the taluk are struggling with water shortage. Private borewells and water tankers are being used to tide over the crisis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/drinking-water-crisis-in-indi-taluk-in-vijayapura/articleshow/75781733.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Madurai||Ensure safe passage for workers: TN Chamber||Madurai: The Tamil Nadu Chamber of Commerce and Industry (TNCCI) has urged the government to ensure a safe passage for guest workers in Tamil Nadu who want to return to their native places. However, as their leaving will affect many industries, the government must encourage those willing to come to Tamil Nadu. President of TNCCI, N Jegatheesan said the government should realize the impact of the exodus of these workers at one stroke from industrial states like Tamil Nadu. “This migration is something that could not be stopped. These workers are an important part of many industries in states like Tamil Nadu and their leaving could affect them. For example, rice mills which were an essential commodity continued to run throughout the lockdown period to meet the demand because these guest workers were given accommodation on their work premises, and they were ready to work continuously. Their role in loading and deloading is big, and they were easier to manage than local workers,” he said. But, as many of them from Bihar, Odisha, Assam, West Bengal, Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh had expressed their willingness to return, the industries allowed them to go. Meanwhile, the chamber applauded Union finance minister. Nirmala Sitharaman’s diverse proactive and efficacious schemes unbundled in the last two days. “MSME is the backbone of our economy and the minister has suggested path-breaking liquidity The announcement of Rs 3 lakh crore for collateral-free automatic loans to the extent of 20% of their existing loan for businesses, including MSMEs, will solve to a great extent the problem of liquidity crunch of this sector to make their units operative after lockdown,” he said.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/ensure-safe-passage-for-workers-tn-chamber/articleshow/75783110.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Cyclone may hit land on May 20, bring heavy rain||KOLKATA: The depression over southeast Bay of Bengal intensified into a cyclone on Saturday and is set to develop into a severe cyclonic storm — Amphan — over the next 24 hours that could lash the east coast on May 20. While moderate to heavy rainfall has been predicted along the coastal areas of Bengal, Kolkata could receive heavy showers next Wednesday, accompanied by wind blowing at a speed of 70km/hr. Cloud and rain, however, may strike the city by the second half of Monday. Amphan stood at a distance of 1,220km south-southwest of Digha on Saturday morning. It moved at a speed of 20km/hr in the north-west direction. According to the Regional Meteorological Centre (RMC), it will continue to move in the same direction and then recurve in the north-northeast direction towards the Bengal coast. “It is still too early to predict where it will hit land but we expect landfall in the second half of May 20. While the cyclone could weaken before hitting land, the impact on Kolkata will be the maximum as it enters land. The city could receive heavy rain till the first half of May 21,” said RMC director GK Das. Along with Kolkata, all south Bengal districts will receive moderate to heavy rainfall from Tuesday, a day before Amphan hits land. “While the coastal districts could receive very heavy rain, all south Bengal districts will be lashed by moderate to heavy showers on May 20. Wind speed could touch 85km/hr in the coasts with gusts of 100 km/hr,” added Das.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/west-bengal-cyclone-may-hit-land-on-may-20-bring-heavy-rain/articleshow/75782852.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Hungry, broke and 800 km away from home||NIZAMABAD: After walking non-stop for five days along the National Highway-44, a group of 20 migrants had their first hot meal when they reached the Perkit Junction in Nizamabad, late on Friday evening. The 800 kilometre distance they had travelled from Chennai until then, was only half way to their home in Satna, Madhya Pradesh. “Only when we got here, some good Samaritans offered us rotis and rice,” said a visibly fatigued Ramkumar Joshi (28), while getting ready for the arduous journey ahead. While the group had left with some food, they ran out of it within the first two days. For the rest of the journey up to Nizamabad, it was only biscuits and water. “My vision had started to become blurry because of no food for almost three days. I feel so much better now,” the young migrant worker said, profusely thanking those distributing food to hundreds of people walking along the highway — desperate to reach their homes. This group of labourers employed at construction sites in Chennai said they lost their jobs soon after the lockdown was announced. “We were left with no other choice but to return to our villages. Our contractor told us that he will not be able to give us work till the lockdown is lifted. We stayed back thinking work will resume soon, but when the lockdown kept getting extended, we lost hope. Since we did not have enough money to hire a truck, we packed whatever leftover food we had and started walking,” said Ashok Lal, another migrant in the group. The workers said the very next day after lockdown was announced, their contractor stopped work and paid them only half the wages. “They (authorities) should have informed us about the lockdown a few days in advance. We are now on the roads with no shelter or money,” rued another distressed worker. “Neither state governments nor the central government did anything for us. Otherwise, why would we walk all the way to Satna from Chennai,” asked Lal, when as he kept walking along the highway.  He was still another five days from home.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hungry-broke-800-km-away-from-home/articleshow/75782328.cms||Moulika.KV
May 17, 2020||Kolkata||Fewer Covid-19 positive cases in south Kolkata containment zones||KOLKATA: Containment zones in south Kolkata and its suburbs are in a much better position compared to its north and central Kolkata counterparts. Spread over 84 wards, the zones in the south have reported fewer Covid-19 positive cases. Most of these cases are confined to some clusters, a feature which is absent in north and central Kolkata Covid zones. In south, standalone buildings, rather than the slums (except in select areas), have become Covid hotspots, said a section of KMC officials. According to KMC headquarters and Lalbazar sources, there are now about 140-odd containment zones lying between wards 61 and 144 that cover the entire length of south Kolkata and the added areas. While south and its added areas comprising 84 wards have 140 containment zones, only 60 north and central Kolkata wards have 146 such zones. More than the number of containment zones, the situation in north and central Kolkata is worrying in terms of number of cases and their geographical spread. The good news is that when compared to central and north, where merely one ward at present has no active Covid cases, there are 17 such wards — in Tollygunge, Jadavpur and Behala West — that have no active cases. Four more wards — most importantly one in Parnasree that had reported the very first cases of Covid in southwest Kolkata — are now in the green zone. “At least three containment zones in Behala and Haridevpur — Diamond City South, BL Saha Road and Sakherbazar — are now in the green zone. There are merely 13 active cases in Behala that has a poulation of 10.5 lakh. Similarly, Briji, Baisnabghata and Patuli are now green zones,” ponted out a joint CP at Lalbazar. “We will wait for KMC to release the official revised containment list. We believe there will be several shifts and the number of containment zones is likely to go down further,” he added. Sources said some more names were struck off the containment-zone list that was prepared on Saturday. KMC, though, says the danger is not over yet, Garden Reach is fast emerging as an area of concern. Garden Reach and Metiabruz have added 38 new cases in the past 10 days. Added to this, one-off containment zones have sprung up in Anandapur-Mukundapur. This apart, certain zones on Panditya Road and Bhowanipore (Bishop Lefroy Road & Lee Road) that had managed to turn into green zones are back in the red,” said a KMC official. The spread of the disease towards some of the posh south Kolkata locations — like Lord Sinha Road and Hindustan Park — has been alarming for senior citizens, some of them renowned faces of Kolkata. The addition of newer zones in Purba Putiary, Haridevpur and Sarsuna is also an indication that these areas sharing their borders with South 24 Parganas’ Narendrapur-Sonarpur and Maheshtala are vulnerable.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/fewer-ve-cases-in-south-kol-containment-zones/articleshow/75782855.cms||Saikat Ray
May 17, 2020||Madurai||Tamil Nadu: IT firms no longer keen on retaining large office spaces||MADURAI: With many IT firms having managed to implement 100% work from home, they are reconsidering the use of rented office spaces to cut down burgeoning expenses. Founder of Isource, Sivakumar Sadayappan said they had operations in Chennai, Madurai, Coimbatore and the United States. They found that the productivity of the staff had not gone down while working from home. As expenses have to be cut down during the crisis period, they had decided to shut down some of their offices in the cities and make their employees continue to work from home. A Premkumar who runs a digital design firm, says he is rethinking the way in which he and his five employees function. “I have been able to get things done remotely. And now as the business has been dull during the last two months, and is indicative of how it would be in the next few months, I have decided to give up my office and continue to work from home,” he said. This entrepreneur pays Rs 15,000 as rent and when other overheads like electricity and water are included it goes up to Rs 22,000. By giving up his office he could save nearly that amount. “I have asked a friend of mine if we can use a small room in his large office once a week for a meeting with my colleagues, and that would suffice,” he said. Commercial spaces were acquired for a rent ranging from Rs 50 to Rs 60 per square feet in many parts of Madurai. If it was a posh locality like Chokkikulam or K K Nagar it would go up to Rs 90 per square feet. A 2,000 square feet office will cost not less than Rs 40,000 per month. Many of them are rethinking this usage. ``Now, my building owner is offering me a 30% concession but I still don’t need it,’’ said T Shankar, an entrepreneur. K Pandi, a broker, says that there are many buildings coming up for rent in Anna Nagar, K K Nagar and Iyer Bungalow in the city. The owners are quoting a lesser by about Rs 10,000 compared to the rent, last year. “However, I haven’t got many enquiries for office spaces in the last two months and my business has been completely dull,” he said. R K Jeyabalan, executive director of Consortium for Technology Research Entrepreneurship and employment, says, “If it involves a project with sensitive data, it cannot be done remotely. Product development issues need coordination within an office.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/it-firms-no-longer-keen-on-retaining-large-office-spaces/articleshow/75783113.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Agra||Uttar Pradesh: Cops caught loading migrants into truck, covering vehicle with tarpaulin||AGRA: Contrary to orders of the UP government that has allowed movement of migrants through the state only on authorized buses, a Mathura police team was caught on Saturday “loading workers” into a private truck for their onward journey to Etawah and then covering the back of the vehicle with tarpaulins, essentially masking the men, women and children inside it. SSP (Mathura) Guarav Grover denied these claims though one of the migrant workers inside, someone by the name of Shivani, can clearly be heard in a video that later in the day made it to social media saying that they were made to sit in the truck by the cops. “The policemen asked me to sit in the truck to go further and not walk on foot,” she said. Another migrant worker said that the policemen advised them to “board the truck now and change to any other vehicle on the way later”. Several migrant workers were in the truck that had a Haryana registration number. Police officials present at the spot refused to speak to the media and said they should talk to the district administration regarding this. SSP Grover told TOI that the migrant labourers were “spotted” inside the truck during a check near Jait police station. “So they were being taken in the same truck from Jait area to Kosi mandi where buses had been arranged for their transportation to their respective districts as no other vehicle was available,” he said. He, however, added that an FIR has been registered against the truck owner under section 269 (Negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 270 (Malignant act likely to spread infection), and 188 (Disobedience to order by public servant) of IPC at Vrindavan police station. A total of 19 trucks were seized by police on Saturday as they were caught transporting migrant workers illegally. FIRs have been lodged against all. Watch Uttar Pradesh: Cops caught loading migrants into truck, covering vehicle with tarpaulin||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/cops-caught-loading-migrants-into-truck-covering-vehicle-with-tarpaulin/articleshow/75781645.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
May 17, 2020||Goa||HP man misses train, cops rush him to next stn||Carambolim: Dilwale Dulhania Le Jayenge’s iconic railway station scene was set to be recreated as the Shramik Special train bound for Una, Himachal Pradesh, pulled out of the Karmali railway station on Saturday— except, instead of Simran, it was Mohan Rana, 42, who was chasing the train with two bags. With no Shah Rukh Khan to help him, it was left to state authorities to ensure that Rana did not miss the train. Rana, who had a permit to travel to HP, reached just two minutes late, running onto the platform just as the train was being flagged off by North Goa collector R Menaka and North Goa SP Utkrisht Prasoon. Even as Rana spilled his near-miss story, the authorities decided to pull out all stops to ensure that the man and his two bags made it onto the train. Menaka ordered Konkan Railway officials to make a ticket for the Kangra district resident while police used its vehicle to rush the man to the next stop— Tivim railway station where he was put onto the train home. “I heard about the train just some time ago and I came here as fast as I could,” said Rana. Menaka said that the train’s passenger manifest would be updated with Rana’s details and sent to the HP government. “It so happened that one person reached quite late so we have arranged for him to depart from the Tivim railway station in consultation with the railway authority,” said Menaka. The train with 582 passengers will arrive at Una after a two-day journey. This is the second train to Himachal Pradesh. Rana was not the only one to be accommodated at the last minute. Authorities held up the train beyond its scheduled departure time just so that Upendra Uraon, a bartender at a Sinquerim nightclub, could make it. “I found out about the train just one hour before the departure time, around 5pm,” said Uraon, who grabbed his bag and documents and rushed to the station even as police kept tabs on his movement from Sinquerim. “I got so many calls fromofficials while on my way that I was confident that the train would not leave without me,” he said. With the state doing all it can to ensure that the passengers reach home, the station resounded with words of gratitude as the train left. While some yelled, ‘Goa Police is the best’ others shouted ‘Thank you Goa’. “The intention was to assist all those who wanted to leave. Though the scheduled time of departure was 6pm we got calls from the Himachal Pradesh government saying that they have issued permits to some people at the last minute, and they asked us to facilitate their travel. So we held the train for some time,” said Menaka.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/hp-man-misses-train-cops-rush-him-to-next-stn/articleshow/75783114.cms||Newton Sequeira
May 17, 2020||Lucknow||UPSRTC buses for stranded and walking migrants||LUCKNOW: The UP State Road Transport Corporation has provided buses in various districts, on written request from the DMs concerned, to drop migrants -- who are walking or stranded -- to their destinations. The buses have been made available at the pick-up points on district borders. As per the arrangement, migrants entering the district are first taken to shelter homes by the district administration through these buses. “In another arrangement, we have directed our drivers and conductors that while coming back after dropping migrants to their destination, when you see other migrants walking on foot, make them board empty buses and drop them at pick up points on district borders,” said UPSRTC MD Raj Shekhar. “That way, we will save them from walking some extra kilometres,” said the official. The district administration team at pick up points will further help migrants reach their homes. The buses would drop those walking on foot closest to the district they are heading.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/upsrtc-buses-for-stranded-walking-migrants/articleshow/75783112.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Bareilly||8 labourers from Mumbai test positive for Covid-19 in Lakhimpur Kheri||Bareilly: Three migrant labourers who had returned from Mumbai tested positive for Covid-19 in Lakhimpur Kheri on Saturday, while five others had tested positive on Friday night. Now the tally in Kheri stands at 22, with 17 active cases. Chief medical officer Dr Manoj Agarwal told TOI, “All migrant labourers are being quarantined at home after thermal screening. Samples are being taken randomly for testing. The villages of the positive cases were sealed and patients were shifted to Covid-19 hospital in Behajam for treatment. Samples of the family members will be sent for testing. Meanwhile, villagers have been advised to stay at home and inform at the helpline number if they exhibit any symptoms.” “Most of the new patients are asymptomatic. We are sending nearly 50 random samples every day for testing,” Agarwal added. Over 4,000 labourers have returned to Lakhimpur Kheri district from Maharashtra by special trains. Several others are still returning home on foot or hitching rides in trucks or autos.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/8-labourers-from-mumbai-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-lakhimpur-kheri/articleshow/75781639.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
May 17, 2020||Kolkata||Maths, English projects for ISC students from this year||KOLKATA: The Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) has decided to introduce project work in Mathematics and English in the Class XII ISC board examination in this academic session (2020-21) instead of the next academic year (2021-22). Students appearing in the ISC examination next year will have to prepare projects for the two papers for 20 marks. The theory papers in each subject will be for 80 marks. The list of various topics that candidates can choose for their projects in the two subjects has been sent to school principals. The ISC English paper I will consist of listening and speaking skills of 5 marks each, which will be evaluated in internal assessment. The speaking skill test will include narrating an experience, giving a report or expressing an opinion or theme-based conversation. For example, students can narrate an incident from their childhood days or speak on a school event. Students can also express their opinions on topics like online learning. While testing their writing skills, 5 marks each will be allotted for internal and external assessment. “Students may write about the day they learnt the value of punctuality. Review of a TV serial can be favourable or unfavourable,” council chief executive and secretary Gerry Arathoon explained in the letter to the school heads. In ISC English paper-II, examinees may have to analyse the theme of any story or poem from the prescribed texts, a character from the plays, short stories or poems in the prescribed texts, summarize or paraphrase a story or a poem, an alternative outcome to any of the chosen texts or comparison of two characters from two different texts. In mathematics paper II project work, which will be of 20 marks, candidates will be expected to have completed two projects from any topic covered in Theory. St James School principal T H Ireland said, “Candidates will now have less stress as theory paper will for just 80 marks. Overall subject marks will also improve because of the project works.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/maths-english-projects-for-isc-students-from-this-yr/articleshow/75782865.cms||Somdatta Basu
May 17, 2020||India||Centre issues advisory to hospitals on checking cross-infection among medics||NEW DELHI: In order to ensure safety of healthcare workers who are exposed to the risk of Covid-19 infection, the health ministry on Friday issued an advisory asking hospitals and other medical facilities to activate Hospital Infection Control Committees (HICC), identify nodal infection control officer and organise regular training of staff to prevent cross-infection. The ministry advised healthcare facilities to activate their HICC which would be responsible for implementing the Infection Prevention and Control (IPC) activities and organising regular training for staff. A nodal officer has to ensure healthcare workersuse PPE appropriate to their risk profile, as detailed in the guidelines, it added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/centre-issues-advisory-to-hospitals-on-checking-cross-infection-among-medics/articleshow/75783268.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Class XII Science results out today||AHMEDABAD: The state education board will declare the results of Class XII (science) board exams online on Sunday. The marksheets of candidates will be posted on the official website of the Gujarat Secondary and Higher Secondary Education Board (GSHSEB), according to a press statement. The exam results are usually declared in the first week of May. For the past many years, the Class XII (science) exam results were declared along with Gujarat Common Entrance Test (GUJCET) results. “The physical marksheets for Class XII students will be handed over at a later date,” said a board official. As many as 1.43 lakh candidates took the Class XII (science) exams. About 8,000 teachers took part in the evaluation process, held during the lockdown, across 57 exam-paper checking centres. On Saturday, the state government erroneously issued a press statement congratulating students for their performance in the Class XII (science) exam. The error was rectified after the government issued a fresh statement saying that the results will be declared on Sunday. The board had earlier released the provisional answer keys for multiple-choice questions for Class X, Class XII (science) and Class XII (general) board exams. The answer keys have been put on the board’s official website. “For the biology Class XII (science) exam paper, if there were two correct answers for the multiple-choice questions, students who have chosen any one of them will be given full marks,” according to a board official. A merit list for the candidates is drawn up by giving 40% weightage to percentile in GUJCET and 60% weightage to percentile in Class XII (science) board exams. “The new date for conducting GUJCET is yet to be finalized,” said a source in the state government. More than 1.25 lakh students from across the state are expected to take GUJCET. The state-level exam is held annually for science students seeking admissions in degree engineering and pharmacy courses in government, grant-in-aid, and self-financed engineering institutions in Gujarat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/class-xii-science-results-out-today/articleshow/75782480.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Agra||Uttar Pradesh: Minor girl raped by local youths in Mainpuri||AGRA: A 15-year-old girl was allegedly raped by two local youths in Mainpuri on Saturday. The accused have been arrested by the police. Superintendent of police Ajay Kumar said, “An FIR has been registered under relevant sections of the IPC, along with POCSO Act as the girl is a minor. However, medical examination has not revealed any injury marks on the survivor's body.” According to police, “The girl had gone to a tailor shop on Friday evening. When she did not return home, her family members started looking for her but could not locate her. On Saturday morning, she came back to her house and narrated the ordeal to her parents. The family members lodged a police complaint against the duo, who are known to the girl.” The SP said that the matter is being investigated. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/minor-girl-raped-by-local-youths-in-mainpuri/articleshow/75781655.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Madurai||Tamil Nadu: Mullaperiyar level goes up, cyclone warning in Pamban||MADURAI: The water level in the Mullaperiyar dam crossed the 113ft mark for the first time in several weeks on Friday, thanks to a marginal inflow due to rain in the catchment areas of Kerala. The inflow to the Mullaperiyar dam was nil on many days in April, and then just about 125 cusecs for a few days, but this was not enough to increase the water level in the dam considerably as 125 cusecs was also discharged from the dam. However, there was a sudden increase in the inflow on Friday with 684 cusecs, and the water level went up from 112.60ft on Wednesday when the inflow was just 32 cusecs, to 113ft on Friday. On Saturday, it went up to 113.15ft with an inflow of 416 cusecs. The water level in the Vaigai dam with a maximum level of 71ft, stood at 42.78ft with the storage capacity of 1185 Mcft. But, there was nil inflow to the dam, while 60 cusecs was discharged to meet the drinking water needs of Madurai city. There was 4mm of rainfall in the catchments of Vaigai dam. Though the day remained cloudy there was no rain in Madurai, but some parts of Theni district received some rain, with Andipatti getting the highest rainfall of 35.2mm and Veerapadi 12.8mm. Theni district received an average rainfall of 63.10mm. Meanwhile, cyclone warning cone number 1 has been hoisted in Pamban, in view of the depression in the Bay of Bengal. The cyclone warning issued by the Rameswaram tahsildar, Jaffer stated that depression had formed over Southeast Bay of Bengal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/mullaperiyar-level-goes-up-cyclone-warning-in-pamban/articleshow/75783115.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Family walked to NH-44 hoping for a free ride home, found none||HYDERABAD: Sukanta Manikpuri and her family walked 160 km from Nagole to NH-44 in hope of finding a ride back to their home in Chhattisgarh’s Bilaspur. On the way, some travellers had told them that there were trucks ferrying people for free. But their hopes shattered, when were told to cough up Rs 1,500 each for a seat in crammed vehicle - only to reach the Maharashtra border. “It’s very expensive. We are carrying the last of our savings to buy food for our children. We have no choice but to walk now,” said the construction labourer, when TOI caught up with his family of six near Dichpally on the national highway. Right in front of Sukanta, was her six-year-old daughter trudging along with her two-year-old sibling in her arms. The father, Govind Manikpuri, held on to their third child walking next to this brother. “We were really hoping to find help here since a few people who were also walking told us there is a possibility of getting a truck near Nizamabad. But since they are asking for money, we are left with no choice but to walk,” said Govind adding, “We have another 800 km to cover.” But despite the struggle, the family is determined to make it back to their village. “If we stay, my children will die of hunger,” said Sukanta sharing their story of misery. “We (the three adult members) lost our jobs soon after the lockdown. With our meagre savings we somehow managed till the the second week of May. Now, we are down to our last few rupees,” she added, in between adjusting the weight — of some clothes and other belongings — on her head. The family spent a week enquiring about the public transport and free truck rides, but found none. “After the government started trains, we got our names registered but we never received any information about when we can travel. We enquired a lot about buses and other public transport too, but nothing was running,” said Govind. Although some buses were arranged within the city to pick up migrant workers and drop them at railway stations, the authorities have not made any arrangements for inter-state travel yet. Principal secretary of transport department, Sunil Sharma said, “We have arranged buses to take them (migrants) to the railway station but it is within the twin cities. Since trains are running, arranging buses from here will be very difficult during the lockdown.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/family-walked-to-nh-44-hoping-for-a-free-ride-home-found-none/articleshow/75782351.cms||Moulika.KV
May 17, 2020||Pune||Flight from Kabul to bring Puneities home today||PUNE: A special flight carrying around 17 people stranded in Afghanistan will land at the city airport on Sunday. The same plane will return to Afghanistan with around 140 of their nationals stranded in the city due to the lockdown. “The Afghan carrier Kam Air will fly from Kabul with the Pune residents who were stranded in Afghanistan and is expected to arrive at the airport at noon. The same flight will depart for Kabul at 1.30pm,” an official told TOI. Sources said the departing flight will have on board Afghan nationals studying in Pune, including those at the National Defence Academy. Pune airport director Kuldeep Singh told TOI that all 17 Indian nationals will be sent to a quarantine facility upon their arrival. “The number of arriving and departing passengers can change based on last-minute bookings or cancellations,” he said. Sources said all the arriving and departing passengers will be screened.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/flight-from-kabul-to-bring-puneities-home-today/articleshow/75782868.cms||Joy Sengupta
May 17, 2020||Agra||NCPCR notice to Agra DM over death of a six-month-old due to unavailability of ambulance||AGRA: Following a complaint made by a child rights activist, citing a TOI report, the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) has issued a notice to Agra district administration regarding the death of a six-month-old boy due to unavailability of an ambulance and police service. The commission has sought an action taken report from the district magistrate in three days. This is the second time in a span of two weeks that the NCPCR has issued a notice to Agra administration for death of children due to medical negligence. In his latest complaint, child rights activist Naresh Paras had said a six-month-old son of Surendra, a resident of gram panchayat Nagla Anandi under Malpura police station, was suffering from a stomach ache, fever and other medical complications. His parents contacted 108 ambulance and police but did not receive any assistance. “The family lost their baby while walking 10 km to a government hospital as no ambulance responded to their distress call. The child could have been saved had the ambulance reached on time," he added. The NCPCR notice added that similar cases had come in the commission’s notice previously. "You are, therefore, again requested to look into the matter on an urgent basis and make necessary arrangements so that children receive timely medical assistance whenever required in the lockdown period." Paras hoped that stern action would be taken against those responsible for the death of the children. The activist pointed out that due to the lockdown, the medical system in Agra had completely collapsed for non-Covid-19 patients. Since April, at least, five children had died in the city due to unavailability of timely medical assistance. Though the district administration had ordered a probe, it had failed to take action, he said. In April, at least four cases of gross medical negligence surfaced in Agra, where non-Covid child patients were denied treatment by private and government hospitals. On April 22, a pregnant woman who went into labour was allegedly denied admission in at least two private hospitals. After over six hours, she was admitted at the district woman’s hospital. By that time, the fetus had died in the womb. On April 24, an ailing 12-year-old boy died after he was allegedly turned away by six private hospitals. The third incident happened on April 29, when three private hospitals allegedly refused to treat an eight-month-old baby. When his family took him to SN Medical College, too much time was wasted in filling up forms for admission, and the delay cost the boy his life. On May 5, an eight-day-old girl suffering from fever died on way to the district hospital after allegedly being turned away by six private hospitals. The child's father claimed that 10 hours were wasted on going from one hospital to another.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/ncpcr-notice-to-agra-dm-over-death-of-a-six-month-old-due-to-unavailability-of-ambulance/articleshow/75781661.cms||Deepak Lavania
May 17, 2020||Pune||Bus arrives from Latur without intimation||Pune: A Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) bus, carrying 32 passengers, arrived at Swargate bus stand on Wednesday night from Latur without prior intimation, taking police and transport officials by surprise. However, timely intervention by the Swargate police station averted further inconvenience to passengers who decided to return to Pune after the MSRTC started plying buses to ferry stranded people. Senior inspector Bramhanand Naikwadi of Swargate police station told TOI, “We requested a doctor to examine all the passengers for Covid-19 symptoms. None of the passengers exhibited any symptoms of Covid-19.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/bus-arrives-from-latur-without-intimation/articleshow/75782875.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Madurai||FBOs in Madurai told to use potassium permanganate to clean hands||MADURAI: Food business operators (FBO) in Madurai district have been asked to use potassium permanganate solution in their units, for employees to clean their hands and feet, to ensure cleanliness.As a first step, the solution has been introduced in appalam or papad units, a major cottage industry in Madurai, employing more than 50,000 people, mostly women. Potassium permanganate is a purplish-black crystalline solid. It is diluted in water and kept in two separate containers for dipping the hands and feet. Officials said the chemical is available for less than Rs 300 per kg in market, which is sufficient for at least three months. It disinfects bacteria, algae, fungus and most of the viruses. It also helps in healing wounds and skin problems caused by fungal and bacterial infection, they said. Designated officer for food safety, Madurai district, Dr M Somasundaram said that some of the appalam units spread out in various parts of the city like Chinna Anupanadi, Mela Anupanadi, Jaihindpuram and Kamarajarpuram have already started using it and others will follow soon. Since it can be used by all FBOs, they are going to insist the hotel industry to implement it. “The chemical can be used for dipping plates and tumblers after washing with water to ensure disinfection. Some of the big hotels are already using it,” he said. P S Kathikeyan of Madurai Meenakshi Appalam said that just two to three grams of potassium permanganate is enough for 10 litres of water, hence it is cost-effective too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/fbos-told-to-use-potassium-permanganate-to-clean-hands/articleshow/75783117.cms||Devanathan Veerappan
May 17, 2020||Pune||Over 800 J&K students set to go back on Tuesday||Pune: The district administration, with help from the NGO Sarhad, will send over 800 students from Jammu & Kashmir home on May 19. The Pune district administration had sent home the first batch of 85 students back to J&K last week. These students, stranded in Pune and its neighbouring three districts, will travel by train on May 19. They are studying in different colleges and institutions in Pune, Ahmednagar, Solapur and Satara. Sarhad and the district officials have compiled a list of all the students’ names. “Our staffers have verified every and confirmed that no shortlisted student is from a containment zone,” tehsildar Vivek Jadhav, deputy in-charge of the district’s migration, said. “We are awaiting a no-objection certificate from the J&K administration,” he added. Once the certificate is received, a team of doctors will conduct check-ups of each student at the railway station, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/over-800-jk-students-set-to-go-back-on-tuesday/articleshow/75782880.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Vijayawada||No respite for Krishna as 7 new cases take district’s tally to 367||Vijayawada: Seven new Covid-19 cases were reported in Krishna district on Saturday, the steady rise in number of positive cases emerging as a major source of worry for the administration. The total number of cases now stands at 367. Eighty patients were discharged on Saturday evening. Five of the seven cases were registered in Gollapudi panchayat under Vijayawada rural mandal. A high alert was issued there and in nagara panchayats around the city following the report of new cases. Officials declared Gollapudi a containment zone and took up sanitation activity in the panchayat. Asha workers started a door-to-door survey and requested locals to intimate them about persons displaying Covid-19 symptoms. Meanwhile, authorities of the Vijayawada Municipal Corporation (VMC) continued with containment measures in red zones. No new Covid-19 case has been registered at Islampet, Karmika Nagar, Ranigari Thota and Gunadala in the last ten day and officials are hopeful of converting these areas to orange zones soon. The civic body has also imposed a ban on the sale of meat, chicken, fish and other non-vegetarian food in the city on Sunday. All slaughterhouses and Sunday markets operated by the VMC will remain closed on Sunday as per directions of VMC commissioner Prasanna Venkatesh. Krishna district collector A Mohammed Imtiaz expressed happiness over the recovery rate. “We are happy that 80 new patients were discharged from Covid hospital today, out of which 24 patients are from Vijayawada Government General Hospital (GGH) and 56 patients are from Pinnamaneni Siddhartha Medical College Gannavaram. We have directed them to be under home quarantine for few more days,” Imtiaz said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/no-respite-for-krishna-as-7-new-cases-take-districts-tally-to-367/articleshow/75781660.cms||Venu Lanka
May 17, 2020||Lucknow||Stop people on foot, seize vehicles ferrying them: UP CM Yogi Adityanath||LUCKNOW: After a spate of accidents involving migrant workers over the past week, the latest being when at least 26 persons lost their lives in a crash in Auraiya, chief minister Yogi Adityanath has issued strict instructions to prevent any unauthorised movement of people and vehicles in the state. “The CM has directed that any vehicle, truck, bus, tractor etc which is caught ferrying passengers illegally, will be confiscated while the drivers will be challaned. Anyone found walking, cycling or travelling in such vehicles will be taken to the nearest quarantine centre, scanned for Covid-19 and then taken home, unless they need to be quarantined,” said additional chief secretary (home) Awanish Awasthi. Chief secretary RK Tiwari said entry of any migrant would be banned if travelling on foot or in an unauthorized mode of transport. Emphasising that the government was bringing back people to the state and then taking them back to their home districts for free, the CM once again appealed to people to show patience and wait for the government to bring them back safely. For those who reach the UP border, arrangements have been made to feed them and then take them to the nearest quarantine shelter. From there, once they are tested, they will either be taken home if they are well or housed in institutional quarantine if they display any symptoms of corona virus. District magistrates of areas along the state border have been directed to keep at least 200 buses and private vehicles available so that nobody is allowed to walk back home. These buses should be made available to those migrant workers who are arriving at the state border. “The government has made arrangements to bring back people safely. Already, 450 trains have arrived in UP, bringing back 5.64 lakh people. Another 88 trains arrived in UP on Saturday while permission has already been issued to another 286 trains to bring back another 3.85 lakh persons,” Awasthi said. Out of the trains that have already arrived, 223 have come from Gujarat, carrying about 3 lakh people, 97 from Maharashtra bringing back 1.20 lakh persons, 78 from Punjab with 90,000 people, 12 from Rajasthan, six from Telangana, five from Kerala and four from Tamil Nadu. Two each have also come from Andhra Pradesh, Goa and Madhya Pradesh. Meanwhile, directions have also been issued to strengthen community surveillance at the rural and urban levels. The CM has said that using the CM helpline, calls should be made to the newly constituted nighrani committees and details of those who have returned taken down. Ultra-red thermometers should also be made available in each village. With the CM having promised jobs for even 50 lakh people, he has asked officials to explore possibilities for job creation under the Jal Jeevan Mission. He also said that there are several possibilities of employment at cow shelters and in the upcoming large scale plantation drive that is to take place.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/stop-people-on-foot-seize-vehicles-ferrying-them-cm/articleshow/75783116.cms||Neha Lalchandani
May 17, 2020||Agra||UP government seeks explanation from Agra police brass, heads roll as two SHO suspended||AGRA: Hours after 26 migrant labourers were killed in a road accident in Auraiya, the UP government sought written explanations from the ADG (Agra zone), IG (Agra range), Agra SSP, and SSP and ASP of Mathura, ordering the suspension of two SHOs posted at the border. Fatehpur Sikri SHO Bhupinder Singh Balayan has already been suspended, while the Kosi Kalan SHO's suspension is pending. A few hours before the accident, chief secretary Rajendra Kumar Tiwari had asked the state administration to ensure that the migrant labourers coming into the state on trucks, foot and on two-wheelers were to be stopped and facilitated with private & school buses to take them to their respective destinations. “The migrant labourers hired a truck (DCM) from Makanpur in Indirapuram police limits of Ghaziabad district and travelled via expressway to reach Auraiya passing through Mathura, Agra, Firozabad, Etawah and other districts. We have to see why Mathura and Agra policemen were held responsible for the unfortunate tragic event,” a senior official said. Another official said, “Neighbouring states are also creating nuisance for us by pushing migrant labourers into UP. On May 10, a team of Rajasthan police led by an SHO from Bharatpur district had scuffled with Mathura policemen at the border when UP policemen prevented the migrant labourers from entering the state. Later, Bharatpur police diverted the migrant labourers via Agra.” According to initial police investigation into the Auraiya accident, the second truck ferrying a handful of migrant labours were pushed into UP from Bharatpur via Fatehpur Sikri. A senior cop said, “The truck crossed Agra at 8 pm and was in Kanpur zone for several hours on the roadside where the accident occurred. Auraiya police should have taken action. They also have a night patrolling team. The Auraiya district administration too could have sealed their border to avoid migrant labourers’ movement. ” A source added, “Passes of vehicles are being issued by the transport department. It’s their duty to check the movement of such vehicles.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/up-govt-seeks-explanation-from-agra-police-brass-heads-roll-as-two-sho-suspended/articleshow/75781666.cms||Arvind Chauhan
May 17, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Two Bopal residents booked for extra long vegetable run||AHMEDABAD: A man and his son, Kanahiyalal Ramani, 55, and Prakash Ramani, 32, residents of Bopal were booked by Satellite police for violation of lockdown norms. Police sources said when asked why were they out in their car, they replied that they had come from Bopal to buy vegetables at Shivranjani Crossroads. They were booked under Section 188 IPC, the Epidemic Diseases Act and the Disaster Management Act. “We stopped two persons in a car. The father said were out they are out to buy vegetables from Shivrajni Crossroads. We didn’t think it was a valid reason as there are enough vegetables available in Bopal,” said a police official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/duo-booked-for-extra-long-vegetable-run/articleshow/75782471.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Meerut||Quarantine civic body chairman who went to hotspot area: Nodal officer to Bijnor SDM||BIJNOR: Alleging lockdown violation, nodal officer of communicable diseases has written to the Bijnor sub-divisional magistrate (SDM), claiming that Najibabad civic body chairman Maujjam Khan and his supporters have been loitering around in hotspot areas. In his letter, nodal officer Dr Sarvesh Nirala also requested SDM Sangeeta to quarantine Khan and his supporters. According to officials two days ago, a man from Najibabad's Rampura mohalla tested positive for Covid-19. Administration declared Rampura a hotspot area and banned the entry of all persons. According to Nirala, “Najibabad's Nagar Palika chairman, Mauzzam Khan, and his supporters were found roaming in hotspot area without any permission. He was publicizing himself among the residents. There were some supporters accompanying him. They were talking and meeting the people, trespassing lockdown restrictions.” In his defence, Khan clarified that he went to Rampura hotspot area to allay the fears from the mind of people and take stock of the situation and arrangements. “I am a public representative. It is my duty to know their wellbeing. Rampura was declared hotspot. People were afraid and panicked after a Covid-19 patient was found in the area. Therefore, I went there to take the stock of the situation and allay their apprehensions. I have not violated lockdown orders.” Notably, 43 persons were tested positive for novel coronavirus in Bijnor district. Out of them, 30 patients have recovered. As of now, samples of 2,650 people were collected and sent to laboratories. Out of which, 2,300 testing reports have been received by health department. Meanwhile, the local administration is focusing on influx of migrant labourers. Over 14,000 labourers returning from Haryana, Punjab, Uttrakhand, Himachal, Delhi and Maharashtra were quarantined in their houses. Separate monitoring committees headed by village heads were formed to keep a close vigil on migrant labourers. Moreover, 916 migrant labourers of Bihar and east UP have been quarantined in different centres in the district. The administration is planning to drop them on the bordering areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/nodal-officer-to-sdm-quarantine-civic-body-chairman-who-went-to-hotspot-area/articleshow/75781683.cms||Harveer Dabas
May 17, 2020||Chennai||Finding a formula to set box office ringing||CHENNAI: For many, sitting in a multiplex with a favourite flavoured popcorn was a way to unwind, experience the magic of storytelling or have a day out with family. But after the Covid-19 scare, moviegoing may not be the same as uncertainty looms over how the entertainment industry can get back to business. Behind the scenes, the lockdown has served an extreme blow to the Tamil film industry which began on a low this year with not many films recording a good box office run. The brisk business for theatres during the months of April and May because of summer vacations is lost this year. And it has now become a question of survival for many in Kollywood. Right from the daily wage workers to big stars, all seem to have lost the plot because of the looming uncertainty over resumption of shooting and cinema going. At the last session of The Times of India virtual conclave, Making TN Future Postive, experts discussed how support from the government, along with the right formula adopted by the industry, could revive the entertainment sector. While the state government has partially given a go-ahead for many businesses to begin their activities gradually, this sector still has a long way to go. Abirami Ramanathan, president of Chennai city film exhibitors’ association, said the Centre should not impose GST at least for three to four years till normalcy returns. "The state government should withdraw the LBT (local body entertainment tax) which is another 8% tax over the GST. A ticket which should cost around Rs150, but it is unnecessarily jacked up to Rs205 because of LBT. We must make the public come to theatres. The state should give us a single window clearance for converting big theatres into five small theatres." Actor-politician Khushbu said though the entertainment industry is the largest taxpayer, it gets the least recognition from the Centre. "With no pension, no schemes and no insurance. We must fend for ourselves. If as an industry we are generating so much revenue. We should be reciprocated in the same way." Taking it forward, Senthil Kumar, co-founder of Qube Cinema said, "The government should use this opportunity to do things in a way to save the cinema industry. The central government should have a level-playing field between OTT and theatres freeing us from censorship. We could have voluntary censorship, where we take a call on what can be viewed by children and others." Echoing Ramanathan’s views, BOFTA dean G Dhananjayan said motivating the audience is key. "We need to bring the audience back to the theatres. The state government must cut taxes. Theatre owners should cut down prices of snacks and beverages. Similarly, producers must not burden theatre owners. Everybody should play their role to beat the crisis and come out in flying colours."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/finding-a-formula-to-set-box-office-ringing/articleshow/75782357.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Madurai||Minor girl tries self-immolation after being harassed, five including three teens arrested in Tamil Nadu||MADURAI: Five people including three teenage boys were arrested by the Tuticorin district police on charges of sexually harassing and threatening a 17-year-old girl that resulted in the girl attempting self-immolation at her house on May 9. The girl, who was badly injured on her neck and chest, is undergoing treatment at the Thoothukudi government medical college hospital. Superintendent of Police (SP) of Tuticorin district Arun Balagopalan said that four of the accused V Saravakumar, 27, M Velsamy, 29, K Udayakumar, 19, and V Karuppasamy, 19, of Puliyankulam village were produced before the Vilathikulam judicial magistrate and lodged in the Tuticorin district jail in Perurani. A minor boy in the gang was produced before the juvenile justice board and taken to the home for children in conflict with the law in Tirunelveli. The victim was subjected to repeated sexual harassment and threats to her life over phone by the accused. Unable to bear with their harassment she turned off her mobile phone on May 8. The same night, the accused went to her house, shouted at her for turning off her mobile phone and threatened to set her ablaze if she did not go to the place where they wanted her to come on May 9. Frightened over the threats the girl attempted self-immolation but was saved and rushed to the Thoothukudi government medical college hospital. Video of the girl from the hospital narrating the harassment went viral in the social media. Based on a complaint lodged by her mother, Kulathur police registered a case under various sections of the POCSO Act, IPC and Tamil Nadu Prohibition of Harassment of Woman Act. Four special teams were formed to nab the accused and all the five accused were arrested within 48 hours after receiving the complaint, the SP said. Police asked women and girls in distress not to take the extreme steps but report to police by dialling the helpline numbers 1091 or 100 or Tuticorin helpline number 9514144100. Complainants can be registered from home and need not go to the police station. Secrecy will be maintained on their identity, police said. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/minor-girl-tries-self-immolation-after-being-harassed-five-including-3-teens-arrested/articleshow/75783126.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Meerut||Two ministers seek response from Muzaffarnagar DM on poor quality food served at quarantine centre||MUZAFFARNAGAR: After an inspection revealed that a contractor, holding an expired licence, was providing ‘poor quality’ food at a quarantine centre, two UP ministers sought a reply from district magistrate Mahender Prasad on the state of quarantine centres across the district and how money is being spent on it. There are more than 20 quarantine centres in Muzaffarnagar district. The two ministers who sought details are Muzaffarnagar’s BJP MP and minister of state of animal husbandry, dairy and fisheries Sanjeev Balyan, and state minister Kapil Dev Aggarwal. Notably, tehsildar Pushkar Nath Chaudhry, who was posted at Sadar tehsil, was suspended after the incident came to light. Speaking to TOI, Balyan, said, “I received a reply from the administration, which revealed that Rs 40 lakh was spent on food across the quarantine centres. After the clarification, it seems that there is no scam while purchasing food for the quarantine centres, but an inquiry is still on the procedure of tender given to the company whose licence had expired in February.” According to sources, the contractor managed to get the tender to supply food at quarantine centres across Muzaffarnagar, despite having an expired licence. Balyan said the matter is being probed by the additional district magistrate (finance) and promised action against whoever responsible for the negligence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/two-ministers-seek-response-from-mnagar-dm-on-poor-quality-food-served-at-quarantine-centre/articleshow/75781694.cms||Mohd Dilshad
May 17, 2020||Ahmedabad||Lockdown violation: Central govt officer hauled up||AHMEDABAD: Sangeeta Sharma, 48, who is an officer in the cental government, was booked for violating lockdown norms and not maintaining social distancing while purchasing vegetables near D-Cabin in Sabarmati on Saturday. She was booked under Section 188, 186, Epidemic Diseases Act and Disaster Management Act. Police sources said a team of women police was deployed at a point near Sabamati D Cabin on Saturday. At about 11.30am Sharma came there to buy vegetables. “As Sharma was not maintaining social distancing while buying vegetables, the woman constables went up to her and advised her to maintain social distancing. However the woman got agitated and told the women police that she is a central government officer and will see them suspended from service. She also threatened to call media and said that she won’t maintain social distancing,” said a Sabamati police official. The women police booked her for hindering them in performance of their duty and relevant laws.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/central-govt-officer-hauled-up/articleshow/75782478.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Lack of transparency adding to misery of homebound migrants||HYDERABAD: Several activists, volunteers and denizens have voiced concerns about the non-transparent mechanism while issuing passes and arranging trains for the homebound migrant workers. In a letter written to chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao, these groups, working under the umbrella of Advocacy Covid-19 Lockdown Collective, said that complicated processes and inordinate delays have only compounded the misery of the migrants. “Our collective experience in the past one week has been that, compared to the actual requirement and requisition, fewer trains have run and there are still a large number of workers who are awaiting return,” reads the letter. The letter also highlights several issues faced by the helpless migrants. “Limited registration of only 200 persons per day per police station, lack of clear guidance, transparency, delays and uncertainty in the process of issuing of movement pass, inadequate information available with ground staff and police...the uncertainty of local travel from the site of the worker till the railway station, disowning of responsibility by contractors to provide food and shelter since the Shramik special trains have begun,” are some of the issues mentioned in the letter. The letter also provides some suggestions for streamlining the return of migrant workers. Recorded step-by-step video and audio instructions in Hindi, Odiya, Bangla etc, and wider dissemination of information would be helpful for the migrants. The need of the hour is proper co-ordination with states like Odisha and Chhattisgarh to send the migrants on TSRTC buses. According to the letter, workers must be provided with the train and bus schedules at least two days in advance. The state government must come up with a long term ‘Telangana Migrant Workers Action Plan’ at the earliest since a number of workers have lost livelihoods and are staring at poverty, says the letter. Denizens have also appealed to the government to universalize dry ration delivery, through PDS, at least for the next six months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/lack-of-transparency-adding-to-misery-of-homebound-migrants/articleshow/75782379.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Meerut||Meerut: Two miscreants held in encounter test positive for Covid-19||MEERUT: Two miscreants who were held following an encounter with the local police on charges of cow slaughter and were kept at a temporary jail in Meerut district have now tested positive for Covid-19. Temporary jails had actually come up to keep foreign and domestic jamaat members who were discharged after their isolation period. The two miscreants were initially taken to district hospital - soon after the encounter on May 2. The duo were treated for their bullet injury and later shifted to the temporary jail which has come up inside campus of an engineering college. According to Meerut jail superintendent BD Pandey, there are 113 inmates at the temporary jail and the duo, asymptomatic, were tested postitive following medical examination. "As per directions of the officials, suspects arrested in fresh cases are kept in temporary jail initially and are shifted to permanent facility only after they test negative. The duo who were arrested following an encounter in the region were in the facility and tested positive," BD Pandey, jail superintendent, said. According to officials, quarantine period of all other inmates who were in the same barrack with the duo has been extended by 14 days and their samples are being taken. Sanitisation work was carried out in the facility. Apart from this, four policemen, including a sub-inspector from Kankerkhera police station, who were part of the team that carried out the encounter have also been put under quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/two-miscreants-held-in-encounter-test-ve-for-covid-19/articleshow/75781700.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Police seize 2,330 liquor bottles from watermelon trucks||GUNTUR: Taking advantage of the government’s decision to unfreeze restrictions on transport of horticulture and agriculture commodities, bootleggers tried to smuggle huge stocks of liquor from Telangana to AP on Saturday. However, their luck ran out when Guntur rural police intercepted the watermelon-laden trucks soon after they entered the state from Pondugula inter-state check-post in Gurazala sub-division. The police grew suspicion when the truck drivers failed to provide details of the farmers who loaded the watermelons. They made the drivers unload the stock, leading to the seizure of 2,330 liquor bottles from the three trucks. “The price of the liquor stock seized from the trucks would be around Rs 4 lakh,” Gurural SP Ch Vijaya Rao told TOI. Four persons, including the drivers of the three vehicles, were arrested. The SP further said that 25 others involved in the smuggling of liquor were arrested on Friday during searches held at various places in Sattenapalle and Gurazala sub-divisions. The special teams also seized liquor stock worth another Rs 6 lakh from the possession of the accused. “We have stepped up surveillance at all the inter-state border points. We have set up 21 check-posts to prevent the illegal transport of liquor from the neighbouring state. Around 14 mobile teams, eight district border teams and five inter-state border teams have been formed to curb liquor smuggling,” said Vijaya Rao, adding that 11 vehicles used for the illegal transport of liquor have also been seized. He warned that they would not spare anyone involved in the smuggling of liquor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/police-seize-2330-liquor-bottles-from-watermelon-trucks/articleshow/75782371.cms||Samdani MN
May 17, 2020||Chennai||Focaccia rising||CHENNAI: Van Goghs are now being baked in ovens, flower gardens are blooming in the blazing heat. Bread art has caught the fancy of dough nuts the world over and they are rising to the challenge. The lockdown has turned the humble flat, yeasted Italian focaccia into a canvas for home bakers to showcase their creativity and artistic flair. There’s a virtual collection of bread masterpieces on the internet, with #focacciaart trending among bakers. Ever since vegan foodpreneur Marieen Vijay came across her first floral focaccia online, she knew it had to become part of the baked offerings of her company, Catalyst Foods. All through the lockdown Marieen has been making larger ‘focaccia tapestry’ loaves and mini ‘cameo’ loaves, decorated with bell peppers, olives, and the nutritious ‘manathakali’ leaves from her terrace garden. "They’re wholesome and healthy," says Marieen. "For me, just baking them is therapeutic. It’s such a positive feeling during this lockdown." Priya Ravi had never tried her hand at making breads. "But suddenly I was seeing bread art everywhere online. That got me to try baking a focaccia for the first time. It demystified all my fears of making bread as focaccia is easy, no fuss and done with minimal hands-on time," says Priya, a home baker from Chennai now based in Kuala Lumpur. She recreated Van Gogh’s ‘Poppy Flowers’ on dough, using cherry tomatoes for the flowers and mozzarella for the vase. Other ingredients that can be used to decorate the bread are basil for leaves, olives as rocks or centres of flowers, rosemary for small plants, sausages for flower centres or seed pods, and cheese for sand. In Adyar, Rajashree Raghavamurthy, locked in with two constantly hungry teenage boys who wanted ‘something different’ everyday, tried a focaccia lunch. "I come from a family of hoteliers, so I guess once a foodie always one. With all of us in lockdown I could no longer get away with the no-time-to-experiment-with-baking excuse," she says. "Google, Instagram, YouTube, Pinterest, there’s a whole buffet of bread art designs out there to choose from. I started baking with a tip from here and there. It was fun. And it’s healthy and tastes great." While no one is quite sure who sparked the botanical focaccia trend, it’s clearly grown into a staple in a lockdown baker’s life.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/focaccia-rising/articleshow/75782381.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Meerut||UP youth who shared video of panchayat secretary, others partying during lockdown shot at by assailants||Meerut: Mohit Rana, a youth in his 20s, who had last month shared a video of panchayat secretary, pradhan pati (husband of village pradhan) and a few others holding a booze party in Hapur during Covid-19 lockdown, was shot at by unidentified miscreants on Saturday afternoon. Police have now begun probe on the lines of retribution by people irked by video uploaded on Twitter. "As of now, the video episode is the only plausible motive behind the attack," police said. According to investigating sleuths, Rana was on his way back home from a field when unidentified assailants shot at him. A bullet struck Rana in the abdomen and he is currently under medical observation at district hospital. On April 24, Rana, resident of Sapnawat village, uploaded an 18-second video claiming that instead of helping the poor in their area during lockdown, panchayat secretary and others were "busy partying". Sushil Kumar, panchayat secretary, landed in a soup after the video of Kumar along with Satendra Singh, pradhan pati, and three others in the liquor party surfaced on Twitter. Senior administrative officials had taken cognizance of the video and panchayat secretary Kumar was suspended after the probe on April 26. Meanwhile, police claimed that family of the victim have complained against pradhant pati Satendra Singh for carrying out the attack following which he was detained for questioning. "We are looking at all possible angles. Pradhan pati Satendra Singh was also at the spot. There is a possibility he could have hired someone to carry out the attack. The family is pinning the blame on Singh. We have detained him to interrogate further," Sarvesh Mishra, additional superintendent of police (Hapur) said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/up-youth-who-shared-video-of-panchayat-secretary-others-partying-during-lockdown-shot-at-by-assailants/articleshow/75781710.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Madurai||Tasmac outlets reopen with better crowd control measures||Trichy/Madurai: There was another wave of rush by tipplers as the Tasmac outlets resumed business on Saturday in the central region following a Supreme Court directive.Sale of liqour through Tasmac outlets in Madurai city was better organized on Saturday, when the shops were opened for the third time after lockdown. Although various measures such as token system, police crowd control were in place, it was low turnout that has helped in maintaining organized sale.In Madurai, as many as 220 of the total 265 shops retail units opened on Saturday. The shops in containment areas and those without stocks did not open for business.Tipplers were issued tokens. Officials said that only 70 tokens were issued for every hour. This has helped prevent jumping of queue and ensure social distancing. “We have been told to limit sales to 500 people in each store. However, customers were allowed to purchase any number of bottles,” he said.K Manikandan, a resident of Sellur, said that though he was happy that Tasmac shops were opened again, unavailability of beer was a disappointment.Meanwhile, in Trichy, Tasmac has opened 150 of the 183 shops in the district. Customers started crowding from the morning. Tokens printed in seven colours for seven days were issued to customers by 10 am. The shops remained open till 5 pm for the token holders for Saturday. Police personnel deployed at shops were busy regulating crowds. Even then, social distancing could not be followed in some of the shops. Barricades were put up in front of all the shops to maintain social distancing. But, people cramped up together while waiting with the tokens for entering the barricade queue.Tasmac elite shops also witnessed long queues. Unlike on May 7, chairs and shades were not provided to the tipplers to wait in the queue in Trichy on Saturday. Several shops closed the sale by afternoon as all the 500 tokens for each shop were used by the tipplers. Police also used public addressing systems to regulate the crowd.There was no cap on the quantity of liquor. However, Tasmac officials said that they were not allowing bulk purchase. A senior official said that the 33 shops fell under 19 containment zones in the district. Reopening of these shops was ruled out.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/tasmac-outlets-reopen-with-better-crowd-control-measures/articleshow/75783131.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Hyderabad||19 hurt after truck veers off NH-44 in Nirmal||Hyderabad: Nineteen persons suffered injures after a truck carrying over 70 migrant workers from the city met with an accident in Nirmal district in the early hours of Saturday. As two of them suffered severe injuries, they were shifted to the city. Around 4.30am on Saturday, the lorry, which was travelling on the National Highway-44 veered off the road and crashed into the metal safety barrier near Bhagyangar in Nirmal. The lorry tilted on to a side and some of the occupants were thrown off the vehicle, the Nirmal police said. “Among the 19 persons, two persons were shifted to Hyderabad since one of them suffered a head injury while the other suffered fracture on his leg,” Nirmal superintendent of police C Shashidhar Raju told STOI. The lorry was bound for UP. On Saturday, Cyberabad police were seen regulating the migrants at Medchal, which has unofficially become the pick up point for those wanting to return to their homes in north India. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/19-hurt-after-truck-veers-off-nh-44-in-nirmal/articleshow/75782384.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Goa||Goa’s Covid count shoots up to 13 as five new cases found||Panaji: The number of active coronavirus cases in Goa shot up to 13 on Saturday as five new cases — all of whom have travel history — were detected. Two of the five were part of a group of seven professionals who returned from Gangapur, West Bengal, where they had gone to deliver barges. They were tested at the Mollem check post in South Goa. “They were taken to Hospicio, Margao, with police escort,” said health minister Vishwajit Rane. “The swab samples of the seven were tested through TrueNat.” The initial test showed three samples as positive. “The confirmatory test conducted at Goa Medical College (GMC) state that out of the three samples, two have been reported positive and one is negative. Their samples will be tested again in the next 72 hours,” Rane tweeted. While the two who tested positive for the novel coronavirus have been transferred to the Covid hospital in Margao, the remaining five have been lodged in facility quarantine. The third Covid positive case on Saturday was a 28-year-old cleaner from Haridwar, who had come to Goa to deliver pharma goods to a unit at Kundaim industrial estate. He was admitted to the subdistrict hospital, Ponda, after he got a fever on Friday. While his swab sample tested positive for Covid-19, the driver accompanying him did not. The cleaner’s confirmatory test too came positive. The two had entered Goa through the Patradevi border. At the state’s border checkposts, health officials measure the temperature of truck drivers, however, cleaners and others working on the trucks are not; they remain seated in the vehicle. The fourth positive case also entered Goa through the Patradevi border, in a goods carrier. The 46-year-old, who came from Mumbai, had a fever, cough and other Covid-19 symptoms, while two others accompanying him didn’t. When the three went to the Panaji bus stand to meet a supplier, he advised them to take their sick colleague to GMC, where he tested positive. Late on Saturday night, a health department bulletin revealed that yet another Covid-19 suspect tested positive, taking the day's tally up to five. The patient, an industrial worker from Ratnagiri, was in quarantine and had earlier tested positive on the TrueNat test. Earlier on Saturday evening, 35 passengers who arrived in Goa by train from Thiruvananthapuram tested negative for Covid. Another lot of 100 (of of 288) who arrived on Saturday by train from New Delhi are being tested. “The swabs have been taken and testing is underway,” Rane said. “They will be sent to Fatorda stadium for quarantine till results are out.” Meanwhile, health officials said that eight other Covid patients, including a one-year-old child (all asymptomatic) are doing fine. The one patient who had symptoms is also responding well, an official said. The hospital, which has 100 beds, currently has 13 patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goas-covid-count-shoots-up-to-13-as-five-new-cases-found/articleshow/75783127.cms||Bindiya Chari
May 17, 2020||Pune||32-year-old man stabs wife to death||Pune: The Sinhagad Road police filed a murder case against a 32-year-old man for stabbing his wife (29) to death, suspecting infidelity. The incident occurred in their flat in Dhayari, off Sinhagad Road, on Saturday evening. The man walked to the police chowky after killing his wife. Senior police inspector Nandkishor Shelke of Sinhagad Road police station said they had detained the man. The man worked at a metal coating company on Sinhagad Road, while his wife worked in a private company. They have a six-year-old daughter. “They had a heated argument around 5.30pm, following which the man went to the kitchen and picked up a knife. He then stabbed his wife. By the time the other family members rushed to the flat it was late. The woman had suffered deep injuries in her neck, chest and other parts of the body,” he said. Woman drowns in Mutha canal, husband missing A 38-year-old woman drowned in the Mutha right bank canal in Kunjirwadi near Loni Kalbhor on Saturday afternoon, while her husband (40) was missing. The Loni Kalbhor police said the couple’s son had lost control and fallen into the water. His parents jumped in to save him. The boy came out, but his mother drowned. The family is from Uttar Pradesh. They came to Pune six months ago and worked at a nursery. The family was waiting for travel confirmation to go back home after losing their job, the police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/32-year-old-man-stabs-wife-to-death/articleshow/75782905.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Mangaluru||Mangaluru: They donate blood without breaking fast during Ramzan||MANGALURU: Ramzan fasting did not deter members of Viqaya, the emergency response and social service wing of the Samastha Kerala Sunni Students Federation (SKSSF), from donating blood in emergency situation during lockdown. Viqaya members Khalid Ajjavara and Arif Madavu did not think twice when they received the message for emergency blood requirement from a hospital in Sullia a week ago. Another member Azharuddin Bellare rushed immediately and donated blood during fasting at Puttur recently. Viqaya members have donated nearly 60 units of blood since day one of the Covid-19 lockdown and they continued the service even after the commencement of fasting month. Thajudin Tarly, vice chairman of Viqaya Dakshina Kannada district unit, told TOI that that the WhatsApp groups of the organisation always remains alert and members respond to problems immediately. “After the commencement of Ramzan fasting, five members of Viqaya have already donated blood and two have gone to donate in Mangaluru today (May 7). Our members on fasting have been donating blood after consulting doctors and taking their advice. Meanwhile, we also have discussed the matter with religious leaders, who endorsed our mission with a go ahead since it is a noble cause,” Tarly said. He added that Viqaya members respond to messages in case of blood requirements or for any other help 24x7. “We have 12 zones of Viqaya in Dakshina Kannada and there are more than 100 units functioning under it with nearly 15,000 members. Members have been responding to people, especially those poor patients. Last year, when the government hospital in Sullia was facing shortage of Group D staff, Viqaya members offered voluntary service on regular basis till the government appointed permanent staff. Members were actively involved in the rescue operations at many places during flood. In addition, members also volunteer social work including burial of unclaimed dead bodies,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/they-donate-blood-without-breaking-fast-during-ramzan/articleshow/75782387.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Teachers seek police help for their salaries||HYDERABAD: After failing to get help from the education department, teachers of a private school in Rangareddy district have now approached the police, claiming that their management did not pay them salaries since March. They alleged that the management is terminating the teachers who are demanding salaries. The teachers said that despite collecting 99% of the fee from students, the management had withheld the salaries. “We have shared our plight with the mandal education officer (MEO) and district education officer (DEO). But, the issue is yet to be resolved,” said a social science teacher who teaches at a private school. He said the school has three branches in the city and teachers working in these schools were not paid since March. The management is blaming lockdown for the crisis. “I am also the vice-principal of the school. I know that more than 99% students have cleared their fee. So, why is the management not paying us even after collecting fees from the students,” the teacher questioned. The teachers of the school, who approached education officials in April, had also moved the Telangana State Human Rights Commission (TSHRC) before contacting the police. On May 6, the commission has directed the DEO to enquire into the issue and file an action taken report. When contacted, the MEO told TOI that he has directed the school management to clear dues in the next couple of days. “They informed us that they have already cleared 70% of dues for March and would be paying remaining dues in the next couple of days,” he added. The management, meanwhile, said that they are not in a position to pay April and May salaries to those teachers who are hired on a 10-month contract but the dues of regular teachers would be cleared. Chandrayanagutta police confirmed receiving the complaint.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/teachers-seek-police-help-for-their-salaries/articleshow/75782911.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Goa||Top babu visits Patradevi, vows permanent structure at border||Panaji: Chief secretary Parimal Rai on Saturday visited the Patradevi check post — Goa’s busiest — to streamline facilities in view of the upcoming monsoon. The visit came on a day TOI front-paged a report highlighting the inadequate manpower at the checkpost. Rai visited both Patradevi and the Maharashtra check post next to it, to see if the data matches. He spent around 25 minutes at the state border and inferred that some permanent infrastructure can be erected at the Patradevi checkpost. On Sunday, a team of senior government officials will visit the spot to see what best can be done before the arrival of the monsoon. Currently, police, home guards and other staff sit under temporary pandals. The checkpost sees over 300 goods carriers cross into Goa daily. Information on persons crossing are shared by both the Goa and Maharashtra sides. A top government official also said that there is no standard operating procedure to man the check posts. He said that the government is still observing and correcting things as they are brought to its notice.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/top-babu-visits-patradevi-vows-permanent-structure-at-border/articleshow/75783135.cms||Murari Shetye
May 17, 2020||Meerut||Meerut: Youth wearing Rs 10 note as facemask gets a 'gift' & FIR from cops||MEERUT: He must have been too clever or too foolish. Yes, an "aimlessly moving" youth with his friend on a bike in Meerut - one covering his face with a handkerchief and the other without any mask - soon realised that they had bumped into some policemen. One of them promptly took out a 10-rupee note and pasted it across his mouth as an innovative face mask. The cops after seeing his noteworthy performance let them off but only after "gifting" them two face masks and an FIR. Circle officer of Civil Lines, Sanjeev Deshwal, told TOI, "I was on lockdown duty when a bike crossed the road with two youths. The front one was wearing a handkerchief. When the constable spotted the pillion rider, he quickly pasted a 10-rupee note across his mouth. They claimed that they did not have any mask and so, we handed over two to them. But, the two could not explain why they were roaming around during lockdown." The incident occurred near L Block Shastri Nagar in Meerut on Saturday. An FIR has been registered against the two youths under IPC section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) and relevant sections of Epidemic Diseases Act. Police sources said the two - Amir and Mehboob - worked as contractual workers in the city itself. When asked about his performance, Amir said, "A mask costs Rs 40 and I had only Rs 10. So, I used it as a mask. We live in Parikshitgarh area of the district and had come to the city to collect payment from our employer." In fact, Amir added that he was now much content wearing a proper face mask "gifted by the cops", rather than his 10-rupee note.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/youth-wearing-rs-10-note-as-facemask-gets-a-gift-fir-from-cops/articleshow/75781718.cms||Sandeep Rai
May 17, 2020||Ahmedabad||Extra guests: Wedding organisers booked in Bhuj||AHMEDABAD: While speaking about exemptions during this lockdown, Gujarat DGP Shivanand Jha referred to an incident in which permission for 30 guests were given for a wedding in Bhuj, 90 guests were found to be present. “As social distancing was not maintained during the ceremony, an offence was lodged against the organizers,” Jha said. On the penultimate day of the Lockdown 3.0, Jha spoke about relaxations given to farmers. He said that farmers can carry out agricultural activities and even go to various places to sell their products. Jha also said that in areas were industrial units are allowed to function, police will not harass or stop employees or vehicles used by such units. Jha said that in Ahmedabad at present, the window of 10am to 3pm is open for buying vegetables and groceries and nobody should come out after this. “From 7pm to 7am no one other than emergency service personnel is allowed on the roads. If anyone is found moving about, they will be booked for violation of lockdown rules,” added Jha. Referring to an incident in Surat, where a nurse was subjected to misbehaviour, Jha said such acts against Covid 19 warriors will not be tolerated and strict action will be taken against the perpetrators.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/extra-guests-wedding-organizers-booked/articleshow/75782405.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Chennai||A song for the times||CHENNAI: For many, one of the most enduring takeaways from the Covid-19 outbreak has been realising what a powerful equalizer it is, one that has brought to a standstill lives of all people irrespective of who they were and what they did in the pre-Covid world. For Sashank Manohar, bassist of city-based alternative band The F16s, it melted the boundaries that separated him as an artist from a loving fan following that looked forward to every new release or gig announcement on their Instagram page. But now, grappling with their own fears over cancelled gigs, postponed festivals and stalled recordings, Sashank and his band mates decided to do the most cathartic thing — create work that showed, "we are more human than we are artists". This sense of shared resilience, struggle and hope is at the heart of a new wave of homemade videos that musicians are releasing online during lockdown. The F16s took one of their old songs, and released it as a music video on Instagram that compiled clips from their old road trips with those of their present life at home — cooking, playing with pets, jamming with whatever they have. "We realised that this work had the sort of character that an aesthetically pleasing video that could be shot any time of the year wouldn’t have. It shows some happy memories, some difficult times, and a personal side to us as individuals and not just a band, because we too are coping with the uncertainty," says Sashank. For some others, these home videos are not just poetic expressions of life in the times of Covid, but a golden opportunity for collaboration that has become the norm for many creators locked at home. City musician Shilpa Natarajan found abundant fodder in these "eerie, dystopian" times to write her song, ‘Lockdown’, which she released as a home-shot music video last month. "I had my husband shoot the video inside our home and on the terrace. For another song, ‘Haunted’, we used my cat’s food box with parchment paper as a light diffuser and my lyrics stand as a tripod. We connected with friends over Skype who helped us remotely and edited the video. This is the most productive I have been," says Shilpa, who is set to release ‘Haunted’, by mid-June. The idea of music as a means to reflect the mood of these strange times has encouraged creators to push several technical and creative boundaries too. City filmmaker Richard Anthony, who is editing a music video for the band, Aagroh, says they’ve refrained from the conventional format of storytelling to convey people’s state of mind as it is. "We asked women from different parts of the country to shoot and send videos of themselves at home — reading, walking, smoking or just," he says. Swati Vishnoi, who’s directing the video, says the fact that the models are regular people creates a world of difference. "There’s no equipment, no lights and no reference images. It’s just them and their stories. That’s also the best and the most challenging part."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/a-song-for-the-times/articleshow/75782394.cms||Saranya Chakrapani
May 17, 2020||Pune||More helping hands as men pitch in with washing, scrubbing & cooking||Pune: Trader Murtuza Poonawalla jokes that Vim bar is his new best friend since the lockdown. He has been spending most of his time with the dish washing soap, after his family. According to Poonawalla, his day, which would start with consuming breakfast and going to his shop, now follows a completely different routine. “After breakfast, I wash the first lot of utensils. A little while later, I help my wife with cooking or try my hand at some recipes myself. I put the washed clothes out to dry and then head for lunch. After lunch, I play with my children for a while and then head to wash the second round of utensils. The day goes by with small or big chores and I find myself washing the third round of utensils after dinner. I did none of these before the lockdown. I never knew what all it takes to keep food ready on the table whenever I came back home from work,” he said. Like him, several boys and men from the city, who grew up without contributing actively to household chores, are now experts at maintaining and even running the house. From dusting and sweeping to chopping and cooking, boys and men have now done it all due to the lockdown. Yuvraj Chaudhary too has made household chores part of his routine. “Sweeping, mopping, washing utensils and cleaning the bathrooms, I’ve learnt it all. I had never done any of this before and the first few days were a struggle. However, I got used to all the tasks over time,” he said. Employed in the hospitality industry, Sahib Sehmbey, who lives alone in Pune, said, “This has changed since the lockdown began. I bought a new pan and learnt how to make food that wasn’t eggs. I learnt how to buy vegetables and stocked up my refrigerator for the first time ever. I have been trying different recipes, including frying samosas and nuggets. I’ve managed to cut my fingers while chopping and scrubbing. I now know how to clean the toilet, let alone the rest of the house.” Businessmen Sanjay Parmar and his son Prasanna hardly had any role in household chores before the lockdown. “We had domestic help who would do all the washing and cleaning while my mother did the cooking. Once the lockdown began, the domestic help stopped coming. We divided responsibilities. I wash all the utensils while my father dries them and sets them back in place. I cut fruits while my father has been making various juices for us,” Prasanna said. CEO Abhijit Chitnis said, “Now, having to share responsibilities, one realizes the efforts that go into running a household. I have been helping with daily activities like sweeping, mopping, dusting and cleaning.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/more-helping-hands-as-men-pitch-in-with-washing-scrubbing-cooking/articleshow/75782909.cms||Rujuta Parekh
May 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Cong, TRS men clash over workers’ buses||Hyderabad: Senior Congress leader V Hanumantha Rao’s plans to send migrant workers in buses to Odisha turned ugly when Telangana Rashtra Samithi and Congress workers clashed at Sircilla on Friday night. The district administration finally arranged buses for the migrant workers who left at 2.30 am on Saturday. In Hyderabad, VHR said he had gone to Sircilla to send the workers to Odisha in buses he had arranged, but police did not allow him and instead slapped a case against him. On the other hand, TRS workers said they had been taking care of the needs of the workers and that VHR had no right to come to Sircilla and interfere in their relief work. When they questioned where was the necessity for him to come all the way to Sircilla, VHR explained that he had already arranged three buses to send the workers to their native places and that he had taken the necessary permission from the authorities concerned. Around 10 pm on Friday, police took away VHR to the police station and detained him there. The workers told the media that they had been trying to go back to their native places in the last three days. They had come to work in brick kilns in Sircilla eight months ago and the lockdown had made it difficult for them to stay back. They said 85 of them had been working at Pothugal in Sircilla and were out of work. The situation further worsened when the cops and the district administration told VHR that only a limited number of people could be sent in three buses that had been arranged for them by the Congress leader.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cong-trs-men-clash-over-workers-buses/articleshow/75782396.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
May 17, 2020||Goa||Charters to bring 414 seafarers from Italy to Goa this week||Panaji: Three chartered flights carrying 414 Goan seafarers are expected to land at Goa International Airport, Dabolim, on Wednesday. The Union ministry of home affairs (MHA) on Saturday said that it didn’t have any objection to carrying out immigration functions for the 414, who will fly in from Italy. The MHA said that three chartered Boeing 737 jets are being arranged by Costa Cruises. Ports secretary P S Reddy said that the charter flights from Italy will bring in seafarers not just from that country, but elsewhere in Europe too. All of them will be tested for Covid-19 on arrival. “They will be tested at the airport, and only when the tests come negative will they be sent directly to 14 days in a paid quarantine facility,” he said. “They will wait at the airport till the results arrive.” However, who will pay for the quarantine hasn’t yet been decided. “We are negotiating with the company,” Reddy said. “The company has not shown willingness yet to pay for the seafarers’ quarantine. Either the company or the individual seafarers will have to pay.” TOI was the first to report that charters flights with stranded seafarers from Europe would land in Goa. “The government is also concentrating on bringing back NRIs stranded abroad,” said NRI commissioner Narendra Sawaikar. “There are many stranded in the Gulf and the UK.” The government is also in talks with companies to bring back seafarers stranded in the US and Canada. “Negotiations are on,” Reddy said. “Things will be clearer next week. Besides Europe and Canada, there are also seafarers stranded in the Gulf.” He added that efforts are on to have seafarers arriving by sea to disembark crew at MPT, Goa, and not Mumbai. “We are asking companies to disembark the Goan crew in Goa itself,” he said. “We don’t want them to disembark (elsewhere) and travel through a red zone.” President of the Goan Seamen Association of India, Frank Viegas, has appealed to the Goa government to prepare testing facilities as well as transportation and quarantine services to ensure everything goes on smoothly. “The seafarers and their families, who are eagerly waiting to meet them, are all very stressed. They shouldn’t face any hurdles on their arrival in Goa,” said its ex-president, Dixon Vaz.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/charters-to-bring-414-seafarers-from-italy-to-goa-this-week/articleshow/75783132.cms||Lisa Monteiro
May 17, 2020||Vijayawada||AP: Man kills wife, goes to police station, then takes poison||VIJAYAWADA: A man identified as Veerendra hacked his wife to death suspecting her fidelity, in Repalle, Guntur district, on Saturday. Veerendra then went to the police station, confessed to his crime and swallowed poison, which he had brought with him. The police quickly sent him and a couple of police personnel to the Tenali hospital and went to the crime scene with his team. On reaching the crime spot, inspector S Sambasivarao said that he saw Upputuri Soujanya (30) lying in a pool of blood. She was attacked late in the night with a sickle while she was asleep and perhaps could not defend herself, he said. Her two children, Bhavya Sri (6) and Jyosnika (4) were found asleep next to her, unharmed. The body was sent for post-mortem. Bapatla DSP, A Srinivasa Rao, visited the crime scene and took stock of the investigation. He said Veerendra, who is a teacher, suspected that his wife was having an extra-marital affair and killed her. A case under section 302 of IPC has been booked against him and his condition is said to be stable now.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/man-kills-wife-goes-to-police-station-then-takes-poison/articleshow/75782393.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Madurai||Higher studies: Parents in Madurai reluctant to send children to other places due to Covid-19 scare||MADURAI: Local colleges are expecting a surge in demand for new admissions this year, as many Class XII students, who are awaiting their results, are reluctant to travel outside their districts for higher studies, even if the lockdown is lifted completely. Even their parents are not willing to send their children to other cities. “Even if we are able to travel freely again, there will always be a fear that we might not be able to be with our daughter in case of emergency. This crisis has shown us that students can get stranded with no help across the world. It is not worth taking the risk. There are quality colleges locally,” said Nirmala V, a parent. On the other hand, students say that they too understand their parents’ fear. “It has always been tough for students to convince parents about the need to go to another district, state or abroad. But, such experience is very helpful for the growth of many students, especially those who are passionate and ambitious about their studies. At the start of the year, we were asking students to look for such opportunities. But, now, we are not sure of advising students to go against their parents,” said R Ramya, a school counsellor and Class XII English teacher. Another reason that students and parents are not preferring to look for college admissions outside their district is because of the cost involved. Teachers say that with many parents struggling financially amid lockdown, they would hesitate to invest more money for their children’s higher studies. Meanwhile, faculty in Madurai colleges say that may be a demand for seats in all top colleges. “We have actually started getting a lot of inquiries after we set up a portal for online registration. Students could register and update their marks later. Many non-regular courses like microbiology, food science and visual communication are getting a lot of attention. At the same time, it is yet to be seen how the demand and response is for students who usually come from other nearby districts,” said M Davamani Christober, principal of The American College, Madurai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/higher-studies-parents-reluctant-to-send-children-to-other-places-due-to-covid-19-scare/articleshow/75783138.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
May 17, 2020||Indore||Madhya Pradesh: Cases rise, but mortality rate down in Malwa-Nimar||INDORE: Despite a considerable rise in number of cases reported in different districts of Malwa-Nimar region in last 10 days, mortality rate has reduced for which officials gave credit to steps taken in reaching out to maximum people and early detection to ensure timely treatment. In last 10 days, Ujjain division has reported a rise of around 199 cases while seven deaths have reported while Indore division has recorded 901 new cases including 26 deaths. On May 6, Ujjain division had reported total 55 deaths and 313 cases while mortality rate was 17.57% while on May 16, the division’s record is total 62 deaths including 512 cases and the death rate is 12.10%. A considerable drop in rate of death has reported in Ujjain district from 21.21 to 15.87 in this duration. Indore division on May 6 had recorded 101 deaths including 1957 cases and mortality rate was 5.16%. On May 16, the figure rose to total 127 deaths including 2858 cases while the death rate reduced to 4.44. Indore district, which 10 days ago had mortality rate of 4.81, now reduced it to 4.16. “We have started ‘Mohalla Clinics’ in most of the districts while door-to-door sample collection and testing have also been intensified to help reaching out to maximum suspected persons for early detection of the disease to provide timely treatment,” Indore division region joint director (health) Dr JS Awasya said. He added that in some audits of deaths reported in Indore and other districts, late arrival of patients to the hospitals was stated to one of the major reasons behind their deaths and local administration is working to improve the same. Ujjain and Mandsaur district on Saturday reported one death each while total 17 new cases including 12 in Ujjain, three in Mandsaur and one each in Dewas and Neemuch were reported. Under Indore division, one death was reported in Burhanpur while no new case or death was reported in Dhar, Jhabua, Alirajpur, Khandwa, Barwani and Khargone district. Late on Friday night, Indore district reported one death including 79 new cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/cases-rise-but-mortality-rate-down-in-malwa-nimar/articleshow/75782913.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Goa||HP man misses train, cops rush him to next stn||Carambolim: Dilwale Dulhania Le Jayenge’s iconic railway station scene was set to be recreated as the Shramik Special train bound for Una, Himachal Pradesh, pulled out of the Karmali railway station on Saturday— except, instead of Simran, it was Mohan Rana, 42, who was chasing the train with two bags. With no Shah Rukh Khan to help him, it was left to state authorities to ensure that Rana did not miss the train. Rana, who had a permit to travel to HP, reached just two minutes late, running onto the platform just as the train was being flagged off by North Goa collector R Menaka and North Goa SP Utkrisht Prasoon. Even as Rana spilled his near-miss story, the authorities decided to pull out all stops to ensure that the man and his two bags made it onto the train. Menaka ordered Konkan Railway officials to make a ticket for the Kangra district resident while police used its vehicle to rush the man to the next stop— Tivim railway station where he was put onto the train home. “I heard about the train just some time ago and I came here as fast as I could,” said Rana. Menaka said that the train’s passenger manifest would be updated with Rana’s details and sent to the HP government. “It so happened that one person reached quite late so we have arranged for him to depart from the Tivim railway station in consultation with the railway authority,” said Menaka. The train with 582 passengers will arrive at Una after a two-day journey. This is the second train to Himachal Pradesh. Rana was not the only one to be accommodated at the last minute. Authorities held up the train beyond its scheduled departure time just so that Upendra Uraon, a bartender at a Sinquerim nightclub, could make it. “I found out about the train just one hour before the departure time, around 5pm,” said Uraon, who grabbed his bag and documents and rushed to the station even as police kept tabs on his movement from Sinquerim. “I got so many calls fromofficials while on my way that I was confident that the train would not leave without me,” he said. With the state doing all it can to ensure that the passengers reach home, the station resounded with words of gratitude as the train left. While some yelled, ‘Goa Police is the best’ others shouted ‘Thank you Goa’. “The intention was to assist all those who wanted to leave. Though the scheduled time of departure was 6pm we got calls from the Himachal Pradesh government saying that they have issued permits to some people at the last minute, and they asked us to facilitate their travel. So we held the train for some time,” said Menaka.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/hp-man-misses-train-cops-rush-him-to-next-stn/articleshow/75783137.cms||Newton Sequeira
May 17, 2020||Meerut||Covid-19: Meerut reports one more death, toll reaches 18; infant, Asha worker & gunner of SP’s escort among 8 positive||MEERUT: One more death due to Covid-19 was reported from Meerut district on Saturday, taking the death toll to 18. A 52-year-old woman from Rashid Nagar died at the Lala Lajpat Rai Memorial (LLRM) Medical College. Meerut reported eight new cases on Saturday, taking the total tally to 321 – including one admitted in Kanpur. On the other hand, seven new cases were reported from Saharanpur taking the total tally to 212 – including 12 found in Lucknow. The positive cases from Meerut included – a one-and-half-year-old infant who is a contact of a patient from Multan Nagar, an Asha worker who was involved in Covid-19 duty in the district from Khair Nagar and a gunner of Meerut superintendent of police’s escort. Quarantine process for police officials is under progress. The positive cases from Meerut included a one-and-half-year-old infant – contact of a patient from Multan Nagar – and an Asha worker, involved in Covid-19 duty in the district from Khair Nagar. “A 52-year-old woman from Rashid Nagar died at the LLRM Medical College on Friday afternoon. She was admitted with liver and respiratory disease syndrome on Friday afternoon and tested positive at 11 pm on Friday after her death in the afternoon,” said Dr SK Garg, principal of the medical college. He added that the matter was made public on Saturday due to some technical glitch. Meerut district surveillance officer Dr Vishwas Chaudhary said, “As many as eight new cases were reported in Meerut on Saturday. The positive cases include one from Multan Nagar (Baghpat Road), three from Lakhipura and one from Bhajanpura, Dalampara (Budhana Gate), Khair Nagar and Kaanch Ka Pul each.” Saharanpur chief medical Officer Dr BS Sodhi said, “As many as seven new cases were reported in Saharanpur on Saturday. Four of them had returned from Mumbai to Deoband, one person had come in a media car and two others had returned from Indore.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/meerut-reports-one-more-death-toll-reaches-18-infant-asha-worker-gunner-of-sps-escort-among-8-positive/articleshow/75781726.cms||Ishita Bhatia
May 17, 2020||Indore||Indore: Eleven-year-old among 24 coronavirus patients discharged from hospital||INDORE: Divisional commissioner Akash Tripathi, MGM dean Dr Jyoti Bindal, superintendent of MRTB hospital Dr Salil Bhargava and health workers clapped and cheered as four corona patients headed home from MRTB hospital after making a fully recovery. Those four were among the 24 patients including an 11-year-old girl discharged from two health facilities in city. Twenty people were discharged from Sri Aurbindo Institute of Medical Sciences (SAIMS) during the day. Many of these patients were discharged in accordance with new guideline of Union government. The persons were discharged after one negative test only instead of two done earlier, said Dr Ravi Dosi, HoD respiratory department of SAIMS. There were two above 60 among discharged people, who were having co-morbidities including diabetes. They were brought in critical state but was later shifted to normal ward as their conditions improved, said Dosi. Dr Rajeev Singh, spokesperson of SAIMS said, “A male in his mid-sixties was also discharged with those 20 patients from the hospital. The male was having diabetes, gangrene along with COVID-19 infection, when brought to hospital some two weeks back.” He was discharged a couple of days back after recovery from Covid-19 but remained in hospital because of other problems, said Singh. The discharged people thanked district administration, state government and health workers for their dedicated hard work.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/eleven-year-old-among-24-corona-patients-discharged-from-hospital/articleshow/75782916.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Cong to TRS govt: Immediately release fee reimbursement dues||Hyderabad: Congress has demanded that CM K Chandrasekhar Rao immediately release the fee reimbursement dues for both 2018-19 and 2019-20 academic years and enforce strict rules for all the private engineering and technical colleges to not only pay the salaries without any deductions, but also clear all the outstanding dues. Referring to the non-payment of salaries to the teaching and non-teaching staff of private engineering and other technical colleges, AICC secretary and former MLA Challa Vamshi Chand Reddy in a letter to KCR said the college managements have made it clear that they would be able to pay salaries only if the government releases fee reimbursement dues.  “AP has paid Rs 4,000 crore towards fee reimbursement dues. Proclaiming to be one of the richest states in India, should Telangana not be an exemplar in public interest issues,” he sought to know. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cong-to-trs-govt-immediately-release-fee-reimbursement-dues/articleshow/75782928.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Goa||Goa: Iron ore transportation leads to air pollution in mining belt||PANAJI: Iron ore transportation has once again led to increase in air pollution in the state’s mining belt. Air monitoring data with the Goa State Pollution Control Board (GSPCB) shows that pollution in the areas is due to ore transportation activities, which commenced in March. GSPCB member secretary Shamila Monteiro told TOI that the board has written to the directorate of mines and geology to reduce the number of ore transportation trips by trucks in areas where it has noticed air pollution. “As per the direction, DMG will reduce the mining truck trips,” she said. GSPCB monitors air quality at 12 locations across the state through air ambient quality monitoring stations.  As per the report from the monitoring stations installed at Capxem, Sanvordem, Sanguem, Ambegal-Pale and Curchorem it has exceeded PM 10 limit. A senior board officer told TOI that the PM 10 level exceeded the permissible limit due to vehicular transportation of ore. Last week TOI had counted over 300 trips made by the mining trucks, over 10 times more than the number stipulated by DMG in the South Goa mining belt. And going by the sheer number of trucks making multiple trips to the jetties, a back of the envelope estimate suggests that in the past one week itself, an average of 35,000 tonne iron ore was sent for exports every day — a quantity equivalent to 18 to 20 barges. In March 15, 2018, mining in Goa came to a halt following a Supreme Court order quashing the second renewal of 88 mining leases. In January 2020, the apex court permitted export of ore extracted before March 15, 2018. In March 2020, mining companies resumed transportation of royalty-paid iron ore in the state. Around six mining companies got permission from both the DMG and GSPCB to transport ore. There is 1.45 million tonne of royalty-paid ore which the respective companies have started transporting; there is also another 7.7 million tonne on which royalty has not been paid, an official said. The state government is set to e-auction around 2.5 million tonne iron ore this month as per DMG.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/iron-ore-transportation-leads-to-air-pollution-in-mining-belt/articleshow/75783140.cms||Murari Shetye
May 17, 2020||Ahmedabad||Auda CEO roped into Covid fight||GANDHINAGAR: The state government has assigned A B Gaur, the chief executive officer of Auda, to coordinate with the deputy municipal commissioner of the AMC in the anti-Covid mission. The general administration department order says that Gaur, in coordination with the deputy municipal commissioner, will track Covid cases and will supervise the response. He will also be in charge of the Dhanvantri Arogya Rath moving around the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/auda-ceo-roped-into-covid-fight/articleshow/75782462.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Goa||Group tries to cross border at Patradevi||Vasco: Pernem police on Saturday foiled an attempt by as many as 35 migrants who tried to cross into Maharashtra at Patradevi. Since the migrants were residing at Quelossim near Cortalim, they were handed over to the Verna police, who then took them for a medical check-up. Police said the migrants, most of whom hailed from Bihar, said they had planned to walk to their native states as they had run out of money. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/group-tries-to-cross-border-at-patradevi/articleshow/75783145.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Madurai||Hospitals in Tamil Nadu see more footfall as lockdown norms are relaxed||MADURAI: Hospitals across the state, both government and private, are seeing an increase in footfall of non-emergency patients for the past few days with relaxations being announced during lockdown. Doctors said that those who can use their own vehicle or hire a mode of transport for themselves are starting to queue up at the outpatient department of hospitals, which are functioning with Covid-19 precautionary measures in place. “Though footfall of patients is not yet back to normal, it is increasing when compared to the start of April. Those who were coming for regular check-ups are returning now, especially as it has been nearly two months since lockdown,” said Dr B Kannan, medical administrator at a private multi-specialty hospital, which generally witnesses a footfall of 1,500 outpatients in a day. He observed that while only those who needed treatments like chemotherapy and dialysis used to frequent for the past months, now others including ante-natal mothers are visiting hospital. At Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH) in Madurai, which is one of the biggest tertiary care centres in the state, footfall to outpatient departments is slowly increasing, according to doctors. Even elderly and pregnant women, who can arrange their private vehicles, have started to come for check-ups. “Many patients are coming from nearby villages to the city,” said a senior doctor at GRH. While government hospitals are yet to continue elective surgeries, many private hospitals have already started resuming it. “We are taking all precautions and they do need to be done soon as patients have already waited for a long time. Otherwise, it would end up being an emergency case, particularly for cancer or cardiac patients,” said an oncological surgeon, who did not wish to be named. Meanwhile, some smaller private clinics and hospitals remained shut or continued to function with restricted timings amid Covid-19 scare. “Even with restricted timings, the footfall has increased. However, we are not getting new patients for outpatient departments,” said Dr A Sowmiya, duty medical officer at a private hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hospitals-see-more-footfall-as-lockdown-norms-are-relaxed/articleshow/75783144.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
May 17, 2020||Vijayawada||Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams to work out kinks before reopening temple||TIRUPATI: While the nation stares at ‘lockdown 4.0’ with more relaxations from May 18, millions of devotees of Lord Venkateswara—as well as the 21,000-strong workforce of the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams—are eagerly awaiting for the Tirumala temple to reopen. Amidst reports that the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams has already shot off a letter to the government seeking its nod for reviving pilgrim worship at Tirumala, there numerous nitty gritties which the richest temple body in the country has to address, before pilgrim worship can actually be restarted at the Tirumala temple. The TTD closed the doors to the Tirumala temple for the devotees for the first time in history on March 20 this year, amidst the outbreak of coronavirus in the country. While closing the temple for pilgrim worship was not hard, reopening the doors for devotees after a prolonged lockdown could be a challenging task for the TTD. Above all, the safety and health of the visiting devotees and preventing the spread of the virus at the the sacred abode of Lord Venkateswara will be the TTD administration’s top priority. Just a week after the first Covid-19 case in AP was reported at Nellore on March 12, TTD indefinitely suspended pilgrim worship at Tirumala on March 20. As on that day, the overall number of people who had tested positive for coronavirus in Andhra Pradesh was just three, while the overall number of cases in India was just 224. But today, with the state having 2,307 cases—the ninth highest in the country—it will be a challenge for the TTD to restart darshan at the Tirumala temple. While TTD chairman YV Subba Reddy, during his recent interviews, underlined that the temple administration had a series of meetings during which several measures linked to restarting darshan at the temple were discussed, TTD EO Anil Kumar Singhal recently told media that a high-level meeting with TTD’s additional EO AV Dharma Reddy will discuss the modalities to be worked out to resume pilgrim worship at the temple once the lockdown is relaxed. But with no vaccine available yet, the TTD administration has to cautiously work out every aspect of a devotee’s pilgrimage, which includes travel from Tirupati to Tirumala, the management of various queues during accommodation, darshan, parasadam distribution counters, anna prasadam counters, and the like.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ttd-to-work-out-kinks-before-reopening-temple/articleshow/75782403.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
May 17, 2020||Goa||GSL makes lowest bid to build oil spill control ships||Panaji: Goa Shipyard Ltd has emerged as the front runner to build two pollution control vessels for the Indian Coast Guard, pipping L&T Shipbuilding and two other public sector shipyards. GSL will build the vessels for approximately Rs 600 crore once the final contract is inked, chairman and managing director of GSL, Bharat Bhushan Nagpal said. GSL is already executing a follow-on order for five offshore patrol vessels for the Coast Guard, the first of which was commissioned on Friday. “GSL has emerged as lowest bidder to build two pollution control vessels. This is a Rs 600 crore project for the Indian Coast Guard,” Nagpal said. Contract negotiations for the two pollution control vessels will begin with the defence ministry and the Indian Coast Guard, and once the terms are decided, the contract will be inked. “In another two or three months we hope that the contract will be signed. The build period is 46 months for delivery,” Nagpal said. The ongoing novel coronavirus pandemic has affected the entire supply chain logistics and has also forced GSL to put in place additional precautionary measures. “We have isolated each section at the shipyard. We are now operating in two shifts and each shift does not interact. We are also sanitising everything in between shifts,” Nagpal said. Speaking about the stealth frigates that GSL is building for the Indian Navy, Nagpal said that though slightly delayed, the pace will pick up in the coming weeks. “We will be receiving drawings from Russia by end of May. We have already ordered the plates and should commence production by July or at the latest by early August,” Nagpal said. The keel for the first of the two guided missile frigates for the Indian Navy, known as Project 1135.6, were to be laid in early 2020. The stealth warships, valued at over Rs 14,250 crore, will be built at GSL based on technology transfer from Russia’s Yantar Shipyard and Severnoye Design Bureau.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/gsl-makes-lowest-bid-to-build-oil-spill-control-ships/articleshow/75783143.cms||Newton Sequeira
May 17, 2020||Goa||Relocate people quarantined in city hotels, demands Monserrate||Panaji: Panaji MLA Atanasio Monserrate on Saturday urged north collector R Menaka to relocate the people who have been quarantined at hotels where elderly people are staying. Monserrate, known as Babush, held a meeting with the collector over shifting the people who are quarantined in Panaji. Monserrate said that the collector has assured them to shift the quarantined people from Panaji. People have been quarantined in Panaji on Friday. “I had gone on behalf of the people of Panaji to request collector to shift them. There is apprehension in the minds of elder people and they are tensed after people have been quarantine around their vicinity,” he said Monserrate said that the people quarantined were working in factories “We have told collector to hire hotels near their industries and shift them. If the people quarantine were from Panaji then we would have no issues,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/relocate-people-quarantined-in-city-hotels-demands-monserrate/articleshow/75783141.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Madurai||South Tamil Nadu sees a record 81 cases in a day||MADURAI: The southern districts reported 81 Covid-19 cases on Saturday, a record for the region in a day, though 72 of them had arrived from other states, mainly Maharashtra. This has taken the total number of cases in the region to 781. Meanwhile, the central region had much to cheer about as not only did it register only three positive cases, several patients were discharged too. Tirunelveli district accounted for more than half the cases in the southern region with 44, all of whom, including 12 children, had travelled from Maharashtra. They were tested after being caught at border check posts in the district. Nine people who returned from Maharashtra tested positive in Sivaganga district, which otherwise has no local cases. One more person who returned from Maharashtra to the district had tested positive on Friday. Tuticorin saw seven imported cases six of whom had arrived from Maharashtra and one from Gujarat. Dindigul district saw five cases of those who returned from Gujarat while Madurai, Kanyakumari, Tenkasi and Theni saw several imported cases from Maharashtra. A total of nine local cases were meanwhile reported in Madurai, Tenkasi, Tuticorin, Kanyakumari, Virudhunagar and Dindigul, all of whom had contact history with Covid-19 patients. A 35-year-old man who arrived from Andhra Pradesh to Thanjavur tested Covid-19 positive on Saturday, taking the district’s tally to 72. Six patients including a woman were discharged from the government medical college hospital in Thanjavur after they turned negative. So far, 56 people have been discharged from the hospital while 16 are still undergoing treatment. Nagappattinam district recorded two more positive cases taking the total number of patients there to 49. Both of them had worked as labourers in Chennai. Ariyalur district, one of the hotspots of Koyambedu market cluster, did not report any fresh case for the third straight day. Perambalur, which also had no new cases, saw 25 patients being discharged from the government hospital after they tested negative. Ariyalur discharged 10 patients on Saturday and altogether 327 cases while Perambalur has discharged 90 cases. There are 21 active cases in Ariyalur and 49 under treatment in Perambalur . In Trichy, one patient was discharged from Mahatma Gandhi memorial government hospital (MGMGH) on Saturday leaving six more to recover at MGMGH. A Perambalur patient was also discharged from the hospital during the day. No new cases were recorded in Karur, Pudukkottai and Tiruvarur districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/south-tamil-nadu-sees-a-record-81-cases-in-a-day/articleshow/75783148.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Get us home, plead workers stuck in Surat||Hyderabad: Stuck in Surat due to the lockdown, 34 migrant workers from Telangana have urged chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao to help them return home. The workers had gone to Gujarat to work as construction labourers. All of them belong to Thorrur village in Mahbubabad district. “We do not have food to eat and have been starving. We need help to return home,” the migrant workers said in videos they made seeking help. Breaking down into tears in a video, a worker said: “We are desperate to return.” Balaji, another worker, said nobody had given them any provisions. “We are even willing to walk back to our village but because of our age, it is difficult,” he said. Balaji said though they were financially weak, if they have to pay money for their travel they would make arrangements but wanted the state government to at least help them get permissions and make travel arrangements. - Sushil Rao||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/get-us-home-plead-workers-stuck-in-surat/articleshow/75782411.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
May 17, 2020||Goa||‘Penniless’ migrants swarm Zuarinagar||Vasco: On Saturday afternoon, about 200 migrants gathered at the Birla petrol pump at Zuarinagar, near the Zuari Agro Chemicals fertiliser plant, in a bid to disrupt traffic as they said they had not heard anything from the government about their journey back to their states. However, Verna police brought the situation under control. The migrants told police that they had no money to pay their house rent and that their room owners had asked them to vacate their premises. When questioned, the house owners told police that they had not asked for money nor had they asked them to vacate the rooms. Members of the Sancoale village panchayat assured the migrants that till they get back to their states, the panchayat would take care of their grocery needs. The migrants were also told that their names had been registered and that the government will plan their journey back to their native states.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/penniless-migrants-swarm-zuarinagar/articleshow/75783147.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Ranchi||Re 1 property registration for women scrapped||Ranchi: In a bid to revive the state coffers, the Jharkhand government scrapped the exclusive scheme for women which allowed registration of properties worth up to Rs 50 lakh at a token Re 1 in the wake of revenue losses during the lockdown. The state revenue, registration and land reforms department on Friday issued a notification to this tune and also laid out the standard operation procedures for all registry offices. This includes, not more than 40 registries per day, pre-booked appointment and other dos and don’ts for visitors and staff at the offices, thereby indicating the services by next week. Earlier this week on Tuesday, the state government had also rolled back the VAT rebate on diesel and petrol prices making vehicular fuel dearer by Rs 2.50. Interestingly, both the schemes were implemented during the previous BJP government headed by Raghubar Das. Chief minister Hemant Soren on Saturday said, “The state is in a difficult financial situation now and all its resources are going into combating Covid-19 and feeding the hungry. There is a long fight ahead. Hence, the government is trying its best to explore avenues to revive its revenues to sustain the crisis.” He also accused the Raghubar Das regime for pushing the state into a financial crisis. He reiterated, “The past government’s poor planning and excessive expenditure has dented the financial health of the state so much that when we took over, we inherited a frail treasury.” State finance minister Rameshwar Oraon on the other hand said that during tough times, some tough measures ought to be taken. “The government is taking some tough steps to generate revenues while on the other hand it is constantly demanding the Centre for a special package to this state. So far nothing has been assured,” Oraon said. He added, “While the Centre raised some hopes by announcing a Rs 20 lakh crore economic package a few days back, as the details are filtering about the allocation, it seems to be nothing, but an eyewash. Poor, jobless, migrants, farmers don’t seem to be benefited.” Meanwhile, the state BJP unit accused the Mahagathbandhan government of being anti-farmers and anti-women. BJP’s state president of women cell, Arti Singh said, “Registration of property for women Re 1 was a milestone during our regime as it empowered lakhs of women in this state. By scrapping the scheme, the Hemant Soren government has exposed its anti-women stand, like they proved their anti-farmer stand by stopping the CM Krishi Ashiward Yojana meant for farmers.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/re-1-property-registration-for-women-scrapped/articleshow/75781818.cms||ASRP Mukesh
May 17, 2020||Ranchi||Migrants crossing state of foot J’khand’s responsibility: CM||Ranchi: Migrants on foot, irrespective of which state they belong to, is Jharkhand’s responsibility from now onwards if they happen to cross the state. They will also be fed, accommodated until arrangements are made and dropped home on the state’s expenses, said chief minister Hemant Soren on Saturday. The move, arguably the first-of-its-kind in the country, came after 24 migrants died in Uttar Pradesh’s Auraiya district in a road accident on Saturday morning. Seven of the deceased belonged to Bokaro district’s Pindrajora area. Hemant said, “It’s a very tragic incident and shouldn’t have happened to any migrant anywhere in this time of crisis. Over the last few days I have been reading reports of similar accidents elsewhere, including a few in Jharkhand. Hence, I have issued a standing order to stop migrant movement in the state and nobody should be forced to travel on foot.” Talking further on the sidelines of an event at his residence on Saturday, he added, “I have asked all the districts to arrange for their transport besides feeding them properly. This will be irrespective of the fact whether any migrant belongs to Jharkhand or some other state.” “It is our responsibility to take care of all who come to Jharkhand. If any migrant steps into the boundaries of our state on foot, officials have been asked to stop them till proper arrangements are made for their travel back home. Nodal officers should strike a coordination with their counterparts in other states to workout a safe movement plan on a priority basis,” he added. Hemant also appealed to others states to curb movement of migrants on foot. “All states should work to stop migrant movements on foot, take their details and coordinating with respective states.” Soon after the directives, Jharkhand DGP MV Rao issued orders to all the SPs asking them to coordinate with respective deputy commissioners to enforce the diktat in toto on a priority basis. Jharkhand Janadhikar Mahasabha, a conglomeration of rights groups, welcomed the move and asked Hemant to write to the Centre and other states to start free buses, community kitchens and temporary sheds on state and national highways. In a statement, the outfit said, “CM must write to Centre and all states to arrange free buses for migrants. There should be arrangement of sheds, kitchens on highways so that migrants can be fed properly and take rest till arrangements are made.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/migrants-crossing-state-of-foot-jkhands-responsibility-cm/articleshow/75781832.cms||ASRP Mukesh
May 17, 2020||Ranchi||CUJ increases working hours, curtails holidays to compensate for losses||Ranchi: The Central University of Jharkhand (CUJ) released its updated academic calendar on Friday under which classes will now be running for nine hours — 8:30am to 5:30pm — for five days in a week, instead of eight hours, from August 1. The updated calendar has curtailed holidays and cultural activities to compensate for the loss in the number of classes owing to the ongoing lockdown. Manoj Kumar, who is in-charge of the internal quality assurance cell at CUJ, said, “We have decided to cut down on some cultural activities and have increased the working hours by an hour. Even the lunch hour will now be for just 45 minutes, instead of an hour. We are currently running late by one and a half months but we hope to make up for the losses by July next year.” Although the University Grants Commission (UGC) suggested to run classes 180 days in a year, CUJ will continue with 176 working days. Kumar said that although UGC asked the universities to opt for alternate ways of conducting exams, CUJ may continue with the current method. Dr Shyama Prasad Mukherjee University in Ranchi will provide its students with study material next month for their examination scheduled in July and it will release the new academic calendar by next week. Kolhan University is, however, waiting for instructions from the state government. Vice-chancellor Shukla Mohanty said, “We are working on a new academic calendar in sync with UGC’s guidelines but before we can finalise it, we are waiting for the state government’s instructions.” Mohanty added that they are planning to reduce the number of holidays to make up for lost time but they will not extend the working hours. Vinoba Bhave University in Hazaribag will curtail winter vacation and Dussehra holidays in its new academic calendar. Vice-chancellor Ramesh Sharan said, “We have prepared the new calendar and we are ready to begin classes for the new students from September.” VBU is also planning to conduct online examination for its MBA students.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/cuj-increases-working-hours-curtails-holidays-to-compensate-for-losses/articleshow/75781849.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Ranchi||Mine associations, trade unions oppose privatization of coal sector||Sindri: The BCCL chapter of the coal mines officer’s association and trade unions on Saturday opposed the Union government’s decision to open up coal mines to the private sector and allow commercial mining. The move came after Union finance minister Nirmala Sitaram announced a Rs 50,000-crore boost to the coal infra and FDI in defence sector as part of the fourth instalment of the Atma Nirbhar Bharat scheme. “Coal Mines Officer’s Association of India (CMOAI) would oppose any move to privatise the coal sector and allow commercial mining of coal,” said general secretary of BCCL chapter of CMOAI, Bhabani Bandopadhyay adding Sitaraman’s announcement is nothing but an attempt to betray the confidence posed by pubic in the present government. “All previous attempts in this regard have failed. More than 100 coal blocks have already been allotted to private players, but they have not succeeded in achieving the goal so far. Mining is a complex field and it is a tough nut for private companies to crack who just aim for profits without taking care of other factors,” Bandopadhyay opined. Dhanbad Coal Karamchari Sangh general secretary K P Gupta said any attempt to privatise the coal sector would be opposed. “The Union government has been trying to introduce commercial mining since 2015, but has not succeeded because of opposition by all trade unions. Centre is trying to serve the cause of some capitalists.” National general secretary of CITU-affiliated All India Coal Workers Federation, D D Ramnandan, said Sitharaman’s announcement is nothing but an attempt to deceive public in the name of relief packages in times of Covid-19. “The central government has allowed private players to mine coal by passing a law under the Coal Mines Special Provisions Act 2015, but no major players have come forward so far as coal mining involves problems of land acquisition and local disturbances and are not profitable propositions for private investors who look for quick money,” Ramnandan said. “Sitharaman announced a package of Rs 50, 000 crore for developing evacuation infrastructure for enhancing coal production, but has no answer as to why the three rail lines of the coal corridor from Chandwa to Tori in Jharkhand, from Jharsuguda to Barapalli in Odisha and from Raigarh to Mand in Chhatisgarh are not completed in the last 15 years. Coal production would go up by 100MT if these rail lines become operational,” Ramnandan opined adding the announcement has been made without making any ground survey. “The government should give direct relief to the needy and not help corporate houses in the name of relief packages to the poor,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/mine-associations-trade-unions-oppose-privatization-of-coal-sector/articleshow/75781897.cms||Anil Ashutosh
May 17, 2020||Ranchi||CRPF jawans stranded in green zones told to report to duty||Ranchi: The Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) on Saturday said it will recall its personnel and deploy them for anti-Maoist operations. Many jawans of the paramilitary force are on leave and stranded in various parts of Bihar and Jharkhand ever since the nationwide lockdown was imposed on March 25. CRPF (Jharkhand-Bihar zone) IG Rajkumar on Saturday said soon after the lockdown came into force, the jawans were ordered to stay put wherever they are as a precautionary measure to prevent the spread of the novel coronavirus. He added, “As the lockdown is continuing, we have decided to recall the personnel stranded in green zones in Bihar and Jharkhand after May 17. A significant number of them are in green zones in the two states.” CRPF has created a quarantine unit at each of its battalion centre for the returning jawans. The quarantine centre at Ranchi has 75 beds and will cater to those reporting to the force’s state headquarters and the battalion here. Rajkumar said the returning jawans will be put under 14-day quarantine at their respective battalion and their health will be closely monitored. “The quarantine units have a separate mess and toilets. The norms of segregation and social distancing will be observed here. The body temperature of jawans will be monitored and they will join anti-extremist operations after getting a certificate from the district health authority,” he said. Meanwhile, CRPF will also replace its two companies posted at the containment zone of Hindpiri in Ranchi and one company has arrived in the city to take charge. The jawans withdrawn from Hindpiri will also be put under quarantine for 14 days. CRPF was deployed in the locality on April 28 to enforce the lockdown after many instances of violations were reported from the area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/crpf-jawans-stranded-in-green-zones-told-to-report-to-duty/articleshow/75781873.cms||Sanjay Sahay
May 17, 2020||Ranchi||IMD predicts thunderstorms in parts of state next week||RANCHI: The north and southeastern parts of Jharkhand will receive light to moderate rainfall on Wednesday next week due to an approaching cyclone on the eastern coast of the country, IMD Ranchi said on Saturday. Talking to TOI, director IMD Ranchi, S D Kotal said, “Although we are keeping a tap on the movement of the cyclone, according to the present conditions, moderate rainfall and thunderstorm is expected in the northeast and southeast parts of the state.” He said, “It may rapidly develop into a cyclonic storm in the next 12 hours and further into a severe cyclonic storm in the subsequent 24 hours. It is also likely to move northwestwards initially till Sunday and then re-curve north-eastwards across Bay of Bengal and hit West Bengal coast any time between Monday and Wednesday.” Kotal said that the cyclone is intensifying gradually and the rain will be accompanied by wind blowing at 40-50 kmph, mainly during the late hours of Thursday. Because of its nominal effect over Jharkhand, the state disaster management team has been given a normal rainfall alert only. However, the department in its daily bulletin has predicted light rainfall, thunderstorm and lightening throughout the next week until Friday. “Apart from the cyclonic disturbance over limited parts of the state, light and moderate rainfall is expected over most part of the state due to frequent thunderstorms and temperature will be stable for the next three-four days.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/imd-predicts-thunderstorms-in-parts-of-state-next-week/articleshow/75781925.cms||---
May 17, 2020||World||Canada relaxes work rules for international students||International students enrolled in Canadian educational institutions will be able to commence their courses online from their home countries and still be eligible for the postgraduate work programme (PGWP), which is available for up to three years. The tenure of the work permit typically depends on the length of the educational course in Canada. In the wake of coronavirus-related travel interruptions around the world, Immigration, Refugees and Citizenship Canada (IRCC) — the government’s immigration arm — has made its rules more flexible. Under normal circumstances, the IRCC pointed out, the stringent PGWP norms limit an international student’s ability to pursue a programme via distance learning. The time spent studying outside Canada is deducted from the length of the work permit for which they would otherwise be eligible, it added. Explaining the relaxations given, IRCC said: “PGWP eligibility will not be affected for international students whose fall courses will be conducted online owing to Covid-19... International students may begin their classes while outside Canada and complete up to 50% of the programme via distance learning if they cannot travel to Canada sooner. If studies were completed outside of Canada up to December 31, 2020, this time will not be deducted from their future work permit tenure.” This spells good news as Canadian education and work experience help students garner higher points under the Express-Entry route, if he or she wishes to become a permanent resident. Canadian permanent residency is akin to a green card in the US. According to the IRCC, nearly 54,000 former students had opted to become permanent residents in 2018. With 1.39 lakh study permits (34.5% of the total), Indians were the highest constituent of international students in 2019.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/canada-relaxes-work-rules-for-international-students/articleshow/75783275.cms||Lubna Kably
May 17, 2020||World||Can dogs sniff out Covid-19? UK govt backs trial to find out||LONDON: Dogs' ability to sniff out whether people are infected with Covid-19 will be put to the test by British researchers, in a bid to develop a fast, non-invasive means of detecting the disease. Britain's government said on Saturday it had given 500,000 pounds ($606,000) towards the research, which will be conducted by the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, Durham University and a British charity, Medical Detection Dogs. "Bio-detection dogs already detect specific cancers and we believe this innovation might provide speedy results as part of our wider testing strategy," innovation minister James Bethell said. Six dogs - labradors and cocker spaniels - will be given samples of the odour of Covid-19 patients from London hospitals, and taught to distinguish their smell from that of people who are not infected. Medical Detection Dogs said it had previously trained dogs to detect certain cancers, Parkinson's disease and malaria. If successful, an individual dog could check up to 250 people an hour and be used in public spaces and at airports. Researchers in the United States and France are attempting to train dogs to detect the disease too. A small number of dogs are also known to have contracted Covid-19, most likely from their owners, according to vets in the United States, the Netherlands and Hong Kong.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/uk/can-dogs-sniff-out-covid-19-uk-govt-backs-trial-to-find-out/articleshow/75783279.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Noida||Covid-19 testing numbers rise in Ghaziabad, come down in Noida||NOIDA/GHAZIABAD: The Covid-19 testing approach in the neighbouring cities of Noida and Ghaziabad has followed opposing trajectories. With fewer cases, Ghaziabad has stepped up testing and with more cases, Noida has slowed things down. In the six weeks between April 1 and May 12, Noida added 177 cases and Ghaziabad 137. But while Ghaziabad tested 4,339 samples, Noida tested 3,107. And it’s not just that the absolute figures are lower in Noida — the distribution of sampling over time has also been inconsistent. In the first week of April, Noida and Ghaziabad started out close — with 11 cases, Noida tested 346 samples and with 15 cases, Ghaziabad collected 364 samples. But as cases kept going up in Noida, the sampling became erratic. The week it reported the highest number of cases, 55, was also the week its testing fell to the lowest in the period — just 161 samples. In Ghaziabad, the testing numbers have been steadily going up — from 364 to 1,284 — with just one dip in the fourth week of April, when testing fell from 767 to 644. This coincided with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) advisory against rapid antibody tests, issued on April 22. Counter-intuitively, that was the week Noida stepped up its testing, with 946 samples. So why the difference? The guidelines issued by the Union health ministry and the ICMR are binding but health officials in the two districts, it seems, have come up with their own interpretation of what the rules suggest. Ghaziabad’s approach has been to step things up consistently. “Testing has been going up across the country and, concurrently, in Ghaziabad. The trend shows we are going in the right direction. The ICMR guidelines state primary and high-risk contacts should be tested. The idea is to break the chain of infection by identifying all people who have come in contact with a Covid-19 patient. That’s what we are trying to do,” state-appointed observer for Ghaziabad, Dr AK Paliwal, said. Noida also said it has been following the ICMR framework. “We are conducting tests following ICMR guidelines. Earlier, we had taken a liberal approach to sample collection but now, the focus is on intelligent sampling. We take samples only when it is required,” Noida district surveillance officer Sunil Dohare said. A source added that this essentially means is that the focus has now moved from extensive testing to treating patients who need medical attention. Public health experts were of the opinion that Covid-19 response teams may need to be more alert. “It is evident that the rate of infection is higher in Noida than in Ghaziabad. Intense surveillance and effective contact tracing are extremely crucial at this stage,” retired chief medical officer Ashok Mishra said. While both Noida and Ghaziabad had been conducting random sampling and door-to-door surveys at one point, Noida has stopped. The rate of testing may go down further, a source said, with orders coming in to collect samples only from symptomatic individuals for the next three to four days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/covid-testing-numbers-rise-in-gzb-come-down-in-noida/articleshow/75782633.cms||Shalabh
May 17, 2020||Ghaziabad||Covid-19 testing numbers rise in Ghaziabad, come down in Noida||NOIDA/GHAZIABAD: The Covid-19 testing approach in the neighbouring cities of Noida and Ghaziabad has followed opposing trajectories. With fewer cases, Ghaziabad has stepped up testing and with more cases, Noida has slowed things down. In the six weeks between April 1 and May 12, Noida added 177 cases and Ghaziabad 137. But while Ghaziabad tested 4,339 samples, Noida tested 3,107. And it’s not just that the absolute figures are lower in Noida — the distribution of sampling over time has also been inconsistent. In the first week of April, Noida and Ghaziabad started out close — with 11 cases, Noida tested 346 samples and with 15 cases, Ghaziabad collected 364 samples. But as cases kept going up in Noida, the sampling became erratic. The week it reported the highest number of cases, 55, was also the week its testing fell to the lowest in the period — just 161 samples. In Ghaziabad, the testing numbers have been steadily going up — from 364 to 1,284 — with just one dip in the fourth week of April, when testing fell from 767 to 644. This coincided with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) advisory against rapid antibody tests, issued on April 22. Counter-intuitively, that was the week Noida stepped up its testing, with 946 samples. So why the difference? The guidelines issued by the Union health ministry and the ICMR are binding but health officials in the two districts, it seems, have come up with their own interpretation of what the rules suggest. Ghaziabad’s approach has been to step things up consistently. “Testing has been going up across the country and, concurrently, in Ghaziabad. The trend shows we are going in the right direction. The ICMR guidelines state primary and high-risk contacts should be tested. The idea is to break the chain of infection by identifying all people who have come in contact with a Covid-19 patient. That’s what we are trying to do,” state-appointed observer for Ghaziabad, Dr AK Paliwal, said. Noida also said it has been following the ICMR framework. “We are conducting tests following ICMR guidelines. Earlier, we had taken a liberal approach to sample collection but now, the focus is on intelligent sampling. We take samples only when it is required,” Noida district surveillance officer Sunil Dohare said. A source added that this essentially means is that the focus has now moved from extensive testing to treating patients who need medical attention. Public health experts were of the opinion that Covid-19 response teams may need to be more alert. “It is evident that the rate of infection is higher in Noida than in Ghaziabad. Intense surveillance and effective contact tracing are extremely crucial at this stage,” retired chief medical officer Ashok Mishra said. While both Noida and Ghaziabad had been conducting random sampling and door-to-door surveys at one point, Noida has stopped. The rate of testing may go down further, a source said, with orders coming in to collect samples only from symptomatic individuals for the next three to four days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/covid-testing-numbers-rise-in-gzb-come-down-in-noida/articleshow/75783302.cms||Shalabh
May 17, 2020||World||Anti-curb protests held in Poland, UK||FRANKFURT: Demonstrations took place Saturday in several European cities against restrictions aimed at controlling the spread of the coronavirus, with tear gas used on protesters in Poland and arrests made at a gathering in London's Hyde Park. Police in several German cities enforced distancing rules as thousands of people gathered to express a mix of frustrations _ at restrictions battering the economy and a perceived loss of civic freedom. In some places, people also voiced conspiracy theories and anti-vaccine views. Police in Stuttgart said that the permitted number of 5,000 demonstrators was exceeded and directed arriving participants to another open space. Police said there were enforcing a mask requirement under threat of a 300 euro ($325) fine. The permitted number of 1,000 protesters was reached in Munich on the Theresienwiese event grounds, site of the now-cancelled Oktoberfest beer festival. It was one of a number of gatherings across the southern state of Bavaria. Several dozen people protested anti-virus rules to loud music in Berlin in a taped-off demonstration area on the central Alexanderplatz square, overseen by 1,000 police who enforced a 1.5 meter (six-foot) distancing requirement and a ban on more than 50 people in one place, the dpa news agency reported. Among the permitted protest groups were several dozen counter-protesters denouncing conspiracy theories and supporting the rights of migrants. Germany and other countries have started to loosen some of the restrictions on movement, gatherings and businesses under restrictions on numbers of customers and spacing of seating. Retailers and restaurants have been hard hit and face uncertain futures. Germany's professional soccer league resumed matches on Saturday in stadiums without spectators. Dozens of people, including a senator, were detained during a protest by business owners in the Polish capital against coronavirus restrictions, while police used tear gas against protesters. The city of Warsaw said the gathering was illegal because it had not been previously approved. Jacek Bury, a senator for the opposition Civic Platform party, said he was hurt by police when trying to defend another protester. Warsaw police said they faced cases of "aggression against police officers.'' Police denied using force against Bury. In Britain, anti-lockdown and anti-vaccine protesters held a gathering in Hyde Park in central London and were met by a heavy police presence. The protesters chanted ``Freedom'' and held handmade placards. Some sat on the grass and had picnics while observing social distancing guidelines while others ignored the rules and gathered in groups. Officers tried to disperse the groups, threatening them with fines if they didn't comply. They arrested 13 people, the London Metropolitan Police Service said. This is the first weekend since the British government eased lockdown rules for England, allowing people to spend more time outdoors. Activities they're now allowed to do include having a picnic and they are also allowed to meet one other person from another household as long as social distancing is obeyed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/europe/anti-curb-protests-held-in-poland-uk/articleshow/75783281.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Nagpur||Now, NMC fails to achieve even revised revenue target||Nagpur: The Nagpur Municipal Corporation has failed to achieve the revised revenue target for 2019-20 and earned Rs2,257 crore which is Rs440.91 crore less than the revised target of Rs2698.35 crore. In March this year, municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe had revised former standing committee chairman Pradip Pohane’s Rs3197.60 crore budget to Rs2698.35 crore. Though the budget was slashed by 499.25 crore, the civic body managed to generate approximately Rs2257.44 crore. Though the former standing committee chairman had expected 62.64% of total revenue from the state government in his budget, the civic body’s dependency on the government grants has increased this year too if one scrutinizes the civic body’s financial data. According to figures procured from the NMC, over 73% of the income in 2019-20 received from the state government, while their income from local taxes like property tax, water tax, town planning department and market dues etc contributed about 27% of the last fiscal revenue. The NMC had generated Rs624.80 crore from its own sources including property tax, water works and town planning department. The civic body, however, received Rs1632.63 crore as Goods and Services Tax grants and other grants from the government. The LBT had projected Rs9 crore income but earned only Rs3.84 crore. The Pohane’s budget had projected a major chunk of the NMC revenue from property tax and set a target of Rs443.70 crore, but the NMC could mop up only Rs244.33 crore. Only two departments, water works and town planning, contributed excess revenue than the set targets. The water works department contributed Rs178.17 crore against a target of Rs160 crore, while the town planning department generated Rs108.33 crore against Rs94.91 crore target. Sources said former municipal commissioner Abhijit Bangar had dropped various works pertaining to basic amenities worth over Rs772 crore approved in the last fiscal due to poor revenue collection and finding new income sources. Even Mundhe had stopped many sanctioned and state government-funded development works due to scanty of funds. The civic body attributed the poor collection to various factors including Lok Sabha and Maharashtra assembly elections. According to the NMC officials, poll duties among other reasons which had a major impact on the revenue. Opposition parties in the NMC blamed the poor tax recovery due to exaggerated revenue target set by standing committee chairman. In last one decade, the NMC had never achieved the target set by any of the standing committee chairmen, alleged leader of opposition and senior Congress corporator Tanaji Wanve. Ruling party leader Sandip Jadhav said the situation in other civic bodies across the country is similar. Any civic body including the NMC has limited source of revenue, he said, adding: “Though low revenue collection affected the development work planned for the city, the timely release of grants from the previous BJP-ruled state government had helped the civic body to continue the works in the city.” Civic activists said that the NMC should spend on development on the basis of tax recovery from a ward. “If a particular ward generates good tax, it would get priority in executing development work,” said activists. Infobox Revenue Generated in 2019-20 LBT---3.84 Property tax---244.33 Water works---178.17 Market—11.04 Town planning ---108.33 cr Health---7.16 cr Birth & Death---90 L Misc receipt---60.73 cr Traffic---6.50 cr Fire protection---2.74 cr Tree authority---93 L Others---7.85 L NMC receipt---624.80 cr Govt grant---514.70 cr GST grant---1117.93 cr WIDENING GAP Year----------SC budget---------Actual revenue 2012-13------1,128----------------940 2013-14------1,427----------------831 2014-15------1,645--------------1,064 2015-16------1,964--------------1,250 2016-17------2,048--------------1,576 2017-18------2,271--------------1689.96 2018-19——-2,801—————2017.75 2019-20---3197.60—————2257.44 (SC:-Standing committee; actual revenue in Rs crore)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/now-nmc-fails-to-achieve-even-revised-revenue-target/articleshow/75782697.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
May 17, 2020||Nagpur||HC extends Arun Gawli’s parole till May 24||NAGPUR: In view of the nationwide lockdown, the Nagpur bench of Bombay high court has extended the parole of underworld don Arun Gawli for second time. “Keeping in mind the lockdown extension by the government due to Covid-19 pandemic till May 17, and the fact that till date the petitioner has not violated any of the conditions imposed upon him and also considering the congestion in jails, as reflected in the additional affidavit filed by the petitioner, in my view, here is no hurdle in granting extension of parole leave,” justice Swapna Joshi said before allowing the gangster’s application. Gawli was granted parole for attending his ailing wife Asha on February 26, but after lockdown was implemented, he moved an application through his counsel Mir Nagman Ali in HC on April 23 to extend it due to travel restrictions. That time his leave was extended till May 10 by the high court. As the government extended lockdown till May 17, the Mumbai’s Dagdi Chawl resident again move an application for extension of parole through Ali citing the same reason of travelling restrictions. Assistant government pleader Amir Madiwale strongly opposed it contending that Gawli could be lodged at nearest Taloja Central Jail in Navi Mumbai, instead of extending the parole. Ali pointed out that the petitioner hasn’t violated any of the conditions while on parole and he has surrendered on scheduled dates whenever he was released on parole and furlough. He submitted that Gawli was unable to travel to the city due to travelling restrictions. While extending his parole by a week after May 17, justice Joshi then directed the don to surrender before the deadline. Gawli, who was convicted for the murder of MLA Kamalakar Jamsandekar along with 11 others on August 3, 2012, was awarded rigorous life imprisonment in 2012 and is undergoing the sentence in Nagpur Central jail since then.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/hc-extends-gawlis-parole-till-may-24/articleshow/75782703.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
May 17, 2020||Nagpur||Three Vid cities now have 100-plus Covid cases each||Nagpur: With seven more cases recorded in a day, Amravati crossed 100-mark of Covid-19 positive cases on Saturday and became third city in Vidarbha to have more than 100 cases. Nagpur which reported its 5th Covid-19 death on Saturday has the highest at 341 followed by Akola where two women tested positive for Covid-19 on Saturday taking total number to 220.Thirty eight more patients were released in Yavatmal on Saturday under revised guidelines. Within a day, Yavatmal’s number of confirmed positive Covid-19 cases came down from 45 to seven which technically upgraded the district into Orange Zone from Red. Amravati released six patients and five were discharged in Nagpur taking total number of recovered patients to 49 on Saturday. Recovery rate of Vidarbha continued to surge for the fourth day and crossed 60% mark. Many more patients are likely to be discharged in next three days. Nagpur recorded it’s 5th Covid-19 death on Saturday in the form of 65-year-old patient admitted in GMCH Covid Hospital. Doctors said he was admitted on May 13 as a patient of Severe Acute Respiratory Illness (SARI). A resident of Khalasi Nagar in Gaddigodam, he was a patient of diabetes and hypertension too. As his condition deteriorated on May 15, he was put on ventilator support. But he died on Saturday morning. Two women family-members of a SARI patient from Jawahar Nagar and three policemen deployed in Mominpura for bandobast also tested positive.Amravati, which reported its first case on April 4 last, took 44 days to reach the three-figure mark. Beginning with Hathipura deceased on April 4, its 25th case came 24 days later on April 28. However, the 50 was reached in next four days on May 2 and the 75th five days later on May 7. The century was reached this evening. Shock and panic gripped the city, which went into a 40-hour Janata Curfew from 3 pm on Saturday as the news went viral on social media. With new areas reporting cases, people are fearing community outbreak but are still giving a go-by to maintaining distancing in public places.Police were in a shock when a 48-year-old DB squad in-charge of Gadgenagar police station tested positive. Official sources said that this Paradise Colony resident complained of back pain, cough, cold and fever after having played a major role in removing two Habib Nagar cases to Covid hospital on May 14. He was taken to a private hospital on VMV Road where doctors referred him to Covid hospital for swab collection.Meanwhile, his family members brought him to Nagpur on Friday while his swab tested positive on Saturday. Health administration launched containment and contact tracing efforts in Paradise Colony as well as at Gadgenagar police station. A new case, the fifth one, came from Qureshi Nagar in Badnera when a 23-year-old driver tested positive days after returning from Nainital. His 45-year-old mother has been put in isolation.Amravati’s count of 101 comprises 13 deaths, 62 recovered, two in Nagpur for treatment and 24 active cases in Covid ward here.Panic also gripped Namuna Lane no 4 residents here when a suspect died at Covid hospital today. Admitted there on May 14 for cough, cold and fever, he breathed his last at 3 am today. “We are awaiting his swab report,” said an.official.Relief for Yavatmal: Yavatmal is set to come out of Red Zone as the total active positive patients in the GMC isolation ward has come down to seven on Saturday. There were 98 positive patients so far of whom 91 are now recovered and discharged.On Friday, there were 45 active positive patients of whom 38 were discharged on Saturday. However, three of them will be kept in the institutional quarantine and the remaining 35 in home quarantine for another 14 days.Initially there were patients from a pocket of the city which was sealed by the administration. Then it was Ner with three positive patients and Dhanora of Umarkhed with one positive patient. “We took quick steps to declare the Walisaheb Nagar in Ner and village Dhanora as containment areas,” said the district collector MD Singh.“We have collected 76 high and low risk contacts from Ner and 68 from Umarkhed and their swab samples were sent to Nagpur. All of them now tested negative,” said the CS Dr Tarangtushar Warey.Meanwhile, the new born boy baby of the positive mother has tested negative on Saturday. Both the mother and the new born are keeping good health and they are kept in the special isolation ward, informed the HoD of Gynaecology department Dr Rohidas Chauhan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/three-vid-cities-now-have-100-plus-covid-cases-each/articleshow/75782745.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Nagpur||Alarm bells as SARI patients from non-hotspots testing +ve for corona||Nagpur: The fifth Covid-19 victim from Nagpur, a 65-year-old man from Gaddigodam who died at GMCH Covid Hospital on Saturday, neither had travel history nor contact with any positive patient. Admitted on May 14, he was a patient of Severe Acute Respiratory Illness (SARI).Many patients of SARI being reported from non-contamination zones across Vidarbha have also tested positive for Covid-19, causing a major cause for the health authorities.Nagpur has recorded two deaths of SARI patients who tested positive for Covid-19. Out of the 38 victims of Covid-19 in Vidarbha so far, seven were SARI patients — three in Akola, and two each in Amravati and Nagpur. On May 15 alone, four patients of SARI were admitted to GMCH, Nagpur. They included a 65-year-old woman from Hiwari Nagar, 26-year-old youth from Manohar Nagar, 75-year-old man from Surendra Nagar and a man from Ramtek. Fortunately, none of them tested Covid-19 positive on May 16. According to pulmonologist Dr Rajesh Swarnkar, if SARI patients testing positive have no known Covid contact and not coming from hotspot, it signifies that we have community transmission of the disease now. “We are not able to do community surveillance or screening to find out community prevalence of Covid as we still don’t have Rapid Antibody Tests. We probably didn’t do enough testing during lockdown,” he said. If any of the SARI patients from non-hotspot zones tests positive for Covid-19, the entire locality would be declared a contamination zone.This has happened in case of Jawahar Nagar in Manewada. On May 9, a 55-year-old SARI patient from the area tested Covid-19 positive. His family members were quarantined and area was sealed. Two of his close contacts were tested for Covid-19. On May 16, two women from his family tested positive. Now, all three are admitted in Covid hospital. “SARI is one of the most common causes of death. There are many reasons behind SARI. Covid-19 is one of them. Every patient of SARI is tested for Covid-19 as per guidelines. But that doesn’t mean everyone is infected. At Super Specialty Hospital, we are now planning a research on how many SARI patients in Nagpur or Vidarbha are infected with coronavirus and its impact,” said Dr Sushant Meshram, head of department of pulmonary medicine, GMCH Nagpur.As per present guidelines, all hospitalized patients with SARI showing symptoms like fever and cough and or shortness of breath are screened for Covid-19. In Nagpur, more than 55 SARI patients admitted in Mayo and GMCH have been tested for Covid-19. Six of them have tested positive so far. Facts about SARI Only 1.8% of total SARI patients test positive for Covid-19 Covid-19 positivity is higher among males and patients aged above 50 yearsAs per the SOP, all SARI cases in Covid, non-Covid and private hospitals need to be isolatedTests such as random blood sugar, electrocardiogram, chest X-ray, complete blood count, serum creatinine, Truenat/CB-NAAT are conducted If the patient tests negative, he/she is shifted to a non-Covid ward On testing positive, patient is admitted in Covid hospital and treated symptomatically||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/alarm-bells-as-sari-patients-from-non-hotspots-testing-ve-for-corona/articleshow/75782763.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
May 17, 2020||Nagpur||Covid distancing goes for a toss at ration card centre||Nagpur: School teachers called for ration card registration drive were shocked to see blatant violation of Covid distancing guidelines by their peers and other officials. Those who reported to the centre located near Cotton Market said all teachers were clamouring near the main desk, and no officials were present to ensure that crowding does not happen. A group of teachers shared photos and videos from the spot. People can be seen standing very close to each other, sometimes even pushing to reach the desk where their duty specifics were available. “We have been hearing continuously from the government that Covid distancing is to be maintained. But nothing like that was happening at this location — which is being managed by the government itself,” said a teacher. Another teacher said that the summer heat and threat of the virus was making it worse for them. “We teachers are always at the forefront for everything. We are sent for census and elections; this ration card duty is the new addition. We are not sure how it will all be done, as teachers supposedly have to visit door-to-door to get the registrations done,” said the teacher. For those already suffering from diabetes and cardiovascular diseases, there is an increased threat from the virus. A teacher said, “I am a diabetic and have medical records for the past decade to prove this. I reached out to the authorities and explained my health situation, but they refused to entertain my application for relief.”Madhusudhan Mude, president of Headmasters Association (Nagpur district) said, “Teachers are always ready to serve the government. All they expect is that basic facilities be made available to them. There should have been somebody present to ensure enough distance is maintained between teachers. We will definitely take this issue up with the authorities.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/covid-distancing-goes-for-a-toss-at-ration-card-centre/articleshow/75782789.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
May 17, 2020||Nagpur||Sr clerk suspended in Ytl for remaining off-duty sans nod||Yavatmal: A senior clerk designated for disaster management duty in the Mahagaon tehsil office was suspended and later booked on Saturday for remaining absent without any prior intimation or permission.The senior clerk, Arunkumar Ramdas Khaire, is due to superannuate in a year’s time. The senior clerk was missing from his workplace since March 26. The tehsildar served Khaire a show cause notice asking him to explain as to why action shouldn't be taken against him for his wilful absence from his official duty. It is learnt, Khaire had gone to his native place by his private car.Khaire in reply to the notice said, “Should I come flying? Nobody can do any harm to me. If anybody dares to take action, I will opt for VRS etc.” He forwarded the copy of his reply to higher authorities like SDO and district collector. The letter has gone viral on social media.SDO Swapnil Kapadanis suspended Khaire and ordered naib tehsildar Santosh Aadmulwad to file an FIR against the clerk.Aadmulwad on Saturday filed the FIR at Mahagaon police station. Khaire has been booked under the provisions of Disaster Management Act, 2005, and Prevention of Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/sr-clerk-suspended-in-ytl-for-remaining-off-duty-sans-nod/articleshow/75782802.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Nagpur||Rumour over virus attack on tomatoes in Yavatmal||Yavatmal: A rumour regarding ‘virus attack on tomatoes’ has gained currency in the region. Rumour mongers have been spreading messages to the effect that “the most dangerous virus has attacked tomatoes”, terming it "tiranga virus" and calling it deadlier than coronavirus. As per the rumour, if ‘infected tomatoes’ are consumed by humans, it will “endanger their life”. Taking cognisance of the situation, farm activist Manish Jadhav of Mahagaon tehsil has lodged a complaint at the local police station, requesting cops to file an FIR against rumour mongers. "We demand that the agriculture minister clarify this and remove the fear from the minds of people", Jadhav told TOI on Saturday. “Farmers are trapped in an unprecedented financial crisis. Their vegetables are rotting in farms due to the lockdown. The tiranga virus rumour has added fuel to the fire,” Jadhav added. As per Jadhav, Mahagaon tehsil in Yavatmal district is one of the largest tomato-producing areas in the state. Tomato growers took 1.5 quintals of tomatoes to Wardha market on Saturday, but there were no takers for them, leading to heavy loss for farmers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/rumour-over-virus-attack-on-tomatoes-in-yavatmal/articleshow/75782814.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Nagpur||8 foreign returnees quarantined in tony Ytl hotel||Yavatmal: Eight foreign returnees have been quarantined in a posh hotel in the city. According to sources, six of them have returned from UK after a business trip while the two others have returned from Manila of Philippines where they had gone for higher education. They were stranded in the respective countries due to the lockdown. They reportedly hail from Digras and Pusad tehsils of Yavatmal district. They were flown to India by special planes under Central government’s Vande Bharat Mission . As soon as they reached Yavatmal, they were medically examined. Since they have no symptoms of coronavirus, their swab samples were not taken. According to the district collector, they have been put up in a posh hotel from May 13 and would remain there for the next 14 days. If they are not found with the Covid-19 symptoms after the completion of the 14-day quarantine period, they would be allowed to leave.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/8-foreign-returnees-quarantined-in-tony-ytl-hotel/articleshow/75782822.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Kolkata||Cop kills Amdanga brothers over land row||AMDANGA (NORTH 24 PARGANAS): Two brothers in their mid-30s died and three others were injured after a constable from the Bidhannagar commissionerate fired at them around 11.30pm on Friday. Santosh Patra, a special security guard of the ADCP, surrendered at the commissionerate office on Saturday afternoon. His service revolver, from which he reportedly fired 4-5 rounds, was seized. “He will be produced in a Barasat court on Sunday. We suspect a longtime rivalry between two neighbouring families over a land dispute and subsequent alleged molestation led to the murders. The accused will be interrogated after being remanded in police custody,” a senior district officer said. Sources said the shooting took place while five youths, including brothers Sumanta and Arup Mondal, were chatting at the temple courtyard at Taraberia’s Panchanantala after dinner. “Patra was standing at a distance in the dark. He rushed to the youths and threatened the brothers with dire consequences if they did not leave the spot. Following a brawl, Patra whipped out his revolver and fired several rounds at the duo. The three others were also injured while trying to run for cover. Soon after, Patra fled,” a trader said. On hearing shots, residents rushed to the spot to find the brothers lying in a pool of blood. They were rushed to Barasat district hospital with chest and abdomen injuries. Arup was declared brought dead while Sumanta died immediately after being admitted. Sources said Patra and his family were engaged in a feud with the Mondals over a land dispute and other issues. “Both families claimed a farmland at Tentulia. The brothers also allegedly passed lewd comments at Patra’s wife while the Mondals would say Patra made obscene gestures at their wives. A few days ago, the brothers had thrashed Patra after their wives were allegedly molested. Neighbours resolved the issue but we never imagined the constable would kill the brothers for revenge,” a woman said. Barrackpore BJP MP Arjun Singh, who visited the spot on Saturday morning and spoke to the bereaved families, claimed the victims were BJP supporters. “The brothers were active party supporters. We will pay each of the two families Rs 5 lakh and the injured will get Rs 2 lakh. The law-and-order situation in West Bengal has worsened. The shooting apparently proves this. I have demanded an immediate inquiry and exemplary punishment for the killer,” Singh told TOI. Barasat SP Abhijit Banerjee, however, said: “Though the motive behind the murders could not be ascertained, Patra claimed during interrogation that his wife had been sexually assaulted by the victims.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cop-kills-amdanga-brothers-over-land-row/articleshow/75783123.cms||Sanjib Chakraborty
May 17, 2020||Kolkata||Purulia families mourn breadwinners killed in Uttar Pradesh||PURULIA: Milan Baddakar (22) left home in Purulia’s Dumdumi last October to work at a marble factory in Rajasthan so that he could send money for the treatment of his father, a tuberculosis patient. Chandan Rajwar (21), also from Dumdumi, dropped out of college and became a factory worker so that his family wasn’t deprived of two square meals a day. The two young men were among four migrant workers from Purulia killed on their way home in a highway accident near UP’s Auraiya on Saturday that also claimed 20 others. Like Milan and Chandan, Ajit Chandra Mahato (36) and Ganesh Rajwar (28) too worked at the marble factory in Mela area of Jaipur. While Milan and Ganesh had joined last October, Chandan took up the job in September and Ajit in February. Ganesh’s family lives in Jhalmamro in Purulia’s Joypur and Ajit hails from Kotshila in Jhalda. Another worker, identified as Sheikh, from Murshidabad is among the dead. Bereaved family members said the factory stopped operations after the lockdown was announced on March 24. The four men lived at a makeshift shelter on the premises till May 14, but then like hundreds of other migrants decided to walk home. Rajasthan Police arranged a limestone truck to ferry them along with workers from different states. Reports indicate their vehicle rammed into a stationary truck, also ferrying migrants, on NH-19. Milan’s mother Subhashi was inconsolable. “My husband has TB, which is why my son went to Rajasthan to earn Rs 8,000 a month. He sent money home for his father’s treatment. He called us before boarding the truck and now I will never see him again,” she sobbed. Chandan’s brother Debashis said he too worked at the same factory, but returned home in January. “My brother was a BA second year student at JK College when he had to drop out and take up the job for Rs 9,000 a month. He wanted to support the family and now he’s gone. We are numb with shock.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/purulia-families-mourn-breadwinners-killed-in-up/articleshow/75783134.cms||Amit Singh Deo
May 17, 2020||Kolkata||After notification, Ashok Bhattacharya may head civic body||SILIGURI: The West Bengal government issued a fresh notification for Siliguri Municipal Corporation on Saturday, making amends to the members of the board of councillors set up to run essential services after the elected board under mayor Ashok Bhattacharya completes its five-year tenure on Sunday. Bhattacharya, who had refused the chairman’s post on Friday, is now willing to take charge. The new board with Bhattacharya as chairman has seven other mayor-in-council members, in line with the arrangements made for Kolkata Municipal Corporation. The government has dropped the five Trinamool councillors Bhattacharya had objected to, calling it a deviation from the general formula. It followed the Kolkata formula in a host of municipalities such as Jalpaiguri, Tufanganj, Joynagar-Mazilpur, Rampurhat, Uluberia and Gayeshpur. “The state government had a made a difference for Siliguri, sparking a public outcry. It is good the minister has taken back the discriminatory notification. There is a need to continue with municipal services during the pandemic. I spoke to CPM state secretary Surjya Kanta Mishra following Saturday’s development. I am ready to take charge and will work with all concerned, including the opposition,” Bhattacharya said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/after-notification-ashok-may-head-civic-body/articleshow/75783121.cms||Roshan Gupta
May 17, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata shipyard plays key role in evacuation of Indians||KOLKATA: Even as L 57, the latest Landing Craft Utility (LCU) by Garden Reach Shipbuilders and Engineers (GRSE) was being commissioned at Port Blair in the Andamans on Friday, three other warships built by the shipyard in Kolkata came to mind. The INS Magar, INS Airavat and INS Shardul are participating in the evacuation of stranded Indians on foreign shores as part of Op Samudra Setu. All three are amphibious warships of the Navy that are used for beaching as well as Humanitarian Aid and Disaster Relief (HADR) operations. “The roles played by these three warships, along with the INS Jalashwa, have been crucial in providing relief and hope to thousands of Indians waiting to return home amid the worldwide Covid-19 pandemic. While INS Magar and INS Jalashwa evacuated Indians from the Maldives, INS Shardul and INS Airavat travelled to the UAE for this purpose. Earlier this year, INS Shardul sailed to Madagascar with relief materials,” an official in the Navy said. L 57 is seventh in a series of eight LCUs being built by GRSE for the Navy. This was the 103rd ship developed by the shipyard. These LCUs are smaller in size than the INS Magar, Shardul or Airavat, but their role is also extremely crucial for amphibious operations. The design of these Mark-IV LCUs are in-house and they have nearly 90% indigenous content. Their primary role is the transportation and deployment of Main Battle Tanks, armoured vehicles, troops and equipment from ship to shore. These ships can accommodate 216 personnel. “The GRSE now has an order book of nearly Rs 27,000 crore. The defence shipyard, which has delivered the largest number of warships to the Navy and Coast Guard is currently engaged in design and manufacture of advanced vessels like stealth frigates,” a GRSE official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kolkata-shipyard-plays-key-role-in-evacuation-of-indians/articleshow/75783161.cms||Jayanta Gupta
May 17, 2020||Ranchi||Kitchen newbies cook up a storm of injuries||Ranchi: While the stay-home order is helping the health authorities contain the spread of the novel coronavirus, it is also having some unintended consequences: Several amateur cooks hitting the kitchen either out of boredom or for survival are sustaining petty injuries while they chop, mince and fry their way to rustle up their favourite dishes. Just last week, Ranchi-based photographer Shubham Ghosh learnt that cooking isn’t really a snap and paid for picking up the cleaver with a pound of flesh. “The domestic help has not been coming for more than a month. After spending many days delivering essentials to the needy, I decided it was time to take a break and help out my mother in the kitchen. I started by chopping some greens, but ended up in a puddle of blood as I shaved off a chunk of flesh from my palm. While the wound has healed — it has left a nasty scar and the skin is still tender — the ego is yet to recover… I have been banned from any sort of chopping duty,” said the 21-year-old. Many other kitchen newbies have left behind a trail of minor disasters and the aftermath of their mission in the kitchen have made it to the pharmacies, if not the dining table. Isha Gupta (25) wears the ‘Calamity Jane’ badge with a sense of pride and admits the status of her relationship with cooking oil is “complicated at best”. Not a regular with the stove by any stretch of imagination, the Khelgaon-based public relations professional took up cooking with gusto as she tried to keep herself fruitfully engaged while she stayed in. “I cannot count the number of times I have ended up with minor burns while tempering hot oil during the lockdown. Once, the utensil I use had residual and it starts sputtering, giving me a blister on the back of my hand. Another time, I used a wet spoon to temper the oil. It is basic kitchen work, but I made a mess of it,” she said. While pesky burns and small nicks are a part of any session with the stove, a few have come close to causing more extensive damage. Nitesh Singh, a rural development consultant with an NGO, almost set his house on fire while he lolled about in the kitchen. “I have this habit of clicking the lighter absent-mindely all the time. A few weeks ago, I was on the phone while I was trying to hustle up a snack. My roommate came running and said I needed to stop playing with the lighter and reprimanded me for trying to burn the house down,” said the 28-year-old from Niwaranpur locality. It’s easy to forget the kitchen can be a dangerous place, especially for those not used to cooking and distraction mixed with a lack of expertise is a perfect recipe for an accidents. Newbies should take abundant precaution while rustling up a dish or even helping the family clean up the used utensils. Dr Amar Jyoti Bihari advises amateurs to wear gloves while cooking. “Occasional chef should use utensils with longer handles to avoid oil spills. They must also keep in mind that dishwashing soaps are harder than normal ones and could lead to skin irritations for those not used to it. Those helping the family do the dishes should wear gloves to avoid rashes and fungal infections,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/kitchen-newbies-cook-up-a-storm-of-injuries/articleshow/75782019.cms||Debjani Chakraborty
May 17, 2020||Bengaluru||New tech solutions aiding Karnataka’s battle against Covid-19||BENGALURU: The Karnataka State Disaster Management Authority (KSDMA) has developed three technology solutions to tackle the coronavirus crisis. They are: a unified Covid-19 portal, a real-time data collection and monitoring tool, and a ‘crowdsourcing monitoring’ tool for private medical establishments and pharmacies for proactive reporting of cases of influenza-like illness (ILI) and severe acute respiratory infection (SARI). Manoj Rajan, commissioner, disaster management authority said the unified portal, covid19.karnataka.gov.in, had consolidated all information related to the outbreak in one place. It contains statistics, fake-news busters, messages, mobile apps, helpline numbers, analysis by the state war room and details about clinical centres. This portal has a dashboard, which provides analyses of data on positive, discharged and deceased patients along with travel history. It gets periodic updates from the health, information and public relations departments, disaster management authority, and war room. The government has devised a real-time data collection framework, through which information indexed at district, town, panchayat, village and ward levels can be collated and analysed. This deciphering of real-time data helps in making quick decisions in the battle against coronavirus. The Covid monitoring tool registers patient data at various levels, keeping a track of treatment cycles of those who visited fever clinics, quarantine centres, supervised isolation centres and Covid hospitals, test results, and home quarantine cases. In addition to tests and treatment information, consumables, health-case inventory, beds, status and availability of critical equipment such as ventilators and PPEs are also tracked. The crowdsourcing monitoring tool facilitates instant information gathering from 22,800 private medical establishments and over 41,000 drugs stores. “This will help us capture ILI and SARI cases in the state,” Rajan said. “Private medical establishments can log in and report the cases they have treated in the day. This information lead to easy follow-up and tracing of suspect cases.” Drug and pharmacy stores can also use the system to provide details of people buying medicines for flu or cough, so that suspected cases of ILI and SARI can may be proactively traced and treated before complications occur. Meanwhile, monitoring and mapping of migrant workers’ data is being done using a different app.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/new-tech-solutions-aiding-karnatakas-battle-against-covid-19/articleshow/75782619.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand: Tribal man dies as ambulance fails to reach due to lack of road||GUMLA: An Asur tribal died after he was bitten by a snake at Lupungpat village in Chainpur block of Gumla district on Saturday. Unable to get an ambulance due to the absence of road connectivity, locals took Alibus Asura (70) to Chainpur hospital in an autorickshaw, but he had died before he was admitted. His daughter Althesiya Asura, said, “My father was bitten by a krait while he was sleeping. Hw oke up with a start, but soon fell unconscious. We called up the 108 ambulance service, but we were told the vehicle cannot reach our home, located in a hilly area, due to lack of proper roads.” She added, “We were asked to take him down till the foothills of Loramba village, but he died while we were on our way to hospital in autorickshaw from Katkahi village. Had the ambulance reached on time, my father would have been saved.” The Asurs belong to the particularly vulnerable tribal groups.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/tribal-man-dies-as-ambulance-fails-to-reach-due-to-lack-of-road/articleshow/75782063.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata finally on Vande list, 1st flight from Dhaka on Monday||KOLKATA: A day after the state government questioned why the Centre was not allotting rep-atriation flights to Kolkata under Vande Bharat Mission so that citizens from Bengal stranded overseas could return, the civil aviation ministry announced the first flight between Kolkata and Dhaka on Monday. “An Air India flight, an Airbus 321, will depart Kolkata at 9.30am for Dhaka with Bangladeshi nationals. The return flight will reach Kolkata around noon with 169 Indians stranded in Dhaka,” a Kolkata airport official said. Sources in the airline said the fare for the 40-minute flight is around Rs 8,000. On Friday, the Bengal government and the ministry of external affairs were engaged in a Twitter spat with the MEA, which in reply to the state’s charge of non-cooperation, claimed it was still awaiting the state’s nod to repatriate 3,700 international fliers to Kolkata. In response, the state home secretary uploaded letters the state had sent to the Centre stating that it had made all necessary arrangements to receive the fliers. The maiden flight has raised hopes of more such repatriation to Kolkata from other cities across the world where people from Bengal and other states in the east are stranded. Parents of students in the UK and Singapore have again pleaded with the government to facilitate flights so that their children can return home. Travel Agents Federation of India chairman (east) Anil Punajbi said repatriation flights should operate to Kolkata from London, Dubai, Singapore and Bangkok as there were several hundred from Kolkata and other cities in the region who are stranded abroad. Punjabi claimed with both students and tourists from Bengal stuck in different parts of the world, the number awaiting repatriation to Bengal would be much higher than the 3,700 quoted by the MEA in its tweet on Friday “There are around 700 Indians in medical colleges in Dhaka, around 300 from Kolkata alone. Five of us received a commmunique from the Indian high commission to book tickets. Others are anxiously awaiting their turn,” said Sounak Ghosh, a third year student at Delta Medical College who will be on board the Dhaka-Kolkata flight. Ghosh, who lives in Kalyani, borrowed 10,000 taka to buy the flight ticket.All those fly in are required to get into compulsory institution quarantine for 14 days; home quarantine is not an option. The returnees can either pay and get quarantined at earmarked hotels or opt for free quarantine at government facilities. The state government, which had earlier reserved 750-odd hotel rooms for quarantine, has asked the Hotel and Restaurant Association of Eastern India to add another 650 rooms to the quarantine inventory to prepare for a large number of returnees from abroad. “The additional 650 rooms will be in luxury hotels like Taj Bengal, Hyatt Regency, Novotel, Swissôtel, Vedic Village Spa Resort, The Elgin Fairlawn, Lemon Tree Premier, Ibis Kolkata, The Sonnet Kolkata, and Pipal Tree. We have negotiated a discounted rate of over 50%,” said HRAEI secretary Sudesh Poddar. The tariff will include meals. Earlier, Lalit Great Eastern, Holiday Inn, Pride Plaza, Westin, Stadel, Vivanta and Fairfield by Marriot had agreed to rent rooms for paid quarantine service. State home secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay, on Saturday said, those opting for hotel quarantine could hire app cab services at the airport to travel to the hotel while those who wish to stay at government quarantine centres for free will be transported to the facility by bus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/city-finally-on-vande-list-1st-flight-from-dhaka-on-mon/articleshow/75783173.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Ranchi||Pan IIT to set up Covid-19 test labs in 3 new med colleges||Daltonganj: The state government has roped in Pan IIT Alumni India (Pan IIT), an umbrella organisation representing the alumni of all the Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs) in the country, to set up three Covid-19 testing labs in the three newly established medical colleges in Palamu, Hazaribag and Dumka. An MoU has been signed in this regard between Pan IIT (Alumni Reach For Jharkhand Foundation) and NRHM, Jharkhand, earlier this week for the purpose, the state health department said. The MoU, a copy of which is with TOI, said an understanding has been reached to set up bio-safety II/III labs, which will have facilities to test the virus, in the three medical colleges. Chief project officer of PAN IIT of the Jharkhand chapter, Meenakshi Kumar, said, “We visited Palamu Medical College and Hospital (PMCH) two days ago to begin the ground work for setting up of the lab. PMCH principal J R Prasad has done the basics very well and now our team will set up a virology test lab. We are also setting up similar labs in Dumka and Hazaribag medical colleges and hospitals. If all goes well, the labs will be ready within a month.” Kumar added that their job is restricted to setting up of the labs while the government will rope in another agency for the diagnostic tests. Prasad said, “A team of Pan IIT came to our college a few days ago and inspected the hall where a test lab is to be set up. All necessary arrangements are in place for the purpose.” Currently, only four government-run labs are functional for Covid-19 tests, of which two in Ranchi (Rims and Itki), MGM (Jamshedpur) and PMCH (Dhanbad). Three private hospitals, namely Medica (Ranchi), TMH (Jamshedpur) and BGH (Bokaro), are likely to begin tests soon. Moreover, the state government has given its approval to four private diagnostic centres to collect samples and conduct tests.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/pan-iit-to-set-up-covid-19-test-labs-in-3-new-med-colleges/articleshow/75781997.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Bengaluru||10,000 waiting to return to Dakshina Kannada from Mumbai||Mangaluru: About 10,000 people from Dakshina Kannada are part of the hotel industry in Mumbai, and they want to now return to Karnataka. Mumbai has reported a high number of coronavirus infections and a strict lockdown is in effect there. Many hotel employees are out of work and struggling. Avinash Pol, a member of a group that’s trying to help stranded natives of Karnataka, has written to Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, seeking his intervention. “People from the coast are among the most well-mannered. For nearly two months, they have waiting for permission from the Dakshina Kannada administration to return home. Associated with the hotel industry, most of them are jobless,” said Avinash, who hails from Belagavi. “Mangalureans from Navi Mumbai, Mumbai suburbs, Kalyan and Thane have approached us for help. They are drained physically and mentally and are worried about their safety.” The group has helped people return to Vijayapura and Belagavi. “We urge the Dakshina Kannada administration to grant permission to those waiting at the earliest,” he said. Satish Kotian, a hotel manager in Chembur, Mumbai, said the situation was very challenging for the industry. “The city is densely populated and maintaining social distance is a challenge. Hotels may remain closed for a longer time. There are six families from Belthangady waiting for permits to go back home. We have also approached local MLA Harish Poonja for help,” he said. Most of the workers don’t have vehicles and public transport is shut in Mumbai. “Special travel arrangements would have to be made. But spending over 20 hours in a bus is not advisable at this point,” Kotian said. Dakshina Kannada deputy commissioner Sindhu B Rupesh said as institutional quarantine was mandatory for all returnees, passes were being cleared in phases. The maximum number of applications for interstate movement is from Maharashtra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/10000-waiting-to-return-to-dakshina-kannada-from-mumbai/articleshow/75783008.cms||Deepthi Sanjiv
May 17, 2020||Mangaluru||Old-timers in Mangaluru recount smallpox outbreak||MANGALURU: The dramatic steps taken to combat Covid-19 across the world have introduced almost three generations to the implications of what living life in a ‘quarantine’ entails. Words such as isolation and containment, along with quarantine, will be definitive terms associated with the experience of the young. However, for thousands of elderly citizens in their 70s and 80s in the country, quarantine, without the term hardly ever used, was an essential part of their growing-up years; the disease they dreaded was small pox. In the 1940s through the 1970s, Urwa Market, now incorporated within the city limits of Mangaluru, lay on the outskirts of the coastal town, and it was here that around 25 sheds were erected to house those suffering from small pox. A solitary shed still remains, a visible reminder of those terrifying times. The Karnataka state gazetteer, published in 1971, shows that the region was struck by cholera, small pox, malaria and many other fevers. Although cholera accounted for more fatalities, the administration quarantined only those who had small pox. “People in infected areas are inoculated, and are advised against entertaining relatives and friends. Most cases are coming chiefly from adjoining districts and Bombay,” the gazetteer noted. In 1945, the small pox epidemic claimed the lives of 254 in the erstwhile South Kanara district, while the number dropped to 49 in ’59, to 41 in ’60 before ultimately coming down to zero in ’70. Former corporator and secretary of Besant Institutions Devananda Pai, 68, recalled days from his boyhood when Urwa Market was forbidden territory. “A thrashing awaited us at home if we ventured there. Those who were quarantined were largely thought of as being on their deathbeds. Most people who were isolated did not reunite with their families,” Pai added. Christine Lobo, who will turn 100 on June 24, recalled her father telling her about the epidemic sweeping through Kulashekar in 1890. “My father told me that small pox claimed lives every day in Kulashekar. The then parish priest Father Alexander Dubois, who presided over the final rites, would be forced to dig the graves himself when he could not find anyone to do so. Since I lived in Chikkamagaluru in the 1940s, I never caught small pox, though I have suffered from malaria,” Christine said. Jessy Castelino, 74, wife of former mayor PM Castelino, was a class VIII student when the small pox epidemic struck the district. “I lived in Kinnigoli, around 30km from Mangaluru. It was a small town but was shut for eight days, and were not even allowed to go outside and play,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/old-timers-in-mangaluru-recount-smallpox-outbreak/articleshow/75782919.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Ranchi||H’bag pvt hospital sealed after two new moms test +ve||Hazaribag: The Srinivas Hospital, which was attending to maternity cases after Hazaribag Medical College and Hospital (HMCH) was converted into a Covid-19 facility, was sealed on Friday night after two patients — who had delivered babies on Thursday — tested positive for coronavirus, the deputy commissioner said on Saturday. All the 44 staff at the hospital, including para medics and doctors, have been put in a 14-day quarantine. Deputy commissioner Bhuvanesh Pratap Singh said, “The existing patients of the hospital are being shifted to HMCH and to a private hospital named Life Care.” He added, “The two women are being treated at HMCH at the moment and they are both stable.” The DC further said that both the women’s husbands are migrants who returned to the district a few weeks ago. “Our teams have taken their samples and of their other family members. We have also sealed the areas where they live, which falls within the protocol for containment measures,” he added. The DC said that with rise in Covid-19 figures in Hazaribag — which falls in the green zone now — mostly because of the migrants, the district may get into the red zone soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/hbag-pvt-hospital-sealed-after-two-new-moms-test-ve/articleshow/75782029.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Bengaluru||Spike in coronavirus cases at Shivajinagar worries health officials||BENGALURU: As 14 new coronavirus infections were reported in Shivajinagar’s Chandni Chowk locality on Saturday, taking the area’s tally to 30, one question troubled some health officials. Will Shivajinagar go the Padarayanapura way or is the situation under control? Padarayanapura, whose demography is similar to that of Shivajinagar, has reported 54 cases so far, and faces the risk of a potential community transmission. Health experts with the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) insisted that things were under control in in Shivajinagar. “All the 30 cases reported in Shivajinagar are linked to 73 residents, who stay in an already sealed four-storeyed building in Chandni Chowk area. Unlike in Padarayanapura, the transmission of virus in Shivajinagar has happened from a single source, and primary and secondary contacts are confined to the building,” a BBMP official said. The residents of the building came under the scanner after one occupant, a man, tested positive. The man, Karnataka’s Covid-19 patient number 653, worked in a hotel where a nurse with the infection had been quarantined. The nurse worked at a private hospital, where a doctor contracted the infection from a patient with severe acute respiratory syndrome. “Except the doctor and the nurse, all others who have turned positive for Covid-19 in Shivajinagar are from the same building and are neighbours of Patient number 653,” the official said. Dr Siddappaji, a senior health official with BBMP, said 73 contacts of the patient had been under a watch. “Chandni Chowk Road was sealed, and we quarantined and tested the 73 contacts according to the protocol. The weekend spike in Covid-19 cases only confirms that our contract tracing and quarantine efforts have been effective,” Dr Siddappaji said. But he said the situation would have be monitored closely. “These secondary contacts could have set off an infection trail,” he added. As Shivajinagar has a much bigger network of lanes and bylanes and cheek-by-jowl tenements than Padarayanapura, BBMP will step up surveillance to identify people vulnerable to Covid-19, he said. Buildings on and off Chandini Chowk Road are separated by barely a feet and every house has at least half a dozen residents, which makes it difficult to enforce social distancing, according to chief health officer Dr Vijayendra B.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/spike-in-coronavirus-cases-at-shivajinagar-worries-health-officials/articleshow/75782968.cms||Nithya Mandyam
May 17, 2020||Kolkata||Humble hand-pulled rickshaws turn saviour in Kolkata’s containment zones||Meena Poddar, who has stayed in Posta all her life, always thought hand-pulled rickshaws were irrelevant in modern Kolkata. But when her mother suffered from food poisoning last week, she struggled to rush her to hospital as cabs were not available. A hand-pulled rickshaw came to her rescue. Anil Singh, who had stopped boarding the hand-pulled rickshaw several years ago, has been using it to ferry LPG cylinders after the delivery boy refused to carry it to his residence on Madan Mohan Burman Street, a containment zone. The humble hand-pulled rickshaw, a form of transport on its last legs and sometimes referred to as a symbol of India’s colonial past, has suddenly become a saviour for locked-down Kolkata as the city gropes for last-mile transport solutions in response to an unforeseen emergency situation. Bodies glistening with sweat in the wilting heat, the frail and tanned rickshaw pullers are taking the sick to hospitals, hauling LPG cylinders and ferrying essential supplies to households. In many pockets of the city, where several cases of Covid-19 have been detected, hand-pulled rickshaws are now the only mode of transport. “I realised the importance of these rickshaws when my mother fell ill. I didn’t know how to take her to the hospital as cabs are not plying. I thought the rickshaw puller would charge double the fare, but I was surprised when he not only asked for the actual fare but also offered to wait outside till a doctor checked my mother,” said Poddar. A cop in central Kolkata said rickshaws have come to their rescue too as people were dialling local police stations requesting to ferry a sick person to hospital or fetch an LPG cylinder. Sniffing business opportunity in these times of hardship, the rickshaw pullers reach the markets in central and north central parts of the city early in the morning, their faces wrapped in masks. “People are now purchasing in bulk due to lockdown. They cannot carry so much themselves and use our services. We are also earning some money,” said Raju Paswan, a rickshaw puller outside Tiretta Market in central Kolkata. “I have helped ferry so many people to clinics and hospitals for food poisoning and other ailments. Even though it’s my job, people have thanked me profusely and even tipped me, which shows how helpless they are in the current situation,” said Mohammad Islam, a rickshaw puller in Bowbazar. Close to 1,000 hand-pulled rickshaws still ply in pockets of central and north Central Kolkata even though issue of licences stopped in the mid-1990s. In the past few decades, there have been cries of banning this “inhuman” mode of transport. But every time the city’s streets are flooded during monsoons, or a natural or man-made calamity strikes, this non-mechanised and non-polluting mode of transport comes to the rescue of citizens. “These rickshaw pullers are also frontline Covid warriors because they are ferrying the sick and entering dangerous zones to deliver groceries and LPG cylinders when others are refusing to do it. We request the police to let them ply as they are a lifeline in the time of pandemic. When this phase is over, the government must think about providing better working conditions to the rickshaw-pullers,” said Mukhtar Ali of the All Bengal Rickshaw Union.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/humble-hand-pulled-rickshaws-turn-saviour-in-citys-containment-zones/articleshow/75783189.cms||Zeeshan Javed
May 17, 2020||Kolkata||Mamata Banerjee to railyways: Will bear cost of bringing migrants home||KOLKATA: The state government would bear the entire cost of Bengal-bound Shramik Special trains ferrying stranded migrants back home, CM Mamata Banerjee announced on Saturday. Banerjee tweeted her government’s decision “to bear the entire cost of movement of our migrant workers by special trains from other states”. The Bengal government’s letter to the Railway Board, informing the latter of the decision, puts to rest the recent debate over sharing the cost of transport(85% by the centre and the remaining 15% by either the state government or the passenger). The state home department on Saturday also announced Rs 2 lakh as compensation for the families of each of the four migrants from Bengal who died in a truck accident in Uttar Pradesh early on Saturday. The Bengal government has been vocal about the centre’s “lack of concern for the plight of migrants” and “the inhuman conditions they have had to endure” in their cross-country journey back to their home states. State home secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay said a few lakh people had applied to return to Bengal, of whom more than 1.1 lakh had already come back home. “We have provided 24,000 entry passes to people who want to return at their own cost,” he said. “The Bengal government has been negotiating with other states. Special measures have been taken for people who are coming from states with high infection numbers (like Maharashtra, Gujarat, Delhi, Tamil Nadu and Karnataka),” state home secretary Alapan Bandyopadhayay said. “Medical screening takes time. This has led to clogging of border check points at some places. We are planning to de-congest the borders by setting up multiple screening centres,” he added. Banerjee’s decision to bring back Bengal migrants free of cost got her praise the CPM. “We convey our thanks to the CM and request her to expedite the process,” CPMstate secretary Surjya Kanta Mishra tweeted. The Bengal BJP, however, felt the state government needed to requisition more trains on a daily basis. “The centre has done its duty. The state too needs to do something,” state BJP leader Sayantan Basu said. Trinamool senior and education minister Partha Chatterjee responded by saying the “vocal for local” PM should arrange for special flights for ferrying migrant workers home.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/didi-to-rlys-will-bear-cost-of-bringing-migrants-home/articleshow/75783172.cms||Saibal Gupta
May 17, 2020||Kolkata||Hooghly residents can log in from today||KOLKATA: The West Bengal government has decided to resume internet services in Hooghly from Sunday. Advocate general Kishore Dutta submitted the plan to the high court in response to a PIL by two lawyers. At a video conference hearing on Saturday, Dutta apprised a division bench of Chief Justice TBN Radhakrishnan and Justice Arijit Banerjee that the state was not going to extend the internet ban and resume services in the district from Sunday. Lawyers Soumavo Mukherjee and Priyanka Tibrewal had filed the PIL against the state decision to suspend internet services in the district following violence in Chandernagore’s Telenipara. Meanwhile, Hooghly Police initiated cases against BJP lawmakers Arjun Singh and Locket Chatterjee on Saturday. They have been charged with criminal intimidation, statement conducting public mischief and forgery to harm reputation, and asked to appear before the investigating officer at Chandernagore police commissionerate on May 22. “Police have lodged 74 cases against me since I left Trinamool Congress. I am not bothered by these things. They stopped me again today when I was going to visit the residence of two party workers who were brutally killed in Amdanga,” Singh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/hooghly-residents-can-log-in-from-today/articleshow/75783120.cms||---
May 17, 2020||World||Rwandan genocide suspect arrested in France after 25 years on the run||PARIS: Felicien Kabuga, one of the world's most wanted men, the alleged chief financier of the 1994 genocide in Rwanda was arrested in France on Saturday. The 84-year-old businessman was caught in Paris after more than 25 years on the run, The New York Times reported. "It is historical on many levels," Rwandan's justice minister, Johnston Busingye was quoted as saying by NYT. "You can run, but you cannot hide. It can't be forever." He was indicted by the international criminal tribunal in 1997 for inciting and financing the killings of some 800,000 minority ethnic Tutsis and moderate Hutus. A tribunal official said that Kabuga, who was living under a false identity, had been tracked down in France following the suspect's communications with family members. "The Secretary-General welcomes today's arrest of Felicien Kabuga, in Paris, who has been sought by the International Residual Mechanism for Criminal Tribunals [IRMCT] since 2013 for genocide and crimes against humanity," UN chief Antonio Guterres' spokesperson said. The UN chief said Kabuga's arrest sent a powerful message that people who committed such crimes would eventually be held accountable, even more than a quarter of a century later. He is expected to be transferred to the Hague-based IRMCT, where he will stand trial.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/europe/rwandan-genocide-suspect-arrested-in-france-after-25-years-on-the-run/articleshow/75783301.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Jamshedpur||East Singhbhum administration on toes after four test Covid-19 positive in last five days||JAMSHEDPUR: With samples of four migrants, who returned to East Singhbhum since May 8, testing positive for Covid-19 after the results started coming in from Tuesday, the district administration has embarked on a drive to ensure strict implementation of the lockdown. DC Ravi Shankar Shukla said, “People’s cooperation is a must in fighting the infection and I once again request all citizens to follow social distancing norms, wash hands regularly and not to venture out of their homes unnecessarily.” Shukla along with SSP Tamil Vanan visited market places, including Mango haat, Idgah maidan bazaar, and requested vegetable vendors and fruit sellers to wear protective masks and sanitize their place of work before resuming the day’s business. Shopkeepers have also been asked to abide by the daily allotted time frame on opening and closing their shops. Besides, consumers have been urged to follow social distancing norms and avoid crowding at public places. The two officials later visited inter-state, inter-district and intra-district checkpoints to check the arrangements personally and issue necessary direction to officials, manning the checkpoints. They instructed the personnel on duty to keep an eye on every person who arrives from other states and adjoining districts to ensure that they are properly scanned. Sukhla directed all block development officers to prepare a list of people who have arrived to the district from red zone areas of different states. The two officials also visited the quarantine centers at Chakulia and Kadma. They instructed the district surveillance team to monitor people staying at the institutional quarantine centres and keep updates on migrants put under home quarantine. The latest person infected by the virus in the district is a 30-year-old migrant from Patamda block. He was at the Musaboni quarantine centre after his arrival to the district on May 13 from the Hatia railway station in Ranchi. He had arrived on a Shramik special train from Chennai. The migrant tested positive on Friday and has been shifted to the Covid ward of TMH.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/east-singhbhum-admin-on-toes-after-4-test-positive-in-last-five-days/articleshow/75782049.cms||B Sridhar
May 17, 2020||India||2 firms get govt nod to produce desi swabs for cheaper Covid-19 test kits||NEW DELHI: India has started manufacturing indigenous swabs for Covid-19 testing, with two firms —Tulips and a Mumbai-based Micro, Small and Medium Enterprise (MSME) — getting a green signal from the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) and the National Institute for Virology in Pune. The swabs — used for collection of oral and throat samples from patients — will cost one-tenth of the imported swabs currently in use, bringing down the cost of Covid-19 testing. The firms started manufacturing polyester-spun swabs after getting the nod earlier this month. At present, imported nylon-flocked and viscose swabs are part of the viral transport medium (VTM) kits used for Covid-19 testing. The swabs imported from US and China cost between Rs 20 and Rs 30 apiece. But even their supply started drying up in last week of April. The desi polyester swabs will cost between Rs 1.4 and Rs 3.5 each. Rahul Jain, co-owner of Suparshva, Tulips, told TOI, “Until March, we were just a personal hygiene company. In the second week of April, we were asked by the government if we could make indigenous swabs for Covid-19 testing. Within 10 days, we converted a small part of our 20-million cotton earbud capacity unit in Ghaziabad for polyester swabs. Since May 5, we have dispatched 3.6 million swabs to VTM manufacturers.” This could help VTM manufacturers expand testing and produce cheaper kits. “Local production of swabs can reduce cost of testing while increasing its spread,” said Vishal G Warke, director, R&D cell culture, HiMedia Viral Transport Media. Meanwhile, Adi Enterprises, which manufactures ear buds for Johnson and Johnson, also started production of swabs on May 6. Sandeep Makkar, managing director, Johnson and Johnson Medical India, told TOI that for the Made-in-India swabs, Reliance provided the raw material and Johnson & Johnson India provided pro-bono scientific expertise and R&D. “Manufacturing of the test swabs in a record seven days from conceptualisation to production under the Make-In India initiative required ingenuity and rapid action.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/2-firms-get-govt-nod-to-produce-desi-swabs-for-cheaper-covid-19-test-kits/articleshow/75783445.cms||Rohan Dua
May 17, 2020||Noida||Noida: ASP’s social media account hacked||GREATER NOIDA: Cyber criminals have been booked for allegedly hacking a social media account of an IPS trainee posted in Gautam Budh Nagar and making urgent demands for money from his relatives. The complainant informed the cyber police on Saturday and after that, an FIR was registered. Rahul Bhati, a 2018-batch IPS officer, is posted at Jarcha as an assistant superintendent of police (ASP). In his complaint, he said that some of his relatives informed him that they were getting some messages from his social media account asking them to make immediate transfers of up to Rs 5 lakh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/asps-social-media-account-hacked/articleshow/75782894.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Ghaziabad||Ghaziabad: No ambulance, woman dies of burn injuries||GHAZIABAD: A Loni resident had to allegedly run to a nearby hospital carrying his wife, who had suffered burn injuries, as no ambulance arrived at the spot even after 20 minutes of calling the helpline. The woman was subsequntly referred to another hospital, but she died before she could be shifted there. A video, in which some police personnel can be seen patrolling the area but are not helping the man who could be seen trying to save his wife, has been doing the rounds on social media. Electrician Vinay Pathak’s wife Sushma (33) allegedly set herself on fire after pouring kerosene on herself in the bathroom of her house on Friday following an argument with Vinay. “Around 11 am, I was offering prayers when some neighbours came and told me that smoke was bellowing out of my bathroom window. When I went there, I found Sushma surrounded by flames. I managed to take her out of the bathroom,” said Vinay. “I called for an ambulance. But even after 20 minutes, it did not come. I wrapped her in a bedsheet and then started running towards a nearby hospital. There the doctors referred her to GTB hospital in Delhi. But she died soon after,” Vinay said. In the video, some cops can be seen seated inside a PRV near Vinay’s house. Sanjeev Kumar, the head commander of the PRV told his senior that they did not interfere, as the hospital was 100-150 m away and it takes hardly a couple of minutes to reach. SP (rural) Neeraj Kumar Jadaun said a probe is on. “Action will be taken after the investigation,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/no-ambulance-woman-dies-of-burn-injuries/articleshow/75784144.cms||Avishek Kumar Dubey
May 17, 2020||Noida||Ghaziabad: No ambulance, woman dies of burn injuries||GHAZIABAD: A Loni resident had to allegedly run to a nearby hospital carrying his wife, who had suffered burn injuries, as no ambulance arrived at the spot even after 20 minutes of calling the helpline. The woman was subsequntly referred to another hospital, but she died before she could be shifted there. A video, in which some police personnel can be seen patrolling the area but are not helping the man who could be seen trying to save his wife, has been doing the rounds on social media. Electrician Vinay Pathak’s wife Sushma (33) allegedly set herself on fire after pouring kerosene on herself in the bathroom of her house on Friday following an argument with Vinay. “Around 11 am, I was offering prayers when some neighbours came and told me that smoke was bellowing out of my bathroom window. When I went there, I found Sushma surrounded by flames. I managed to take her out of the bathroom,” said Vinay. “I called for an ambulance. But even after 20 minutes, it did not come. I wrapped her in a bedsheet and then started running towards a nearby hospital. There the doctors referred her to GTB hospital in Delhi. But she died soon after,” Vinay said. In the video, some cops can be seen seated inside a PRV near Vinay’s house. Sanjeev Kumar, the head commander of the PRV told his senior that they did not interfere, as the hospital was 100-150 m away and it takes hardly a couple of minutes to reach. SP (rural) Neeraj Kumar Jadaun said a probe is on. “Action will be taken after the investigation,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/no-ambulance-woman-dies-of-burn-injuries/articleshow/75782907.cms||Avishek Kumar Dubey
May 17, 2020||Ghaziabad||Indirapuram SHO faces action over Auraiya accident||GHAZIABAD: Amit Khate, the SHO of Indirapuram police station, has been suspended in the wake of the Auraiya road accident that claimed the lives of at least 24 migrant workers in the early hours of Saturday. Officials said the SHO was suspended after it came to light that one of the heavy vehicles — a supply lorry — involved in the accident had passed through Makanpur area in Indirapuram, with 16 migrant workers on board. A larger trailer truck carrying some 50 people had rammed the lorry from behind. Kalanidhi Naithani, SSP of Ghaziabad, said action has been taken against Khate following the chief minister’s order. “A departmental enquiry will also be initiated against the Indirapuram SHO,” he said. Ajay Shankar Pandey, the district magistrate, said he had clearly instructed the police to ensure that no migrant worker leave the district on foot or in any vehicle. “I had told the police to send migrant workers to shelter homes till buses or trains are arranged to send them to their hometown,” he said. “SHOs in Ghaziabad have been told that they would be held responsible in case of any violation of the DM’s order. The city magistrate and transport department have also been asked to make a team for checking all trucks passing through the district,” Pandey said. Sources said that preliminary investigation also revealed that some migrant workers had hired the supply truck from Delhi to return to Sagar district in MP. Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath early on Saturday ordered the suspension of two station house officers (SHOs) and sought an explanation from senior police officials in Agra and Mathura in connection with the accident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/indirapuram-sho-faces-action-over-auraiya-accident/articleshow/75784138.cms||Avishek Kumar Dubey
May 17, 2020||Noida||Indirapuram SHO faces action over Auraiya accident||GHAZIABAD: Amit Khate, the SHO of Indirapuram police station, has been suspended in the wake of the Auraiya road accident that claimed the lives of at least 24 migrant workers in the early hours of Saturday. Officials said the SHO was suspended after it came to light that one of the heavy vehicles — a supply lorry — involved in the accident had passed through Makanpur area in Indirapuram, with 16 migrant workers on board. A larger trailer truck carrying some 50 people had rammed the lorry from behind. Kalanidhi Naithani, SSP of Ghaziabad, said action has been taken against Khate following the chief minister’s order. “A departmental enquiry will also be initiated against the Indirapuram SHO,” he said. Ajay Shankar Pandey, the district magistrate, said he had clearly instructed the police to ensure that no migrant worker leave the district on foot or in any vehicle. “I had told the police to send migrant workers to shelter homes till buses or trains are arranged to send them to their hometown,” he said. “SHOs in Ghaziabad have been told that they would be held responsible in case of any violation of the DM’s order. The city magistrate and transport department have also been asked to make a team for checking all trucks passing through the district,” Pandey said. Sources said that preliminary investigation also revealed that some migrant workers had hired the supply truck from Delhi to return to Sagar district in MP. Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath early on Saturday ordered the suspension of two station house officers (SHOs) and sought an explanation from senior police officials in Agra and Mathura in connection with the accident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/indirapuram-sho-faces-action-over-auraiya-accident/articleshow/75782914.cms||Avishek Kumar Dubey
May 17, 2020||World||Obama criticises coronavirus response in online graduation speech||WASHINGTON: Former President Barack Obama on Saturday criticised some officials overseeing the coronavirus response, telling college graduates in an online commencement address that the pandemic shows many officials "aren't even pretending to be in charge.” Obama spoke on "Show Me Your Walk, HBCU Edition," a two-hour livestreaming event for historically black colleges and universities broadcast on YouTube, Facebook and Twitter. His remarks were surprisingly political and touched on current events beyond the virus and its social and economic impacts. “More than anything, this pandemic has fully, finally torn back the curtain on the idea that so many of the folks in charge know what they're doing," he said. “A lot them aren't even pretending to be in charge.” Obama did not name President Donald Trump or any other federal or state officials. As he congratulated graduates and commiserated over the difficult world they face, the former president noted the February shooting death of Ahmaud Arbery, 25, who was killed while jogging on a residential street in Georgia. “Let's be honest: A disease like this just spotlights the underlying inequalities and extra burdens that black communicates have historically had to deal with in this country," Obama said. "We see it in the disproportionate impact of Covid-19 on our communities, just as we see it when a black man goes for a jog and some folks feel like they can stop and question and shoot him if he doesn't submit to their questioning.” Obama will also deliver a televised prime-time commencement address later Saturday for the high school Class of 2020 during an hour-long event that will also feature LeBron James, Malala Yousafzai and Ben Platt, among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/obama-criticises-coronavirus-response-in-online-graduation-speech/articleshow/75783502.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Gurgaon||Lack of hands, strike: Why wheat procurement hit hurdle in Haryana||GURUGRAM: Having hit several hurdles in the past 25 days, Haryana has been able to procure around 65% of the wheat from mandis but facilitated only 29% of payments to middlemen and farmers. This is in sharp contrast to the situation in Punjab, where wheat procurement is almost double that of Haryana despite the hurdles being similar. Both Haryana and Punjab had been battling the same set of challenges in the procurement process — shortage of workers, restrictions on transportation and limited entry of farmers to mandis. Though the plan of response was similar, too, Punjab managed to iron out differences much faster than its neighbour. The difference in approach lay in the coordination with middlemen, management of workers and the resultant support from agents, said farmers’ unions. “It’s (Haryana’s) a clear case of mismanagement and lack of planning. Tussle with commission agents, lifting issues, shortage of labourers and non-payment, among others, have been major failures this season. Also, many of the mandis are not functional,” said Rajiv Godra of the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee. Initial effortsDespite a staggered start amid challenges brought in by the lockdown, Punjab was relatively quicker in addressing its issues. With social distancing and other safety protocols in place, Punjab increased the number of procurement centres — around 280 for mustard and close to 1,800 for wheat. This made it easier for farmers to visit the mandis and the footfall, too, was divided evenly. School grounds, stadiums, rice mills and other such public places were converted into procurement centres. Helplines were activated for updates on timing and the location of procurement and token system introduced for farmers. It is only now that the Haryana government has picked up pace in its procurement process. “Wheat procurement has been happening under extremely challenging circumstances. We had been preparing for this. First, the meri fasal, mera bora scheme helped us in mapping the farmers in the state. After that, the number of procurement centres was increased four times. Through helpline numbers, our officials ensured the proper arrival of farmers, quick auctioning, lifting and payment to the arhtiyas. Yes, there were some initial challenges but we overcame all of that. Today, we are in a position where 6.6 million metric tonnes of wheat has been procured,” Haryana additional chief secretary (agriculture and farmers’ welfare and cooperation) Sanjeev Kaushal said. ChallengesDespite these efforts, the procurement exercise left many a farmers and arhtiyas disgruntled in the state. Differences in the approach of the Punjab and Haryana governments were evident from the beginning itself. While Punjab began procurement from April 15, Haryana started it five days later. Only a few days into the exercise, procurement came to a halt in Haryana. From shortage of labourers to repeated strikes by arhtiyas, and from tardy lifting of produce from the mandis to the failure of the government in keeping its promise of a 72-hour payment window, procurement hit several hurdles. The process hit the first roadblock when the government sought to bring in transparency in the minimum support price. The move was strongly opposed by the commission agents, who feared losing control over the farmers. In Punjab, however, the government used the network of the arhtiyas to fix issues of shortage of labourers and ensure farmers arrived at the mandis in a systematic manner. In Haryana, wheat purchase had to be stopped for several days until the government bowed down and went for a compromise with the middlemen. The state government wanted to tweak the system of paying the middlemen first and then the farmers. It, instead, wanted to pay the farmers directly and sought to settle the dues of the middlemen later. The decision triggered a three-day strike by the middlemen and the entire procurement had to be stopped. A sudden spell of rain coupled with staggered lifting of produce from the mandis also hit farmers hard. A portion of the wheat that got drenched in the rain affected the weighing process as moisture content in the grain had increased. “Those who had good connections with officials didn’t suffer, but marginal farmers had to let go 3-4kg from every 50kg sack. It was mismanagement on the part of the administration, but it is the farmers who had to pay the penalty,” said Dharambir Singh of All India Kisan Sabha. Lifting of crop from the mandis is managed by Hafed and Haryana Warehousing Corporation (HWC). They, in turn, have over 450 contractors to take the produce to warehouses. This time, however, the contractors have pleaded helplessness in providing timely services due to the shortage of labourers. Moreover, despite the Haryana government’s promise of paying arthiyas and farmers within 72 hours of procurment, only 29% of the payments have been processed so far. The 23,000 registered arhtiyas in the state have raised a demand of Rs 12, 372 crore, but only Rs 3, 709 crore has been made so far to over 12,500 middlemen. PK Das, additional chief secretary (food, civil supplies and consumer affairs), said, “We wanted to bring transparency and give greater control to farmer over the price of their produce. Arhtiyas took it the other way round and feared disruption of their networking with farmers. We negotiated with them as transparency cannot be done away with. Also, lifting was an issue due to shortage of workers. But we have fixed that now. About 40-45 lakh tonnes of wheat had been lifted till Wednesday.” Asked about the delay in payments, Das said, “We have come up with hybrid system to make payments. All payments till April 25 have been cleared. Payments for the produce purchased between April 26 and May 5 is being facilitated and will be completed in couple of days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/lack-of-hands-strike-why-wheat-procurement-hit-hurdle-in-haryana/articleshow/75783039.cms||Siddharth Tiwari
May 17, 2020||Noida||Noida: Aqua Line awaits nod to resume; masks & Aarogya Setu app must||NOIDA: Services on the Aqua Line could resume after the end of Lockdown 3.0 — with social distancing and other precautions in place — depending on approval from the Centre and the state government, Noida Metro Rail Corporation (NMRC) officials said on Saturday. This comes after the Delhi government’s recommendation to the Centre to allow Delhi Metro to restart operations. However, with the UP-Delhi borders sealed, DMRC officials said that no decision has been taken yet to continue metro services to Noida or Ghaziabad. The Blue, Magenta and Red lines will be extended to the NCR cities only after a decision is taken by the respective district magistrates. NMRC officials said that in the wake of Covid-19, all necessary precautions are being taken and several arrangements have already been made. Once services resume, passengers will be required to wear face masks, install Aarogya Setu app on their phones — only those with ‘safe’ status will be allowed — and follow social distancing and sanitisation norms at all times. During thermal screening, their body temperature must not exceed 37.7ºC. Officials said that the metro will not stop at stations in containment zones. Stations and coaches have been marked with seats where people can sit or stand. Stickers have been placed on alternate seats, where no one will be allowed to sit. Those standing will have to stand in front of the vacant seats that have stickers. One-metre spacing will be maintained at the frisking zone and ticket counters. Crowds inside trains, as well as at stations and platforms, will be monitored through CCTV cameras. A screening team may restrict entry at the station if they are found to be excessive. In case of an emergency, halts at stations with more crowds may be skipped after an announcement inside the train by the train operator and at the station by the station controller. Additional security personnel will also be deployed at every station to ensure prescribed social distancing and crowd management. For payments, instead of currency notes, the digital mode will be preferred, either through online payments or point of sale (POS). Use of smart cards and the NMRC app will also be encouraged. Ritu Maheshwari, managing director, NMRC, said the trains will initially run at a reduced frequency of 15 minutes. “The ridership trends will be analysed and if required, the frequency will be modified. We have been sanitising station premises and trains and maintaining coaches. We are ready to start operations as and when the ministry permits,” said Maheshwari. She added that initially the elevators will not be operational. However, in case of requests from senior citizens and physically challenged passengers, they will be made available with some conditions, such as maximum of three people allowed inside at a time. NMRC connects Noida and Greater Noida through 21 stations. At the ones with less footfall and where use of footover bridge is not required, only one gate will be kept open for entry and exit. These include Sector 101, Sector 81, NSEZ, Sector 83, Sector 137, Sector 142, Sector 143, Sector 144, Sector 145, Sector 146, Sector 147, Sector 148, Alpha 1, Delta 1 and GNIDA office. At the remaining six stations with higher footfall, including Sector 51, Sector 50, Sector 76, KP-II, Pari Chowk and Depot Station, both entrance gates will be kept open.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/aqua-line-awaits-nod-to-resume-masks-aarogya-setu-app-must/articleshow/75782649.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Noida||Noida: As thousands wait to go home, trains leave with 1/3rd seats empty||NOIDA: At a time thousands of migrant workers are walking under the blazing sun, waiting for a berth in the Shramik Specials, at least two trains left for Bihar with a third of their seats vacant on Saturday morning. The first two trains that were flagged off from Dadri and Dankaur to Aurangabad and Buxar, respectively, had an occupancy of 67% each. Although no official reason was cited for the unoccupied seats, sources said many of the migrant workers had registered themselves in both Delhi and Noida, hoping at least one of the administrations would ensure their return home. A section of these workers may have boarded the trains leaving from Delhi. Also, with factories resuming operations one by one, many workers might have chosen to stay back in NCR. However, the turnout was relatively better in the evening, when two trains left for Sasaram and Siwan.A fifth train left for Bihar’s Katihar around 11.30pm. Sources in the Noida administration said since the state government was paying for the cost of tickets and food of passengers, they might eventually allow workers not registered with the jansunwai portal in trains if seats are not filled to capacity. “Either migrant workers have lost faith in the system or they are making arrangements on their own. Many from Bihar may have boarded the trains originating from Delhi. We have no way of checking if one person has got himself registered at multiple portals. Many others may have decided against leaving NCR, now that factories are opening slowly,” an official said. The UP government had paid for 2,600 passengers for the trains on Saturday morning. However, only 1,634 turned up. The trains were delayed by two hours, but there was no sign of the remaining passengers. In the evening, though, 1,500 people boarded the trains from Dadri and Dankaur. Although 80,000 people have registered with Noida to go home, there are at least 1 lakh others who are yet to be added to the list. “Given the rising number of passengers, we have requested for an extra train. Instead of four, we might run five trains. The final destination of the fifth train is being finalised,” said Suhas LY, the Noida DM. Around 11.30pm on Saturday, a train left for Katihar. The service was planned late in the evening. On Sunday, the Noida administration plans to run three trains between Dadri and Jamui, Dadri and Samastipur and Dadri and Araria. All three trains would halt at Dankaur to pick up passengers. The administration is also in talks with railway officials and the UP government to run trains to Prayagraj (Allahabad) and Gorakhpur. In Ghaziabad, the second Shramik Special left with 1,200 workers for Bihar’s Araria. Passengers had assembled at the Ghanta Ghar Ram Lila Ground, where they were given the tickets in the afternoon. Unlike on Friday, when the Ghaziabad administration had to revise the departure timing thrice as they failed to manage the crowd, arrangements looked better-placed on Saturday. “Since Saturday morning, we have sent out text messages and phone calls to about 1,200 migrant labourers who had applied on the jansunwai portal,” said Sanjay Kumar, a GDA officer overlooking the operations. “By afternoon, only 728 turned up at the Ghanta Ghar ground. We realised that we can’t allow a train with so many vacant seats to leave. We sent messages to 472 other passengers and they turned up at a very short notice,” he added. The passengers were provided with tokens and then ferried to the station. “It took more than five hours to ferry all 1,200 passengers to Ghaziabad station. They were screened,” said Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/as-thousands-wait-to-go-home-trains-leave-with-1/3rd-seats-empty/articleshow/75782659.cms||Shalabh
May 17, 2020||Noida||Noida: 65-year-old dies within hours of testing Covid-19 positive||NOIDA: A 65-year-old Covid-19 patient died of respiratory distress in Noida on Friday night, hours after he tested positive and before he could be moved to an isolation ward. This was the fifth death in Noida — all five Covid deaths in the city have occurred within the last nine days. The JJ Colony (Sector 8) resident had been quarantined at GIMS two days before that. “The patient had been diagnosed with pneumonia. His test report came back positive around 8pm, but he died of cardio-respiratory arrest around 10.30pm, before he could be moved to the isolation ward,” said Brigadier Rakesh Gupta (retired), director of GIMS. The nature of cases, meanwhile, has also been turning serious. Till about 10 days ago, most patients in Noida were either asymptomatic or had mild symptoms. But as of Saturday, there is one patient on ventilator at the level 3 (L3) ward in Sharda Hospital and five others on oxygen support (one at Sharda Hospital and four at GIMS). Five more tested positive, including the 65-year-old who died, taking the total number of cases to 247. With 12 patients discharged, the number of active cases is now 61. The recovery rate of district is 73% now, higher than the state and national average. The new cases include three more patients from JJ Colony — two women (26 and 45) and a 20-year-old man from JJ Colony, Sector 5. The fourth patient is a 32-year-old man from Skytech Matrott in Sector 76. His wife had tested positive three days ago. There are around 55 cases from JJ Colony in Sectors 5, 8, 9 and 10 so far, about 22% of all cases of the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/65-year-old-dies-within-hours-of-testing-positive/articleshow/75782664.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Gurgaon||When adult endeavour meets youthful enterprise||GURUGRAM: Child psychologists and researchers across the world have been attempting to assess the damage caused by the Covid-19 pandemic, on the mental health of children. Meanwhile, mothers and fathers everywhere have been struggling bravely to juggle various roles — employee, domestic help and teacher — under one roof. In Gurugram, the city’s RWAs have come to the aid of the parents, stepping in to engage children through, for example, online yoga and debates, special counselling sessions and creative ways to make them aware of the novel coronavirus. “Parenting is an art and a pleasurable experience which has become a little more challenging in times like these, when parents not only have to keep the children at home but also engage them in interesting ways to keep them busy,” said Rahul Dahiya, RWA secretary at IREO Skyon. “This time is the real test of parenting skills.” So, IREO Skyon’s youngest residents have been engaging online via virtual groups, and receiving mindfulness training. Still, the more each member of the family — including the children — occupies himself/herself with household chores such as washing, cleaning and cooking, the better they will be able to bond, believes Dahiya. Such, indeed, have been the positive learnings of this lockdown. Out at Suncity, residents organised a talent hunt for girls and boys. The winners were rewarded by having their artworks and poems printed in Aas, the weekly e-newsletter. “Everyone was excited to take part in the painting, singing and debating competitions, for it helped lessen the burden on parents,” shared Kuldeep Rana, president, Suncity RWA. It wasn’t much different at Tulip Violet, where residents created a private group on social media, where the young ones could participate in dancing, singing and painting contests. And that wasn’t all. “On Facebook, parents upload their daily experiences with family — they would suggest children’s authors, share recipes to try out with kids, and make funny TikTok videos too,” revealed RWA president Puneet Goyal. And in IREO Uptown, the RWA conducted virtual quizzes and debating sessions to keep the children happily diverted. However, it is the kids who have led the way here, raising awareness around the virus by designing banners and posters on social distancing and hygiene. “Our Team Jashn tries to come up with novel ways to keep us occupied and out of boredom during these days,” informed RWA president Pranav Kumar. Pursuits were as fun as they were enlightening. “All efforts to keep us entertained and instil a sense of togetherness – the WhatsApp quiz was great fun and a huge success,” Kumar added. At TOI, we recognise your efforts during these difficult times, and are celebrating them through #MySocietyPride. So, tell us know about the welfare measures your society has implemented during the lockdown and we will feature the best ones. Visit www.toi.in/mysocietypride to share the details.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/when-adult-endeavour-meets-youthful-enterprise/articleshow/75782979.cms||---
May 17, 2020||Gurgaon||Haryana: Allow stores in safe zones to reopen, retailers urge Manohar Lal Khattar||GURUGRAM: The Retailers Association of India (RAI) has urged chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar to allow all the shops to reopen in the state’s green and orange zones following safety norms, pointing out that the livelihoods of millions employed in the retail are in peril due to the lockdown. According to estimates, the retail industry in India employs 100 million people directly or indirectly and Haryana as a state contributes 4-5% to the national numbers. Thus, an estimated five million people are employed in the state in retail and are in danger of losing their livelihoods if the restrictions on shops selling non-essential items are not lifted and government support is not given to the sector. “Prolonged closure of the departmental stores and organised retail will cause irretrievable damage to millions of households. We believe measures that accord the highest priority to the public health and also bring livelihood relief to people should be considered by the government as the lockdown extends,” RAI’s chief executive Kumar Rajagopalan wrote to the CM. While the association did not share any numbers specific to Haryana, Rajagopalan told TOI that some five million people are dependent on retail for their livelihood in the state, of around 100 million people in the sector in India. “At least 25% of our members have told us that they might shut down forever in the next few months if things do not improve considerably. The government must allow the retail sector to resume with a proper standard operating procedure just like the manufacturing sector,” he said. Brands across the country are now facing the liquidity issues and are worried about their survival in the coming months. “While our revenues have come down considerably, the costs haven’t. We still have to pay the salaries, the rent and taxes. It is time that the government allowed retail to resume because even the MSMEs that it is trying to revive will not survive without the retail sector,” said Lalit Agarwal, CMD of V-Mart Retail Limited. In order to ensure the safety and well-being of workers and customers, retailers have also devised a list of safety measures. India’s leading footwear retailer Bata, for instance, has decided to quarantine shoes tried by customers. “We have decided that after a customer tries a shoe, we will disinfect and quarantine it for 72 hours, before the next customer tries it on. Additionally, we are also coming up with plastic socks that can be worn before trying out shoes,” said Sandeep Kataria, CEO and MD of Bata India. With the measures and the SOPs, retailers now hope that the government allows sale of non-essential as well as malls to reopen for a longer duration so that there is no crowding at the stores.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/allow-stores-in-safe-zones-to-reopen-retailers-urge-khattar/articleshow/75782724.cms||Shubhra Pant
May 17, 2020||Gurgaon||Gurugram: Executive booked for harassment||GURUGRAM: A pest control executive has been booked for allegedly molesting and thrashing a woman. According to police, the executive, identified as Ramesh Kumar, also dealt with drugs. “Ramesh had recently got acquainted with the 23-year-old woman. On Friday, he insisted to keep some drugs at her house. But when she resisted, the accused thrashed her and threatened to frame her in a false drug case,” a police officer said. A case has been registered at Rajender Park police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/exec-booked-for-harassment/articleshow/75782970.cms||---
