May 18, 2020||Bengaluru||A treat for stargazers as Comet Swan is visible till May 20||A visual treat for stargazers, Comet Swan is now visible between around 4 am and 5 am from all parts of India. Needless to say, amateur astronomers are thrilled, and you can be too, as you might not need a telescope to catch this one. Being touted as 'comet of the year', Comet Swan is bright enough to bee seen via the naked eye, provided there's a clear sky. “Expect a ghostly green blob to grow bright in the sky near ‘Pisces’ till May 20, as Comet Swan makes its closest approach to earth. Presently, it can be seen in the Pisces constellation at a visual magnitude of 4 to 4.5 and has been getting brighter and larger since March. On May 20, the magnitude may be 3. The lower the value of magnitude, the greater the brightness of the object,” says amateur astronomer S A Mohan Krishna, adding that comets are at their brightest when they are closest to the sun, so it is best to look for them in the sky just before sunrise. Visible in the northern hemisphere throughout May, astronomers are predicting that even in the first weeks of June, the comet may be faintly visible. Another amateur astronomer, HST Swamy says, “Comet Swan is undoubtedly a morning comet and is clearly visible even through the naked eye and small telescopes between 4 am and 5 am, provided the morning sky is absolutely clear. Professional observatories rarely have time to devote to scanning the skies in search of new objects, so observational astronomers, using simple equipment, often discover comets.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/a-treat-for-stargazers-as-comet-swan-is-visible-till-may-20/articleshow/75794222.cms||Vinay Lokesh
May 18, 2020||Noida||Despite govt relaxations, RWAs refuse to relent on lockdown rules||Are house helps allowed? Can you call the AC or RO service guy? Can you have guests over? In the lockdown, it all depends on your RWA. While the MHA and state governments allowed certain relaxations in the third phase of the lockdown, such as allowing domestic helps and self-employed service and repair people, the implementation of these relaxations depends on your society’s RWA. And many RWAs seem to be ruling with an iron fist. While in some places the authorities are trying to restrain overreaching RWAs, in others, they have been allowed to take the final call. Govt, RWAs lock horns in Delhi over allowing outsiders entry On May 6, the Delhi government passed an order stating that any RWA restricting entry to domestic staff, movement of essential services or opening of shops inside the society is violating the law. Finding the order “disappointing”, 23 RWAs sent a letter to the government seeking clarification. They also sent a four-page list of recommendations, which includes allowing RWAs “discretionary space to follow some protocols,” and “frame regulatory methods”. In the meantime, several societies have already been making their own rules. A Meera Bagh resident says, “Whether the government has allowed something or not does not matter. What matters is whether the guard at the gate will allow it or not. After we pressurised our society to allow domestic helps, they have come up with a declaration form for them. Any outsider who enters the society has to fill it.” However, in several localities like GK 2, RWAs are not allowing domestic helps, and others like Defence Colony RWA are not even allowing waste collectors. RWA members argue that even if one domestic help is allowed, the whole family could be at risk. Across NCR, several societies are asking residents to get a COVID-free certificate for their domestic helps before they are allowed entry. Ghaziabad RWAs get notices for overstepping, NOIDA RWAs allowed final callIn Ghaziabad’s Neelpadam Kunj, the Apartment Owners Association (AOA) took an extreme step and asked residents in the healthcare sector to not come home till the lockdown is lifted. Following this, the authorities clarified that RWAs can only request medical workers and not stop them forcefully from coming back to their own homes. Last Monday, the DM and the Ghaziabad Development Authority issued notices to the AOA of River Heights, a Raj Nagar Extension society that had threatened to cut the water and power supply and impose a fine of Rs11,000 on residents who bring in outsiders. In Noida, some RWAs have decided to allow people to go out only between 6am and 9am, some have issued time restrictions for the opening of stores inside societies, while others aren’t allowing any outsiders to enter. In Noida, RWAs are allowed to take a final call on the entry of house helps after consulting residents. Most of the societies have decided against it. Noida resident SK Deran says, “When we asked the RWA for permission to allow our house help, they asked us whether we can ensure that the help’s entry will not result in any COVID-19 case in the society. So we backed off.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/despite-govt-relaxations-rwas-refuse-to-relent-on-lockdown-rules/articleshow/75792651.cms||Niharika Lal
May 18, 2020||Delhi||Despite govt relaxations, RWAs refuse to relent on lockdown rules||Are house helps allowed? Can you call the AC or RO service guy? Can you have guests over? In the lockdown, it all depends on your RWA. While the MHA and state governments allowed certain relaxations in the third phase of the lockdown, such as allowing domestic helps and self-employed service and repair people, the implementation of these relaxations depends on your society’s RWA. And many RWAs seem to be ruling with an iron fist. While in some places the authorities are trying to restrain overreaching RWAs, in others, they have been allowed to take the final call. Govt, RWAs lock horns in Delhi over allowing outsiders entry On May 6, the Delhi government passed an order stating that any RWA restricting entry to domestic staff, movement of essential services or opening of shops inside the society is violating the law. Finding the order “disappointing”, 23 RWAs sent a letter to the government seeking clarification. They also sent a four-page list of recommendations, which includes allowing RWAs “discretionary space to follow some protocols,” and “frame regulatory methods”. In the meantime, several societies have already been making their own rules. A Meera Bagh resident says, “Whether the government has allowed something or not does not matter. What matters is whether the guard at the gate will allow it or not. After we pressurised our society to allow domestic helps, they have come up with a declaration form for them. Any outsider who enters the society has to fill it.” However, in several localities like GK 2, RWAs are not allowing domestic helps, and others like Defence Colony RWA are not even allowing waste collectors. RWA members argue that even if one domestic help is allowed, the whole family could be at risk. Across NCR, several societies are asking residents to get a COVID-free certificate for their domestic helps before they are allowed entry. Ghaziabad RWAs get notices for overstepping, NOIDA RWAs allowed final callIn Ghaziabad’s Neelpadam Kunj, the Apartment Owners Association (AOA) took an extreme step and asked residents in the healthcare sector to not come home till the lockdown is lifted. Following this, the authorities clarified that RWAs can only request medical workers and not stop them forcefully from coming back to their own homes. Last Monday, the DM and the Ghaziabad Development Authority issued notices to the AOA of River Heights, a Raj Nagar Extension society that had threatened to cut the water and power supply and impose a fine of Rs11,000 on residents who bring in outsiders. In Noida, some RWAs have decided to allow people to go out only between 6am and 9am, some have issued time restrictions for the opening of stores inside societies, while others aren’t allowing any outsiders to enter. In Noida, RWAs are allowed to take a final call on the entry of house helps after consulting residents. Most of the societies have decided against it. Noida resident SK Deran says, “When we asked the RWA for permission to allow our house help, they asked us whether we can ensure that the help’s entry will not result in any COVID-19 case in the society. So we backed off.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/despite-govt-relaxations-rwas-refuse-to-relent-on-lockdown-rules/articleshow/75792489.cms||Niharika Lal
May 18, 2020||Gurgaon||Despite govt relaxations, RWAs refuse to relent on lockdown rules||Are house helps allowed? Can you call the AC or RO service guy? Can you have guests over? In the lockdown, it all depends on your RWA. While the MHA and state governments allowed certain relaxations in the third phase of the lockdown, such as allowing domestic helps and self-employed service and repair people, the implementation of these relaxations depends on your society’s RWA. And many RWAs seem to be ruling with an iron fist. While in some places the authorities are trying to restrain overreaching RWAs, in others, they have been allowed to take the final call. Govt, RWAs lock horns in Delhi over allowing outsiders entry On May 6, the Delhi government passed an order stating that any RWA restricting entry to domestic staff, movement of essential services or opening of shops inside the society is violating the law. Finding the order “disappointing”, 23 RWAs sent a letter to the government seeking clarification. They also sent a four-page list of recommendations, which includes allowing RWAs “discretionary space to follow some protocols,” and “frame regulatory methods”. In the meantime, several societies have already been making their own rules. A Meera Bagh resident says, “Whether the government has allowed something or not does not matter. What matters is whether the guard at the gate will allow it or not. After we pressurised our society to allow domestic helps, they have come up with a declaration form for them. Any outsider who enters the society has to fill it.” However, in several localities like GK 2, RWAs are not allowing domestic helps, and others like Defence Colony RWA are not even allowing waste collectors. RWA members argue that even if one domestic help is allowed, the whole family could be at risk. Across NCR, several societies are asking residents to get a COVID-free certificate for their domestic helps before they are allowed entry. Ghaziabad RWAs get notices for overstepping, NOIDA RWAs allowed final callIn Ghaziabad’s Neelpadam Kunj, the Apartment Owners Association (AOA) took an extreme step and asked residents in the healthcare sector to not come home till the lockdown is lifted. Following this, the authorities clarified that RWAs can only request medical workers and not stop them forcefully from coming back to their own homes. Last Monday, the DM and the Ghaziabad Development Authority issued notices to the AOA of River Heights, a Raj Nagar Extension society that had threatened to cut the water and power supply and impose a fine of Rs11,000 on residents who bring in outsiders. In Noida, some RWAs have decided to allow people to go out only between 6am and 9am, some have issued time restrictions for the opening of stores inside societies, while others aren’t allowing any outsiders to enter. In Noida, RWAs are allowed to take a final call on the entry of house helps after consulting residents. Most of the societies have decided against it. Noida resident SK Deran says, “When we asked the RWA for permission to allow our house help, they asked us whether we can ensure that the help’s entry will not result in any COVID-19 case in the society. So we backed off.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/despite-govt-relaxations-rwas-refuse-to-relent-on-lockdown-rules/articleshow/75792650.cms||Niharika Lal
May 18, 2020||Lucknow||This lockdown has given me a chance to introspect: Gurmeet Choudhary||Actor Gurmeet Choudhary and wife Debina are keeping themselves busy creatively during lockdown in Mumbai. While the Geet – Hui Sabse Parayi and Punar Vivah actor has taken to reading, both he and Debina are also creating online content for their fans. “Debina and I are making lots of videos these days and giving our fans and followers lots of content to watch. We are after all actors, so we won’t disappoint anybody and kuchh na kuchh naya unko dete rahenge,” says Gurmeet. Not perturbed by the lockdown, Gurmeet says the free time has given him an opportunity to know himself better. “This lockdown has taught me to take things as they come. Earlier we were just running after things, school mein pass hone ke peechhe, bade hoke kaam ke peeche bhagna, but we never really had time for ourselves. Now when we have so much time at hand, it’s given me a chance to introspect and understand my own self and what I want from life. I played Ram in Ramayan for two years and I learnt to be a good human being from that character. So the lockdown has taught me to be comfortable with my own self and introspect,” says the actor. Debina Bonnerjee and Gurmeet in their home in Mumbai during lockdown (BCCL)Debina Bonnerjee and Gurmeet in their home in Mumbai during lockdown (BCCL) His first show, Ramayan is being aired again these days, but ask him why it has not been able to match the original Arun Govil-Deepika Chikhallia one in viewership and Gurmeet says, “Both the shows had been made by the same producers and in 2008 when Debina and my show came on air, it became one of the most hit shows. People made Debina and me stars overnight. But one has to understand that the old Ramayana was being telecast on Doordarshan which is a free-to-air channel and is accessible even in the rural areas. Whereas ours is being aired on a GEC, which not everyone may have subscribed to. Besides. DD has such a wide reach, so obviously our viewership can’t match that of DD. Also, so many people announced the airing of the original Ramayana, logon ne tweet kiya which also caught people’s attention. But our show, whenever it was aired, was always the top show.” And while he and Debina are established actors, the junior lot is facing a lot of problems during lockdown. “Situation no doubt is bad. Debina and I are trying to help whoever is reaching out to us,” says Gurmeet, adding, “If you think about it, an actor who used to earn a thousand bucks and another who earned 2 crores, all are not working these days. Kisi ke paas kaam nahi hai. So I can just say that this too shall pass.” The actor who’s been seen in quite a few films including Wajah Tum Ho and Paltan, was shooting for another when the lockdown was announced. “I was shooting for my film in Jaipur before the lockdown happened. Half of it has been shot and once things become normal, I guess shooting will resume. I am really looking forward to getting back to work.” Gurmeet and Debina had adopted two girls from his native village in Bihar in 2017. The couple had also planned on bringing the sisters, whose parents had died, to Mumbai with them. But the plans didn’t materialise. “Yes, they didn’t,” says Gurmeet. “We had got to know about Lata and Pooja in late 2016. So at that time we had wanted to adopt them legally and look after them but their relatives didn’t want that. There were a lot of legalities also involved which was creating a lot of problems. And we didn’t want to create any problem for the girls. So we dropped the idea of giving them our name and instead we are looking after them now. They are in our village in Bihar and are happy. Our main concern was not that they should have our name, our main concern and initiative was too provide for them so that they are well looked after for life. And both Debina and I are doing all that we can do for them and will continue to all our lives.” The actor who’s been seen in quite a few films including Wajah Tum Ho and Paltan , was shooting for another when the lockdown was announced. “I was shooting for my film in Jaipur before the lockdown happened. Half of it has been shot and once things become normal, I guess shooting will resume. I am really looking forward to getting back to work.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/this-lockdown-has-given-me-a-chance-to-introspect-gurmeet-choudhary/articleshow/75793305.cms||Iti Shree Misra
May 18, 2020||Business||Government signals retreat of PSUs even across ‘strategic sectors’||NEW DELHI: Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Sunday unveiled the government’s plan to limit the role of public sector companies across the economy, while announcing assistance to help migrants, companies and state governments tackle the impact of the Covid-19 crisis, and provided more money for the rural job guarantee programme. Although these steps will impact the focus segments immediately, there were initiatives such as infectious disease blocks in every districts and labs in every block that are expected to take time before they can be implemented. There were also steps to enable children to attend classes from home using a television broadcast with 200 new electronic textbooks to be added to aid learning. The finance minister said the government will soon announce a new policy for public sector enterprises which will pave the way for the entry of private companies in all sectors where state-run firms are present. Even in the strategic sectors, PSU presence will be limited to 1-4 entities while in the other segments of the economy, the government will privatise state-run companies. Sunday’s announcements, the fifth in as many days, also saw the government respond to criticism over the actual size of the Rs 20-lakh-crore package, with the finance minister giving a detailed break-up to show that the steps announced by her will result in a stimulus of over Rs 11 lakh crore, while the RBI’s moves and the PM Garib Kalyan Yojana related announcements was to the tune of Rs 10 lakh crore. Analysts suggested that the fiscal cost was much lower with HSBC estimating it at around 1% of GDP, while ratings agency estimated the outlay at around Rs 2.7 lakh crore, excluding the Rs 1.5 lakh crore which will play out over time. "About 10% of this stimulus can be traced as direct additional budgetary cost to the central exchequer. Nearly 5% of the stimulus relates to already budgeted expenditures," EY India chief policy adviser DK Srivastava said. But this was part of a well-thought-out strategy by the government. "We are not splurging money, we are being responsible," the FM told reporters even as a section of the industry demanded a bigger helping hand. The latest announcements sought to provide much-needed support to migrants earn some income once they return home, with the Centre announcing a 65%, or Rs 40,000 crore, increase in the National Rural Employment Guarantee scheme outlay for the current year to create 300 crore man days. This is seen as a temporary assistance with the government hoping that workers will return to industrial hubs once the situation improves and the lockdown is eased. States too got a part of what they wanted with the Centre raising their borrowing limit to help them raise around Rs 4.3 lakh crore to help them deal with a revenue shortfall and higher spending. But the relief came with conditions to initiate crucial reforms such as making power distribution companies more efficient, toning up urban local bodies and ensuring ease of doing business percolates to the grassroots level. There was also reprieve for companies facing financial distress due to the lockdown. While fresh insolvency action will be deferred by up to 12 months, there will be a relief for loan delinquencies arising due to the coronavirus pandemic. Watch Public sectors open to private players, government to stay in key areas: Sitharaman||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/govt-signals-retreat-of-psus-even-across-strategic-sectors/articleshow/75795778.cms||---
May 18, 2020||India||Money can be put into people’s hands in several forms: Finance minister||NEW DELHI: Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said on Sunday the government consciously preferred a route aimed at empowering people rather than doling out cash because it felt that it was better suited to deal with the emergency that the Covid-19 pandemic had triggered. Talking to TOI after shortly after announcing the last tranche of the Atmanirbhar Bharat package on Sunday, she said that while the government did initially rush money to the most vulnerable section, it felt that the long-term economic consequences of the crisis would be better mitigated by enhancing liquidity as that would help with the reopening of the economy, ensure viability of economic enterprises, and ensure protection of jobs while restoring demand. The FM also said that the design of the "package" is in line with approach, strengthened under PM Modi, to privilege empowerment over one-time cash handouts, even as she emphasised that the government has energetically provided instant cash assistance through direct benefit transfers to the most vulnerable and needy. "The fact is money into people’s hands can be in several forms and what we have done is to give it through that route of creation of demand for businesses to get triggered. So we are looking at a way where there so many different ripple effects, multiplier effects which will trigger the economy," Sitharaman said while elaborating on the government’s plans to provide working capital loans and funds for NBFCs. The FM also said that the government's approach was influenced by the experience of the 2008 financial crisis where an economic stimulus based on careless lending led to a bad loans crisis, double-digit inflation with no gains for the economy. "Many of the 2008 steps that they (UPA) took to help the economy, they didn’t wind down, they didn’t shut, they left it. Food inflation touched 10%. These are some of the examples through which I have learned a lot of what you should not do as an FM," Sitharaman said while detailing the efforts that went into devising the package. The FM said banks have informed her that several loans have been sanctioned but businesses have told the lenders that they will get them when the lockdown is lifted and work restarts. "Disbursal hasn’t happened but sanction has happened but the money is still with the bank. Now, if the lockdown is lifted and businesses come all right now you release the money, automatically that money will reach the ground," the FM said while responding to a question on banks reluctance to lend and park the funds approved by the government with the RBI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/money-can-be-put-into-peoples-hands-in-several-forms-nirmala-sitharaman/articleshow/75795821.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Lucknow||Rajasthan cops forced us into truck, allege Auraiya crash survivors||KANPUR: The Kanpur police on Sunday launched an investigation into the allegations by some migrant workers that the Rajasthan police had forcibly put them into the lime sack-laden truck that collided with another in Uttar Pradesh’s Auraiya district. Altogether 26 migrant workers died and 36 injured after their vehicle rammed into a stationary DCM truck carrying many other labourers near an eatery along National Highway-19 in Auraiya’s Chirhauli village early on Saturday. According to Guddu, one of the migrant workers and a survivor, he along with 43 others had left Rajasthan — where they used to work in a stone mine — for their homes in West Bengal. He alleged that their ordeal began soon after they were stuffed by Rajasthan police into the trailer-truck carrying sacks of lime and taken out of the state limits. “A day before, we had reached Bharatpur by bus. We were stopped there by Rajasthan police personnel and told that we couldn’t go ahead. After much persuasion, they allowed us to proceed without the bus. Later, the police stuffed all 43 of us in the trailer-truck carrying sacks of lime from Alwar and took it out of the Rajasthan border,” Guddu alleged. “We are recording statements of the migrants travelling in the truck. Law will take its course if the allegations of the survivors are found to be true,” Kanpur range IG Mohit Agarwal told TOI on Sunday. Auraiya SP Suniti told TOI that a case was registered against the drivers, owners and transporters of both the vehicles under relevant sections of IPC, Epidemic and Motor Vehicles Acts at Auraiya’s Kotwali police station. The Rajasthan Police denied having put the labourers in the truck. A senior officer said: “Roadways buses are plying daily and dropping migrant labourers to the borders. In this case, the bus dropped the migrants at the Bharatpur-UP border. We are following the guidelines and do not allow or ask people to get into the trucks.” “Investigations are on and raids are underway to arrest the two drivers, owners and transporters of both vehicles. The migrants travelling in a DCM truck and headed to MP were charged Rs 1,500 per head, while those who had boarded the truck in Rajasthan had paid Rs 2,000 per person,” said SP Suniti. Two teams from Auraiya police would be sent to Rajasthan to verify the survivors’ allegations, she added. “The accident occurred as the trailer-truck was speeding. If the speeding charge is proved, we will add IPC Section 279 (rash driving),” an officer said. A day before, we had reached Bharatpur by bus. We were stopped there by Rajasthan police personnel and told that we couldn’t go ahead. After much persuasion, they allowed us to proceed without the bus. Later, the police stuffed all 43 of us in the trailer-truck carrying sacks of lime from Alwar and took it out of the Rajasthan border,” Guddu alleged. “We are recording statements of the migrants travelling in the truck. Law will take its course if the allegations of the survivors are found to be true,” Kanpur range IG Mohit Agarwal told TOI on Sunday. Auraiya SP Suniti said a case was registered against drivers, owners and transporters of both vehicles under sections of IPC, Epidemic and Motor Vehicles Acts .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/rajasthan-cops-forced-us-into-truck-allege-auraiya-crash-survivors/articleshow/75795881.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
May 18, 2020||India||Entrepreneurs, rural economy, PSUs will benefit: PM Modi||NEW DELHI: PM Narendra Modi on Sunday said measures and reforms announced by the finance minister would boost entrepreneurship, help public sector units and revitalise village economy besides having a transformative impact on the country’s health and education sectors. “They will boost entrepreneurship, help public sector units and revitalise village economy. Reform trajectories of states will also get an impetus,” Modi tweeted, endorsing the announcements made by FM Nirmala Sitharaman. Saying that the announcements would go a long way in realising the idea of self-reliant India, home minister Amit Shah said, “These steps will prove to be a game-changer for health, education and business sectors.” Shah said the additional allocation of Rs 40,000 crore under MGNREGA would not only help generate employment but would also help create durable livelihood assets, which would boost rural economy and infrastructure. “While PM Modi’s leadership in handling Covid-19 has outshined several developed nations, he has resolved to prepare India for any such pandemic in future by strengthening and revamping the health sector,” Shah tweeted. He said the government has decided to increase India’s health expenditure to create infectious diseases hospital blocks in every district, strengthen lab network and surveillance besides encouraging research.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/entrepreneurs-rural-economy-psus-will-benefit-says-pm-modi/articleshow/75795912.cms||---
May 18, 2020||India||Amid crisis, job guarantee scheme gets 40,000 crore extra||NEW DELHI: Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Sunday announced an additional allocation of Rs 40,000 crore for MGNREGA for 2020-21. She said it will help generate total 300 crore persondays of work. The step seeks to reassure rural India hit by job losses where the demand will only be compounded by the large population of poor migrant workers headed back to their villages from across the country. The additional allocation takes total budgetary support for the job scheme for current financial year to slightly over Rs 1 lakh crore. The step, however, is more symbolic in nature given that the scheme is “demand-driven”, for which the Centre is liable to fork out money in case of extra expenditure. In the last couple of years, the job scheme saw high demand which pushed the rural development ministry to seek more money from the finance ministry. Yet, if the Centre felt the need to send a message to the MGNREGA constituency, it was because the job scheme remains the sole employment avenue for the rural poor who would feel the burden of the devastation of local economies following the lockdown. The return of migrants may only make the situation worse. As it is, the job scheme has been flooded with demand for work, generating around 16.66 crore persondays in less than a month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/amid-crisis-job-guarantee-scheme-gets-40000-crore-extra/articleshow/75795922.cms||Subodh Ghildiyal
May 18, 2020||Business||How the Rs 20 lakh crore economic package adds up||NEW DELHI: Finance minister Nirmala Sitharam on Sunday detailed the contours of the Rs 20 lakh crore package which includes earlier announcements such as the PM Garib Kalyan Yojna and the RBI’s measures which amount to over Rs 8 lakh crore. “Many of my friends have been asking what’s this Rs 20 lakh crore? You have the answers today,” Sitharaman said while giving details of the amount for each programme unveiled over the past five days. The FM said the government had taken into account the actual liquidity available of Rs 8.01 lakh crore from the RBI’s liquidity announcements of over Rs 9 lakh crore. Sunday’s announcements had Rs 8,000 crore viability gap funding for social sector projects and an additional Rs 40,000 crore for MGNREGA and the total stimulus provided over the five packages total Rs 20.97 lakh crore or 10% of gross domestic product that the PM had announced last week. Read also: TOI interview with Nirmala Sitharaman on Rs 20 lakh crore packageThe government had earlier defended inclusion of the central bank’s liquidity infusion measures in the overall package and said this was in line with global practices and most countries had included the measures announced by their respective central banks in their stimulus measures. Economists said the government has aimed for maximum bang for minimum buck, with most of the relief either regulatory in nature or reflecting in its contingent liabilities rather than explicit budgetary support. They also added that the Centre has used the cover of the Covid-19 crisis to plough through long pending, politically sensitive structural reforms. “As a result, the package may fall short of mitigating the near-term existential crisis for businesses and workers, but is better designed to improve India’s medium-term growth potential and attract long-term risk capital. As a consequence, we maintain our GDP growth projection for 2020 at -5% y-o-y,” Nomura economists Sonal Varma and Aurodeep Nandi said in a note, adding that the fiscal deficit will widen to 7% in 2020-21. “With PM Modi’s Covid-19 support package of 10% of GDP now entirely announced, we find that the Reserve Bank of India’s liquidity measures account for ~4% of GDP, and the dent to the fiscal deficit from the remaining government measures is likely to be ~0.8% of GDP according to our estimates. We expect the overall central fiscal deficit for FY21 to be 7% of GDP, double the initial target of 3.5% of GDP,” they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/how-the-20-lakh-crore-economic-package-adds-up/articleshow/75795943.cms||---
May 18, 2020||India||India joins 62 nations seeking probe into Covid outbreak||NEW DELHI: India has joined a group of 62 nations which has backed a draft EU motion at the World Health Assembly, which will convene on Monday, for an independent inquiry into the coronavirus outbreak and WHO’s response. The motion seeks an “impartial, independent and comprehensive evaluation” of the international health response under WHO to Covid-19 along with a timeline. Confirming the development, official sources told TOI the motion was likely to be adopted unanimously. “It has language that was acceptable to all including EU and Australia and wasn’t objected to by either China or the US,” said a source. US and China though had not yet joined the group of 62 nations which have declared support for the motion. The motion also calls for WHO director general to work with international agencies to identify the zoonotic source of virus and the route of introduction to the human population, including possible role of intermediate hosts, including through efforts such as “scientific and collaborative field missions, which will enable targeted interventions and a research agenda to reduce the risk of similar events”. More on Covid-19 Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage Lockdown 4.0: What's allowed and what's not in the three zones It's time to mask up and stay safe: Join TOI's #MaskIndia campaign MHA's guidelines for home isolation Trust the newspaper for your daily verified news India, which will take over as the chair of the WHO executive board on Monday, has so far avoided lending support to any demand to put China in the dock for the origin of the novel coronavirus. The EU resolution too does not name China or Wuhan and is backed by China’s ally Russia. PM Narendra Modi, however, has called for reforming and strengthening WHO which has faced criticism for being soft on Beijing with US President Donald Trump even describing the agency as a puppet of China. Speaking at the G20 virtual summit in March, Modi had said that the UN health agency needed to be empowered because it did not presently have the mandate to deal with a global pandemic like Covid-19. As foreign secretary Harsh Shringla had said recently India, as chair of the executive board, will look to promote new crisis-management protocols and develop more “adaptive, responsive, affordable and humane health care systems and resources that can be deployed globally”. Apart from EU and Australia, UK, Japan, Indonesia, Canada, Brazil, New Zealand, South Korea and Turkey were also among countries which backed the draft motion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-joins-62-nations-seeking-probe-into-covid-outbreak/articleshow/75795953.cms||Sachin Parashar
May 18, 2020||India||Boundary issue on bilateral agenda for two decades: Nepal||NEW DELHI: After Nepal President Bidhya Devi Bhandari announced Nepal was going to issue a new political map claiming Lipulekh Pass and Kalapani territory, which is under India’s administrative control, the neighbouring country has cited a 1997 India-Nepal joint statement to assert that this boundary issue had been on the bilateral agenda for over 2 decades. Nepal has strongly protested India’s inauguration of a road, built on a pre-existing route for pilgrims, to Lipulekh and Indian army chief M M Naravane, without naming China, said last week that Kathmandu seemed to be agitating at someone else’s behest. India sees the recently inaugurated road section in Pithoragarh district in Uttarakhand as lying completely within its territory. According to Nepal though, in 1997 after then PM I K Gujral’s visit to the country, the 2 sides said in a joint statement that the Joint Working Group of the Indo-Nepal Joint Technical Committee on the Border would continue its discussions on the relevant facts relating to the demarcation of the boundary alignment in the western sector, including the Kalapani area, and hold another meeting later that year. The working group was formed in the 80s and Nepal sees the joint statement as reinforcing its claim that the issue was never off the table with India. Indian government officials reiterated though that the boundary delineation exercise with Nepal was ongoing and that India remained committed to resolving outstanding boundary issues through diplomatic dialogue. ``We have very clearly said that the 2 sides are in the process of finalising dates for foreign secretary-level talks. The talks will be held once the 2 countries have successfully repelled the threat from Covid,’’ said an official source. ``The road follows the pre-existing route used by the pilgrims of the Kailash Mansarovar Yatra. Under the present project, the same road has been made pliable for the ease and convenience of pilgrims, locals and traders,’’ the government had earlier said in a press release. Nepal claims that as per the 1816 Sugauli Treaty, all the territories east of Kali (Mahakali) River, including Limpiyadhura (where the Kali river originates), Kalapani and Lipulekh, belong to Nepal. While India has said that the road is on the west side of the river, Nepal believes road through Kalapani means road east of the river and that, it claims, means road passing through Nepal’s territory, Kalapani, which is claimed by Nepal, is where the China-Nepal-India trijunction is located and where the Lipulekh pass at 5200m serves as an important vantage point for the ITBP which is deployed there by India. There was an outcry in Nepal in 2015 too when India and China decided to expand bilateral through the Lipulekh Pass with political parties raising the issue in Parliament and alleging it undermined Nepal’s sovereignty.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/boundary-issue-on-bilateral-agenda-for-two-decades-nepal/articleshow/75795998.cms||Sachin Parashar
May 18, 2020||Patna||Rohtas woman stranded in UP, hubby dies at home||PATNA: Thirty-year-old Sunita Devi, a resident of Dhawanpur village in Rohtas district, is confused whom to blame for her failure to pay last tribute to her 38-year-old husband, Ravindra Choudhary, who died at his native village late on Thursday evening. Devi remained stuck in New Delhi due to nationwide lockdown since March 25. On Sunday, she was stopped by police personnel at Ghaziabad on Delhi-UP border and not allowed to go home on foot. Her wails and repeated requests to allow her to move on foot drew attention of hundreds of migrant workers from Bihar waiting at the interstate border for vehicles to reach their homes. A video of Devi seeking help from the authorities concerned to reach home early went viral on the social media. Anshuman Srivastava, who helped the woman reach a nearby shelter home run by the state government, said, “We have informed the local authorities about the woman’s plight. She has virtually lost her senses and is wailing all the time. I am finding it tough to console her.” Devi’s elder son Bittu Patel (18) said her mother had gone to New Delhi to attend her sister’s wedding. However, she was stranded in the national capital due to lockdown announced in March. On Thursday, his father, Ravindra Choudhary, breathed his last. “My father was sick for the last one-and-a-half years. We kept on waiting for the mother to reach home to pay her last tribute to the departed soul. Finding no way out, she departed for Rohtas from New Delhi on foot on Friday evening and reached the Ghaziabad border early on Sunday. However, cops on duty prevented her from her onward journey. “She started crying for help. However, nothing happened,” Bittu said. Bittu’s two younger brothers — Bipul (15) and Gulsan (14) — are also anxiously waiting for their mother. Family sources said the Delhi police have assured that Devi would be sent home by next special train carrying migrant workers from Delhi to Bihar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/rohtas-woman-stranded-in-up-hubby-dies-at-home/articleshow/75794049.cms||Ramashankar
May 18, 2020||Patna||Police headquarters in a tizzy as 21 more cops test positive for Covid-19||PATNA: With 21 more Bihar Military Police (BMP)-14 personnel testing positive for coronavirus on Sunday, the state police headquarters is on its toes to contain the spread of virus among the police personnel. With this, the number of coronavirus cases on the BMP-14 campus at Khajpura in Patna has jumped to 48. Apart from BMP, the police headquarters is also keeping a close watch on Nawada police lines, where five positive cases were detected till Saturday night. Altogether 62 policemen in the state, including 48 from BMP, have so far been tested positive for Covid-19 in the state. Of them, eight have recovered. Meanwhile, one of the four policemen from Nawada police lines, who was tested positive on Saturday, was the bodyguard of Nawada civil surgeon. State nodal officer for Covid-19 Dr Ragini Mishra said the civil surgeon and all his office employees went into self-isolation late on Saturday night. “The samples of 20 people, including the civil surgeon, were sent for testing,” she added. Dr Mishra said the outbreak of Covid-19 on BMP-14 campus, which also houses the headquarters of BMP-5 and BMP-10, was a matter of concern. “Apart from Nawada, Covid-19 cases have also been recorded in Bhojpur police lines,” Mishra said. A senior Nawada district administration official said when some policemen stranded in Begusarai, Khagaria and Buxar due to lockdown returned, they were asked by the SP to undergo Covid-19 test. “Some of these policemen were later tested positive for Covid-19,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/police-hq-in-a-tizzy-as-21-more-cops-test-ve/articleshow/75793829.cms||Debashish Karmakar
May 18, 2020||Patna||Super 30 founder Anand Kumar hails move to launch education channel||PATNA: Super 30 founder Anand Kumar on Sunday thanked Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman for announcing a dedicated education channel for students of classes I to XII. Kumar had last month written to the Union human resources development minister to start an exclusive Doordarshan education channel to cater to the needs of lakhs of students from the underprivileged sections of the society, who can’t easily avail the online facility during the lockdown period. Kumar said he was thankful to the Centre for starting an exclusive channel to cater to educational needs of students across the country, as many of them were still deprived of online facilities, laptops, smartphones and seamless connectivity. “India, like the world, is in the midst of an unprecedented health crisis due to Covid-19 pandemic. The much-needed lockdown to save lives has worked, but it has caused huge disruption in education of our students. Though many institutions are trying to adopt online means, it is not immediately feasible keeping in view the huge variation in the socio-economic condition of a large section of students, with a good chunk barely able to continue their studies due to low-cost government education system,” he had earlier written.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/anand-hails-move-to-launch-education-channel/articleshow/75793821.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Vande flyers to be treated as asymptomatic patients||KOLKATA: Passengers who arrive by Vande Bharat flights to Kolkata beginning Monday will be treated as asymptomatic Covid cases unlike two months ago, when Indian nationals who returned from overseas were put in institutional quarantine only if they displayed symptoms like sore throat, fever and respiratory problems. Sources said all agencies functioning at the airport, including immigration, Customs, airline and airport staff, as well as security personnel, had been asked to take abundant precautions to ensure that they did not get infected by the virus while performing their duty. TimesViewManaging any new influx can prove to be tough but this has become unavoidable now; those stranded outside are desperate to return. All protocol needs to be followed and returnees must be extra-cautious. Any misstep can set us back by many weeks.Anyone who is expected to come in close contact with the arriving passengers, including medical staff and CISF personnel, will be dressed in personnel protective equipment (PPE). “The health staff and CISF personnel will be in full PPE. If need be, so will the immigration officials. Everyone will, in any case, wear masks and gloves. Passengers will of course have to compulsorily wear masks,” an airport official said. Like those arriving by international flights in March, passengers who disembark from the Vande Bharat flights, including those who return from Dhaka on Monday, will be subject to thermal screening before they proceed to immigration. But unlike the last time, all passengers will be quarantined now. “If someone displays fever, he will be taken to an isolation centre and tested for Covid-19. Others can either stay at a government quarantine centre for free or opt for hotel quarantine at the time of booking the flight. No one will be initially asked to go for home quarantine. It is only after spending 14 days that passengers who do not show any Covid symptoms will be advised a further 14 days of home quarantine,” said an official. Sources said the MEA had tagged 11 hotels as quarantine centres to the Air India booking site from the list of hotels that had been provided by the Bengal government. In all, 1,400 rooms in various categories of hotels have been reserved for quarantine of foreign returnees. Hotel & Restaurant Association of Eastern India secretary Sudesh Poddar said nearly all the properties had offered a concessional 50% tariff, including of breakfast, lunch and dinner, for quarantined guests. “After the flight from Dhaka, we expect several more repatriation flights. If required, we will ensure more rooms are made available for the purpose,” Poddar said. Airports Authority of India has also put in place a baggage sanitization tunnel that will disinfect the bags before they are placed on the conveyor belt that leads to the baggage claim area. Officials of Bidhannagar City Police, too, have been asked to stay alert and keep all necessary vehicular arrangements ready. “Those who will head to the government quarantine centre in Rajarhat will get a bus arranged by the health department and those who will opt for hospital quarantine will get cabs. But we are still awaiting more clarity on the kind of cabs allotted to them,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/vande-flyers-to-be-treated-as-asymptomatic-patients/articleshow/75794993.cms||Subhro Niyogi
May 18, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Dad on 1,300km trek with two kids on shoulder pole gets help from cops||TIRUPATI: A migrant labourer on a 1,300-km walk with his two little children from Andhra Pradesh to Chhattisgarh hit upon an age-old idea of putting them on an improvised weighing basket and balancing them with a pole on his shoulders. The 40-year-old worker, whose identity the police revealed as just ‘Bihari’, had walked from Kadapa till Kurnool when he was spotted by a cop who helped him with cash and got him a ride on a truck heading towards Hyderabad a few days ago. The photographs of the father and children had gone viral on social media. Carrying on shoulder pole or milkmaid’s yoke was once a common mode of carrying a load on shoulders in India. Called ‘kavad’, they were quite popular in Telugu states as recently as three decades ago. Carrying pole has been immortalised in Indian folklore with Shravan Kumar carrying his old blind parents on the two baskets. Police head constable I Jagadeesh Kumar told TOI that he noticed a family of eight with two little children walking under the scorching summer sun on Adoni-Yemmiganur road on May 15 and was moved by their plight. ‘’The head of the family, who identified himself as Bihari, was carrying his two children in a ‘kavad’. The entire group had started from Kadapa and was on its way back to native places in Chhattisgarh on foot,” Kumar said. “With the help of some persons in the police department, the migrant labour were given food, drinking water, biscuits and some money. “We helped them board a truck headed towards Hyderabad and specifically told the driver not to charge any money from them for the favour,” he added. The cop shared his mobile number with Bihari and asked him to call me in case of any difficulties en route their journey to their home state. “Every single day, we continue to see several migrant workers trekking back to their home states. We in the police department are trying our best to provide whatever possible help within our capacities to mitigate the hardship of migrant workers,” Jagadeesh Kumar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/dad-on-1300km-trek-with-2-kids-on-shoulder-pole-gets-help-from-cops/articleshow/75795841.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
May 18, 2020||Vadodara||Under lockdown, Bhavai on Covid-19 goes virtual for first time||Vadodara: They have been performing Bhavai – Gujarati musical folk play – on social issues since years. And when Coronavirus spread in the state, these two artists from the city decided to write and perform Bhavai to educate Gujaratis about the deadly virus and how to keep themselves safe. But they were in a dilemma as they couldn’t move out of their houses due to lockdown. So Jayanti Chavda and Kshitij Supekar decided to perform their first-ever virtual Bhavai. “We are facing an unprecedented crisis and the virus has affected everyone in the state. Many people are still not taking the pandemic seriously and flouting lockdown rules. So we decided to make a Bhavai on this crisis,” 35-year-old Chavda told TOI. “Bhavai has always been a popular form of medium to spread awareness on social issues and also educate people about contemporary world. People learn quickly with entertainment and music,” Chavda, who works in Gujarati films and teaches drama in a school, added. Chavda and Supekar got together a week ago for making Bhavai called ‘Lockdown ma online Bhavai.’ While Chavda wrote the script and dialogues, Supekar helped him in directing the video as they both performed in it in the roles of Vidushak and Ranglo. “We have performed many Bhavais and plays together, but this is for the first time that we acted in front of just camera without any audience. Chavda shot his part in Bhavai at his home, I was filmed at my place and the film was merged,” Supekar, 43, said. “It was a bit odd, but a thrilling experience. The Bhavai will be uploaded on YouTube in next few hours and we hope to reach both urban as well as rural audiences. Perhaps, it would change the way Bhavai is performed in future,” Supekar, who began performing on stage in 2002, added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/under-lockdown-bhavai-on-covid-19-goes-virtual-for-first-time/articleshow/75793543.cms||Tushar Tere
May 18, 2020||Patna||SSB IG acts as Good Samaritan for non-Covid patients in state||PATNA: The Sashastra Seema Bal personnel of Patna frontier are nowadays helping those in need amid the nationwide lockdown. Its IG, Sanjay Kumar, is using his Twitter handle to help patients in dire need of life-saving drugs and other medical facilities. According to Kumar, he and his men helped at least 40 critical patients amid the ongoing lockdown. Life-saving drugs were provided to a woman suffering from lung cancer at Mairwan in Siwan. Kumar said the drugs were procured from Kolkata. Kumar also said he arranged an ambulance for a critically ill ten-year-old child to rush him to Sir Ganga Ram Hospital in Delhi from Gopalganj. The boy required bone marrow transplant immediately. With the help of a company of Patna frontier stationed in Delhi, Kumar also got delivered medicines for six months to the mother of an eight-year-old schizophrenia patient at Motinagar without charging a single penny. He also got life-saving drugs delivered to critical patients at Jamtara, Godda and Khunti in Jharkhand as it comes under the Patna frontier. Sharing his experience, Kumar said he came to know about Siwan patient through a tweet after which he got in touch with his officers in Kolkata as the medicines required were neither available in Patna nor in Ranchi. “I personally monitored the delivery of medicines. One of our SSB officers purchased the medicines in Kolkata and sent to Patna with the help of Railway Protection Force (RPF). At Patna, a goods train guard was handed over the medicines. RPF men at Siwan railway station received the consignment and delivered to the person concerned at Mairwan,” he said. The IG said he came to know through Twitter about an elderly male cancer patient in need of life-saving drugs in Gaya. “We already have our battalion in Gaya. The patient’s daughter and son-in-law had tweeted the SOS. The medicine was procured in Patna and our one vehicle returning to Gaya delivered it to the patient,” he said. About the child in Gopalganj, he said, “SSB, with the help of volunteers, arranged private ambulance and got that child transported to Delhi. My men in Delhi helped the family in getting the child admitted to Sir Ganga Ram Hospital. I had also alerted SSB men at Gorakhpur and Lucknow for assisting the family on way,” he said. Kumar said helping a daily wager maid’s eight-year-old child at Motinagar in west Delhi was the most satisfying. “I came to know about the patient through a scribe’s tweet and got his six months’ medicine delivered to the mother with help of my men in Delhi. The family is very poor and we didn’t not take money from them,” he said. Kumar said he had to form a Twitter handle ‘India Cares’ with his batchmate Arun Bothra in Odisha in April. It has around 400 volunteers across India. “Now they are also involved in extending help to critical patients as well as others in need for supplying dry ration,” he said, adding SSB Patna frontier Twitter handle is also being used for getting information about critical patients in need of life-saving drugs. In reply to a query, Kumar said he and other SSB officers are sharing the cost of medicines for poor patients. “Those who are capable pay. We ensure that no official work is hampered and all precautionary SOPs for Covid-19 are maintained,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ssb-ig-acts-as-good-samaritan-for-non-covid-patients-in-state/articleshow/75793786.cms||Debashish Karmakar
May 18, 2020||Patna||Experts discuss role of technology in lockdown||PATNA: The Covid-19 pandemic has made a paradigm shift in consumer behaviour with the deeper penetration of technology in the national economy. With the changed market landscape, e-commerce industry has recorded a considerable growth during the prolonged lockdown. Presenting these views at a webinar organized by Patna University (PU) economics department on Sunday, Cestor College of Toronto (Canada) management studies project coordinator Rabindra Singh discussed in detail about the penetration of technology in Covid-affected economy. He observed that both India and Canada were making optimum use of technology to recover their economy from the downturn created by the pandemic. This peak level technology penetration will be of a long-term global character. Even though adaptation of technological advancements has got several constraints in Indian circumstances, its prospects are quite high in the area of human capital management and supply chain management, he added. In her presidential address, PU economics department head Raj Luxmi observed that despite being largely an agrarian economy, India may turn towards growth trajectory with deep technology penetration in remote rural areas by shifting to e-marketing of farm products. Prominent among those who participated in the webinar included Saroj Sinha from economics department, Sweta Saharan from Magadh Mahila College, Preeti Sinha from Patna Women’s College, Satish Bharadwaj from Patna College and Puja Agrawal from B N College. In another webinar organized by PU Women’s Studies Centre on Sunday, the experts discussed the impact of Covid-19 on informal sector workers and women. Prominent speakers were College of Commerce, Arts and Science principal Tapan Kumar Sandilya, BIT-Mesra (Patna) professor Manju Bhagat, Asian Development Research Institute (ADRI) faculty Barna Ganguli and Onoh Foundation director Nabarun Ganguli. Centre director Sunita Ray presided. Another webinar was conducted by the Educational Development Council, Bihar, on ‘Lockdown and Judicious Use of Online Technology’. Prof Gulab Chand Jaiswal, Dr Nagendra Kumar, Prof. Ismail Md Zain, Prof. Amrendra Behera, Prof Saket Kushwaha, Prof. Gyandeo Mani Tripathi, Prof Shailaj Kumar Srivastav, Prof Kamal Prasad Bauddha and Dr Nimisha Srivastava spoke on the topic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/experts-discuss-role-of-technology-in-lockdown/articleshow/75793772.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Patna||Time to promote distance education as a viable alternative||PATNA: With more and more institutions of higher education taking to alternative modes to reach out to their students during the nationwide lockdown, distance learning is gaining strength as a viable mode of higher education. In addition to its wider access to the people of urban and rural areas, distance learning is also likely to enhance the gross enrolment ratio (GER) of the state, feel the academics. However, unfortunately, most distance education centres in the state are facing a rough weather for quite some time and some are even facing extinction. Nalanda Open University (NOU) and the Directorates of Distance Education (DDE) of some conventional universities, including Patna University (PU) and L N Mithila University (LNMU), have long been fulfilling the academic needs of a vast section of youths aspiring for higher education, but they might face closure if failed to meet the requirements of Distance Education Bureau (DEB) and the University Grants Commission (UGC) soon. Started in 1987 under the directives of the New Education Policy, 1986, NOU had touched the pinnacle of its glory in 2009 when it ran as many as 101 courses with more than 1.5 lakh students on its roll. Today, it is running about 125 courses, but the student strength has declined to less than 70,000 owing to various factors. This is despite the fact that it has established a number of study centres, mostly in backward areas of the state, in recent years. Last year, the DEB had derecognized most of its courses on the ground that it did not have full-time teachers and required infrastructure. On great persuasion and promise of making improvement, NOU was allowed to run these courses till 2022, said its former registrar S P Sinha. An inspection team from DEB was scheduled to visit NOU in March, but it did not materialize owing to the Covid-19. Another bigger problem faced by NOU is its non-accreditation by the National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC). The UGC has already announced that open universities would not be entitled to offer courses if they were not accreditated by NAAC latest by June this year. It seems rather impossible as NOU is not prepared at all for submitting its self study report and inviting NAAC peer team for assessment, said sources. The stricter norms of the UGC in according its recognition to DDEs had forced several universities of the state, namely, Patna, Magadh, BRA Bihar, L N Mithila and Jayaprakash universities, to stop admitting students to their courses in 2018-19 session. However, PU and LNMU got permission from DEB with some riders to run its courses last year. But, they are facing another herculean task of meeting UGC’s condition of accreditation with A+ grade by NAAC. No conventional university in Bihar is accreditated with A+ grade. Even PU got B+ grade last year. If the UGC did not relax its condition, all the distance education centres in the state would meet premature death, said NOU pro-VC Kriteshwar Prasad. Former VC of PU and NOU Rash Bihari Prasad Singh feel all the distance education centres should be strengthened with competent faculty and infrastructure to ensure timely dispatch of quality study materials to the students admitted to various courses, so that these centre may develop as viable alternative to conventional colleges and universities. Keeping in view the usefulness of distance education in the times of crisis like the Covid-19 pandemic, the UGC and DEB should also adopt liberal attitude in allowing the distance learning centres to operate and fulfil the ever-increasing academic aspirations of a vast populace of the state, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/time-to-promote-distance-education-as-a-viable-alternative/articleshow/75793761.cms||B K Mishra
May 18, 2020||Patna||Mukhiyas execute govt plan to check Covid spread in villages||PATNA: People’s representatives under the panchayati raj system are busy executing the state government’s plan to help the poor and create social awareness about quarantine, social distancing and other norms to be followed in the fight against Covid-19 pandemic. The state government on April 30 made it mandatory for all mukhiyas, sarpanchs and ward members to inform the police if any migrant reaches a village without registration, health check-up and spending 14 days in quarantine. The mukhiyas have also been warned of action for their failure to enforce the lockdown effectively. Poonam Devi, the mukhiya of Chakanha panchayat in Rohtas district, is back to her social responsibility within a fortnight of her husband Manoj Kumar Singh’s murder on April 25. She can be seen motivating migrant workers returning home to be in 14-day quarantine before going home. She can be spotted distributing ration among the families, who have missed to get it from the PDS shops for some reason. “This is an emergency-like situation and we are the real backbone of the government machinery to execute its directives pertaining to people’s welfare and their uplift,” said Poonam. Jayanti Devi, the mukhiya of Rajwara in Muzaffarpur district, herself takes care of the quarantine centres in her panchayat and ensures that the inmates are provided breakfast, meal, sanitizers and other amenities as per the guidelines of the disaster management department. The panchayat functionaries are also convincing people to wear masks while stepping out for any important work and not to forget to sanitize their hands soon after returning home. “The impact is visible. One can see people using ‘gamchha’ or face masks in rural areas as well,” said Bimal Kumar Jitendra, a former mukhiya of Hasanpur panchayat in Samastipur district. Meera Devi, the mukhiya of Davaichh panchayat in Vaishali district, said, “We are trying to comply with the government’s order.” Dayanand Singh of Govindpur Devi Gaura in Vaishali district said, “It is because of the awareness campaign that locals informed Patepur police about the return of some migrant workers to their Musahari Tola homes a couple of days back. Subsequently, they were taken to the hospital for medical check-up,” he added. A mukhiya on the condition of anonymity said, “Now every household will be provided face masks, sanitizers and soaps on the directive of CM Nitish Kumar. A sum of Rs9 lakh has been sanctioned to every panchayat for the purpose.” There were 8,406 panchayats across the state. Authoritative sources said police chowkidars, anganwadi sevikas and ASHAs have been entrusted with the task to apprise people of preventive measures to check Covid-19 spread.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/mukhiyas-execute-govt-plan-to-check-covid-spread-in-villages/articleshow/75793983.cms||Ramashankar
May 18, 2020||Surat||One positive case surfaces in congested Un area||Surat: Even as Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) was struggling to contain Covid-19 spread in the crowded Limbayat zone in the city, one Covid-19 positive case was reported on Sunday in Un area, a highly congested locality of Surat city.On Sunday, Surat recorded 35 new Covid-19 positive cases which increased the city’s tally to 1,055. Two persons succumbed to the virus taking the Covid-19 death toll to 50. Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) is worried that Un might become another ‘Limvayat zone’ in the city and stepped up its efforts to contain it from the very beginning. SMC commissioner Banchhanidhi Pani, mayor Dr Jagdish Patel and other civic officials visited the area on Sunday morning and held a meeting with local leaders and citizens. They urged them to follow lockdown rules and maintain social distancing to stop the spread of Covid-19. “We met people in Un area and advised them to stay home and take all necessary precautions and follow guidelines to prevent the area from becoming yet another ‘Limbayat zone’ which has reported the highest number of Covid-19 cases in the city,” Pani said. “The person who tested Covid-19 positive in Un area had not been going out from home since the last 20 days. He appears to have contracted the infection from his family members who must have brought it from outside. Hence, I request young people not to venture out without reasons and take care of their elders,”' Pani said. Limbayat zone has become the epicentre of the Covid-19 outbreak in the city with 399 cases in this zone alone. Un area consists of poor people mostly minorities who live in congested lanes which makes it prone to Covid-19 infection. “On Sunday, 31 Covid-19 patients were discharged. A total of 703 patients have been discharged in the city so far and it has helped increase the recovery rate of the city to 66.6%,” Pani said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/one-positive-case-surfaces-in-congested-un-area/articleshow/75794791.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Surat||Surat firm’s portable ventilator gets EDCQ, govt nod||Surat: The portable ventilator ‘Indovent’ indigenously developed by city-based Sahjanand Technologies Private Limited (STPL) has been successfully tested and certified by the Gandhinagar-based Electronics and Quality Department Centre (EQDC).This 15x15 inch portable ventilator weighs six kilograms and costs Rs50,000 will be gifted to the New Civil Hospital (NCH) to be used on the critical Covid-19 patients. The device works on automative charger, which make it usable in the ambulances for transferring patients from one place to another place.“We dedicate the portable ventilator to India with the aim of saving lives of critical coronavirus patients. The design is made in India without any dependency on any other company for design change and further improvements. Considering the demography, our country will require more ventilators in the coming days,” said Dhirajlal Kotadia, CMD of the group. A key feature in the micro-controller based device having internal UPS circuit is its automated bag valve mask (BVM) or Ambu bag (a self-inflating bag). This can be operated manually in case of failure of any component. In case of power failure it can be operated for five hours on battery.“Successful trials of the device has already been conducted at the NCH. We have also implemented all the changes as suggested by the NCH doctors,” said Rahul Gaywala, CEO, STPL. STPl, which has proven expertise in the medical equipment sector, has installed capacity to manufacture about 500 portable ventilators per day.The company is in talks with Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh and Karnataka governments for supply of the device in bulk to combat Covid-19 pandemic. “We have also approached Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) for the procurement of our device” Gaywala added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/surat-firms-portable-ventilator-gets-edcq-govt-nod/articleshow/75794813.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Surat||Allow diamond units to reopen with 30% workforce: SDA||Surat: Diamantaires from the city have urged the state government to allow diamond and jewellery units to commence operations to meet export obligations, a step already taken by Maharashtra.At a time when the diamond workers have started exodus to their hometowns in Saurashtra, the Surat Diamond Association (SDA) and the Gems and Jewellery Export Promotion Council (GJEPC) has urged the government to allow the commencement of the units in the diamond hub of Varachha with less than 30% workforce. Industry leaders stated that the making these units operation will prevent the workers from returning and they can start earning livelihood again. SDA president Babu Kathiriya said, “The units should be allowed to start by maintaing social distancing and limited manpower. If units restart, the workers’ exodus can be controlled.” Industry sources said that the export of polished diamonds has resumed from Bharat Diamond Bourse (BDB) in Mumbai. There are few countries including Hong Kong, China and UAE where the diamond business has resumed and that the exporters are getting supply orders. In the last fortnight, the Surat Hira Bourse (SHB) exported about Rs 3,000 crore worth of polished diamonds via Mumbai to Hong Kong. Regional chairman of GJEPC, Dinesh Navadiya said, “Diamantaires need to meet their export orders. The units should be allowed to start with less than 30% workforce. The diamond offices in Mumbai are working with 10% workforce.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/allow-diamond-units-to-reopen-with-30-workforce-sda/articleshow/75794701.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Kolkata||CoV confusion: Homeless woman dies on way to hosp||Kolkata: A 58-year-old woman, residing on the pavements of Behala, died on Saturday, though police had tried to admit her to two hospitals. The woman’s death prompted the cops to ask hospitals to issue an SOP for admission of the homeless who are being rescued by cops during the Covid pandemic. Around 1pm on Saturday, cops had rescued the woman who was lying near the Parnasree Vidya Mandir rickshaw stand and running high fever. “We asked her a few questions to trace her family. But she was not in a position to speak. We took her to Vidyasagar hospital where doctors said she might be a coronavirus patient,” said DC (southwest) Nilanjan Biswas. The woman was taken to Medical College where she was tested negative for the virus. When the woman was being taken to the Behala hospital, she died. “It was not any doctor’s fault. We need to know the procedure to deal with such ill homeless people rescued by us,” said a police officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cov-confusion-homeless-woman-dies-on-way-to-hosp/articleshow/75795037.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
May 18, 2020||Kolkata||Hotels get 27 bookings from first batch coming back from Bangla||Kolkata: The luxury hotels in the city earmarked for paid quarantine of foreign returnees have got around 27 bookings from the first batch arriving from Dhaka on Monday. State MSME secretary Rajesh Pandey, who is coordinating the Vande Bharat flights to Kolkata, told TOI that not more than 30%-35% of the first batch returning from Dhaka are likely to opt for paid quarantine in hotels. “A large part of those returning from Dhaka are students, and a portion of them are from districts. Most of them have opted for the state facility,” he said. “We are very excited to return, but also slightly anxious because after landing at Kolkata airport on Monday, we have to go to the quarantine centre,” said Sounak Ghosh a third-year MBBS student of Delta Medical College of Dhaka who is from Kalyani and will be returning to Kolkata on Monday on the first flight. Ghosh said they were informed by the Indian high commission on Saturday and rushed to the Intercontinental Building on Minto Road as the tickets were sold on a first-come, first-serve basis. “The high commission had informed that the tickets would be sold for Bangladeshi Taka 10,500 for economy class, which is a bit pricy. Most of us have no money and the tickets had to be bought in cash. We approached our college authority for a loan of Rs 50,000. There are six students from our college who are from Bengal and we bought the tickets with money from our college. There was a long queue and it took nearly an hour to reach the counter, but we were lucky to finally get the tickets,” he said. Ghosh said he has decided to go for free quarantine in a state facility. “We have been provided with a list of 12 quarantine centres in various hotels of Kolkata, but they are very costly. So I will be staying in the free quarantine centre. I do not know how many days I have to stay there,” he said. According to Pandey, as more and more flights from the Middle East, southeast Asia and the UK will fly in, more and more people may go for paid quarantine. Top executives of Vivanta and Holiday Inn, Rajarhat, also told TOI that though it is getting a lot of queries from Dhaka, there are not many confirmed bookings so far. “We are getting a lot of calls from other countries also following the list published by the state,” the Holiday Inn executive added. The state had issued a first list of 884 rooms in 13 hotels for paid quarantine. Finally, in the past few days, the number of such rooms requisitioned for paid quarantine has gone up to almost 1,400. Former president of the Federation of Hotels and Restaurants Association of India T S Walia told TOI that it is getting queries from all over the world following the list of hotels given to the external affairs ministry. “All the rooms are in luxury and good hotels. We (HRAEI) have negotiated a discounted rate of more than 50% considering the current pandemic situation. It is a mix of business and CSR for hoteliers. They are charging much less than usual. On the other hand, it is getting some business as well,” said HRAEI secretary Sudesh Poddar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/hotels-get-27-bookings-from-first-batch-coming-back-from-bangla/articleshow/75795010.cms||Udit Prasanna Mukherji
May 18, 2020||Business||Health, travel, apparel sectors disappointed||CHENNAI: Healthcare, hospitality and apparel exporters were disappointed that the finance minister’s stimulus announcements ignored their sectors. Soon after the announcements, Biocon chairperson Kiran Mazumdar-Shaw tweeted her disappointment. “Healthcare sector has been short changed. No stimulus for hospitals who have to bear increased operating costs due to Covid related protocols.” Healthcare sector has been short changed. No stimulus for hospitals who have to bear increased operating costs due… https://t.co/gURWdxsuae— Kiran Mazumdar Shaw (@kiranshaw) 1589704778000She was joined by Apollo Hospitals joint MD Sangita Reddy. “The private healthcare sector has suffered with approximately Rs 12,000-crore loss. I hope the govt recognises this & extends some stimulus,” Reddy tweeted. Mazumdar-Shaw also sought waiver of GST for 6 months to revive demand. The Federation of Associations in Indian Tourism & Hospitality, a trade body said, “10 weeks of constant discussions come to a naught and industry has gone directionless. The Indian tourism industry was looking forward to deep set of survival measures for tourism from the Rs 20-lakh-crore package announced over 5 days, which however were not addressed.” The industry body added that there was no cash inflow expected for many quarters in FY21 as key segments of the tourism economy will be down. “The international inbound tourists, VFR (visiting friends and relatives) and the outbound travel will remain mostly non-performing due to international flight restrictions & tragic impact in key markets of India,” the association said in a statement. Domestic travel and corporate travel within the country may slightly ease after the lockdown but will be highly restricted due to fear of travel among elders and children, social distancing norms, corporate travel freeze and the closure of the holiday season which will impacting all leisure, adventure, heritage, spiritual, cruise and niche tourism segments, the association said. Apparel exporters have sought classification of their businesses under MSMEs, as the industry is not covered by any recent benefits announced by the government. “We would request that the apparel-exporting industry may be treated on a par with the MSME sector as we work on wafer-thin margins of 4-5% and with a high-labour force with wages forming 25-30% of product cost,” Apparel Export Promotion Council (AEPC) chairman A Sakthivel, wrote in a letter to the Prime Minister. “Huge stocks are with us and every apparel exporter is facing severe financial crisis. You will also appreciate that the Apparel-export industry is one of the largest employers of the country employing 13 million directly and is also one of the top employers of women, forming 65% of the workforce,” Sakthivel said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/health-travel-apparel-sectors-disappointed/articleshow/75795689.cms||Rajesh Chandramouli
May 18, 2020||Kolkata||Issued no advisory asking nurses to leave Kolkata, says Manipur CM||KOLKATA: Manipur chief minister N Biren Singh had denied any advisory from the state government asking healthcare workers (HCWs) of Manipur working in other states to return. This comes in the wake of a mass exodus of nurses from Kolkata, majority of them from Manipur. A section of the media had reported that the Manipur government had asked them nurses to come back. “There is no advisory or instruction from the government of Manipur to any HCW working outside the state to return home. We feel proud that they are at the frontline of any state of the nation fighting Covid-19 and saving precious lives across the country,” said Singh. Around 500 HCWs from Manipur, mostly nurses working across private hospitals in Kolkata, have quit their jobs and have gone back home. While those from neighbouring Odisha, Jharkhand and Tripura, too, have gone back, their numbers are lower in comparison. Staring at a manpower crisis, the Association of Hospital of Eastern India (AHEI) had written to the Bengal chief secretary seeking intervention and had cited lucrative offers by governments of the respective states of the nurses as a possible reason for the exodus. However, the Manipur CM said, “We are proud of our HCWs working in cities like Kolkata, Delhi and Chennai. The state government is fully behind them. We have even announced a reward for them. But if some of them do not feel comfortable at their work places, we cannot force them to stay back. It is their choice.” But despite the exodus, a majority of nurses have stayed back and many are still working in Covid wards of their respective hospitals. “Concerns like personal protection, especially after a few nurses from Manipur tested positive, came up. We are vulnerable to the infection. But this is not the right time leave for home,” said a nurse from Manipur who is still here in the city. Hospitals have started counselling and offering incentives for nurses. For example, Fortis Hospital has taken out additional life insurance for all frontline employees, including nurses. “Every stakeholder should come together to speak to boys and girls and find out their problems,” said ENT surgeon Arjun Dasgupta. Manipuris in Kolkata (MIK), a group of people from Manipur living in Kolkata, has regularly been holding online meetings and conferences with the nurses to offer to solutions to their issues. “Since the Manipur government had arranged transit passes for so many nurses from across Kolkata, it was initially thought that the government wanted to take them back. We have, however, learnt that the nurses themselves had approached their government through their local MLAs,” said Rupak Barua, group CEO, AMRI Hospitals, and vice-president of AHEI. Barua, on behalf of AHEI, had appealed to the Bengal government, asking for support to sort out this growing crisis and a similar appeal will be made to governments of other states, from where most of our nurses who work in private hospitals of Kolkata come.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/issued-no-advisory-asking-nurses-to-leave-kol-says-manipur-cm/articleshow/75795025.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
May 18, 2020||Patna||Will urge railways to issue tickets to migrants sans hassles: Bihar CM Nitish Kumar||PATNA: Chief minister (CM) Nitish Kumar on Sunday said his government was trying hard to bring back all the migrant workers stranded in other states and would also write a letter to the railways to find a way for the ticket booking so that the migrant workers could be given information about the date of their departure in advance. “Don’t get hyper anxious. Keep patience and stay safe. The Bihar government is making efforts to bring you back. All necessary steps are being taken in this regard,” the CM said in his appeal to the migrant workers. The CM said this after holding a review meeting with senior officials. He instructed chief secretary Deepak Kumar to immediately write a letter to the ministry of railways to develop a protocol for ticket booking in a manner that gives advance information to the migrant workers who are anxious to return to Bihar. The CM said if the railways developed such a protocol for ticket booking, it would give a sense of assurance to the migrant workers. In the backdrop of ever-increasing number of migrant workers returning to the state, the CM asked all the departments to work seriously to ensure that the migrant workers get adequate work opportunities in the state He also called for expeditious identification of beneficiaries and preparation of ration cards for them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nitish-will-urge-rlys-to-issue-tickets-to-migrants-sans-hassles/articleshow/75794667.cms||Abhay Singh
May 18, 2020||Imphal||Issued no advisory asking nurses to leave Kolkata, says Manipur CM||KOLKATA: Manipur chief minister N Biren Singh had denied any advisory from the state government asking healthcare workers (HCWs) of Manipur working in other states to return. This comes in the wake of a mass exodus of nurses from Kolkata, majority of them from Manipur. A section of the media had reported that the Manipur government had asked them nurses to come back. “There is no advisory or instruction from the government of Manipur to any HCW working outside the state to return home. We feel proud that they are at the frontline of any state of the nation fighting Covid-19 and saving precious lives across the country,” said Singh. Around 500 HCWs from Manipur, mostly nurses working across private hospitals in Kolkata, have quit their jobs and have gone back home. While those from neighbouring Odisha, Jharkhand and Tripura, too, have gone back, their numbers are lower in comparison. Staring at a manpower crisis, the Association of Hospital of Eastern India (AHEI) had written to the Bengal chief secretary seeking intervention and had cited lucrative offers by governments of the respective states of the nurses as a possible reason for the exodus. However, the Manipur CM said, “We are proud of our HCWs working in cities like Kolkata, Delhi and Chennai. The state government is fully behind them. We have even announced a reward for them. But if some of them do not feel comfortable at their work places, we cannot force them to stay back. It is their choice.” But despite the exodus, a majority of nurses have stayed back and many are still working in Covid wards of their respective hospitals. “Concerns like personal protection, especially after a few nurses from Manipur tested positive, came up. We are vulnerable to the infection. But this is not the right time leave for home,” said a nurse from Manipur who is still here in the city. Hospitals have started counselling and offering incentives for nurses. For example, Fortis Hospital has taken out additional life insurance for all frontline employees, including nurses. “Every stakeholder should come together to speak to boys and girls and find out their problems,” said ENT surgeon Arjun Dasgupta. Manipuris in Kolkata (MIK), a group of people from Manipur living in Kolkata, has regularly been holding online meetings and conferences with the nurses to offer to solutions to their issues. “Since the Manipur government had arranged transit passes for so many nurses from across Kolkata, it was initially thought that the government wanted to take them back. We have, however, learnt that the nurses themselves had approached their government through their local MLAs,” said Rupak Barua, group CEO, AMRI Hospitals, and vice-president of AHEI. Barua, on behalf of AHEI, had appealed to the Bengal government, asking for support to sort out this growing crisis and a similar appeal will be made to governments of other states, from where most of our nurses who work in private hospitals of Kolkata come.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/imphal/issued-no-advisory-asking-nurses-to-leave-kol-says-manipur-cm/articleshow/75797024.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
May 18, 2020||Mysuru||Vishwanath warns against reopening schools soon||Mysuru: The deferral of examinations, and the uncertainty hovering around reopening of schools is weighing heavily on the minds of parents. In this backdrop, former education minister Adagooru H Vishwanath has cautioned the government against reopening schools early, a move he feared would cause more problems. Vishwanath batted for opening schools after the entire state was rid of the pandemic. “Children are our country’s future, and nobody should play with their lives. The schools should be restarted with the most stringent precautions being taken,” the former minister said. Citing an advisory issued by the World Health Organisation advisory, he said that, should one schoolchild get infected, the whole town would be in jeopardy. Vishwanath, however, was not on board with online classes either. “Mobile phones must not be given to children,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/vishwanath-warns-against-reopening-schools-soon/articleshow/75794166.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Surat||Man arrested for molesting 4-year-old girl||Surat: Police arrested a 44-year-old man on Sunday for alleged sexual assault of a five-year-old girl. in Lalgate police investigation further revealed that the accused had also earlier molested a six-year-old girl two days ago.Police arrested Mohammad Nishad Gulam Shaikh for the alleged molestations of the minor girls. The accused who lives in the room of the Old Dargah at Khajuriwadi of Variyali Bazaar area and works as its caretaker molested the minor, living in his neighbouring room, in his room. Police booked the accused for sexual assault under Indian Penal Code and Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act.The accused lured the minor playing outside her home with chocolate and biscuits and allegedly touched her inappropriately. The accused also played adult videos on his phone and showed these to the minor. Meanwhile, when the minor's grandmother started calling her loudly, the accused let the girl go who came home crying. She narrated her ordeal when she was questioned. Later the family approached police and lodged complaint. Police found chocolate and biscuits stored in a cupboard in room of the accused. During investigation police found that the accused used to take girls living in neighbourhood in his room and molested them in the past too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/man-arrested-for-molesting-4-year-old-girl/articleshow/75794889.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Patna||Int’l Buddhist body for shifting of quarantine centre from Bodh Gaya||GAYA: International Buddhist Council, the body representing more than 50 Bodh Gaya-based foreign monasteries, has demanded shifting of the proposed quarantine centre for foreign returnees to some other place from Bodh Gaya as it poses a health hazard to the locals and may even affect the tourist/pilgrim services in the days to come. The Council has also threatened to resort to peaceful protest outside the main Buddha shrine if the quarantine centre is not relocated. In a letter addressed to chief minister Nitish Kumar, Bhikku Pragyadeep, general secretary of the International Buddhist Council also said that monastery rooms do not conform to the SOP norms prescribed by the Union health ministry. Moreover, being spiritual persons, the monastery managers are ill placed vis a vis Covid management. The letter says that being reserved for religious chantings and practices, “The purity and sanctity of the monasteries will be contaminated if it is made a quarantine centre.” The letter also referred to official claims that proper screening of the returnees will be done after their arrival and only such persons would be sent to quarantine centres who do not carry any symptoms, the letter said that ‘home quarantine’ for such returnees will be a better option. Referring to the threat to take action against monastery managers if they fail to comply with official orders, the IBC general secretary letter said that such threats were uncalled for and thoroughly unwarranted. Issuing threats, on the basis of mere presumptions and conjectures is not a healthy practice said the IBC general secretary. The Magadh division commissioner Asangba Chuba, it may be recalled threatened action if the hoteliers/monastery managers did not obey official command in respect of quarantine management. The two-page-long letter ends with a polite threat that “if our humble request are not heard, all the international monks will come out for a peace protest in front of Mahabodhi Temple.” Meanwhile, 54 Hotels, 54 guest houses and 56 monasteries have been officially notified as quarantine centres for foreign returnees. An estimated 8000 Biharis including tourists and other visitors would be evacuated under the ‘Vande Bharat Mission’ in the days to come and all those arriving by AI special flights will be put on 14 days mandatory quarantine on payment basis in Bodh Gaya-based hotels, monasteries and guest houses. The first batch of about 200 persons stranded in UK is arriving on Monday evening. Altogether 4,170 rooms, nearly half of them super deluxe and deluxe rooms priced Rs 1600 and Rs 1000 respectively per day have been ear marked for the returnees. Meals will be charged separately. “There is no paucity of rooms as the returnees would not be coming in one go,” said DM Abhishek Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/intl-buddhist-body-for-shifting-of-quarantine-centre-from-bodh-gaya/articleshow/75794658.cms||Abdul Qadir
May 18, 2020||Surat||Class XII student ends life after failing in exam||Surat: A 17-year-old student of class XII science stream ended life in his house in Diwalibaug area of Rander on Sunday morning. Nisarg Pastiwala was found hanging from the ceiling fan in his bedroom when his brother checked on him from the window. Nisarg had checked his result online for the examination conducted by Gujarat Secondary and Higher Secondary Education Board and found that he had failed. He was tremendously upset because of this. Meanwhile, his mother asked him to take bath and went to prepare breakfast. She again called Nisarg but he did not reply. When family members knocked on the door of his room, he did not open. His brother then peeped through the window and found him hanging.Nisarg's father Paresh is retired officer of Surat Municipal Corporation. His elder brother is employed in Ahmedabad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/class-xii-student-ends-life-after-failing-in-exam/articleshow/75794845.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Ahmedabad||Chhota Udepur court to open with 5-foot physical distance norm||Ahmedabad: Citing increasing pendency and relaxation in Lockdown-4, the principal district judge of the tribal district of Chhota Udepur has decided to start courtroom functioning from Monday with the strict norm of 5-foot physical distance between two persons on court campus.The principal district judge P V Srivastav issued an office order on Saturday announcing that the court would start regular functioning from Monday for three hours. This arrangement is made till May 31. The order says that there are three judges and 24 persons in overall staff on district court premise. The court functioning has been stalled since March 26 due to lockdown and the work has just increased. The court was functioning with one-third of total staff for past two months. The order says, “The government has granted many relaxations in the fourth round of lockdown. The court campus is very vast so social distance/physical distance can be maintained.” The judge has said that the the court premise is sanitized daily. Moreover, judges and staff members have been provided gloves and masks by the office.The order further says, “Looking at all aspects of epidemic and social distancing norms, the strength in the court and increasing pendency of cases, this office is directing that from May 18 to May 31, all 24 employees of the district court will report to duty on Monday at 10.30am and take up their pending work. They will leave the court premise at 1.30pm and go home.”With the orders for all staffers to use sanitizer, getting themselves thermal-screened before entering the premise, the principal judge has asked lawyers and litigants to maintain physical distance of at least five feet on campus. The judge has instructed Bar members not to bring their clients to court premise, if their presence is not required for proceedings and try to complete legal work in their respective offices. He has asked the advocates also to abide by all norms of mandatory mask, sanitizer and gloves. Advocates have been asked to leave the court campus as soon as their work gets over. They have also been asked to continue to file urgent cases through e-filing system only.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/chhota-udepur-court-to-open-with-5-foot-physical-distance-norm/articleshow/75794911.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Business||General Atlantic picks 1.3% in Jio for Rs 6,598cr||Reeba Zachariah Mumbai: New York’s General Atlantic will pump Rs 6,598 crore ($868 million) into Jio Platforms, marking its largest investment in India. The infusion, which requires regulatory approvals, will give the private equity firm a 1.34% stake in Jio, a subsidiary of Reliance Industries (RIL) and a major provider of cellular and digital services in the country. General Atlantic will be the fourth American investor in Jio after Vista Equity Partners, Silver Lake Partners and Facebook. With the latest deal, RIL has raised Rs 67,195 crore (around $9 billion) from external parties in less than four weeks. General Atlantic’s investment assigns Jio an equity value of Rs 4.9 lakh crore, which is similar to the valuation given by the other two private equity firms, Vista and Silver Lake Partners. However, the Rs 4.9-lakh-crore equity valuation represents a 12.5% premium to Facebook’s investment in Jio. The money from General Atlantic will help reduce RIL’s debt, which stood at Rs 3.36 lakh crore as on March 31. “I have known General Atlantic for several decades and greatly admired it for its belief in India’s huge growth potential,” said RIL chairman Mukesh Ambani. The 1980-established General Atlantic, which manages assets worth $34 billion, has placed its bets on disruptive companies like Airbnb, Snapchat, Uber, Box, ByteDance. “General Atlantic has a long track record working alongside founders to scale disruptive businesses, as Jio is doing at the forefront of the digital revolution in India,” said the fund’s CEO Bill Ford. There are reports that Saudi Arabia’s $320-billion Public Investment Fund too may purchase a stake in Jio. While RIL has not commented on this, it had said earlier that it received strong interest from various investors to acquire a stake in Jio. The four foreign firms together own 14.8% of Jio with RIL holding the balance 85.2%. RIL launched Jio in 2016 by offering free voice calls and ultra cheap 4G data plans. Since then, it has transformed India’s telecom sector, emerging as the largest player with 388 million subscribers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/general-atlantic-picks-1-3-in-jio-for-rs-6598cr/articleshow/75795669.cms||Reeba Zachariah
May 18, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Patuli officer, BSF constable test Covid-19 positive||KOLKATA: A BSF constable posted at the CPC canteen tested positive on Sunday. Six of his colleagues, however, have now recovered and have been released from hospital. An officer at Patuli police station also tested positive. His wife, who is in Kolkata Police as well, had earlier been detected with Covid, but is now free of it. The Maniktala barracks of Kolkata Police have now been added to the list of containment zones. Additionally, at least two men from the Howrah police barracks have reported Covid-like symptoms. With 42 CISF personnel testing positive earlier, the state has so far reported 95 positive cases among cops and central security forces. Police sources said since cases were still spiking, a standard SOP has been initiated as a containment policy. “At least 34 officers of Jorabagan traffic guard were tested after the the place was turned into a containment zone. But certain officers, like those from special branch, do not stay at one spot. They work across the city. We have asked the seniors to monitor the health of each of our personnel. Anyone complaining of any Covid-like symptom is being tested. At the police stations, we are arranging for random tests,” said a joint CP at Lalbazar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/patuli-officer-bsf-constable-test-ve/articleshow/75795027.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
May 18, 2020||Surat||Odiya migrants smell mischief in tickets||Surat: Under normal circumstances, the vibrations of noisy textile weaving units would greet you instantly when you enter Anjani Industrial Estate (AIE), but not on Saturday. The gloom was mostly owing to the sudden death of Satyawan Swain, 36, a migrant worker from Odisha, who died on Thursday night. “We are all in a shock after Swain’s death,” said Ashok Gauda, a labourer and Swain’s neighbour in their native village Baruda of Ganjam district. Gauda claimed that Swain, as a team leader, had submitted the form for tickets for the special trains wherein he filled up names of 20 people, including his and 18 of his unit colleagues, along with Gauda’s too. “Seventeen colleagues of Swain, whose names were mentioned in the form suddenly got their tickets on Friday night, a day after Swain died. What is surprising that till then nobody had any information about the ticket confirmation. Only Swain, me and another colleague, however, did not get the tickets,” he added. On Thursday night, Swain’s brother-in-law had alleged that he had died due to police thrashing. But police commissioner RB Brahmbhatt dismissed the allegations saying the postmortem had revealed that Swain died of cardiac arrest. Meanwhile, Swain’s other colleagues too maintained that he died from police thrashing. Two colleagues, Ramesh Gauda and Padmanabh Swain, in Gopinath Textile at AIE-I, who lived on the fifth floor of the unit along with deceased in separate rooms said that Swain was taken to the police station alone in the van that evening at around 6.30pm, while the 55 others were taken in separate groups. However, Padmanabh escaped being detained by the police and had stayed back in their room. “Swain returned to his room at around 8pm. He as preparing dinner when he suddenly collapsed at around 11 pm,” said Padmanabh, adding that when they took him to SMIMER hospital in an 108 ambulance, doctors there declared him brought dead.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/odiya-migrants-smell-mischief-in-tickets/articleshow/75794693.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
May 18, 2020||Surat||Surat students secure highest number of A1 grade in Class XII science exam||Surat: Students of Class XII science stream from city and district have secured highest number of A1 grade in the examination conducted by Gujarat Secondary and Higher Secondary Education Board (GSHSEB), the results of which were announced on Sunday. They have recorded an impressive achievement in the process as of the 44 students securing A1 grade in the state, 19 belong to Surat city and district. Nearest competitor Ahmedabad has only two students who achieved A1 grade. In 2019 too, Surat was top with 95 of the students getting A1 grade out of total 254 in the state. A total of 14,617 students appeared in the examination from Surat of whom 11,292 cleared it, registering a pass percentage of 77.25. Education department officials credited competitive spirit among students of schools in Surat for this excellent performance year after year. "Track record of Surat students of past few years show that they have developed a competitive spirit. Students are working hard under proper guidance from teachers and support of their parents," said H H Rajyaguru, district education officer, Surat.Though the number of A1 grade scorers from the city is highest in the state, educationists have expressed concern over drop in number of students passing the examination. "Many students have failed in one or two subjects. We have to consider this fact that students appeared in the examination during coronavirus pandemic and teachers too checked the papers with fear all around,” a school principal said.An academician raised question about the timing of the result, "No admissions in colleges are going to take place. Also, no entrance examination will be held in the prevailing circumstances. There was no need to announce the result so early. Panicky parents will get their children admitted to any college and this will indirectly benefit some institutions not known for providing quality education."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/surat-students-secure-highest-number-of-a1-grade-in-class-xii-science-exam/articleshow/75794878.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
May 18, 2020||Surat||Murder convict in Lajpore jail tests positive||Surat: A 55-year-old murder convict lodged in Lajpore jail in Surat tested Covid-19 positive on Sunday. According to sources, Prakash Gajjar has been lodged in Lajpore jail since the past five years. He is suffering from kidney ailments and on dialysis. “Gajjar visits New Civil hospital twice a week from Lajpore jail for dialysis. On Friday, as per the routine, he came to the hospital but doctors found him with fever and took his samples for Covid-19 test, the report of which confirmed him as positive. Three persons who came into contact with him have been isolated in the Lajpore jail’s hospital,” said an official from the jail authority. Meanwhile, a total of 11 Covid-19 positive cases were reported in Surat district on Sunday taking the tally to 78 in the district. According to the district health department officials, the new cases were reported from Lajpor, Navi Pardi, Valan, Kalpetha, Ichhapor, Nava Chakra, Shmpura and Lindiyat villages. Out of the 11 Covid-19 positive cases, six are women.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/murder-convict-in-lajpore-jail-tests-positive/articleshow/75794712.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Ahmedabad||Soap factory worker stabbed, robbed in Kathwada||Ahmedabad: A soap factory worker, Mahesh Patel of Kathwada, was stabbed and robbed on his way home from work on Saturday by three persons in an autorickshaw. Nikol police have registered a case for assault and robbery and gathering CCTV footage to nab the accused. Inspector H B Zala of Nikol police station said Patel was coming home on foot from work on Saturday night. “Two of his colleagues were walking a little distance behind him. Suddenly, an autorickshaw stopped near him and three persons got down. Patel was busy listening to songs through earphones on his phone and didn’t find any cause for alarm. One of the accused stabbed him on his foot, and then they snatched his mobile phone and sped away,” Zala said. Police sources said Patel’s colleagues ran to his rescue, but the robbers managed to flee. “Patel was taken to a nearby hospital as he had suffered injuries on his hands and leg. We have increased patrolling on the road,” Zala said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/soap-factory-worker-stabbed-robbed-in-kathwada/articleshow/75794904.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Ahmedabad||Fed up with lockdown, man ends life||Ahmedabad: A Ghatlodia resident with learning difficulties, who was fed up with the ongoing lockdown, committed suicide by consuming pesticides at his home on Saturday. The deceased identified as Dhirendra Patel (56) was a resident of Gauswami Gunateetnagar near Memnagar in Ghatlodia. “Patel had consumed pesticides at around 3am on Saturday, and as he was constantly vomiting due to the effect, his family members on Saturday afternoon asked him about it. Patel told them that he had made a suicide bid,” said Deepsinh Parmar, head constable with Ghatlodia police station. Patel was taken to Civil Hospital in Sola where he was declared brought dead at around 1 pm on Saturday. Patel’s family members told the cops that he had remained unmarried as he was suffering from mental diseases. “The lockdown period aggravated his mental state, subsequent of which he took the drastic step,” added Parmar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/fed-up-with-lockdown-man-ends-life/articleshow/75794899.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Ahmedabad||ASI deployed in Shahpur shifted to Covid ICU||Ahmedabad: Out of 36 police officers and personnel still undergoing treatment for Covid-19 infection, assistant sub-inspector Govind Datania, 56, is the first to be admitted to ICU ward of the Civil Hospital as his condition deteriorated on Sunday. Also, 56 jawans from other forces than police are still undergoing treatment at the Civil Hospital for Covid-19. Police said till now about 187 officers and personnel have been discharged after they recovered from the infection. Special commissioner of police, crime branch, Ajay Tomar said that Dantania has been admitted in the ICU unit of the hospital and the whole team of doctors is looking after him. “I have personally been to the hospital to see how the treatment of Dantania is going on. He is improving and we hope he will recover soon and will back on duty,” Tomar said. Police sources said Dantania was first deployed in the bandobust duty of lockdown implementation. He is a resident of Shahpur, which is a containment area and it is believed that it is from there he got infected. “After testing positive for Covid-19, he was shifted to the hospital on May 13. After four days of treatment his condition worsened and on Sunday was shifted to ICU of the hospital,” added Tomar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/asi-deployed-in-shahpur-shifted-to-covid-icu/articleshow/75794929.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Patna||Patna hospitals, residents flout medical waste disposal norms||PATNA: Despite repeated advisories issued by the state health department and Bihar State Pollution Control Board (BSPCB), the city hospitals are defying the medical waste disposal norms. Discarded medical waste, including gloves, tissues, headgears, face masks, syringes and personal protective equipment were found lying in the heap of garbage outside the city hospitals, including Nalanda Medical College and Hospital (NMCH), which is a designated Covid-19 health facility in Patna, and Patna Medical College and Hospital (PMCH). NMCH principal Dr Vijay Kumar Gupta told this newspaper that action would be taken against those who throw the medical waste in trash without following the protocol. “Direction has been issued to deputy superintendent for proper disposal of medical waste,” he said. BSPCB chairman Ashok Ghosh told this newspaper that they, in association with UNICEF (Bihar), are going to sanitize the biomedical waste collection centres, quarantine centres, Covid-19 treatment centres and testing centres. “We will make the officials concerned aware about the disposal of biomedical waste through webinar from May 19. After the awareness, we would start inspections at several health facilities to ensure that biomedical waste should not be dumped casually as it can spread the virus,” he said. Meanwhile, masks and gloves used by the residents as safety precautions against Covid-19 virus are increasingly becoming a problem for Patna Municipal Corporation (PMC) sanitation workers, who find these items in street trash. After using the protective gears, people discard them in the open. Even though the PMC has provided black plastic bags to sanitation workers, these were not being used. “Every day I collect 4-5 gloves and more than 20 homemade masks in the trash from SK Puri locality in New Capital circle. People simply throw these items in the trash,” said N K Shukla, a door-to-door garbage collector of the civic body. Prashant, another sanitation worker, said, “We keep the black plastic bags for medical waste, but residents just put wet, dry and medical waste in one dustbin. It is impossible for us to segregate these items.” The PMC, in collaboration with UNFPA, Bihar, had given training to sanitation workers about the waste disposal and provided them protective gears and black plastic bags. PMC commissioner Himanshu Sharma said initially people followed the instructions of keeping the discarded gloves, masks and tissues in separate bags for trash collection. “After a while, they became careless and started throwing it on the road or even mixed with other trash. We have extended the training programme for sanitation workers till May 30. Besides, we are going to make public aware through social media or by distributing pamphlets about the harms in throwing medical waste on roads,” he told this newspaper. Sheila Irani, additional municipal commissioner of PMC, said the sanitation workers are creating awareness among the residents, but the people still throw the gloves or masks on the road. “How can we stop them. A worker collects the garbage from households and dispose it of at landfill site as per the provision,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/city-hospitals-residents-flout-medical-waste-disposal-norms/articleshow/75793799.cms||Faryal Rumi
May 18, 2020||Patna||Elderly woman among 6 killed in Bihar||PATNA: At least six people, including an elderly woman, were killed and two others seriously injured in separate incidents in the state since Saturday evening. While two people each were killed in Vaishali and Banka districts, one each incident of murder was reported from Siwan and Kishanganj districts. In Vaishali, police recovered a cache of weapons on Sunday, barely a few hours after the double murder case. The residents of Dighi under Hajipur sadar police station in Vaishali district spotted the body of a 50-year-old man on the railway track adjacent to the zonal office of the Indian Railways on Sunday. They informed the police, which reached there and sent the body for post mortem. About half-an-hour later, police received information about an abandoned motorbike on the national highway connecting Hajipur with Muzaffarpur near Ekahara village. The motorbike belonged to one Raju Sah, a resident of Kanchanpur village under Bidupur police station area in Vaishali district. Sah’s family members told the police that he (Sah) along with a co-resident Raj Kumar Singh had gone to Hajipur on the former’s motorbike to meet a local resident. Later the body, which was recovered from the railway track early in the morning, was identified as that of Raj Kumar Singh of Kanchanpur village. Vaishali superintendent of police Gaurav Mangla said Sah was still missing. However, the blood-stained clothes of Sah and a sharp-edged weapon used in the crime were recovered from the house of a suspect, Rajiv Kumar alias Rajiv Mali. SHO of Hajipur sadar police station Rohan Kumar said prima facie the incident appeared to be fallout of a dispute over transaction of money. Rajiv, who was released from jail recently, had taken money from Singh and Sah on the pretext of providing jobs to their family acquaintances. In Siwan, criminals killed a 55-year-old man and injured his wife at Pachlakhi Pandey Tola village under the Nautan police station late on Saturday night. The deceased was identified as Vishwanath Pathak. Land dispute is stated to be the reason behind the incident. In Kishanganj, one Md Rafiq (40) was killed at Mahingaon (Kachchubari) under Town police station in the wee hours of Sunday. Rafiq had a dispute with his neighbour over road, which is believed to be the reason behind his murder. In Banka, a 62-year-old woman, Shanti Devi, was beaten to death at Kumarkhal village under the Amarpur police station on Sunday. SHO Kumar Sunny said the victim was thrashed by some people following an altercation over a plot of land, which led to her death. In another incident, police recovered the body of a 25-year-old youth from Ghauraya police station area in Banka district on Sunday. The identity of the deceased is yet to be ascertained. In Katihar, a man attacked his 30-year-old son with a knife causing grievous injuries to him at Bara Bazar on Sunday. The injured was rushed to a hospital in Purnia.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/elderly-woman-among-6-killed-in-state-in-24-hours/articleshow/75794013.cms||Ramashankar
May 18, 2020||Patna||Rohit Jaiswal's death: Kateya SHO axed for ‘misbehaviour’||PATNA: The station house officer (SHO) of Kateya police station in Gopalganj district, Ashwini Kumar Tiwari, was suspended and departmental proceedings were initiated against him on the directive of DGP Gupteshwar Pandey. The action was taken after DGP’s visit to Gopalganj on Saturday to probe into the mysterious death of 15-year-old Rohit Jaiswal. His body was recovered from Pakahan river on March 29. The DGP himself entered the river in the presence of senior officers to ascertain the truth behind the incident, which took communal overtones after a video quoting the victim’s family went viral on social media, alleging that they were being forced to vacate the village. The victim’s family alleged that they were being threatened with dire consequences and pressurised to reach a compromise with the accused. Gopalganj SP Manoj Kumar Tiwari on Sunday said the Kateya SHO had allegedly misbehaved with the relatives of Rohit during inquiry into the case. The SP categorically denied any communal angle and said those trying to spread rumours in the area will face legal action. Rohit, a resident of Belhi Dih village, had gone missing on March 28. While leaving home, Rohit had told his family that he was going to play cricket with his friends. When he didn’t return home late in the evening, the family started searching him. His body was recovered from the river the next morning. Rohit’s father Rajesh Jaiswal, who runs a grocery shop at the village, lodged an FIR against six suspects, including four minors, accusing them of killing his son and dumping his body into the river about 3km away from his village. Five of the accused had been arrested. Later, four juveniles were released on bail while the fifth accused is still in jail. The sixth accused is absconding. The DGP met the victim’s relatives. “Don’t be frightened and inform me immediately if anybody tries to harass you or influence the investigation,” a close relative of Rohit quoted DGP as saying. Later, the DGP told mediapersons that CID was assisting the district police in the investigation. An investigating officer said no external injury was found on the victim’s body. The postmortem report also didn’t confirm the use of any lethal weapon in the crime.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/kateya-sho-axed-for-misbehaviour/articleshow/75793957.cms||Ramashankar
May 18, 2020||Business||Drug makers manage to up manufacturing capacity to 50-60%||MUMBAI: A steady supply of medicines, particularly in remote areas, may be impacted as drug companies continue to face challenges in distribution and logistics. Supply disruption and bottlenecks continue to affect the pharmaceutical industry, with units operating at 50-60% capacity at the end of lockdown 3.0. A major challenge is congestion at ports, which may lead to shortages of key starting materials and active pharmaceutical ingredients (APIs), pharma companies told TOI. Containers with imported raw materials and APIs remain stuck, as port employees and agents are not reporting to work amid the pandemic. The worst affected is JNPT, one of the busiest and largest ports, while movement of air cargo at Mumbai airport is also hit, industry experts said. “Not only is the cargo not being cleared, shipment costs have nearly doubled from $750 per container. There is also an increase in air freight costs to about four times. There are containers with medicines/insulins requiring a cool chain, which could be affected. We could face a shortfall in raw materials, and disruption in production as our inventory is also over,” an executive at a Mumbai-based company said. Efficient operations at major ports and airports is crucial for the industry, which is heavily dependent on imports of key raw materials, mainly from China. Also, lower production at manufacturing hubs like Baddi (Himachal Pradesh) and Pithampur (Madhya Pradesh) would hit exports of generic drugs to major developed markets, leading to significant shortages in the US. Domestic companies command around 35% volume share in the highly lucrative US generic market, valued at about $70 billion. “We continue to operate our Nashik factory at 100% capacity, and our contract manufacturing factories are now operating at 60-65% capacity up from 30-35% a couple of weeks ago. In some states, we face some minor last-mile logistics and distribution challenges on account of interstate transfer of medicines. But overall, the situation has improved significantly,” a GSK spokesperson said. Issues like permission from local authorities, employees and inter-state travel have been largely resolved at Baddi, but Daman continues to be impacted. The movement of medicines and devices from factories to stockists is affected as some of them are based in red zones or containment areas. Also, ancillaries including the packaging industry, are facing financial distress, which create bottlenecks for the drug industry. Market research firm IQVIA expects growth to decline to 1-5% in FY21 as the lockdown-driven disruption will impact the pharma market, despite it being classified as essential.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/drug-makers-manage-to-up-mfg-capacity-to-50-60/articleshow/75795672.cms||Rupali Mukherjee
May 18, 2020||Business||Push for ordinance to exclude ‘Covid default’||NEW DELHI/MUMBAI: The government is set to push for promulgation of ordinances to amend the Companies Act and the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, which will allow the Centre to exclude Covid-19 related debt from the definition of “default” and prevent triggering insolvency proceeding. The comfort to companies that are finding it tough to repay loans, as their revenues have severely depleted due to the lockdown, comes along with the suspension of insolvency proceedings for up to one year due to the pandemic. Sources said the ministry of corporate affairs will soon decide if the exclusion of delinquencies from the default definition will include loans availed during lockdown or even some of the debt that was taken just before the government ordered the halt on all activities at the end of March. The date will be decided in consultation with the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) as lenders will be affected by the decision taken by the government. The move, however, brought cheer as it will give borrowers breathing space, help lenders retain the value of assets and protect their balance sheets. “These are not ordinary times and extraordinary measures are required,” said Union Bank MD & CEO Rajkiran Rai. “There are some businesses like for instance toll collections or those in shopping malls that have had no revenue because of the Covid lockdown,” he added. “I reasonably assume that the regulators may also consider restructuring scheme and extending of the moratorium,” Rai added. In the past, the regulator has responded to the crisis by allowing lenders to extent a one-time restructuring of loan schemes. Under such schemes, the burden on the borrower is reduced by either providing a break in repayment, lowering the interest rate or even giving some relief on the loan. The immediate impact of not classifying the borrower as a defaulter would be that the lenders will not attach assets or sell the company under the insolvency process to recover their loan. Also, as long as an account is not a non-performing asset, they can lend more money to tide over the crisis. In addition, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman also announced fast-tracking amendments to the Companies Act to further decriminalise it and also create the regulator framework for Indian companies to directly list overseas, proposals that were in the last Companies Amendment Bill, which is awaiting parliamentary clearance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/push-for-ordinance-to-exclude-covid-default/articleshow/75795709.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Business||E-tailers gear up to deliver in all 3 zones||NEW DELHI: Economic activity has started to gather pace with more factories rebooting production and large e-commerce players gearing up to expand deliveries. The twin moves will result in kick-starting the demand and supply cycle, something seen as crucial by analysts to make the economy start moving again. Even as the country enters lockdown 4.0, which will continue till the end of May, the ease in restrictions on businesses and factories will help move economic activities. Maruti Suzuki said it will resume production at its Gurugram plant from Monday, while others such as Panasonic, Honda Motorcycles and Scooter India (HMSI) and LG are also likely to restart operations in some of their plants very soon. Companies like Hero MotoCorp, Hyundai, Lava Mobiles, and Xiaomi have started production at their plants a few days ago. E-commerce platforms such as Amazon and Flipkart are also preparing to begin deliveries across all the three zones (green, orange and red), except in containment zones, as the industry believes that they have been allowed to do so in the latest home ministry guidelines. Three industry sources said beginning this week, e-tailers are ready to start selling both essentials and non-essentials across pincodes in green, orange and red zones. They added that states would define red zones and containment areas based on local conditions and relevant requirements. “Except the containment zones, we are finally getting ready to take orders from all other pincodes,” an executive said. Flipkart and Amazon did not immediately comment on TOI’s query on Sunday evening. Snapdeal said it is ready and equipped to start serving customers by opening its entire selection of products. Over the last two weeks, e-tailers have been selling non-essential orders like smartphones and electronics only in green and orange zones. Demand may continue to remain muted as consumers continue to spend mostly for essential needs. More on Covid-19 Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage Lockdown 3.0: What's allowed and what's not in the three zones It's time to mask up and stay safe: Join TOI's #MaskIndia campaign MHA's guidelines for home isolation Trust the newspaper for your daily verified news On the production side, companies such as Maruti have started to expand manufacturing. The company had started producing from its Manesar plant a few days back, and the Gurugram factory now opens up after 57 days of closure. The company said all activities would be carried out strictly in accordance with the government’s safety and hygiene regulations and guidelines. HMSI, the country’s second-biggest two-wheeler maker, has four plants in the country — at Gujarat, Rajasthan, Haryana, and Karnataka. The company is yet to start production, even though preliminary sanitation, maintenance and preparation work is on. “Production may begin very soon,” a source said. Japanese Panasonic is also contemplating to start production at its Jhajjar plant, and is managing market operations through inventory that was already in the pipeline. “We are still assessing the situation. Production will start in the near future,” officials said. LG has also started production at its Pune factory, though the Greater Noida plant is yet to start operation. “While the plant has already opened for office and maintenance, production is yet to start. It may happen soon,” officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/e-tailers-gear-up-to-deliver-in-all-3-zones/articleshow/75795746.cms||Pankaj Doval
May 18, 2020||Varanasi||Two new cases in city, 15 in neighbouring dists||Varanasi: Two new Covid-19 positive cases were detected in Varanasi on Sunday while 15 positive cases were added to the tally of Ghazipur, Chandauli, Ballia, Bhadohi and Mirzapur districts. Varanasi district magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma said a 25-year-old youth of Hardasipur village in Chaubeypur area, who had returned from Mumbai on motorcycle after staying there with two infected youths, has been tested positive. A 33-year-old woman of Naria, who was in contact of an infected person, has also been found positive. Total number of Covid-19 positive cases in Varanasi has reached 96, he said adding, after getting cured 10 more patients were discharged from DDU district hospital on Sunday. With it the number of cured patients in district reached 65 while three had died. Now, number of active cases in district is 28. Total number of hotspots reached to 37 but 11 of them have turned to green zone while four are in category of orange zone. In Ghazipur, seven new cases of Covid-19 positive were confirmed with the arrival of test reports on Sunday. Ghazipur DM Omprakash Arya said that new cases have been reported from Yusufpur, Chak Baks, Babhnauli, Revatipur, Dilia, Talbhitar and Yusufpur Manihari villages. Six of them are migrants, who have returned home recently from cities like Mumbai while one had been infected after coming in contact of a positive case. The total number of Covid-19 positive cases has now reached to 34. Of them six with Tablighi Jamaat connection had become cured and the active cases are 28, he added. In Ballia district, two more persons were found infected, confirmed Ballia DM Hari Pratap Shahi. A youth of Durjanpur area of Revati and other youth of Parasia village of Rasra area, who had returned from Mumbai and Delhi recently, had been tested positive, he said adding, now total number of Covid-19 cases in here has reached to 12. All these patients have been kept at L-1 facility hospital. A youth, who had reached Nagua village in Bhadohi district by moving on foot from Mumbai a week ago, had been tested positive. CMO Bhadohi Dr Laxmi Singh said that sample of this youth had been sent for lab test on May 14 and report was received on Sunday. Total number of positive cases in Bhadohi has reached six. A youth of Jafapura village in Jamalpur area of Mirzapur district, who had returned home via Chandauli district from Mumbai on May 13, was also tested positive. Health departments district surveillance officer Dr Ajay Kumar said that the youth’s report was received from Chandauli administration after which he was admitted to isolation ward while his village was declared hotspot. Total number of Covid-19 cases in Mirzapur has reached to 15. Earlier, on Saturday late night Chandauli administration received the reports cofiriming four positive cases. Chandauli DM Navneet Singh Chahal said three youths of Ben, Dohrikala Ilia and Jasuri villages who had returned from Mumbai and one of Raghunathpur who had returned from Gurugram, were found infected. With it total number of Covid-19 positive cases in Chandauli became five.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/two-new-cases-in-city-15-in-neighbouring-dists/articleshow/75794304.cms||Rajeev Dikshit
May 18, 2020||Nagpur||Migrants in trucks okay for cops, but RTOs to punish truckers||Nagpur: At a time when city police are helping migrants to travel back home in trucks, transport commissioner Shekhar Channe has asked all regional transport offices (RTOs) across the state to take action against truckers ferrying stranded people. The order by the state transport commissioner says, “Coronavirus cases have been increasing in the state. The government has taken many preventive measures including orders to maintain Covid distancing while travelling. The state is also facilitating migrants’ travel to their hometown in state transport buses.” Despite the arrangement, many migrants along with their family members are walking along the highways to reach their native place. They also board trucks to reach their destination without following Covid distancing norms, said Channe. As the mandatory Covid distancing is not being followed, the transport commissioner directed RTOs and deputy RTOs to increase patrolling on interstate borders and toll plazas of major cities to take action against trucks transporting migrants. Following Channe’s directives, flying squad of RTO has been deployed at Panjri toll plaza which penalized many truckers after they were found transporting migrants. As per the order, RTOs across the state should deboard migrants travelling in commercial vehicles and instead arrange Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) buses for them to travel back to their home. Social activist Anusuya Kale Chhabrani, who is working selflessly at Panjri toll plaza, termed the order of transport commissioner as injustice to already starved migrants. According to her, not only state government, even transport commissioner was too late to gauge the problems being faced by the migrants. “Though state government is claiming to have provided ST bus service for stranded migrants, these buses are dropping the migrants just only on the interstate borders, which has in fact aggravated their problems,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/migrants-in-trucks-okay-for-cops-but-rtos-to-punish-truckers/articleshow/75795835.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
May 18, 2020||Varanasi||Air India flight from London to bring 119 to Kashi today||VARANASI: After March 23, LBS International Airport will witness landing of the first commercial flight on its runway on Monday when an Air India flight will bring 119 passengers from London. All the passengers reaching here from London will be kept in institutional quarantine for which paid accommodation at hotels in three categories have also been finalised by the district administration. Talking to TOI on Sunday, airport director Akashdeep Mathur said, “An AI flight will reach here at 2.10 pm on Monday with around 200 passengers on board. Of them, 119 will alight here while other will go to Gaya in Bihar by the same flight.” Regarding preparedness for resumption of flight operations at the airport, Mathur said, “Immediately after the closing of airport with the announcement of lockdown, no commercial flight had landed after March 23. In the period of lockdown we carried out hectic exercises to make the airport ready for safe resumption of passenger services.” Providing details of preparations, airport’s spokesman said sanitisation of airport has been done while rehearsals to disinfect passengers and their baggage had also been carried out. “Queue managers and stickers are placed to maintain safe distance among passengers,” he said adding, “check-in and immigration counters are modified to prevent direct contact.” Sensor-based sanitizer dispensers are placed at entry points, check-in and arrival areas, he said adding, airport is committed to provide safe operation and environment to its staff and passengers. In view of the arrival of a flight with passengers from London during lockdown, the district administration also finalised its preparations. District magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma engaged a team under ADM (protocol) Atul Kumar in this regard. Kumar and his team members inspected airport on Saturday evening and later finalised the places for institutional quarantine of the passengers reaching y this flight. Kumar said that all the passengers landing here on Monday will remain under institutional quarantine. For it, he said, hotels in three categories have been finalised on reduced tariff for the passengers, where they will be accommodated in institutional quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/ai-flight-from-london-to-bring-119-to-kashi-today/articleshow/75794326.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Mumbai||1.13L walking migrants bussed to Maha borders||Mumbai: The number of migrants transported by MSRTC buses crossed the 2 lakh mark on Sunday, reports Somit Sen. A MSRTC official said 15,367 buses were used to ferry 2.1 lakh migrants to the state borders and some directly to their native villages. Statistics released by RTO on Sunday showed nearly 1.13 lakh migrants, including women and children, were found travelling by foot and they were tracked down by a team of RTO and MSRTC on the national highways in the past two weeks. These people were shifted to state buses and dropped at the Maharashtra borders. The statistics also showed that 7,809 migrants were offloaded from trucks and they were shifted to the state buses for safe travel. A total of 635 cases were registered against driver for illegal transportation of persons in trucks and tempos and 134 such vehicles were impounded by RTO across various districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/1-13l-walking-migrants-bussed-to-maha-borders/articleshow/75795846.cms||Somit Sen
May 18, 2020||Varanasi||Man returns from Mumbai,dies at home; probe launched||Varanasi: Sensation prevailed in Dimapur village of Jansa area when Mumbai- returned migrant labourer Izhar Aslam (42) died on Monday.Following initial investigation by health department officials, chief medical officer Dr VB Singh said, “As Aslam had no symptom of Covid-1 he and his two brothers had been asked to be quarantined at his village’s shelter home. He had old cardiac problem due to which it is suspected that he would have died due to cardiac arrest. Actual reason of his death will become clear on arrival of postmortem report.”Aslam, who worked in a factory in Mumbai to earn livelihood, had reached Balrampur district by a Shramik Express on Saturday. On Sunday he arrived Varanasi by a bus and was taken to dispatch centre of Harahua, where their thermal screening and other health check ups were conducted. As no symptom was found in them they were asked for quarantine at their village’s shelter home.On reaching his village, the trio stayed at the shelter home created in Dimapur’s primary school, said Dimapur’s gram Pradhan (village head) Meera Devi adding, but, on Sunday late night he left shelter home for his house complaining of some sickness. On Monday morning he died at his residence. His death led to panic in the village. Villagers immediately reported the matter to police.CMO said that on getting information of Aslam’s death, a team of health department under an additional chief medical officer was sent for proper investigation. This team collected the health record of Aslam when it came to light that he had old cardiac problem. The team collected samples of his brothers. The body was sent for postmortem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/man-returns-from-mumbaidies-at-home-probe-launched/articleshow/75813053.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Ludhiana||Minor held for rape, murder bid on woman||LUDHIANA: The police on Sunday arrested a 17-year-old boy for attempting to rape and kill his 27-year-old neighbour. Cops said the accused barged into her PG accommodation and attempted to rape her, but when she resisted, he stabbed her and escaped. Sub-inspector Satibir Singh said, “The accused lives near the woman’s PG accommodation. In the wee hours of Saturday, he scaled the building’s wall and reached the third floor, where the woman lived alone. Other women lived on the first and the second floors.” The juvenile entered her washroom through a window and barged into her room. “He first tried to rape her, but when the woman fought back, he stabbed her and fled,” the sub-inspector added. On hearing her screams, her housemates rushed to her and took her to a hospital. The cop said the woman was stabbed once in the neck and twice in the stomach. Police recorded her statement on Sunday, after which the FIR was lodged and the accused booked under sections 307, 376 and 511 of the IPC. “The juvenile has been arrested,” he added. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/minor-held-for-rape-murder-bid-on-woman/articleshow/75794179.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Mangaluru||MCF resumes production, gives hope to farmers for kharif cultivation||Mangaluru: Karnataka’s only fertiliser plant—Mangalore Chemicals and Fertilisers (MCF)—resumed production of fertilisers amidst the lockdown, which is encouraging for farmers, who are looking to bank on a normal monsoon that the Indian Meteorological Department has predicted, to grow their crops. The plant at Panambur was closed for a short period due to annual maintenance. The authorities are now sure of meeting the fertiliser needs of the state for the upcoming kharif season. Both the Union and state governments have backed the functioning of fertiliser units, under the grounds that they produce essential commodities. The MCF plant can produce around 36,000 tonnes of urea and 25,000 tonnes of diammonium phosphate (DAP) and around 1,500 tonnes of ammonium bicarbonate. Ammonium bicarbonate is used to make biscuits. Incidentally, MCF is one of the only two fertiliser plants that produce ammonium bicarbonate in India. MCF, that had targeted production of 16,000 tonnes of urea since resuming operations, is sure of attaining full production capacity in May. Arrival of phosphoric acid and ammonia has helped it resume the production of DAP. A major share of fertilisers produced by MCF are consumed within Karnataka, and the rest in neighbouring states. The Union government has permitted the movement of fertilisers across the country, to aid in the production of food. The company has ensured all safety measures as advised by the central and state governments, including use of pared workforce, sanitation, maintaining social distancing and that hygiene is maintained when the plant works in three shifts. The supply chain essential for transporting the fertilisers to designated places and dealers, as decided by the central government, both using trains as well as by road, is ready. Incidentally, MCF was temporarily closed in 2014-15, following the Union government’s decision to discontinue subsidy for naphtha, the feedstock used to produce urea. It resumed production in 2015, after late H N Ananth Kumar, then Union minister, intervened in the matter. MCF is ready to shift to regasified liquid natural gas (RLNG) as feedstock, once the Kochi-Kootanad-Mangaluru RLNG pipeline is completed in a couple of months, said a company official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/mcf-resumes-production-gives-hope-to-farmers-for-kharif-cultivation/articleshow/75794181.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Appointment process of VCs for six universities begins||Bhubaneswar: The state government has initiated the process for appointment of vice-chancellors in six state universities. Governor Ganeshi Lal has approved the process for starting this appointment. Tenure of VCs of these universities will be completed between July 13 and August 31 this year. Tenure of Amarendra Narayan Mishra, VC of Khallikote University, will be end on July 13, while Rama Devi Women's University VC Padmaja Mishra's tenure will be completed on July 14. Similarly, date of completion of the tenure is July 25 for GM University VC AK Pati, July 30 for Utkal University VC Soumendra Mohan Patnaik, August 1 for FM University VC Madhumita Das and August 31 for North Odisha University VC Pradeep Kumar Chand. Higher education department on Thursday issued advertisements for appointment of VCs of Khallikote University and Rama Devi Women's University. Advertisement for other four universities will be issued soon, official sources said. Eligible candidates below 62 years of age need to apply for the post by June 30. The applicant should be a distinguished academician of proven academic and administrative excellence with a minimum 10 years of experience as professor in a university system or 10 years in an equivalent position in reputed research and/or academic organisation. To fast-track the process, Governor has appointed higher education department secretary Saswat Mishra as convenor of different search committees in connection with selection and appointment of new VCs of six universities. The convenor is required to issue advertisements seeking applications from prospective candidates, scrutinize the applications and place the same before the search committees. These commiittes will interview the candidates and recommend three names; out of which one candidate will be appointed as VC by chancellor of state universities and governor Ganeshi Lal. In order to assist convenor, the higher education department has formed a team of four officers in receipt and scrutiny of applications. Birendra Kerkara, joint secretary of the department, will lead the team.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/appointment-process-of-vcs-for-six-universities-begins/articleshow/75794182.cms||Hemanta Pradhan
May 18, 2020||Coimbatore||Construction worker found dead||Coimbatore: A construction worker was found dead at Ondipudur here on Sunday night. The deceased was identified as U Chithiraivel, 29, a native of Thanjavur. He was staying in a rented house at Vadakke Gounder Street at Ondipudur. On Sunday night, his neighbours found him lying dead near his room and informed Singanallur police. The body was sent to Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital for postmortem. A preliminary inquiry revealed that three people had visited his room in the day and heated arguments between them were heard by his neighbours. Police suspect that the trio might have killed the construction worker and escaped. Further investigations are on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/construction-worker-found-dead/articleshow/75795503.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Delhi||No victory after march to border||New Delhi: Battling hunger and exhaustion, Rajendra, his brother and their fellow migrant labourers set off from Bawana at 8pm on Saturday and trudged 40km till they reached Ghazipur border around 3am. Their hopes had risen upon hearing someone say that buses would be leaving for Bihar from there. But that was not to be. The native of Chhapra, who had been working at a shoe factory since 1997, was among the 500-odd migrants who had heard the same rumour and assembled at the UP border. By 10am on Sunday, the swelling crowd forced the administration to put them in buses and drop them at a shelter home in a government school in West Vinod Nagar. Deputy CM Manish Sisodia visited the school in the afternoon and interacted with the migrants. Senior police officers said the border was cleared by midnight and many trucks were also turned away. However, by morning hundreds more migrants gathered near the border looking for buses ferrying people to Bihar and Uttar Pradesh. Forget social distancing, the situation started turning chaotic by the minute. The men, women and children were then carted away in several buses to the government school. Earlier, the school was being used to medically screen people who had applied for train tickets to go back to their hometowns. After the screening, they were being sent to the railway stations. Officials at the shelter noted down the details of the migrants brought from the border and then screened them for Covid-19 symptoms. By noon, a long queue could be seen in front of the screening booths. Another migrant, Goldie, and his 50-year-old mother Bimla Devi had walked to the border all the way from Kapashera. The Bhagalpur native was lucky to be put on a train. His only disappointment was that he had not been paid for his work. “I came to Delhi in February and worked as a painter at a farmhouse. I’m yet to be paid my dues of Rs 10,000 from my employer. He told me that he’ll pay me once the lockdown gets over. We faced a lot of troubles, but no one helped us. I’m happy to board the train back home,” said Goldie. There were many migrants who had reached Delhi from other states and wanted to return to Uttar Pradesh. A few at the shelter wanted to go to their home districts in Bihar, but no trains were plying to their destination. For two decades, Naseem, Bauku and two others had been plying rickshaws in Delhi to earn a living. “We sold our rickshaws and reached Ghazipur to go back home. We came to know that trains were only leaving for three destinations. How do we go now?” asked a dejected Naseem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/no-victory-after-march-to-border/articleshow/75795524.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Nagpur||Even Mumbai cabbies begin to desert the city||Nagpur: Nagpur is being witness to the exodus that may leave Mumbai and Pune drained of not only the labour force but also short of cabs and autorickshaws that are their lifeline. Since more than a fortnight, trucks, buses to even small pick-up vans jam-packed with labourers from Mumbai are passing through Nagpur from Amravati side. Amid the traffic, even the black and yellow taxis from Mumbai could be seen passing. The cabbies are driving to their native places along with their families. Witnesses and volunteers said innumerable taxies and auto rickshaws may have passed through the toll booth over 20 km from the city on the Nagpur-Amravati highway. The taxi and auto drivers are mainly heading towards UP and Bihar and the labourers going to West Bengal, Jharkhand and Odisha, they said. TOI travelled along the highway for two days to find labourers fleeing not only from Mumbai but also Pune and Surat in Gujarat. Taxis were also spotted. Volunteers offering food and water at the toll gate said there is no count. A number of taxis have passed while the workers must be in tens of thousands till now. “We feed them every day,” said a volunteer. “Saara Bambai khalee ho raha hai. Rickshe, taxiwale sab ja rahein hain,” said Pawan Mali (entire Mumbai is being emptied. Rickshaw and taxi drivers all are going). Mali was driving a SUV, with around six people including two women going to Mirzapur in UP. They were all of the same family. The men were skilled construction workers. “We had managed to buy the vehicle a year ago with our savings. It was kept in the village. With no other means, a relative drove it down to Mumbai and now we are heading back home in it,” he said. “Now there is nothing left, times were tough even before corona this year,” said one of them. In the meantime some more vehicles zoomed past. A truck with a Gujarat number plate followed. There were 48 workers from Odisha. The journey cost them Rs 2 lakh, each one paid Rs 4000 odd. “What else could we do? There is no work and no wages. We can’t carry on in Surat,” said Avkash Jena, one of them. Jena said they all worked for a carton-making factory. There were no benefits like PF, he said. Workers are fleeing from other towns of Gujarat too, said the helper in the bus. A pick-up van stuffed with nearly 50 passengers including women and children stopped as the volunteers offered food. “The landlords were insisting for rent. We left before the matter worsened,” said Taufiq, one of the passengers. The group was going to Bokaro from Mumbai. Another bus that followed carried factory employees from Nagpur, Chandrapur and Gadchiroli. “We pooled money and hired the bus, they worked for Varrocc Group in Pune,” said Sunil Dhanorkar from the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/even-mumbai-cabbies-begin-to-desert-the-city/articleshow/75795858.cms||Shishir Arya
May 18, 2020||Varanasi||Migrant workers’ flow continues at UP-Bihar border in Chandauli||Varanasi: As the officials in Varanasi are taking strict measures to ensure that no migrant worker journeys on foot, especially on highways, the influx of migrant workers at UP-Bihar bordering area at Naubatpur checkpost in Chandauli continues on Sunday too. Measures initiated by the officials to regulate the vehicular movement helped in avoiding traffic chaos at the border. When TOI contacted SP Chandauli Hemant Kutiyal on Sunday, he disclosed, “On an average 1,000 migrants are gathering at Naubatpur checkpost per hour. It has been a regular scene for past five days and over 25,000 cross the border everyday to reach their destinations in Bihar and Jharkhand through this checkpost.” The only change evident in the movement of migrants was that only a few were found moving on foot to reach the border. Divisional commissioner Deepak Agrawal said, “The migrants from Maharashtra, Gujarat, Delhi and other places were reaching this point after passing through districts like Varanasi. In Varanasi it has been ensured that all persons moving on foot or bicycles to reach Naubatpur are stopped at Varanasi-Bhadohi and Varanasi-Jaunpur borders.” After being provided food packets and water, these migrants are being ferried in buses to Bihar border, he said adding that the Varanasi administration has engaged a large number of UPSRTC buses for this work. A maximum number of migrants are opting Chandauli route to reach Bihar by moving on national highway-2 while few hundreds are also heading towards Jamania in Ghazipur district to enter Bihar via Buxar. The commissioner said that all the migrant people seeking entry in Bihar or Jharkhand are ferried by UPSRTC buses to Naubatpur. Due to the effective measures of Varanasi administration the movement of migrants moving on foot or bicycles has been stopped between Varanasi and Naubatpur border but the flow of migrants at Bihar border continues to increase, said Kutiyal mentioning how a large number of policemen have been engaged at the border to keep the traffic regulated. Kutiyal said that excessive load of travellers and vehicles left the Naubatpur checkpost point chocked on Saturday. Commissioner and other officials held a talk with their counterparts in Bihar after which the point for screening of people entering Bihar was shifted few kilometres inside the territory of the neighbouring state. Kutiyal said that hurdles coming in way of the vehicular movement especially of goods carriers had been cleared on Saturday and there was no disruption on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/migrant-workers-flow-continues-at-up-bihar-border-in-chandauli/articleshow/75794349.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Ludhiana||Eid likely to be low-key affair, religious leaders urge people to pray at home||Ludhiana: Ramzan has been different this time round, as gatherings were not allowed at mosques. Now, Eid-ul-Fitr, which is less than 10 days away, is also going to be a low-key affair.Shahi Imam Punjab, Maulana Habib-ur-Rehman Saani Ludhianvi, said though they will come with detailed advisory for Eid in the next few days, since gathering is not allowed, only five persons will offer prayers at Jamia Masjid. He added that they will be asking the community members across the state to offer Eid prayers at home. “Since everyone has to maintain social distancing, we will advise people not to gather. In fact, we are urging every one not to visit each other on Eid as it also implies social gathering. We request the community members to think about donating to the needy in their neighbourhoods, instead of spending lavishly,” said Naib Shahi Imam Muhammad Usman Ludhianvi. He added that they have organised for Eid kits for the poor with sewaiyan, dry milk powder, custard powder and sugar.Shahi Imam said they will be holding special prayers on Eid and will plead before Allah to give people relief from the disease. He added that Eid-ul-Fitr will be held on May 24 or 25, depending on the appearance of crescent (Eid Ka Chand). Mufti-e-Azm Punjab Ertiqa-ul-Hasan said they are yet to decide about the message for people and will take the final call after 25th Ramzan. “We will come out with pamphlet or video message for Eid after 25th Ramzan,” he added. Many community members also said like Ramzan, Eid too will be low-key affair for them. “Probably for the first time in this century, there were no prayers, including Tarawi, at Mosques during Ramzan and there was no hustle and bustle in the markets at the time of sehri or iftar. Eid is going to be no different as we ourselves want to ensure that social distancing is followed and gathering is avoided. We will offer prayers at home and will wish our relatives, friends and acquaintance by calling them,” said Muhammad Sami, a trader from Field Gunj. However, he added that children, who are usually excited to wear new dresses on Eid and visit their relatives will be disappointed this time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/eid-likely-to-be-low-key-affair-religious-leaders-urge-people-to-pray-at-home/articleshow/75794187.cms||Shariq Majeed
May 18, 2020||Ludhiana||‘My son a depression patient, he neither had drugs nor weapon’||Times News Network Ludhiana: The father of Sukhwinder Singh, who police arrested after a shootout and 12km chase on Saturday, claimed that his son was a patient of depression. “He neither had a weapon nor he consumed heroin,” the retired Ludhiana Police sub-inspector, Ram Krishan, said while refuting the police’s allegations. After his son’s arrest, Ram met commissioner of police Rakesh Agarwal and showed him Sukhwinder’s medical reports.Ram said, “My son is receiving treatment for depression from the past six years. Due to lockdown, he could not visit his doctor. We had an appointment with his doctor on Saturday, when Sukhwinder said he was going out and would return in sometime. He borrowed a friend’s car and left. Around 1pm, I reached his doctor’s clinic and called him up. But he did not take calls. After collecting his medicines, I returned home and learned about the incident.” Ram said his son was wrong in not stopping at checkposts. “The police can punish him for that. But, I know he does not possess any weapon. He does not even know how to use it. And he never did drugs. I don’t know why cops are saying that he fired at them and that 10g heroin was recovered from him,” he added. Sukhwinder, who received two bullet injuries during the chase, is admitted to a hospital.  “I will again approach senior officials for a fair investigation. We do not know Prem Verma, who cops say was travelling with Sukhwinder in the car. Sukhwinder told me that Prem had taken a lift till bus stand.” Ladhowal police station SHO sub-inspector Balwinder Singh said, “Prem was produced before a court on Sunday that sent him to two-day police remand. Prem told during interrogation that he would consume drugs with Sukhwinder.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/my-son-a-depression-patient-he-neither-had-drugs-nor-weapon/articleshow/75794189.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Coimbatore||Tamil Nadu: Four youths detained for murdering woman, attacking her husband||COIMBATORE: A 35-year-old woman was murdered and her husband thrashed by four youths, two of them college students, at Madathupalayam near Avinashi in Tirupur district on Sunday evening after the couple intervened in their fight with their sons. Police identified the deceased as Kondal, wife of Palanisamy, of AD Colony at Ganeshapuram in Avinashi. A police officer said the couple’s three sons were attacked by a group of youths while they were playing cricket at Madathupalayam near Avinashi. The youths had previous enmity with the trio. “When the couple came to know about the fight, they rushed to the ground and questioned the youths about assaulting their sons. A heated argument arose between them and the youths hit Kondal on her head with floor tiles, killing her on the spot. They also attacked her husband, injuring him,” the officer said. When alerted, the Avinashi police sent the dead body to the government hospital for postmortem. Meanwhile, the relatives of the deceased staged a road roko in front of the hospital, demanding action against the youths. The Avinashi police have registered a case and detained four youths, all residents of Madathupalayam. Further investigation is on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/4-youths-detained-for-murdering-woman-attacking-her-hubby/articleshow/75795521.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Varanasi||Admin sets up transport cell; deploys patrol teams, 52 buses for migrants||Varanasi: Migrant workers continued to arrive on foot, bicycles and trucks in hordes during the last 24 hours, braving scorching heat even as the state government has directed officials of all districts to stop them from endangering their lives and increasing the risk of spreading infection by allowing their unchecked movement. Senior officials decided to tackle the situation and after deliberations established a transport cell to monitor the movement of migrants and making arrangements for their safe and comfortable journey. District magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma convened a meeting with SSP Prabhakar Chaudhary and officials of transport department, UPSRTC and traffic police on Sunday to finalise the strategy in this regard. The DM asked officials to set up a transport cell at police control room in Chetganj with immediate effect to monitor the movement of migrants and make necessary arrangements to ensure their safe and comfortable journey. Police and district officials have been asked to intercept migrants moving on foot, bicycles and truck and send them to their destinations in buses. The district administration has provided 52 buses of UPSRTC to the transport cell. Sharma asked officials to deploy personnel in three shifts to stop migrants and said they should report on hourly basis. He said police and patrolling teams will keep sharp vigil on movement of migrants and those arriving have to be stopped and taken to dispatch centres at Mohansarai and Babatpur areas. “We have engaged 34 buses for rural areas and 18 buses for city. They will operate from the two dispatch centres. Each bus will have security personnel,” the DM said. Divisional commissioner Deepak Agrawal said UPSRTC buses will take the migrants up to their districts concerned in UP. In case of migrants hailing from Bihar and Jharkhand, the buses will drop them at border in Chandauli district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/admin-sets-up-transport-cell-deploys-patrol-teams-52-buses-for-migrants/articleshow/75794358.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Hyderabad||T cabinet meet on lockdown today; 42 more +ve, tally 1,551||Hyderabad: Telangana chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao will decide after a key cabinet meeting on Monday its strategy to contain the spread of Covid-19 and take a call on relaxations, even as 42 more positive cases were reported in the state. The state cabinet will discuss fresh guidelines issued by the Centre on the lockdown, its implementation locally and guidelines for a proposed regulatory agriculture policy of the government. The chief minister had earlier extended the lockdown in the state up to May 29. While all states have been authorised to decide and demarcate on the red, orange and green zones duly following the norms and guidelines laid down by the Centre, KCR was worried about the rising number of cases in Hyderabad. On Sunday, 37 out of the 42 postive novel coronavirus cases were from greater Hyderabad and the remaining cases were from surrounding districts. Till now, 57 migrants have tested positive in the state for coronavirus, taking the overall tally to 1,551 cases with 34 deaths and 992 discharges from hospital. Eleven employees of a public-sector bank were quarantined and their samples sent for testing in Jiaguda area after a person who visited the bank for transaction turned out to be Covid-19 positive. The person was suspected to have visited the bank on May 16. Earlier, a private bank manager also tested positive and has been discharged after a full recovery. Two women from Balapur of Ranga Reddy district also tested positive, and contact tracing revealed that they were in touch with two GHMC sweepers who were residing in the same area. Health department officials say more number of people in the age group of 30-60 are found to be positive among both males and female.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-cabinet-meet-on-lockdown-today-42-more-ve-tally-1551/articleshow/75795859.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Vadodara||Vadodara district HSc science stream result dips||Vadodara: A year after Vadodara saw marginal increase in its Class XII science stream results, it was disappointment again this year after the district registered a drop in the overall results declared on Sunday by Gujarat Secondary and Higher Secondary Education Board (GSHSEB). Among the four big cities of the state, Vadodara’s result was the least at 73.86%, a drop of over 2% from last year. In 2019, Vadodara had a passing percentage of 75.98. What was even more of concern was that not a single student from the district could secure A1 grade this year, out of the total of 6,498 students who registered for the exam. Around 6,493 had appeared, of whom 4,796 cleared securing ‘E1’ and above grades. Altogether 173 students got A2 grade, 623 B1 grade and 1,013 B2 grade. C1 grade was obtained by 1,317 students while 1,402 got C2 grade. Again, 268 got D grade while 1,702 were added to the ‘needs improvement’ category. Despite lockdown, families of kids who scored 99 percentile and above had limited celebrations at home. “We were expecting results on this line and so, we had planned to make ‘sheero’ in advance,” said Jayesh Shah, whose son, Vansh, secured 99.06 percentile and topped from My Shannen School. Vansh said that he now plans to make a career in computer engineering. Parents of Vrajesh Soni were also brimming with pride. Vrajesh, who lives in Wadi area, scored 99.14 percentile and plans to get into information technology. His father Rakesh works in an electric shop near their home.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/vadodara-district-hsc-science-stream-result-dips/articleshow/75793572.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Ludhiana||This group runs ‘pit stop’ for migrants walking home at Ludh-Delhi highway||Ludhiana: With the government unable to stop the exodus of the migrant labourers, many of whom are still taking the arduous route of walking back home for want of choices, a group of people from Doraha town are pitching in to offer them some comfort en route. At the Ludhiana-Delhi national highway, stalls have been set up where the tired migrant labourers can get some sleep, air filled in their bicycles, medicines and food, before continuing on their journey.The group that operates under the banner “We don’t accept money or things” has nearly 15 volunteers, including businessman, students, professionals and unit owners, who set aside time for helping people.“We were actively carrying out social work for years now, but have increased our scale after the lockdown,” said Ishtpreet Singh of Doraha, who is associated with “We don’t accept money or things”. “Apart from providing fruits, medicines and chappals to those walking or cycling to their native states, we do get their bicycles repaired as well. Since we have people from various backgrounds, including pharmacy owners, traders and bicycle shop owners, it is possible for us to offer these services. Till now we have given chappals to nearly 60 people.” Another volunteer, 38-year-old Sabu Sethi, a readymade factory owner, said, “When we volunteered with the police, we would man the check posts from 9am to 9pm and would see thousands of migrant workers cross those points. We felt pained after seeing their plight and thought of doing something more for them.”It’s a team work: while those in bicycle trade contributed towards the free repair services, the pharmcist in the group ensures a steady supply of medicines like Vitamin C tablets, paracetamol, medicine for headache and stomach pain, among others. Pharmcist Sandeep Kaushal, a volunteer, said pain killers are in great demand.“We are also getting help from people and have been able to mobilise essential items by posting requirement on social media. Big organisations help, too,” said a volunteer. The efforts of the group has not gone unnoticed. Deputy superintendent of police, Payal Hardeep Singh Cheema, said the group members are doing a great job as volunteers. “They are helping us as well,” she added. For Vijay Kumar, who is on his way to Uttar Pradesh, the kindness shown has meant a lot. “They are providing us with fruits, medicines and chappals... and those with bicycles can service them here ahead of the long journey. We will remain thankful for showing such kindness to us in these trying times,” added Vijay, who used to work in a factory in Dhandari.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/this-group-runs-pit-stop-for-migrants-walking-home-at-ludh-delhi-highway/articleshow/75794201.cms||Shariq Majeed
May 18, 2020||Mangaluru||Covid-19 aid: Beary artistes refuse to submit Aadhaar number||Mangaluru: Though the state government has announced Rs 2,000 each for artistes across the state, the Karnataka Beary Sahitya Academy is finding it difficult to ensure that beneficiaries from the Beary-speaking community in Dakshina Kannada receive this amount. According to Rahim Uchil, chairman of the academy, the reason is that most of the artistes are not willing to submit their Aadhaar number. Uchil said,“Many of them are inspired by the slogan ‘kaagaz nahi dikhayenge’ (we will not show our papers), and are not submitting their Aadhaar number. As a result, the academy could not transfer government benefits to the bank accounts of many artistes in the district.” “We have sent a list of nearly 600-700 artistes to the government. A majority of the artistes have sent their names and contact numbers, but not mentioned their Aadhaar number in the application. They are being brainwashed by some organisations not to submit documents. Those organisations have been insisting that people not avail benefits from the academy. Meanwhile, the academy is creating awareness among artistes, and insisting that they submit their Aadhaar numbers. In fact, most of them have bank accounts linked to their Aadhaar numbers. However, we cannot transfer benefits to their account, without their Aadhaar number. Many artistes have told me that they are reluctant to submit their Aadhaar numbers to the academy, due to the fear that it would be used for the National Register of Citizens (NRC),” Uchil said, adding that the academy has been convincing Beary community leaders, and are creating awareness through social media, to promote the government scheme that benifits artistes. “The government’s intention is to help poor artistes through the Kannada and culture department. The Aadhaar number is necessary here, only to identify beneficiaries. We have already transferred government benefits of Rs 2,000 each to the bank accounts of 257 artistes and writers from the Beary-speaking community. At present, Beary writers, folk artistes, drama artistes, singers and musicians are eligible to avail the benefit. We have also requested the government to extend the benefits to ‘moilanji’ (mehndi) artists. The academy has already distributed grocery kits sufficient for one month to 140 families of artistes,” Uchil said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/covid-19-aid-beary-artistes-refuse-to-submit-aadhaar-number/articleshow/75794196.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Nagpur||One dead, night shelter staffer, Amt cop, son among 18 positive||Nagpur: A 54-year-old man from Tulsi Nagar, who was brought dead to Indira Gandhi Medical College and Hospital (IGGMCH) on Saturday, tested positive for Covid-19 on Sunday. This takes the death toll from coronavirus in the city to six. Seventeen more persons tested positive in the city on Sunday, including a caretaker of Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s (NMC) Night Shelter Home at Hansapuri, a policeman from Amravati and his son, and two family members of the Gaddigodam deceased person.With the latest 18, number of cases from the district increased to 359, with the last 50 cases coming in five days.On Sunday, 10 corona positive persons were discharged from IGGMCH as per new guidelines, taking total number of discharged persons from the district to 208. Latest 100 were discharged in just five days due to new guidelines, while first 100 were discharged over 63 days.NMC additional medical officer health Dr Praveen Gantawar and zonal medical officer Dr Minakshi Mane told TOI, “The person who died before testing positive on Sunday had a hip joint surgery some months ago and was at home. His health deteriorated so he was taken to a private hospital, where he collapsed. He was taken to IGGMCH, where he was declared brought dead. His samples tested positive on Sunday.”The latest deceased is the third to test positive after death in regular hospitals, after one from Satranjipura and one from Parvati Nagar. The remaining three deceased from Mominpura, Pandhrabodi and Gaddigodam died in Covid isolation wards.Tulsi Nagar, situated near Shanti Nagar in East Nagpur, is a new area for Covid-19 and will be the 17th containment zone in the city. Dr Mane and her team quarantined 20 family members of the deceased.A 30-year-old caretaker of a NGO running NMC’s Night Shelter Home at Hansapuri in Mominpura containment zone also tested positive. On Friday, 11 inmates of this night shelter had tested positive.A 49-year-old policeman from Amravati was also shifted to IGGMCH on Saturday. He was accompanied by his 24-year-old son. His samples were taken at Amravati but reports were awaited when he was shifted here. His samples were taken again at IGGMCH too. Both samples came positive. His son also tested positive.NMC is likely to take up the issue with Amravati administration because the policeman was shifted before receiving the reports.Two family members of 65-year-old deceased from Gaddigodam also tested positive on Sunday. A one-year-old girl is reportedly the deceased’s granddaughter while a 24-year-old man is the deceased’s nephew. At least 199 persons, including 22 family members of the deceased, were quarantined on Saturday.A 48-year-old man from Golibar Chowk, also in Mominpura containment zone, also tested positive. He is the father of a 24-year-old who was admitted at IGGMCH and tested positive on Friday. A team of NMC Gandhibagh zone led by assistant commissioner Ashok Patil and zonal medical officer Dr Khwaja Moinuddin quarantined 142 persons from areas at Golibar Chowk on Sunday evening.A 29-year-old woman from Mominpura, who was admitted with labour at IGGMCH on Saturday and delivered a baby on Sunday, tested positive after delivery.The remaining 10 positive reports on Sunday were from Mominpura, city’s second hotspot. All of them were quarantined in last couple of days after some from their family tested positive.Again, NMC team at Satranjipura returned without quarantining people from this locality, city’s first hotspot, as residents were not ready to come out of their houses. The same thing had happened on Saturday.After a SRPF personnel and two policemen tested positive on Saturday, some 46 cops have been quarantined at RPTS on Sunday. Five constables are from Tehsil police station, 22 of SRPF, 12 from control room and another seven from the office of Zonal DCP Nirmala Devi.It’s learnt that the constable from Tehsil police station had visited the office of the DCP for some official work, which led to the quarantining of the cops from her office. The number of policemen and SRPF personnel quarantined in this chain has increased to 59.Earlier, seven cops from Beltarodi, four from Ajni and another two residents of Parvati Nagar had to be quarantined after the nephew of a cop from Beltarodi police station tested positive and died.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/one-dead-night-shelter-staffer-amt-cop-son-among-18-positive/articleshow/75794995.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
May 18, 2020||Allahabad||Siblings test +ve for Covid, Prayagraj tally reaches 36||Prayagraj: A brother-sister duo who had returned from Mumbai about a week back tested positive for novel coronavirus (Covid-19) taking Prayagraj district’s tally to 36 cases on Sunday. Nodal officer and additional chief medical officer Dr Rishi Sahai said the two were a part of a group of 10, which had returned from Mumbai on May 9 to the city. They are residents of Tilai Bazar in Mauaima area. After their return, they were quarantined at an isolation centre in Soroan area on May 10. Their swab samples were collected on on Saturday and they tested positive for the virus on Sunday. The other eight who came along with them tested negative for the infection. Sahai said of the 36 novel coronavirus patients in the district, 10 have recovered and been discharged and one had died. Sahai said while the woman was 35 years old, her brother was 22 years old. Health department officials have sealed Tilai Bazar area and the locality to the list of hotspots. Meanwhile, a 40-year-old man who was isolated along with his wife and son died at a quarantine centre late Saturday night. The family was a part of a a group of five who had come to the city from Ullaas Nagar in Maharashtra on May 13 and were quarantined at a local school. The victim’s cousins told the police that the man complained of chest pain around two months back and the doctors who treated him said that the pain was due to a cardiovascular disease. His had condition improved after the treatment, the family said. He experienced a similar same pain at the quarantine centre on Saturday evening. He tested positive for Covid-19 posthumously. A 32-year-old novel coronavirus patient, who had been undergoing treatment at ward number 10 of Swaroop Rani Nehru Hospital, also died on Saturday night. The Handia resident worked in Mumbai and had returned home in a truck on May 11. He was quarantined at a centre and was later admitted to SRN Hospital due to some health complications. He also tested positive for the infection after his death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/siblings-test-ve-for-covid-prayagraj-tally-reaches-36/articleshow/75794386.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Couple confesses to killing minor daughter, arrested||JAIPUR: Bhiwadi police on Sunday arrested a man and a woman for killing their minor daughter and cremating her claiming that she died due to natural causes. Although the motive is not known, cops claimed that during the course of investigation a possibility also came to light that she was engaged to be married to someone, but had apparently gotten pregnant by a villager due to which her parents killed her. The incident took place in Neemrana police station area. SP Amandeep Kapoor said, “On May 10, we received a complaint that the girl had been killed and her parents had prepared to cremate her. We got the information in the morning and by the time we reached the spot, the cremation was over. The deceased girl’s family claimed that she had been ailing and died after a prolonged illness. Even the villagers supported this claim.” In the meantime, the complainant wrote to Rajasthan State Commission for Protection of Child Rights who in turn wrote to the district police on May 13. Accordingly, police started an investigation and found that the girl’s parents Vijay Kumar, 50, and Mukesh Devi, 45, killed her. “The couple tried to hide the crime and even the villagers tried to waylay the investigation, but we pursued and eventually found that the parents had killed their own child. She was one of their six children which included five daughters and one son. The accused have confessed to the murder,” added the official. The couple had apparently strangled the girl with a cloth and according to sources were unhappy with her behaviour though nothing has been confirmed as yet with many accusations coming to surface. The accused were arrested and a case of murder has been registered against them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/couple-confesses-to-killing-minor-daughter-arrested/articleshow/75795548.cms||---
May 18, 2020||India||‘Package way short of Rs 20 lakh crore pledged by PM’||NEW DELHI: Congress said the coronavirus economic stimulus announced by Modi government is less than 1.8% of GDP and way short of the Rs 20 lakh crore “dramatically announced by the PM”, calling it inadequate to address the economic crisis wrought by the pandemic. Former Union minister and AICC spokesman Anand Sharma said, “The stimulus part of the package comes to hardly Rs 3.22 lakh crore, which is less than 1.8% of GDP and not 10% of GDP as the PM had announced. I challenge the FM to contradict my statement.” Sharma argued the Centre’s relief package was hardly a stimulus as it was replete with provisions for loans which do not amount to financial support. “The relief package shows that Modi government has no solution to the crisis following the pandemic,” he said, reiterating the Congress demand for direct cash support for poor, farmers and MSMEs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/package-way-short-of-rs-20-lakh-crore-pledged-by-pm/articleshow/75796018.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Kolkata||1st Bengali film to go for online premiere during lockdown||Kolkata: Bengal is catching up on Bollywood’s latest trend of OTT-first releases. The latest big development in the OTT-versus-theatre release debate is the announcement that Debesh Chatterjee is releasing online his forthcoming Bengali movie meant for theatre release. This is the first Bengali movie to opt for OTT release during lockdown with Chatterjee agreeing to a profit-sharing model. Joining the league of Shoojit Sircar’s Amitabh Bachchan- and Ayushmann Khurrana-starrer ‘Gulabo Sitabo’ and Vidya Balan-, Jisshu Sengupta-starrer ‘Shakuntala Devi’ that are going for OTT-first release is Chatterjee’s ‘Iye: The Other’. Chatterjee's film is about a man, a woman and a vagabond. While the man scrutinises Kolkata in search of a number, the woman stifled by the monotony of her life searches for change. The vagabond explores new countries in known lanes of this city. ‘Iye’ is about the meeting of these three strangers with three tales of hope. “Made in 2018, the film stars Debshankar Halder, Nitya Ganguly and Arpita Ghosh and was screened at the Berlin Film Market. This was Arpita’s film debut too. The film was shown at various festivals thereafter,” said Chatterjee said. Last year, it was certified for a theatre release. Chatterjee had decided to release the movie in theatres this month. “My film doesn’t fall under the so-called commercial bracket. Releasing it online now would guarantee a viewership among niche audience. It will be released this week on a new Bengali OTT platform called MyCinemaHall. It is a pay per view option where 70% stakes are mine,” Chatterjee added. Yaatric Chakrabratory, who helms the app, said: “We are in talks with other independent directors as well to release their unreleased movies on OTT during lockdown,” Chakraborty said. Meanwhile, Mahendra Soni, the co-founder director of Bengali OTT platform Hoichoi, said, “Decision will be taken depending on the evolving situation and financial impact. We are not going to release straight on OTT just because it’s a trend. If we see that we have a good business case, then why not?” Rajiv Mehra, who helms another Bengali OTT platform called Addatimes, has already had a word with two independent film directors in Bengal. “We will make an announcement shortly,” said Mehra, adding that he is facing severe opposition in Bengal from distributors for attempting to popularize the OTT-first trend in Tollywood. “However, I think this is a great option for medium budget movies that fail to recover their investment from theatrical release. Sale of satellite rights of feature films is uncertain these days. We are offering a price that will recover 50% of a film’s production budget. In addition, we are also allowing producers to sell the same movie again in other digital platforms after a year,” Mehra said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/1st-bengali-film-to-go-for-online-premiere-during-lockdown/articleshow/75795525.cms||Priyanka Dasgupta
May 18, 2020||Ludhiana||Bus ahoy: Migrants being taken for a ride||Ludhiana: Desperation of migrant workers to reach home at the earliest is leading to their exploitation and harassment. The private bus operators, taking advantage of the situation, are charging four to five times from workers to drop them to their native places. Those who cannot afford are either walking or pedalling out of Ludhiana with their families. Besides, they are not being screened before boarding the buses.When a TOI team reached Ludhiana-Delhi National Highway on Sunday afternoon, it saw several migrants walking with families. The team found some private buses waiting for the migrants between Sahnewal and Doraha. A group of workers sitting on the service lane said they were being asked to pay Rs 2,500 per person to reach Bihar. Manish Kumar said, “I am waiting here to get a private vehicle to reach Bihar. The bus operator is asking for Rs 2,500 per person. I don’t have money to pay him, so I will wait for some other vehicle.” Kamla Prasad, who hails from Bahraich, Uttar Pradesh, said, “The usual fare to reach my hometown is Rs 700, but now I have paid Rs 3,300 to a bus operator. What can we do? I have to go home.” He said they were not being screened before boarding the bus. Ram Kishan, who along with his four friends was walking on the national highway near Sahnewal and wanted to go to Uttar Pradesh, said he had no money to pay the bus fare. He said, “We had enquired about the fare from a driver standing near the bus stand. He asked for Rs 3,500. So, we walked till Sahnewal, where a bus driver asked for Rs 3,000. We will walk some more kilometres, so that we have to pay less fare.” When asked, if they had applied for a train ticket, he said, “Yes, we did and waited for five days, but the administration did not send us. We have one cycle, so we loaded all the luggage on it and started walking.”Commissioner of police Rakesh Agarwal said, “Private buses or other vehicles cannot ferry migrant workers to their hometowns. If they are doing this, it is illegal. The police have confiscated two such buses. I will see why they are not being stopped at checkposts. The Ludhiana administration is running 12 trains every day to ferry 20,000 migrant workers to their hometowns. The number of trains will be increased. Besides, there are about 10 districts of Bihar and Uttar Pradesh for which only a few people had registered to go. So, trains cannot run for these places, and the administration has started plying government buses for them. Forty government buses, ferrying 26 persons each, run daily from Ludhiana. These trains and buses are free of cost and food and water are also given on-board. But their bookings will have to be done online. After registration, they will have to wait for their turn. But the migrants are desperate to return and do not want to wait for their turns.”Agarwal said, “Police checkposts have been established to stop walking migrants. From the roads, they are being taken to shelter homes and then buses and trains will be booked for them. I would request them to stay here. If they have any problem of food or rent, they can stay at our shelter homes. We have 43 shelter homes in Ludhiana where free accommodation and food are being provided. Migrants can approach the nearby police stations to reach there.”Four cheated of Rs 10k A man escaped with Rs 10,000 on the pretext of taking migrants to Bihar. Sohail, a tailor in Kailash Nagar who hails from West Bengal, told the TOI, “On Saturday, a man told us that he can send us to Bihar in a truck. He asked for Rs 10,000 for four of us. We arranged the money and gave it to him. Thereafter, he asked us to wait on the main road and did not return. Then we approached Jodhewal police to lodge a complaint. I have a picture of that man. On Sunday, we got a message about a train to Kishanganj, Bihar. We are leaving the city now. From there, we will further reach our homes.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/bus-ahoy-migrants-being-taken-for-a-ride/articleshow/75794212.cms||Payal Dhawan
May 18, 2020||Allahabad||Goods carriers ferrying migrants to move in convoys at night only||Prayagraj: Taking serious note of Auraiyya road mishap where at least 26 migrant workers were killed and 36 others injured, senior police authorities on Sunday decided that from now goods carriers, ferrying migrants, would go in convoy during night hours. The purpose of releasing goods carriers carrying migrants in convoy is to minimize the risk factor and ensure their safety. As per police orders the convoy of 10 or 12 vehicles in numbers, will have to strictly follow speed limits to ensure safety and security of migrants. Police will ensure that only empty goods carriers should ferry migrant workers, the order said. A senior cop, preferring anonymity said “Taking a serious note of the Auraiyya road accident, senior police authorities have decided that goods carriers, ferrying migrants, would movie in convoy on highways during night hours. “Mobile police pickets would be keeping a strict watch on the vehicles carrying migrants. Police would not stop the carriers on highways and would not allow movement of migrants on two- wheelers/bicycles or on foot”, he added. “To ensure safety and security of all migrants returning to their native places by carriers on national and state highways, drivers of goods carriers have been asked to drive at a speed of 40 km/hour”, the official said and added “Drivers have also been asked to maintain proper distance between two vehicles. Moreover, migrants who have arrived inside the city would be transported through roadways buses. No one would be allowed to travel on foot. The district authorities would arrange adequate number of buses for their transportation. Meanwhile, police admitted that maximum pressure of migrant workers movement was spotted at Chakghat, the UP and MP border, and additional police pickets have been roped in to ensure safety and security of migrants. ” Around 4000-5000 migrants are arriving Chakghat everyday from different states and the policemen are making sincere efforts for their transportation” said a senior cop. “Adequate number of roadways buses are also being roped in to send them towards their native places”, he added. As the city limits touch seven neighbouring districts, the policemen on duty have been asked to be extra vigilant to ensure safety of migrants.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/goods-carriers-ferrying-migrants-to-move-in-convoys-at-night-only/articleshow/75794418.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Jaipur||No makeshift shops, food hubs this time in Jaipur||JAIPUR: Every year, the Muslim stronghold areas in Ramganj turn into makeshift shopping and foodie hub in the last 10 days of Ramzan. But this year, due to coronavirus, the localities wear a deserted look with barricades all around. The pandemic has not only taken away the sheen of Ramzan but also the business. Normally, over 500 makeshift shops come up parallel to the shops later in the evening which does business till the wee hours. From dress material for ready-made clothes, shoes to jewellery and from sewiyan to perfumes all are made available in the market for low-income families which constitute the majority of Muslims. “The only face-saving is that I have ordered nothing this year from Lucknow and Delhi. I don’t think anyone will buy anything this Eid,” said Abdul Gaffar who supplies dress material and ready-made kurta and burqas to the makeshift shopkeepers in Ramganj areas. Not even the basic vermicelli is available in the market making it difficult for the resident to fulfil the ritual. “Vermicelli is basic thing for households during Eid. I have asked the authorities to provide it along with the ration distribution vehicle,” said Mujahid Naqvi, a social activist of Moti Doongri area. It is not about makeshift markets biting the dust. Good market like Raja Park, which had become the first choice for middle, upper and rich Muslims in the last few years, has hit by the first biggest loss in the pandemic period. “Eid is our biggest market as our area is close to Muslim strongholds and they don’t prefer to buy online has made Eid our biggest season. I have started filling my Eid stock from January and have invested lakhs. I was hopeful that the market will open up after the first lockdown, but now we are in the fourth lockdown which means we will not able to open this stock till next year,” said Rajbeer Kharbanda, a shop owner in Raja Park.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/no-makeshift-shops-food-hubs-this-time/articleshow/75795526.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Jaipur||Girl hangs self in Rajasthan over eve-teasing||KOTA: Distressed over a youth’s alleged eve-teasing, a 17-year-old girl, a student of Class XII, allegedly hanged herself from the ceiling fan at her home in Khanpur town of Jhalawar district on Saturday. Police have lodged a case of abetment to suicide against the youth and initiated investigation into the matter. Priti Jatav, a resident of Khanpur town in Jhalawar district, allegedly hanged herself from the ceiling fan of her room on Saturday after her mother went for daily wage work at National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (NREGA) site in the town, Khanpur SHO Kamalchand Meena said. When her mother returned from work in the afternoon, she found the daughter hanging, he added. The girl was rushed to local hospital where the doctors declared her brought dead, he said. The SHO said no suicide note was recovered from the girl’s possession, though her mother alleged that her daughter was distressed of eve-teasing by a youth. In the report to police, the girl’s mother alleged that a neighboring youth had been eve teasing her for a long time, the SHO added. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/girl-hangs-self-over-eve-teasing/articleshow/75795543.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Jaipur||Son bludgeons father to death in Barmer||Jaisalmer: A man murdered his father by attacking him with an axe under Rawalinadi police station area in Barmer. The accused fled after the incident. However, police arrested him within 30 hours. The deceased’s wife has accused her son and husband’s cousin of the murder which she alleges was a conspiracy. Accused Dnaram (30) is the only son of the deceased. Rawalinadi SHO Bhakhraram Vishnoi said that at 4am on Saturday, they got information that an elderly man had been murdered at Ratnasar. ASI Hariram reached the spot with the force. Gudamalani Dy SP Devaram Chodhary and other senior officers were informed about the incident. Ganga Devi, wife of Balaram Jat (55), told police that her husband went to sleep after dinner. Around 4am, his son Danaram came with an axe and killed her husband by attacking on his head.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/son-bludgeons-father-to-death-in-barmer/articleshow/75795547.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Four deaths in three days in Karauli city||JAIPUR: A man who went missing three days ago was found dead in a pond in Karauli city on Sunday. This was the fourth body found in a span of three days in the same police station area. The deceased also included an elderly woman who was found scorched to death on Saturday evening. While there is no connection between the four deaths, cops are looking at all the incidents as cases of suicide and have started investigations. The deceased found on Sunday was identified as 30-year-old Sheetesh Jaga. On Friday, the body of Chand Qureshi (22) was found in a small pond in the city while Rajendra Goyal’s (45) decomposed body was found on Saturday in a well. In the same evening, the charred body of 85-year-old Kalawati was found in a room in a dharamshala where she stayed alone. Karauli SP Anil Kumar while elaborating the reasons behind the deaths said, “In Jaga’s case, the family told us that he used to drink heavily and on being refused money for liquor by his father, the youth left his house only to be found dead in the pond on Sunday. We found no suicide note and are investigating the case.” On Saturday, police found Goyal’s body in a well in a temple complex and initial investigation had revealed that he had also been missing since May 13 and the possible reason according to cops was financial stress. In other two cases, the police are inclined towards calling the cases as suicides.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/4-deaths-in-three-days-in-karauli-city/articleshow/75795545.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Allahabad||8 injured in group clash, one arrested||Prayagraj: At least eight persons were injured when supporters of two opposite camps clashed in Rathwat village under the limits of Kandhai police station of Pratapgarh district on Sunday morning. Three seriously injured persons were referred to SRN hospital for treatment. Police said the group clash was the fallout of a land-related dispute. One person has been arrested in the incident. Reports reaching here said two groups led by Jairam and Rajaram came face to face over property dispute and soon their respective supporters attacked each other with sticks and bricks. Police said that at least eight persons including Shyamu, Brijesh, Satyam, Shyamkali, Sitaram, Asharfilal, Teru and Asha and were taken to district hospital for treatment. Three persons including Shyamu, Saytam and Teru, who suffered serious injures, were referred to SRN hospital for treatment. Police have filed FIRs in the incident and detained a man identified as Abhay, who had allegedly opened fire in the incident. Raids are also being conducted to nab other accused. SP Pratapgarh Abhishek Singh, however, denied that fire was opened during the clash. He said, “The injured have been shifted to hospital for treatment. Prima facie, it seems to be a dispute related to property, but we are continuing probe. Several police teams have been formed to arrest the remaining accused.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/8-injured-in-group-clash-one-arrested/articleshow/75794446.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Kolkata||Kol good Samaritans celebrate their moments of joy with the destitute||Kolkata: Unable to celebrate special occasions like birthdays and anniversaries, good Samaritans in the city are sharing their personal moments of joy with thousands of unknown and needy by feeding and donating food and other essentials. Pained at being away from her mother, who is on voluntary Covid service in north India, Class-XI student Ipsita Maiti spent her entire savings from pocket money to buy food for the destitute near her Kasba home.“Both my parents being doctors, I understand the Covid-19 effects and the impact it has had on daily wage earners. We will soon distribute masks and face shields to health workers,” said Maiti.Ballygunge resident Prakriti Gandotra turned 70 on May 10, but didn’t want to celebrate the day alone. So she got in touch with an NGO, Kolkata Gives, and donated Rs 9,000 who used the money to feed 300 kids and their families at a Howrah slum.Angelina Jasnani, president Catholic Association of Bengal, had to cancel her 25th wedding anniversary on April 22. But she did something that made the day more memorable. “We gave out sanitary napkins to the girls at Rainbow, an orphanage run by Loreto Sealdah. Two days later, on our daughter Ria’s 15th birthday, we did the same,” she said.Salt Lake resident and consultant physician Sanjoy Ghosh distributed food packets to migrant labourers and pavement dwellers while celebrating his 27th wedding anniversary. “On my parents’ wedding anniversary on Monday, we will be donating to the CM relief fund,” he said.Entrepreneur Ruby Ray, a resident of Park Street, has it all planned for her birthday on June 10. “I have decided raise funds for Bani Mandir, a charitable organization,” she said. Birati resident Jayanta Das fed over 500 people at a local slum with the help of a local club to observe his father’s shraddh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kol-good-samaritans-celebrate-their-moments-of-joy-with-the-destitute/articleshow/75795528.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
May 18, 2020||Kolkata||Paralysis patient ousted in Dhakuria||Kolkata: A 75-year-old paralytic and bedridden woman, who was released from a hospital on Saturday and was moved to a rented apartment in Dhakuria by her family, was allegedly forced out of the flat witin five hours by locals. They objected saying that no patient returning from a hospital can stay in that area. The incident occurred on Telipara Lane in Dhakuria when Bhaskar Sinha (50) moved his mother Rama to the newly rented apartment, barely 5 minutes from their home in the same neighbourhood. After being thrown out, Bhaskar took his mother to his small rented apartment and lodged a complaint with the Garfa police. “My mother has been paralytic for the past seven years and, of late, she is entirely dependent on medical support. For the last two months, she had been undergoing treatment at a south Kolkata nursing home. But the hospital shut down on May 15 and discharged my mother,” said Bhaskar, a social worker. He said their house on College Street was tagged as a ‘dangerous building’. So he recently rented a house in Dhakuria. “But this house is small and not fit for a patient with bedsore and an attendant to live with the others in the family. So, I rented another apartment after clarifying that she was not a Covid-19 patient. But the locals raised a furore,” he said. “I had come home to take some clothes for my mother after moving her to the flat when the owner called and said locals had called in cops alleging that I had abandoned my mother. I rushed back and tried to clear the air, but they were adamant on letting any patient into the area,” Bhaskar added. Sinha claimed the locals — many of them without masks — didn’t even allow him to look for an alternative arrangement and asked him to immediately take his mother out. A senior Garfa police officer said he was aware of the issue but said no case had been drawn up till late on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/paralysis-patient-ousted-in-dhakuria/articleshow/75795536.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
May 18, 2020||Jaipur||Man murders wife in Rajasthan's Baran district, flees||KOTA: A man killed his wife with a sharp weapon at home on Saturday night and fled away. The incident took place at Khuri village under Atru police station area of Baran district. Police handed over the body to family members after post-mortem on Sunday morning and lodged a case of murder against the husband. Anita Meena (30) was killed on the spot after her husband Mukesh Meena attacked her with a sharp weapon in an inebriated condition following a scuffle, Atru SHO Laxmichand said. “The couple along with their 10-year-old son had returned home five days ago after completing quarantine in a government centre in Baran where they were put following their arrival from Kota city where they worked as daily wage labourers,” the SHO said. The SHO said mukesh was a drunkard and regularly scuffled with his wife. “A scuffle between the two erupted on Saturday night following which Mukesh in a fit of rage attacked Anita with a sharp weapon, probably an axe, killing her on the spot and fled away,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/man-murders-wife-in-baran-dist-flees/articleshow/75795542.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Jaipur||Couple ends life by jumping before train||Kota: A 40-year-old man and a 23-year-old girl of his neighbouring village, who were in a relationship for sometime now, committed suicide by jumping before a train on Delhi-Mumbai up line railway track late on Saturday evening in Deikheda police station area of Bundi district. The bodies were handed over to the family members after postmortem on Sunday. The man was identified as Sukhraj Gurjar, resident of Baldevpura village, and the girl as Pooja Meena of Kotdi village under Deikheda police station. “Despite being married and father of a 10-year-old son, Sukhraj was in relationship with Pooja for sometimes but was unable to marry her due to his married status,” said ASI Sukhdev Choudhary, Deikheda police station. Choudhary said the couple jumped before a moving train, which was running without passengers, on Delhi – Mumbai up line railway track near pillar number 961 between Ghat Ka Barana – Kapren town around 7pm on Saturday. “Prima facie, it seems the two took the extreme step due to their inability to solemnise their relationship into wedding. No suicide note was recovered from their possession,” the ASI said. The family members of the couple told police the two were in relationship for sometime.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/couple-ends-life-by-jumping-before-train/articleshow/75795541.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Mumbai||Coronavirus: Maharashtra, Mumbai see new 1-day highs, third highest deaths||MUMBAI: Coronavirus infections saw their biggest single-day jump in the state and the city on Sunday. Of 2,347 cases across Maharashtra, a lion’s share (1,595) came from Mumbai. Maharashtra’s Covid-19 incidence now stands at 33,053, while Mumbai has crossed the 20,000-mark to reach 20,150 cases. City’s tally has doubled from 10,000-odd to over 20,000 in 11 days, the same time it took to multiply from around 5,000 cases to over 10,000. In effect, the doubling rate —an indication of how fast the virus is spreading through the community—has not slowed as much as authorities claim. A state official had said on Saturday that the doubling rate had increased to 13 days. For the past 11 days, the state has reported cases in the range of 1,000-1,800 every day before the leap to 2,000-plus on Sunday. It has also reported its third highest number of deaths in a single day. On Sunday, there were 63 Covid-19 deaths in Maharashtra, which took its overall death toll to 1,198. With 38 deaths, Mumbai too recorded its third highest fatalities in 24 hours. Total deaths in the city have reached 734, accounting for 61% of the state’s mortality figures. As the outbreak entered the 70th day in Maharashtra on Sunday, the number of people discharged rose steadily, with over 5,000 patients going home in Mumbai alone. On Sunday, 600 patients were discharged from hospitals across the state. State health minister Rajesh Tope said most were asymptomatic patients from hot spots such as Mumbai, Pune, Nashik and Malegaon. Overall, 7,688 patients have been discharged from hospitals and a new policy implemented as directed by the Centre to discharge a patient on the tenth day instead of 14 days. On the Mumbai situation, BMC’s additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani said of the 1,595 fresh cases added on Sunday, 590 were reported between May 10 and 14. “We are now seeing 800-900 positive cases every day on an average. Important to note is that most cases are coming from the containment zones,” he said. “Slum pockets have emerged as our biggest challenge as it’s difficult to get people to understand social distancing and hygiene practices,” he said, adding that many are also hiding symptoms and refusing to cooperate in door-to-door surveys fearing they would be taken to quarantine facilities. In addition to house-to-house-surveys, BMC is now planning to send mobile x-ray vans into slum communities to detect signs of pneumonia early. Of the 38 deaths reported in Mumbai on Sunday, civic officials said 13 deaths occurred between May 8 and May 15. At least 23 had comorbidities. And of the total 63 in the state, remaining were from Pune (9), Aurangabad (6), three each in Solapur and Raigad, and one each in Thane, Panvel, Latur and Amaravati. Of the total deaths, 65% had co-morbidities such as diabetes, hypertension, heart disease. The case fatality rate for both the city and the state continued to be under 4%. Looking at the mounting Covid-19 cases, the state on Sunday notified the extension of the lockdown up to May 31 even before the Centre announced its decision. The state will come up with new guidelines about the implementation of lockdown 4.0 in a day or two. Health minister Tope said while cases were rising, one should also look at the discharge figures.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/state-2347-city-1595-see-new-1-day-highs-3rd-highest-deaths/articleshow/75795865.cms||Sumitra Debroy
May 18, 2020||Jaipur||Another locust attack jolts farmers in Rajasthan's Sriganganagar||JAIPUR: Locust Control Organisation (LCO) officials in Jodhpur are worried following fresh locust attacks at Gharsana Tehsil of Sriganganagar district on Sunday. After a gap of two-and-a-half months, swarms of the insects were seen at almost 20 villages around Gharasana tehsil of Sriganganagar district. Authorities of the LCO and local authorities in Sriganganagar said the locusts had covered an area of nearly 20km from 19GD village of Gharsana tehsil of the district. Rajasthan had witnessed the biggest ever locust attack in 2019 which continued till January 2020 in which at least 12 districts were affected and a crop loss of almost Rs 7 crore was estimated by the state government. Chief minister Ashok Gehlot too has asked the Centre to provide financial aid and other possible assistance to combat the menace. Farmers at various villages including 19 GD and others were jittery. “We have just sown our crops and a locust attack now will damage everything,” said Harbhans Singh, a farmer of Gharsana village in Sriganganagar. Farmers with their tractors started spraying pesticides for locust control. On the other hand, the LCO has asked local authorities to start the containment operations in the affected villages. “We will spray pesticides in the affected villages,” said an officer with the agriculture department who was asked to camp in one of the affected villages. Teams from Suratgarh have been asked to start containment operations at Gharsana. “We have also got our teams from Suratgarh and started spraying pesticides,” said Ramniwas, additional director, agriculture, Sriganganagar. Last year, 6.70 hectares of farmland was damaged by locusts in 12 districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/another-locust-attack-jolts-farmers-in-sriganganagar/articleshow/75795539.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Jaipur||Pandemic casts shadow on iftar and Eid preparations in Jaipur||JAIPUR: The usual iftars parties, eateries serving special delicacies, get-togethers and makeshift markets are being missed by residents of pandemic-hit Walled City of Jaipur. As the month of Ramzan reached its last leg with lockdown being extended up to May 31, families are holding virtual iftaars and get-togethers over video platforms to make the most of the festive season. For Ahmed family living in a haveli at Babu Ka Tibba in Ramganj, Ramzan is very different this year. Under curfew since March last week, for the first time the family faced a shortage of groceries to prepare special delicacies for their family. “My children and extended family relish special dishes which I made every Ramzan. But this year staple diet such as mutton and chicken is yet to be seen,” said Gulnaz Ahmed, one of the daughters-in-law at the haveli. Ahmed family lives in a probably the biggest haveli in the Ramganj with two gardens. It sees 10-15 iftar parties every Ramzan hosted by them, their relatives and by their neighbours unlike this year. “It is really a very difficult time for us. I make sure to connect my family with our relatives and friends almost every day during Iftar and Sehri time, which actually distreses us and allows us to forget the fear of the virus,” said Sameer Ahmed, son of Gulnaz Ahmed. He now spends time with his cousins playing basketball and badminton and prays at home. By now everyone in Walled City area is clear that they are going to be locked up in houses even during Eid. Naim Rabbani, a father of three daughters, lives in Ramganj near Chotte Chauper which have him a clear view of the makeshift markets every year. But this year all they can see are barricaded roads with ambulances and police. “My daughters and my wife ususally did their Eid shopping for 15 days. This year I and my wife have convinced our daughter to not purchase clothes,” said Rabbani. What makes most of them sad is that even mosques have not been not been illuminated this year. Locals say every individual in the Walled City is scared and under the stress as several residents have tested positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/pandemic-casts-shadow-on-iftar-eid-preparations/articleshow/75795551.cms||Shoeb Khan
May 18, 2020||Rajkot||Five cops, scribe hurt in Rajkot migrant fury||RAJKOT: Demanding trains to return to their natives, thousands of migrant labourers resorted to violence and vandalism near industrial clusters of Shapar and Veraval adjoining Rajkot city on Sunday, leaving five policemen and a journalist injured.While senior police officials said that the migrants were fuming after cancellation of Shramik Special train to Bihar, the Western Railway officials stated that no train had been cancelled or rescheduled on Sunday. Parameshwar Funkwal, divisional railway manager, Rajkot division, said that all the trains requested by the district administration have been scheduled and dispatched without any exceptions. The pandemonium broke out at around 9am after the migrants who had gathered at a big ground near Field Marshal company at night and were supposed to be taken in buses to the railway station. Angry over lack of proper communication from the district authorities, the migrants then blocked the crucial Rajkot-Gondal highway by placing big stones. Soon, many of them started targeting the trucks, small four-wheelers and buses passing on the road, breaking wind shields of at least 15 vehicles. Watch Journalist brutally beaten up by angry migrants in Gujarat||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/5-cops-scribe-hurt-in-rajkot-migrant-fury/articleshow/75794276.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Chandigarh||36 Covid-19 patients go on hunger strike, discharged||Ludhiana: As many as 36 Covid-19 patients were discharged from civil hospital on Sunday after they went on a hunger strike. Some had not even taken dinner on Saturday evening. The protesters included 25 Nanded returnees, who said they had been hospitalised for over 17 days. A 26-year-old resident of Pohir village, Ahmedgarh, said, “We had returned from Hazur Sahib on April 19 and were tested on April 30. On May 1, we tested positive. Many of us have been tested twice and the reports were negative. Those who tested positive should stay back and others should be sent home. We have remained asymptomatic, but were not sent home, according to the new norms.”A 45-year-old woman from Fatehgarh Sahib said, “We faced a lot of problems and became frustrated. Doctors were not discharging us even after 17 days. We went on hunger strike and did not eat anything since morning. They had assured us that we will be sent home after 14 days, but did nothing in that direction. We were not given food on time, accommodation facilities were poor and there was one washroom in a ward full of eight patients. No doctor came to attend symptomatic patients. As we did not require any medication, we should have been sent home.”Civil hospital senior medical officer Dr Geeta Kataria said, “These patients were discharged on Sunday under the new policy. They were not tested before being allowed to go.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/36-covid-19-patients-go-on-hunger-strike-discharged/articleshow/75794250.cms||Mehak Jain
May 18, 2020||Ludhiana||24 more test Covid-19 +ve, tally surges to 231||Ludhiana: Twenty-four more Covid-19 cases were reported on Sunday, taking Ludhiana’s count to 231, including 72 from outside the district. Besides, 10 Hazur Sahib, Nanded, returnees have tested positive in their second test. Ludhiana civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said, “Of 57 reports received from Rajindra Hospital, Patiala, 23 are positive and 33 negative. The 23 include 13 Railway Protection Force (RPF) personnel, who had come from Delhi; two Ludhiana railways employees; a 19-year-old New Kundanpuri resident; two civil hospital ward attendants; four relatives of Covid-19-positive employees of a tyre factory here; and a 14-year-old girl, whose details are yet to be ascertained.”Panic gripped civil hospital after the two ward attendants — a 37-year-old woman and a 44-year-old man — tested positive. The woman was working at Neonatal Intensive Care Unit (NICU) of mother and child wing of civil hospital and the man at Covid-19 isolation ward. “They were in contact with 50 employees, including doctors, nurses and Class IV employees,” said a doctor. “The woman’s contacts also include hundreds of mothers and babies. In May, more than 316 babies were delivered at the hospital and most of them were admitted to NICU. On an average, eight babies are admitted to NICU every day and mothers visit the unit to feed them,” the doctor added.The 44-year-old ward boy said, “I was posted at male ward, where positive patients were tested. I would work for six to 12 hours while taking all precautions. I am a contractual employee and have been working here from the past six years.”Senior medical officer Dr Geeta Kataria said, “Dr Ripudaman is preparing a list of their contacts.”The civil surgeon said, “Of 164 samples sent on Saturday, 131 were sent to Rajindra Hospital, Patiala. They included 118 fresh samples and 13 repeat ones. Besides, 27 repeat samples were sent to virology lab of Dayanand Medical College Ludhiana and six to PGI, Chandigarh.”4 kin of tyre unit staffThe father, 65, of the tyre unit auditor, 35; wife, 36, son, 9, and father, 65, of a record keeper, 37, have contracted the virus. 13 RPF menThe 13 RPF men, who were quarantined at Meritorious School, Civil Lines, have now been shifted to the isolation ward of Mother and Child Hospital, Vardhman, Chandigarh Road. Of 79 RPF personnel who had come to Ludhiana from Delhi by Shramik trains, 47 have contracted the virus so far.2 railways employees The other two railways employees are a 33-year-old track maintainer and a 41-year-old loco pilot. Both are Railway Colony residents. The track maintainer had come from Delhi on May 13 by a parcel train and visited civil hospital the next day with complaints of breathlessness and fever. He was tested on May 15. “I was staying in Delhi with my parents from the past one-and-a-half months. I did not come in contact with any RPF personnel,” he said.The loco pilot had returned from UP on May 14 to join his duty. He is admitted to Vardhman hospital. “I live here with my wife and an 18-year-old son. I have fever and cough. I was screened at civil hospital before I joined duty,” he said.2 city residentsThe New Kundanpuri resident said, “I had visited civil hospital on May 14 with complaints of breathlessness and cough. I stay here with my parents, brother, 20, and sister, 15.”The details of the 14-year-old girl were not available till the filing of the report.6-year-old succumbs  A 6-year-old boy of Haibowal, who was admitted to PGI on May 15, passed away around 11pm on May 16. He tested positive for Covid-19 on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/24-more-test-covid-19-ve-tally-surges-to-231/articleshow/75794243.cms||Mehak Jain
May 18, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Students stand by villagers in Darjeeling||KOLKATA: With the lockdown bringing tourism to a standstill, the villages of the Singalila forest in Darjeeling are facing an acute crisis amid the Covid-19 pandemic. In a bid to help the families overcome this tough phase, students of premier institutes of Bengal — such as Presidency University Jadavpur University, Indian Statistical Institute (ISI), who are members of Quarantined Student Youth Network (QSYN) — have come forward to donate food and essentials to them. Around this time every year, tourists flock to the region. But the pandemic has changed the situation this year. It has affected the villagers’ lives as most of the families depend on tourism for their income. Lack of connectivity and the difficult terrain have only added to their woes. QSYN provided rice, daal, soyabean, oil and potato to the 25 families in Rammam village near Phalut. Apart from this, the group also distributed 1,100kg rice, 150kg pulses, 120kg oil and soaps among 230 families of 16 villages of Lodhoma and Rimbik in Darjeeling. ISI student Manmatha Roy said, “We launched a fund collection drive to help these villages that are facing starvation. The fund was then used to provide relief material.” People trekking in this region have always received care and warmth from these sherpa villages and during such a crisis, when these people have exhausted their savings, the group feels it needs to do its bit to help them. Across Bengal, the group has been operating 26 community kitchens and has served meals to nearly 1 lakh so far. They have provided rations to 10,000 families.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/students-stand-by-villagers-in-hills/articleshow/75795610.cms||Dipawali Mitra
May 18, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Engineering colleges will have 65% seats vacant||AHMEDABAD: Vacant benches and empty classrooms will be the new normal for the new batch for next academic session in engineering colleges of the state. At least 65% of seats will go vacant. Officials in the Admission Committee for Professional courses (ACPC) said that this year only 26,287 students in Class XII Science (A group) have got 40% and above marks. Only students who have got 45% marks in science subjects (physics, chemistry and mathematics) are eligible for admission in engineering courses. An official said that this year authorities are expecting a dip of about 15% even in registrations, which were 31,000 last year. The education official said the results make it clear that the government will have to lower the criteria for admission. The state has 72,800 engineering seats and with only 26% of that number clearing the examination with 40% marks there will be more than 65% seats left vacant. Of the 27,800-odd students nearly 1,000 to 1,500 will go to IITs and other premier institutes. Of the remaining 26,000 odd students around 10% will go outside the state to pursue higher studies. Given the circumstances, vacant seats in engineering colleges may go up to 70%. The officer said that with fewer eligible students, colleges in rural areas away from big cities like Ahmedabad, Rajkot, Surat and Vadodara and Gandhinagar will not find takers. “We are expecting seats to remain vacant even in government colleges in remote areas,” he said. In 2019, there were 40,000 seats that had gone vacant and there were four colleges which did not find any takers and had zero admissions. “This year we are expecting this number to further increase,” said a senior officer of the ACPC. The officer said that the eight to ten sought-after colleges including LD College will accommodate the top 4,000-odd students.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/engg-colleges-will-have-65-seats-vacant/articleshow/75795162.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Nagpur||Cotton Market to restart for vendors from today||Nagpur: Municipal Commissioner Tukaram Mundhe on Sunday issued orders to restart Mahatma Phule Vegetable Bazaar (popularly known as Cotton Market) for wholesale vegetable sale from May 18. Citizens will not be allowed to enter the market as it will remain open for only retail vendors, stated the commissioner’s order. Vegetable shops in the market will be open from 4am to 8am. Vegetable vehicles coming from outside Nagpur will be allowed entry from 11pm to 4am. During the lockdown period, every shopkeeper in various segments of the market will be able to open shop one day a week. Apart from vegetables, other essentials shops in the market will be open daily from 9am to 7pm. Mundhe had shut the market on April 1 to prevent spread of coronavirus after it came to light that Covid distancing was not being followed. Mundhe issued the order to open the market with some riders like mandatory use of masks and sanitizers. Shopkeepers will be responsible for maintaining Covid distancing from customers, business will be done at designated space or in the shop, and no extra space will be allowed to use. A shopkeeper will be allowed only one vehicle for selling vegetables. The vehicle will have to be parked at a designated parking lot. Shopkeepers and all concerned will not be able to take their vehicles inside the market. “All wholesalers will be required to do business within the stipulated time. Violation of the terms and conditions will result in legal action against them,” the order stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cotton-market-to-restart-for-vendors-from-today/articleshow/75795862.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
May 18, 2020||Jodhpur||RAS officer removes beehives to make way for Rajasthan’s biggest quarantine centre||JODHPUR: Desperate times call for desperate measures and 30-year-old RAS officer Ravi Shekhar Choudhary did not shy away from taking action in times of need. He is the man who identified a private medical college building, which had been closed for the last seven years, for developing as the state’s biggest isolation centre, Boranada Covid Care Centre in Jodhpur. But, the biggest hurdle in the way was how to remove a dozen massive bee hives from the building. “We had been calling the experts and trying to get rid of the beehives for three days. Nothing seemed to work and nobody came forward to help. We were fast running out of time. We thought of using smoke and calling experts from rural areas who collect honey from the active bee hives. But, all refused seeing the size of beehives,” said Choudhary. When every effort appeared to be hitting a dead end, Choudhary decided to take up the cudgels without sharing his plan with anybody, neither his seniors and colleagues nor family. Dressed in a full bodysuit and a helmet, Choudhary walked into the building. He called a fire tender at the site. Holding the heavy pipe of fire tender was painful and required caution. So, he kept his phone in communication mode with the fire tender operator outside the building directing him about switching the water supply on and off to ease hand load. Boranada Covid Care Centre has had 350 positive cases so far and is set to achieve a capacity of 700 beds soon. “Feels good to know I played a role in getting it started,” said Choudhary, whose sister is on duty as a gynecologist at the Ummed Hospital. While others were happy, his mom wasn’t. “I learnt about it later and scolded him for doing this stupid feat. It was a very dangerous thing to do. When he left with the bodysuit and helmet that day, I thought it was for Covid protection,” said his mother Ruma Choudhary. However, Choudhary says it was all part of his duty. As a core group member of the sub division he has a very hectic schedule right from keeping watch on the migrants returning to villages in the area from other states to taking care of the arrangements at the Covid Center. “My day begins early at about 8am but have no idea when it would end. Hardly, is there time to sit and relax through the day as the influx of migrants has increased and keeping their record and ensuring quarantine are of utmost importance,” he said. With all these responsibilities, keeping precautions is a parallel concern for him. “While in the field, safety gear is a must but going home is a big challenge, where you have to take subtle precautions to keep your family members safe,” he said, adding that disposal of safety gear like masks and gloves, etc., and bathing and washing clothes are the primary tasks at home.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/ras-officer-removes-beehives-to-make-way-for-states-biggest-quarantine-centre/articleshow/75795561.cms||Ajay Parmar
May 18, 2020||Mysuru||Cabbage grower destroys standing crop||Chikkamagaluru: A farmer from Kadur taluk destroyed cabbage crop in his two acres farm and accused Chikkamagaluru horticulture department of not helping him sell the produce. Kiran from Nagenahalli village in Kadur taluk had invested Rs 2 lakh to cultivate cabbage. He had a bumper crop but there were no takers due to lockdown. He approached the horticulture department but there was no help. Finally he destroyed the standing crop using a tractor. “The price was good before the lockdown. But after that local buyers and traders showed no interest. I requested the horitculture department to lift the crop. But there was no help. Ultimately I destroyed the crop. The government is blind to our problems,” Kiran said. Last week, former legislator of Kadur YSV Datta purchased fruits and vegetables worth over Rs 1 lakh directly from farmers to help them out of the crisis and distributed the produce to needy people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/cabbage-grower-destroys-standing-crop/articleshow/75794262.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Allahabad||Special trains bring back 20k more migrants home||Prayagraj: Special trains continued to bring migrants native to Uttar Pradesh back home on Sunday. Twelve trains arriving at various stations under North Central Railways brought 20,410 migrants on Sunday. The routes on which these trains plied were Ahemdabad-Kanpur (2,021 passengers), Jaipur-Kanpur (1,600 passengers), Rajkot-Aligarh (1,600 passengers), Mehsana-Aligarh (1,791 passengers), Surat-Mirzapur (3,200 passengers), Kolahapur -Prayagraj (1,600 passengers), Surat-Prayagraj (3,200 passengers), Ahmedabad -Banda (1,726 passengers) and Bhilwara -Chitrakoot (1,197 passengers). Chief public relations officer of NCR Ajeet Kumar Singh said, “By Sunday, special trains had safely ferried 1,51,590 migrants to UP at different stations of North Central Railway. There were 105 terminating trains and eight passing trains. These trains terminated at various NCR stations which included Sonbhadra (one train), Prayagraj (36 trains), Fatehpur (five trains), Etah (one train), Etawah (one train), Aligarh (four trains), Kanpur (17 trains), Agra Cantonment (six trains), Gwalior (nine trains), Orai (three trains), Banda (eight trains), Chattarpur (six trains), Mirzapur (five trains), Tikamgarh (two trains) and Chitrakoot (one train).”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/special-trains-bring-back-20k-more-migrants-home/articleshow/75794452.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Kanpur||3 persons, including infant, test corona positive in city||Kanpur: Three persons, including a baby born to a Covid-19 positive mother in Jajmau’s ESI hospital, tested positive for the virus, taking the total tally of Covid-19 patients in the district to 316 on Sunday. The health department has declared Jajmau’s ESI hospital as a hospital dedicated to expecting mothers who are suspected of being infected with Covid-19. The corona positive woman, hailing from hotspot Peshkar Road in Colonelganj area of the city, gave birth to a baby about a fortnight ago. “The baby, besides the woman’s family members were quarantined at Halim Muslim Degree College in Chamanganj area of the city. Their sample report was sent to the Covid lab of GSVM medical college for testing. “The report we have received on Sunday, tested the infant positive for novel corona virus. The child will now undergo treatment with mother at the ESI hospital of Jajmau,” said chief medical officer Dr Ashok Shukla. The mother and the child have been kept under observation in isolation and both of them are doing well. Two others, who have tested positive for coronavirus in the district, included a migrant from Sachendi area and a local of Birhana road taking the number of cases in the district to 316, the CMO said. So far, eight persons had succumbed to the infection while 226 others cured after the treatment, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/3-persons-including-infant-test-corona-positive-in-city/articleshow/75794472.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
May 18, 2020||Jaipur||Cases cross 1,000-mark in Jodhpur||Jodhpur: With the steady influx of migrant workers in the state, Covid-19 cases have shown a parallel surge in the past 4-5 days. The tally of positive cases in Jodhpur crossed the 1,000 mark on Sunday with total 23 migrants testing positive in the past five days. The city reported 11 positive cases on Sunday. Similarly, districts like Sirohi and Jalore, which had successfully maintained their green zone status until the borders were opened for the migrants, have 32 and 70 positive cases, respectively. Interestingly, all of these cases are migrants who have returned from other states, mostly the hotspot areas of Gujarat. Out of the 70 cases Jalore has reported, 63 are migrants, while all 32 cases reported in Sirohi are migrants. Pali too has crossed the mark of 100 positive cases in past three days, with 43 cases out of total 120 reported from the migrant fraternity. Joint director (Medical and Health) Yuddhveer Singh Rathore, while attributing the surge in positive cases in Jodhpur division to the migrant influx, said, “all the controlling officials have been instructed to be more cautious and gear up the survey teams to reach out to as many migrants as possible”. “We have done surveys in most of the rural areas accessed by migrants in all the six districts of the division and many sensitive areas have been surveyed twice,” Rathore said. He said that an additional team of doctors from S N Medical College has been sent to Gujarat-Rajasthan border keeping in view the growing influx of migrants, many of whom are from hotspot areas. “These doctors would be discharging duties round-the-clock until further orders,” he said. According to the data provided by the department, so far 56,699 samples have been taken in entire Jodhpur division, of which 51,509 samples were taken from Jodhpur, Pali, Sirohi and Jalore districts till Sunday morning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cases-cross-1000-mark-in-jodhpur/articleshow/75795558.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Allahabad||4 linked with robbers gang arrested in city||Prayagraj: Four men associated with a gang of robbers were arrested while they were planning to execute a loot on Sunday. The arrests were made near Gujan Dhaba Road. Police also recovered 32 crude bombs from their possession. The accused were identified as Shera alias Shivam, Ankur Bharatiya, Sushil Bharatiya and Raja Babu — all residents of Naini. Naini police were tipped off about a group of men on their way to execute a loot. The team raided the spot and arrested the four. Meanwhile, police have also challaned seven perosns including Chandra Shekhar , Ganesh Yadav, VK Dwivedi, Kamlesh Kumar, Asharfi Lal, Vikramjeet and Shailendra, residents of Nai bazar and ADA colony on the charges of defying lockdown orders. These perosns were challaned under section 151\107\116 of CrPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/4-linked-with-robbers-gang-arrested-in-city/articleshow/75794433.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Pune||Pune: 48-year-old trader falls for fake oil deal message||PUNE: A 48-year-old trader from Mukundnagar on Satara Road was duped of Rs 39.55 lakh by unknown persons from March last year. The trader had received a text message offering him an attractive business deal in a certain oil product that was required to prepare a veterinary medicine, an officer from the Swargate police station said. He started negotiating for an oil consignment. He paid a total of Rs39.55 lakh in three instalments as advance money, processing and delivery charges, till he realized he had been cheated, the officer said. A fortnight ago, the trader approached the cyber police with a complaint and post-verification for the same, who then referred the matter to the Swargate police to register a formal FIR.  In March last year, he received a message as well as a call from a cellphone number that was registered in the United Kingdom. The message mentioned a high demand in the international market for the branded oil, which was used for manufacturing veterinary medicines as well as vaccines for treatment of human ailments. The callers told the trader they would help him sell the oil in India and other global destinations. Later, the complainant received mails from callers asking him to make online transfers. But, he failed to get the oil consignment, the officer said. The parties that offered him the business deal also stopped taking his calls. and the complainant realized that he had been duped.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/48-year-old-trader-falls-for-fake-oil-deal-message/articleshow/75795560.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Nagpur||‘Told to pick up CBSE papers flouting norms’||NAGPUR: Some teachers involved in CBSE’s board exam paper evaluation have complained that their head examiners (HEs) are flouting central board’s guidelines. The teachers got in touch with TOI and said some HEs are asking them to pick up the answer sheets, whereas the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) has mandated that it be delivered to teachers’ homes. One of the examiners, who did not wish to be identified, said, “Our HE is saying we should pick up the answer sheets, even though that is not the protocol. Some of us do not have personal vehicles and have to rely on husband for travel, because of Ola and Uber being shut.” Another teacher, who too did not have her own vehicle, said family members are not ready to go the HE’s house. “My husband said if on the way any kind of damage happens to the answer sheets or they get snatched, then who will be held responsible. CBSE will take action against teacher saying why she went to pick up and under whose authority,” she said. This, however, was not the case for many other examiners. One teacher said, “I got the papers at home as our HE had arranged a van to ferry them,” said the teacher. “We are already facing shortage of examiners because some whom from places outside city are now unavailable. Papers can’t be sent to other districts, so only locals are now sharing the workload. Also there is a time limit to completing the work. I have heard that by May-end, all evaluated papers need to be sent back to the board,” said another teacher. Last year, CBSE results had already been declared by this time. This time, however, due to the lockdown and pending board exams, results are likely to be out by July 20 only.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/told-to-pick-up-cbse-papers-flouting-norms/articleshow/75795864.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
May 18, 2020||Pune||Students aboard train allege poor conditions||PUNE: Many students travelling from New Delhi to Pune on a Shramik special train on Sunday have alleged that hygiene and social distancing standards have not been maintained. The train is ferrying around 1,100 students headed to various locations in and around the city. It was expected to reach Pune railway station late on Sunday night. Central Railway’s chief public relations officer Shivaji Sutar told TOI that as soon as they got the information over social media, the Bhusawal rail division got into action. “The DRM of Bhusawal acted fast and the students were given proper breakfast, lunch and dinner at Khandwa and Manmad railway stations. There were no lapses on our part,” he said. Ranjit Mohan Yadav, who hails from Satara and was aboard the train, said, “Many students were crammed in the five general coaches. Not much care was taken about social distancing and there was no food, except some snacks that were served once. On Sunday afternoon, the students were finally shifted from the general compartments to the sleeper coaches. However, the condition of the washrooms is still bad and many students had to use newspapers to wipe the dirt.” Yadav added that at around 1am on Sunday, when the train stopped at Agra a few students moved to the sleeper class compartments. “For this train, the screening process started on Saturday morning in Delhi. So one could not have survived on biscuits and bananas alone. The train started at around 10pm from Delhi. On Monday morning, the railway authorities and some NGOs gave us breakfast. The train reached Bhusawal at around 4pm and finally we were given a proper meal,” he said. Rishikesh Panaskar, another student hailing from Satara, said, “There was no water in the toilets of the train. While food was made available, the toilets were not cleaned. It has been a difficult journey back home,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/students-aboard-train-allege-poor-conditions/articleshow/75795569.cms||Joy Sengupta
May 18, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: Pay traffic fines through QR codes or e-wallets||JAIPUR: Jaipur traffic police is planning to introduce ‘noncontact’ challan system through which traffic violators will have the option of paying fines through e-wallet or scanning QR-code. Police are in touch with various nationalised and private banks to start this facility as soon as possible. Officers said first preference would be QR code of the account of traffic police for transparency and minimal contact of defaulters with policemen penalising them. The authorities are planning to start the system by June 1. Senior officers of Jaipur police commissionerate were concerned over rising cases among the policemen and were chalking out plans to ensure minimal contact and maintain social distancing. “We have had meetings with SBI and two leading private banks in this regard. What we are aiming is that whenever a person breaks traffic rules and has to be penalised by the traffic policemen, we should provide our men a QR code of our bank account which should be scanned for payment. This will provide us an opportunity to ensure zero contact with the defaulter,” said Rahul Prakash, deputy commissioner of police (traffic). He added traffic police were also looking for other options like paying through ewallets. “We have got a few proposals from the bank. If everything goes as per plan, we may start it by June 1 onwards,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/pay-traffic-fines-through-qr-codes-or-e-wallets/articleshow/75795566.cms||Ashish Mehta
May 18, 2020||India||Big push for online courses to ensure education doesn’t suffer||NEW DELHI: By the end of this month, the top 100 universities in the National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) will be allowed to offer online courses ‘automatically’. Announcing a comprehensive initiative called PM eVIDYA which will unify all efforts related to digital/online/on-air education to enable multi-mode access to education, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Sunday assured that education would not suffer due to the Covid-19 outbreak and lockdown. “Technology-driven education will be the focus, PM eVIDYA programme for multi-mode access to digital/online education to be launched immediately. Top 100 universities will be permitted to automatically start online courses by May 30,” Sitharaman said. The top 100 universities will include IITs, IIMs, institutes of eminence, national institutes as well as private universities. Under this programme, 12 DTH channels will be introduced, one each dedicated to classes 1 to 12 to support those who do not have access to internet. The minister said the government would launch ‘Manodarpan’ — an initiative for psycho-social support of students, teachers and families for mental health and emotional well-being — with immediate effect. The PM e-VIDYA initiative will bring together digital platforms such as Diksha (the nation’s digital infrastructure for providing quality content for school education), Swayam (the online courses in MOOCS format), radio, community radio and CBSE podcast Shiksha Vani, special e-content for visually and hearing impaired, and IITPAL (for IITJEE/NEET preparation).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/big-push-for-online-courses-to-ensure-education-doesnt-suffer/articleshow/75796019.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Pune||Two siblings from Nigdi drown in farm pond||Pune: Two brothers, aged 12 and nine years, drowned in a farm pond at Ughadewadi in Malshiras taluka of Solapur district, about 65km from the city, on Saturday. Siblings Harshad Sham Bhagat (12) and Siddharth (9) of Nigdi were stuck at Ughadewadi along with their parents since the lockdown. On Saturday, Harshad and Siddharth had gone to a farm pond for swimming along with their cousin. “When one of the brothers entered the water and started drowning, the other jumped in to save him, but both drowned,” an officer said. Their cousin ran home and alerted their parents. “Their father rushed to the spot and dragged them out. They were taken to a nearby hospital, where the doctors pronounced them dead,” the officer said. The police said Sham Bhagat, an autorickshaw driver from Nigdi, had gone to Ughadewadi along with his wife and two sons to meet their ailing relative just before the lockdown. “After the announcement of the lockdown the family had been stuck there,” the police officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/two-siblings-from-nigdi-drown-in-farm-pond/articleshow/75795572.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Pune||Rain, thunder & lightning till May 22 in Pune: IMD||PUNE: The rainfall activity with thunder and lightening during afternoon or evening hours will continue in the city till May 22, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) officials said on Sunday. The Met department officials have forecast light to very light rain on alternate days in parts of the city and district over the week ahead, attributing the same to the weather phenomenon caused by cyclone Amphan which has developed over the Bay of Bengal. “Moisture incursion is taking place over the city and the state, primarily because the cyclone is dragging moisture from the southern peninsular region and Maharashtra to the Bay of Bengal and this has changed the wind pattern,” said Anupam Kashyapi, head of IMD, Pune’s forecast division. He said, “Because of moisture incursion, isolated areas of the city and district are getting warmer, leading to rain with thunder and lightning. We expect this condition to prevail till May 22. Day temperature will remain around 40 °C and night temperature around 22-24 °C.” Some parts of the city and district have been receiving very light to light rainfall for the last few days. On Sunday afternoon, the Shivajinagar observatory recorded 2.7 mm rainfall while Lohegaon observatory recorded 0.2 mm rainfall. Heat wave warningAccording to the Met department, some pockets in Vidarbha and Marathwada will experience a heatwave after May 21. At 44°C, Jalgaon in north Maharashtra was the hottest place in the state on Sunday while Mahabaleshwar was the coolest place at 17.2°C. Akola in Vidarbha and Parbhani in Marathwada were second and third hottest at 43.8 and 42.4 °C, respectively. Most places in Vidarbha sizzled at over 40°C.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/rain-thunder-lightning-till-may-22-imd/articleshow/75795575.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Kanpur||Woman gives birth on platform at Kanpur Central Station||KANPUR: The faces of several people, including migrant workers and corona warriors, at Kanpur Central Station lit up with smile even in time of crisis when a migrant woman gave birth to a girl child on the railway platform on Saturday evening. The woman thanked the doctor while the migrants applauded Dr Kavita Yadav by clapping. The mother went on to announce that she would name her daughter as Kavita. Dr Kavita Yadav, a doctor posted at the community health centre in Patara, was deputed with a health team at Kanpur Central Station for screening migrant labourers coming via Shramik Special train. The train from Ahmedabad, headed to Gonda, had arrived at platform no 6. Among the migrants was Phool Kumari, wife of Moti Lal, travelling in an advanced stage of pregnancy. Soon after deboarding, Phool Kumari developed labour pains following which the migrants informed railway officials. Bali Ram CIT and commercial inspector Vijay Sharma reached the spot and sent an SOS to Dr Kavita who was busy screening the labourers who had just deboarded. When Dr Kavita rushed to the spot, she found Phool Kumari in labour. The doctor assessed the situation and realised it was too late to take her to a hospital. She asked the paramedical staff with her to raise curtains on platform for delivery. The paramedical staff raised bed sheets as curtains to make a makeshift labour room on the railway platform. Dr Kavita conducted a safe delivery of a girl child. As soon as Phool Kumari regained sense, she thanked Dr Kavita and said she would name the little girl as Kavita. The crowd clapped and thanked the doctor and her team. Dr Kavita said it was a proud and memorable moment for her as well as for her team. The railway authorities later rushed the mother and the newborn to Dufferin hospital for post delivery care.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/woman-gives-birth-on-platform-at-kanpur-central-stn/articleshow/75795712.cms||Anant Chandak
May 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Hospitals to perform elective surgeries after a month, battle huge backlog||HYDERABAD: After keeping medical electives services in Telangana on hold for nearly a month, state health authorities have ordered restoration of all services in government hospitals with immediate effect.  This will encompass services, including admissions, procedures and surgeries, bringing in some relief to non-Covid-19 patients. Running of separate fever clinics and taking adequate precautions has been advised, in light of the Covid-19 pandemic. While the orders in this regard were issued late on Saturday night and came into immediate effect, elective procedures will resume in full capacity from Monday onwards. “Some of the departments have begun services on Sunday but since the order was not in the public domain and today being Sunday, there were no patients. From Monday, all admissions, procedures and surgeries will be attended to. There is a huge backlog of surgeries which need to be catered to,” said a resident doctor from the Nizams Institute of Medical Sciences (NIMS). The order also specified the need to take all necessary precautions while resuming out patient (OP) services. “All superintendents of teaching and speciality hospitals under the Directorate of Medical Education (DME) are instructed to restore all the services in hospitals, including elective surgical services, immediately. It is advised to use PPE (personal protection equipment) and N95 masks and other measures for safety of the hospital personnel. In the out-patient (OP) department, please see to it that there will be social distancing. Proper sanitation measures should be followed,” the order stated. The order also warned against over crowding in the wards. It has also been specified that the Gandhi hospital and Government Chest Hospital will continue to function as nodal Covid-19 centres and part of the SD Eye Hospital will remain as isolation centres. “It is advised to run separate fever clinics so that they (patients) will not intermingle with other OP patients,” the order read, adding that if any patient visits the hospital with symptoms of Covid-19, they should be immediately moved to the isolation ward with all precautions and protocols prescribed by ICMR being followed. Meanwhile, the state health authorities have kept around 20,000 beds ready for housing Covid-19 patients in district hospitals, teaching hospitals and private medical colleges. “As per the Government of India guidelines, now only symptomatic patients are to be admitted. Currently the bed strength we have is more than required,” said a senior health official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hosps-to-perform-elective-surgeries-after-a-month-battle-huge-backlog/articleshow/75795035.cms||Amrita Didyala
May 18, 2020||Ahmedabad||Results improve with 14 grace marks||Ahmedabad: The Gujarat Secondary and Higher Secondary Education Board (GSHSEB) realising that the pass percentage was below 60% decided to give 14 grace marks, especially in Physics and Chemistry where a large number of students had failed. Officials said that the Gujarat HSC result was 71.34%. Total 14,500 students benefited with the grace marks. According to the officials, without grace marks, the result would have been around 58%. The pass percentage in Physics is 72.41% and in Chemistry 72.38%. The pass percentages in Physics and Chemistry are lowest in science subjects. The pass percentage in Mathematics is 80.41% and in Biology it is 85.99%. In 2019, the board had given nine grace marks to the students. The officials said that since the semester system has been scrapped for Class XII, the marks obtained by the students have been going down. Officials said that had the government not approved 14-mark grace in A group — Mathematics, Chemistry and Physics — over 80% of engineering seats would have remained vacant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/results-improve-with-14-grace-marks/articleshow/75795184.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Delhi||Traders in Delhi divided over opening of markets||NEW DELHI: While Delhi government is busy preparing guidelines for implementation of phase-IV of the lockdown, traders in the capital are divided over opening of markets. Some traders’ associations have given a thumbs up to the idea of opening shops on alternate days, while others expressed fear that congested markets may trigger a spurt in Covid-19 cases. Chandni Chowk Sarv Vyapar Mandal has decided to keep the shops’ shutters down at least till May 31. “Looking at the number of the novel coronavirus cases reported in Old Delhi, Chandni Chowk and Karol Bagh markets are likely to be put under the buffer zone. Even if a decision is taken to open the market fully, it won’t be possible for the association to contain infection. It is a congested market and dug up at several places for the redevelopment plan. Implementing social distancing is impossible here,” said Sanjay Bhargava, president, Chandni Chowk Sarv Vyapar Mandal. “The Centre seems to have put the onus of preparing standard operating procedures for reopening of markets on the state government. But in my opinion, Delhi government should first concentrate on determining zones—red, orange, green, buffer and containment. Guidelines can be framed subsequently,” he added. On the other hand, Brijesh Goel, convener for Chamber Of Trade & Industry, AAP Trade Wing said that they were expecting Delhi government to open all markets on an odd-even basis. “Based on suggestions from traders and resident welfare associations, Delhi government is planning to open markets with all precautionary measures. Markets may open by Tuesday,” he said. “I cannot afford to keep my garment shops closed for even one more week,” said Mahesh Rathod, a trader.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/traders-divided-over-opening-of-markets/articleshow/75795593.cms||Vibha Sharma
May 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Pvt nursing homes approach health dept to resume ops||Hyderabad: After remaining shut for nearly two months, private nursing homes and clinics have now approached the state health department seeking guidelines to restart operations.  Most nursing homes have suffered losses since the lockdown with may not having set up teleconsultation facilities and are eager to begin operations. “If the services are not resumed immediately we will be facing closure. We have rentals to pay and salaries of staffers which itself run to the tune of Rs 5 lakh per month. But with not a single consultation or admission, salaries have been kept on hold for a month now. The rentals too have been kept on hold. Unless operations begin the gap in revenue and losses will continue to increase, making it impossible to bridge the gap,” said the proprietor of small sized nursing home in Madinaguda . Representatives of several nursing homes and clinics met state health authorities urging them to take an immediate decision regrading resumption of their services too. Also members from the state Indian Medical Association (IMA) held talks with the state health department regarding the same and a decision in this regard is expected soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/pvt-nursing-homes-approach-health-dept-to-resume-ops/articleshow/75795045.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Kanpur||Girl who attempted suicide due to harassment, dies||Kanpur: Unable to deal with the sexual harassment by two brothers in Jarauli area of Barra, a class XII girl, who had attempted suicide on May 6, succumbed during the treatment at Lala Lajpat Rai hospital on Saturday (May 16). The girl had left a suicide note addressing inspector Barra wherein she had accused the two brothers of constantly harassing her. The girl hanged herself from the ceiling of her room at her home on May 6. The accused identified as Sumit and Amit, of the same area used to harass the girl from some days, alleged the girl’s father in his complaint. The accused had even threatened to beat the girl’s parents and younger siblings when they tried to resist the advances of the two brothers. Fed up with the constant harassment, she allegedly committed suicide, girl’s father has alleged. The girl studied in class XII of a local school, the police said. “An FIR has been lodged and raids are underway to make the arrest of the accused possible. Further investigation is underway,” said inspector Barra Ranjit Rai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/girl-who-attempted-suicide-due-to-harassment-dies/articleshow/75795721.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Nagpur||Growers selling cotton 50% below MSP||WARDHA: The delay in procurement owing to strict lockdown and Covid distancing enforced by Cotton Corporation of India (CCI) at its centres is forcing the farmers to sell their produce at prices even below the half of minimum support price (MSP). The CCI has imposed limit of only 50 vehicles in a day and 40 quintal cotton of each farmer at a centre. Around 30,000 farmers in the district are still waiting for their turn. After the lockdown, government had stopped purchasing cotton at CCI centres and agriculture produce marketing committees (APMCs). Farmers, who could not sell their produce before the lockdown was imposed, had stored cotton to sell it after March in the hope of getting good price. Due to lockdown, they had to wait till April end. With no signs of the lockdown being lifted, several farmers associations had urged the government to start procurement. The government started purchase from April 27, with a few restrictions that a farmer will have to register himself and only after receiving SMS he can proceed for CCI centres. Only 50 registrations were allowed per day restricting the number of vehicles to 50 and not more than 40 quintal of cotton per farmer. Due to lack of labour at centres, only 30-40 vehicles are getting entry in a day. There are around 44,000 farmers in the district who have grown over 40 lakh quintal cotton on 4.05 lakh hectare land. At this speed, to complete the whole process of purchasing all the produce, more than four months will be required. So far, government could purchase 23 lakh quintal cotton of only 15,000 farmers. Farmers need to sell their crop before monsoon. Private traders are looking this as opportunity. Farmers are being compelled to sell at any cost the trader decides. Recently, a farmer Ram Charde sold cotton at Rs2,250 per quintal at Hinganghat APMC when the MSP is Rs5,500. Agents are also demanding Rs500 per quintal for registration. Those who are ready to give the bribe, gets his turn early at the centres. According to district agriculture superintendent Anil Ingle total cotton cultivation is 2.34 lakh hectare and production around 28-30 lakh quintal. District collector’s office informed that this issue has been discussed by guardian minister Sunil Kedar with CCI authorities. General manager of CCI Ajay Kumar is likely to visit the district on Monday to take stock of the situation. DDR Gautam Walde said, “Had there been no lockdown, we would have completed the procurement before April. We are purchasing 20,000 quintal cotton every day and 6-7 lakh quintal cotton is remaining. It will not be possible to complete the procurement before monsoon.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/growers-selling-cotton-50-below-msp/articleshow/75795914.cms||Balwant Dhage
May 18, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Test on plasma donors starts at MCH today||KOLKATA: The screening on potential plasma donors will begin on Monday at the immunohematology and blood transfusion department of Medical College and Hospital Kolkata (MCHK). This is the first step for the clinical trial on convalescent plasma therapy, on which many are pinning hope as a cure from Covid-19 infection. “There has been an overwhelming response to the appeal for donating plasma. We are expecting four of them to turn up tomorrow,” said Sandip Paul, a scientist at Translational Research unit of Excellence of Indian Institute of Chemical Biology Kolkata, who is part of the clinical trial. One of the donors, who will undergo the screening in the first batch, is a post-graduate trainee doctor of MCHK. Management student Monami Biswas is excited to be among the first lot who will be screened. The 23-year-old had tested positive on her return from Scotland in March this year and had undergone treatment at Infectious Diseases and Beliaghata General (ID&BG) Hospital. “I was eagerly waiting for this day. I wish I pass through the screening and be the first donor. The plasma donation will be nothing against the kind of care I got at ID&BG Hospital. The doctors and nurses were caring at the hospital. I am doing this for the amount of dedication they are putting up,” Biswas told TOI. At MCHK the doctors, Prasun Bhattacharya, Durba Biswas, Chikam Maity, Soumarupa Majhi, Sayantan Saha, Suman Haldar, Mohammad Azharuddin, Biswajit Haldar and two nurses — the team at immunohematology and blood transfusion department — have been on their toes for the last days to prepare for the screening. “The screening will comprise checking the vein prominence, drawing around 15ml of blood from each donor. The plasma will be analyzed for certain markers like immune and serum protein. The donors need to have adequate protein and calcium to donate plasma,” said Prasun Bhattacharya, head of the immunohematology and blood transfusion department.The clinical trial will take place at ID&BG. Over 40 donors have shown interest to undergo the screening.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/test-on-plasma-donors-starts-at-mch-today/articleshow/75795038.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
May 18, 2020||Ahmedabad||71.9% of students pass HSC science exam||Ahmedabad: The Gujarat Secondary and Higher Secondary Education Board (GSHSEB) on Sunday declared HSC science stream results. Total 71.34% passed the exam, which was the lowest in eight years. Overall, the result is 0.56% less as compared to 2019, when 71.90% students had passed the exam. This is the third class XII exam after scrapping of the semester system in June 2017. A total of 83,111 students out of 1,16,494 students, who appeared in the class XII (science) examination, cleared the exam. Students in A group with mathematics posted 76.62% result, while in the B group — students with biology — the result was 68.21%. In the results declared on Sunday the number of students getting A1 grade, that is more than 90% marks, was only 44 which was 254 last year. This was a drop of 82% as compared to last year. The officials said that even the percentile of the students has gone down considerably. This year the pass percentage of boys was more than that of girls. While the pass percentage was 70.85% for the girls, it was 71.69% for the boys. English-medium students once again fared better than their Gujarati-medium counterparts, posting 74.02% results. The same for Gujarati medium was 70.77%. A total of 36 schools recorded 100 per cent results this year, which was one school better than 2019. In 2019, 35 schools had 100% results which was down from 42 in 2018. The number of schools securing 10 per cent or lower pass percentage also increased to 68 which was 49 last year, the board said. Education minister Bhupendrasinh Chudasama said that the examination in the state was completed in the nick of time before the lockdown was announced. The teachers in the state did a great job even during coronavirus pandemic by getting together to evaluate the papers. “Gujarat is probably the first state in the country to declare the science stream results. The teachers were provided with all the facilities and the teachers too responded well and stood by the state,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/71-9-of-students-pass-hsc-science-exam/articleshow/75795157.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Hubballi||No takers as stock remains on shelves at liquor outlets||Hubballi: In a bid to clear stock of liquor that had piled up at bars, clubs and restaurants during the lockdown, the government allowed sale of all alcoholic beverages across retail outlets at the maximum retail price (MRP) till Sunday. However, several stores were unable to clear the old stock owing to the poor demand for alcohol, which they attributed to the government’s decision to permit sale of liquor at standalone bars, pubs and restaurants five days after MSIL outlets and CL-2 shops were allowed to do so. Fears of the lockdown being extended resulted in tipplers stocking up immediately after the sale of alcohol was allowed in the state put those stores that opened late at a disadvantage since most of them had bought the beverages they needed in bulk. In Hubballi-Dharwad, many stores are left with nearly 100 cases of beer, while a few others are left with four or five times as many, according to sources in the business. Many bars, which attempted selling liquor at discounted rates still could not get rid of the old stock and are banking on being allowed to continue sales from Monday. President of the Liquor Association, Hubballi Ashok Kumar Shetty opined that the government must have permitted the sale of liquor at all outlets simultaneously. “We want the government to allow the sale of liquor at bars and restaurants. We will only allow takeaway services. It will really improve our finances, and we will be able to pay our employees, rent, maintenance and other miscellaneous expenses,” Shetty told TOI. A liquor outlet in north Hubballi said that prior to the lockdown, daily business at his outlet came up to Rs 80,000 to Rs 90,000 per day, but it plummeted to Rs 10,000 to Rs 15,000 following the enforcement of the restrictions. “We are finding it difficult to clear our stock owing to a sharp fall in demand. There are 32 labourers in my restaurant, and providing for their food has made the business unviable,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/no-takers-as-stock-remains-on-shelves-at-liquor-outlets/articleshow/75794293.cms||Kishan Singh Bhorde
May 18, 2020||Kanpur||Migrant dies, friend hurt as bike crashes on e-way||Kanpur: A 32-year-old migrant worker died of severe head injuries while his friend sustained critical wounds after their bike crashed into the divider on the Agra-Lucknow expressway in Kannauj district on Sunday. The deceased, migrant Manish Kumar and pillion rider Kapil Kumar (28), were returning home in Madhubani district of Bihar from Gurugram, Haryana. The accident occurred near Beerampur village under Thatia police station in Kannauj district on Sunday morning. Police reached the spot after they received calls from some passersby. Police officials said Manish was riding the two-wheeler while his friend Kapil was pillion riding and holding their luggage. The body was shifted to mortuary while Kapil who suffered serious injuries was admitted to Tirwa medical college. Their earnings got exhausted after lockdown, following which Manish and Kapil, who used to work in a transport company in Gurugram decided to go to their native town Madhubani in Bihar on a two-wheeler. “They left Gurugram on Saturday evening. They took the Agra-Lucknow expressway after entering UP border. We suspect that Manish dozed off while riding and the two-wheeler crashed into the divider. Both Manish and Kapil suffered serious head injuries. Manish died at the spot while Kapil was rushed to Tirwa medical college in a critical condition. Their family members have been informed,” said inspector Thatia police station Vijay Bahadur Verma.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/migrant-dies-friend-hurt-as-bike-crashes-on-e-way/articleshow/75795725.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
May 18, 2020||Kanpur||Two migrants die of illness, dumped by truck drivers||Kanpur: Two migrant workers, including a 16-year-old boy, died in separate incidents in Kanpur and Kannauj districts while on way to their native places since late Saturday night.  A 16-year-old minor migrant worker, who along with his two family members, was dumped on the roadside by a truck driver at Ramadevi crossing as he fell sick during a journey from Mumbai to Bahraich, died at the hospital gate on the intervening night of Saturday and Sunday. As the boy was working in Mumbai, the hotbed of corona, police alerted the health department team which rushed to the spot and collected deceased Khusbuddin’s samples for test. The team also took the samples of the boy’s brother Salahuddin and uncle Iqbal for testing, police said.  A photograph of distraught Salahuddin and Iqbal, sitting in the green belt on Kanpur-Lucknow highway with the boy’s body, has gone viral on social media. Salahuddin said that his brother Khusbuddin had accompanied him and his uncle Iqbal to Mumbai in search of job few months ago. They got stranded in Mumbai after the lockdown. On April 14, they took a truck along with others to go to their village in Maqsoodpur area of Bahraich, but on Saturday evening, Khusbuddin fell ill and since he had fever and vommited, the truck driver suspected him to be coronavirus infected, dumped him at Ramadevi bypass on the highway on late Saturday night, Salahuddin said. Some policemen present at the spot, took them to a local hospital from where the boy was referred to the government hospital, but he succumbed on way. Inspector Chakeri Ram Kumar Gupta said, “As the boy reportedly had high fever and was also vomiting, we alerted health department team after which his sample was collected. The boy’s uncle and brother were also examined”. A 60-year-old migrant worker, who worked in a factory in Mumbai, also died in similar circumstances while travelling from Mumbai to Kannauj on Saturday. The man, after being dumped by a truck driver in Kannauj, was on way to Hardoi, along with his nephew Narendra, also a private worker in Mumbai. Identified as Vikram, the man was a resident of Satliyapur village of Sandi police station in Hardoi, and was heading home on foot. According to police, he collapsed near the sales tax office close to Mahadevi Ghat road, after which his nephew tried to arrange for a vehicle in order to rush him to a nearby hospital, but he succumbed. “As per his nephew, his uncle was fit and fine, but as he had returned from Mumbai, we alerted the health department team which will arrive and collect his nasal and swab samples for Covid-19 test,” said inspector Kotwali Nagendra Pathak.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/two-migrants-die-of-illness-dumped-by-truck-drivers/articleshow/75795732.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
May 18, 2020||Hyderabad||52-day-old among group travelling to UP on scooters||Hyderabad: Shivani was born on March 25, a day after Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced a nationwide lockdown. The little girl, who is 52 days old, is now on a 2,000 km journey from Chennai to her place in Uttar Pradesh. So far, the family of the girl has covered nearly 800 km on their way to Hyderabad and need to cover another 1,200 km to reach Lucknow. “We had no choice. Life became difficult after lockdown,” Manish, the father of the girl, told TOI at Medchal on the city outskirts where they stopped to have food which was being served by NGOs. Along with Manish, his wife and their infant, are another dozen people, who have undertaken the journey with them. All of them have been travelling on two-wheelers and the fact that they would have to cover 2,000 km did not deter them. Why did he take the risk with a small baby? “We quite literally were starving. The decision was to go home. It was not so easy leaving Chennai on our bikes but we managed to,” he said. It’s been five days since they started and the journey has been demanding and the experience has not been good. “People would not allow us to rest for the night in their villages if we stopped by,” one of the workers in the group said. “When we asked people for salt or even a match box, they did not give,” another worker said. But they do not hold any grudge against the villagers. At Medchal, on NH-44, the police, administration and NGOs told the workers, especially Manish, that it is not advisable to continue with their journey to UP on their scooter. They said that their stay could be arranged at a function hall where they would also be given food. They said as trains were also being organised, they could travel when that materialises. They were also told that their vehicles could be kept safe with the police and could be collected later. The workers, however, were not inclined. “Nothing is for sure. We waited in Chennai for some arrangements but we have been neglected. We are now on our own and we will continue with our journey,” they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/52-day-old-among-group-travelling-to-up-on-scooters/articleshow/75795055.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
May 18, 2020||Ahmedabad||Only 2 in Ahmedabad get A-1 grade||Ahmedabad: Admissions to the Bachelor of Science course may not be a problem because only 11,354 students have cleared the HSC science examination. The city alone has more than 5,000 BSc seats, including those offered by self-financed institutions. In all, 6,482 students cleared the HSC science examination from Ahmedabad city; the number was 4,872 in Ahmedabad rural. The passout percentage was 74.58% in Ahmedabad city and 77.91% in the rural zone. Of the 11,354, only two students — one from the city and one from the district — were placed above the 90th percentile. Two hundred students from Ahmedabad city and 135 from the rural zone were placed above the 80th percentile. The officials said that it has been noted that 60% of the students opt for professional courses including engineering and pharmacy. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/only-2-in-ahmedabad-get-a-1-grade/articleshow/75795156.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: They feared ostracism, but neighbours surprised them||HYDERABAD: A mother-son duo, who returned to their home after winning the coronavirus battle, received a rousing welcome from their neighbours and colony members. Residents of Sri Krishna Devaraya Nagar in Vanasthalipuram ward in LB Nagar showered flower petals and welcomed the duo as they returned home on Sunday. “As our quarantine period was coming to an end we had a fear that people in our locality would distance themselves from us, but to our surprise their gesture was overwhelmingly positive,” said the 22-year-old. Arvind Reddy, TRS division president of BN Reddy, said that they have been inquiring about the discharge date since a week. “The residents of Sri Krishna Devaraya Nagar were very optimistic and eager to welcome them. We want to convey to everyone that the fight is against the virus and not against the infected person,” said Reddy. The father of youth was also infected and he is expected to be discharged on Monday. “We are assuming that our family contracted the virus through our uncle who owns a shop in Malakpet Gunj,” he said. “I had visited him in a private hospital when he was ill. He was later tested positive for Covid-19 after which my entire family also tested positive,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/they-feared-ostracism-but-neighbours-surprised-them/articleshow/75795064.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Kanpur||Migrants allowed to proceed by 900 trucks to border of UP, MP||Jhansi: After days of continuous commotion and Saturday’s 15-km long traffic jam at the Raksa border of UP and MP, a convoy of 900 trucks carrying migrant labourers were allowed to go ahead under police escort on Sunday. Around 1.5 lakh migrant workers have already been registered at the border so far, though the officials say the number could be much higher. Saturday saw an unprecedented unrest among the migrants, as trucks from Gujarat and Maharahstra carrying them were stopped at the border after the state government decided not to allow migrants travel on trucks in view of the accident in Auraiya in which 26 of them died. The unrest continued till Sunday morning but soon the administration decided to allow the trucks pass amid police escorting. All the workers travelling were medically screened and their details recorded. Passes were also issued to the trucks carrying them. By Sunday noon, the traffic was finally streamlined on the Shivpuri highway and this gave a breather to the local authorities. Jhansi DM Andra Vamsi said, “We have released the convoy of trucks along with police escort. Apart from this, there are buses for those who are travelling on foot. A special train for migrant labourers to Gorakhpur will be leaving on Sunday night.” Jhansi commissioner Subhash Chandra Sharma said, “We have made all possible arrangements for the migrant workers at the border. This includes food packets for 20 thousand persons, ambulances and other facilities.” “Although we are trying our best to ensure that no one has to travel on foot by arranging buses and trains, the huge number of migrant labourers returning everyday is a big challenge”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/migrants-allowed-to-proceed-by-900-trucks-to-border-of-up-mp/articleshow/75795741.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘Hurried results solve little’||Ahmedabad: The Gujarat government may claim to be the first state in the country to declare the HSC science results but in absence of the results of competitive examinations like Gujarat Common Entrance Test and Joint Entrance Examination and even National Eligibility cum Entrance Test, it loses its shine. The admissions to the degree engineering, medical, paramedical and even pharmacy courses are done based on these entrance tests. These tests are to be held in June and only after their results can admissions begin. An official said the hurried results serve no purpose as marksheets are still being printed. It will take at least a fortnight for students to get them. Even admissions in science colleges will not begin before August. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/hurried-results-solve-little/articleshow/75795181.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Mother of two kills self over financial woes||Hyderabad: A 26-year-old housewife took her life by setting herself ablaze on Saturday night at Parigi due to financial troubles. The victim was identified as Sarala. She is survived by her husband and two children. According to police, Sarala’s husband Narasimha, who works as a private driver, has not been getting work for the past two months due to lockdown. “The couple had to mortgage Sarala’s four tola gold to clear debts and meet expenses,” Parigi SI Venkatesh said. At around 10.30 pm on Saturday, while the family was watching TV, Sarala went into the bathroom and set herself ablaze using kerosene. “Family members doused the flames and fire tender reached the place, but she died on the spot,” the SI said. Sarala did not leave a suicide note. “A case was filed under Section 174 of CrPC,” the SI said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/mother-of-two-kills-self-over-financial-woes/articleshow/75795074.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Vadodara||SSG doc, two veggie traders test positive||Vadodara: A 37-year-old resident doctor of state-run SSG Hospital, who was involved in treating Covid-19 patients, tested positive for the virus on Sunday. As a resident doctor, he has been involved in treatment of patients from the very beginning of the pandemic – first at SSG Hospital and later at GMERS Medical College and Hospital, Gotri that was declared as a Covid-19 hospital for Central Gujarat. Between May 6 and May 12, the doctor also served at the isolation ward of Ahmedabad Civil Hospital where he was on deputation. The doctor, a resident of Someshwarnagar society near Chanakyapuri on New Sama Road, developed symptoms after he returned from Ahmedabad. Sources said that after testing positive of Covid-19, he is currently admitted at a private hospital on Waghodiya Road. Apart from the resident doctor, a 25-year-old wife of a policeman who had already tested positive in police line, a 57-year-old vegetable trader residing in Rajsthambh Society and another trader from Dabhoi town, were among those who tested positive . In the 24 hours ending Sunday evening, 161 samples were tested of which 142 tested negative while the city recorded 19 new cases, taking the total numbers to 691. In Dabhoi, a 27-year-old vegetable trader also tested positive. “The patient is a vegetable trader who had gone to Ahmedabad to purchase tomatoes. He had developed some symptoms and was admitted at Muslim Medical Centre, Pangiate from where his sample was collected. Three of his close contacts have been shifted to Babaria,” said Dr Uday Tilawat, chief district health officer of Vadodara.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/ssg-doc-two-veggie-traders-test-positive/articleshow/75793602.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Vadodara||Gujarat: Mumbai teen’s tweet brings home stranded mother after 50 days||VADODARA: What was shaping up as mission impossible for 50 days for the 19-year-old student in Thane, it was his dogged determination and a tweet that finally brought him success. Hrithik was on his mission to bring home his stranded mother, Kshama Gujarathi, from Pedhmala village in Sabarkantha district where she, along with her friend, Deepa Panchal, had gone to offer prayers to Goddess Amba before Chaitri Navratri in the hamlet located 20kms off Himmatnagar.  However, no sooner had they reached their destination, the country first went into janta curfew and thereafter it came to a grinding halt under lockdown. Son of a FMCG salesperson and a homemaker mother, Hrithik was crestfallen. He tried all possible equations to juggle his mom home, but all his efforts met a dead end. It being a matter of two states only compounded his miseries. “I contacted officials of Maharashtra government requesting help, but they said that they cannot do anything and that I should contact the Gujarat government,” said the second-year BCom student. Unaware of any helplines of the Gujarat government, Hrithik then took to his dormant Twitter account to contact Gujarat officials. He knocked on several windows till he found the right handle. “I came across the Twitter account of Sabarkantha police and saw how they have been helping people,” said Hrithik, who was utterly surprised at the prompt response he recieved. He wrote to the Sabarkantha police on May 8 and within two hours he got a response asking him to contact on the control room number and also share his mobile phone number. After taking details of his mother’s location, a team of Sabarkantha police reached out to Gujarathi and Panchal and took them to district collectorate to arrange for passes so that they can travel back. “We have a sub-inspector handling our social media and once the officer received details, the women were helped in getting passes,” said Chaitanya Mandlik, superintendent of police, Sabarkantha. Not only that cops also helped the two women find a taxi to ferry them back to Mumbai, safe and sound. “Our traffic sub-inspector had to intervene and convinced a travel company’s driver to drop the two women,” Mandlik said, adding that on May 12 afternoon, Gujarathi and Panchal were reunited with their families. “We wanted to offer prayers but due to lockdown we had to stay back at our family priest, Babulal Joshi’s house only,” said Gujarathi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/mumbai-teens-tweet-brings-home-stranded-mother-after-50-days/articleshow/75793625.cms||Jay Pachchigar
May 18, 2020||Mysuru||Karnataka: Two youths rape estate worker, shoot the act||MADIKERI: Two youths allegedly raped a woman labourer in Tavuru village near Bhagamandala and shot their act on their cellphone. After the video surfaced on social media, Madikeri Rural police took them into custody on Saturday night. The accused — Chidananda and Chetan of Tavuru village near here — stopped the survivor, a married woman, while she was returning home with firewood a week ago. The duo allegedly raped the woman, and also shot the video of the crime. They later threatened the survivor that they will leak the video on social media if she complained to police. Even as the woman did not file a complaint fearing the video becoming public, the duo released the clip on social media, including some WhatsApp groups, some days after the incident. Following this, the woman filed a complaint with Madikeri Rural police station. Rural CI Divakar and SI Chandrashekar took the two men into their custody and are interrogating. Man on run after killing wife Shanivarasanthe police have launched a manhunt for a man who is suspected of killing his wife at Malambi village near Shanivarasanthe. The murder came to light after the body of Nagi, 45, was found on Saturday. Nagi and her husband Kumara, both labourers, were staying at a house in Malambi for many years now. Police investigation has revealed that Kumara and Nagi fought on May 14. What started as a verbal fight turned violent as Kumara was drunk. It is suspected that Kumara might have attacked Nagi, killing her on the spot. The crime came into light after a villager visited the couple’s house on Saturday evening. Investigation by Shanivarsanthe police revealed injury on Nagi’s head. Police suspect the incident to have taken place on May 14. As Kumara has gone underground, Shanivarasanthe police suspect his role in the death of Nagi. A search is on to trace him. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/two-youths-rape-estate-worker-shoot-the-act/articleshow/75794341.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Rajkot||Rajkot: Rumours spark violence in red zone||RAJKOT: The city police had a nightmarish time after large number of people from Covid-19 hotspot Jangleshwar broke the barricades and tin walls after Saturday midnight and resorted to violence after rumours spread that the area would remain a containment zone for a longer period. The mob started pelting stones at the cops and vandalized police and private vehicles. Two policemen were also injured in the incident. Police lobbed three tear gas shells to disperse the mob. On Sunday, police arrested 68 people for the violence. Jangleshwar has been declared a red zone as it accounts for the maximum number of Covid-19 positive cases reported in the city. The entire area has been cluster quarantined and the entry and exit has been strictly limited. Rumour spread like wildfire that relaxations will be lifted from all areas except Jangleshwar. According to the police, the rumour triggering widespread protests among the residents who went on a rampage, breaking the tin walls with which the police had barricaded the area. When the officials of parole furlough squad and Bhaktinagar police station, who were patrolling the area, rushed to the spot, the miscreants pelted them with stones. “Two cops, one of them identified as Mohammed Azhruddin Bukhari, a constable with parole furlough squad, were injured in the stone pelting. The mob also smashed the wind screens of three police vehicles. We had to lob three tear gas shells and resort to caning to disperse the agitating residents,” said V K Gadhvi, inspector with Bhaktinagar police station. Police booked as many as 74 persons for the crime, of which 68 were arrested. Those who were arrested for allegedly leading the mob were identified as Maqsood Chavda, Ahmed Nai, Yunus Khanpara and Habibbapu Saiyed. All have been booked under IPC section 120B (criminal conspiracy), rioting and damaging government property||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/rumours-spark-violence-in-red-zone/articleshow/75794360.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Delhi||Helplines for migrant workers must always be functional: Delhi high court||NEW DELHI: Delhi high court has directed the AAP government to ensure uninterrupted working of its helpline numbers for migrant workers so that they can easily approach nodal officers. A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice C Hari Shankar, hearing a PIL through videoconferencing, noted that Delhi government was ready and willing to accept the registration of workers who wanted to migrate. Whenever these workers approach the nodal officer concerned, all care will be taken by Delhi government for their migration as per the standard operating procedure (SOP) issued by the Centre on April 29, the bench said on Friday while hearing the PIL seeking a directive to the authorities to register and repatriate migrant workers to their home states and appoint a nodal officer in each district to facilitate the process. The court also directed the government to ensure “uninterrupted working of their helpline number so that people may approach nodal officers through the helpline numbers… The very purpose of the helpline number is to help people and, therefore, the same must be functional”. The petitioner NGO, National Campaign Committee for Eradication of Bonded Labour, had claimed that the official website of the government meant for the registration of migrant workers for transit to their respective states and the helpline numbers provided in this regard were not working properly. The Centre told the court it had issued an order on April 29, detailing the SOP regarding movement of stranded migrant workers and detailed instructions had been issued to all states, including National Capital Territory of Delhi. The AAP government submitted that the principal secretary of the social welfare department had been appointed the state nodal officer and all district magistrates the nodal officers for each district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/helplines-for-workers-must-always-be-functional-hc/articleshow/75795614.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Dehradun||Village heads grappling with lack of training, less resources, non-co-operation of returnees||DEHRADUN/NAINITAL: With thousands of migrants returning to their native villages, the onus is on gram pradhans (village heads) to ensure that they serve quarantine properly. However, most pradhans are grappling with various issues such as lack of adequate training, resources and even non-co-operation of many returnees who refuse to be quarantined. Praveen Pragyan, pradhan of Bhangeli village in Uttarkashi, told TOI, "We have been tasked with managing the 14-day mandatory quarantine period of the returnees. We are also responsible for developing government buildings such as schools and panchayat houses as quarantine centres, managing sanitisation drives and arranging food and essential items for those housed in quarantine centres." Many pradhans especially those in remote villages say that the responsibilities given to them are much more than they can handle, considering that they have not been given sufficient funds or resources to tackle the situation. Over half a dozen pradhans in Chakrata claimed that they have neither received any training or safety gear, nor any additional funds from the government. One of the pradhans in a village near Nainital alleged that whatever he has learnt regarding safety precautions during Covid-19 is "only through TV channels and media." The village heads also have to contend with sullen returnees who enter into arguments with them and refuse to follow quarantine protocols. Rajesh Aswal, 42, of Munani village in Almora, told TOI that there were three quarantine centres in his area where over 36 people are under isolation since the past two weeks. "We regularly have to deal with protests by these villagers who are adamant and don’t want to serve quarantine." A few days ago, in Okhaldunga village in Nainital district, two men who refused to serve the quarantine had started pelting stones at the village head and his associates. Cabinet minister and state government spokesperson Madan Kaushik, when apprised of the situation, said that action is being taken against all those who are not following mandatory quarantine and indulging in fights with the authorities. He added, "The government is sending ration at the quarantine centres and we have also allotted funds to be used by the pradhans." Reacting to the issues raised by the pradhans regarding their lack of training, Abhishek Tripati, nodal officer of Covid-19 in Uttarakhand’s health directorate, told TOI that all the pradhans were given "mandatory training on handling quarantine and sanitation." He added, "Initially, a few were trained and they were supposed to pass on the skill to the others. We trained them much before cases started coming up in the state." Meanwhile, opposition Congress has also taken up cudgels on behalf of the pradhans. Though the state government has announced to give Rs 10,000 to each pradhan in over 7,000 gram panchayats across Uttarakhand, state Congress chief Pritam Singh said that the amount should be raised to "at least Rs 2 lakh for each gram pradhan so that the situation can be better managed."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/village-heads-grappling-with-lack-of-training-less-resources-non-co-operation-of-returnees/articleshow/75793512.cms||Ishita Mishra
May 18, 2020||Aurangabad||Combating virus easier than stigma: Recovered patient||Aurangabad: Amid the outbreak of the pandemic, the stigma associated with it is worse as Covid-19 patients, recovered patients, their close contacts and frontline workers are facing the brunt of it. Social activists believe that the government, civic administration and public representatives can play a key role in acknowledging the crisis and dealing with it.A man, who lost one of his family members to Covid-19 and recovered from the infection, said that combating the virus was easier than the stigma caused due to it. “A day after we lost one of our family members, when I was going to get milk, one of my neighbour shut the door on me without even asking of our well-being,” the man said.On Saturday night, a sanitation staffer working for Zone 6 of Aurangabad Municipal Corporation was allegedly physically assaulted by residents of Kachhi Ghati. They said that since he is a sanitation worker, he would spread Covid-19 in the hamlet. In another case, locals in Malli Galli pelted stones at a nurse’s house claiming that the nurse could become a source of infection. In another case, a family lost an elderly member to Covid-19 but all the others tested negative for the virus. “When anyone comes to meet us that person is questioned by the locals regarding their visit to our house,” a family member said.Ravi Gaikwad of People’s Voice said, “The government and administration should raise awareness among the people to discourage the discrimination,” said Gaikwad, who alleged that members of particular castes and minorities are suffering the most.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/combating-virus-easier-than-stigma-recovered-patient/articleshow/75793514.cms||Arpita Sharad
May 18, 2020||Rajkot||Container carrying 72 workers caught||Rajkot: A container carrying 72 labourers from Bihar and Uttar Pradesh was seized and the driver and the cleaner were arrested at Nari Chowkadi near Vartej on the outskirts of Bhavnagar on Saturday night.Police said the accused, identified as Kamlesh Paswan (25), the driver, and Satyendra Nishad (20), the cleaner, had collected the labourers from Chitra GIDC in Bhavnagar. “Paswan said that he had driven to Ahmedabad from Lucknow to take medicine supplies. However, when the order was cancelled, he called up the owner of the container, Jyoti, who asked him to load labourers from Bhavnagar and travel back to Lucknow,” said R V Bhimani, sub-inspector with Vartej police station.Paswan told the cops that Jyoti knew that there were a large number of labourers who wanted to go back to their native places in Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. Thus, he told Paswan to ferry them to Lucknow in the container.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/container-carrying-72-workers-caught/articleshow/75794403.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Mangaluru||Liquor sales dip in Karnataka as migrants return home||MANGALURU: The long queues for liquor have disappeared with business dipping by nearly 40 per cent, according to the excise department. The reason for the dip in sales is attributed to the exodus of blue collar workers and restrictions on functions like weddings and get togethers. "In Dakshina Kannada, the highest revenue from liquor is generated from the labour class. With activities like sand mining, construction, fishing and other menial jobs coming to a halt due to the pandemic sales have dipped," said a source from the excise department, on condition of anonymity. On the first day after lockdown (on May 4), 174 liquor outlets in Dakshina Kannada witnessed sales of 65,751 litres of IMFL and 43,583 litres of beer. "The queues as well as the sales started going down sharply after two days. On the third day, there were hardly any queues. Over the days there has been a sharp decline of 40 % according our estimation," says Shailaja Kote, deputy commissioner, excise department, DK, adding that the first day's revenue was similar to any other normal day sales in the district. The owner of a swanky liquor vend in the city told TOI that some of the outlets have been witnessing good sales despite the dip in sales elsewhere. "In fact, we are having good sales compared to last summer. The reason may be because bars and restaurants are closed and people are drinking at home," he pointed out. Ironically, sales has not picked up even after the excise department allowed bar and restaurant and other license holders to sell or clear old stocks. "On average, every month the district sells 2 lakh to 2.2 lakhs of liquor cases (one case has 9 litres of liquor)," Shailaja added. With some liquor having limited shelf life especially beer, many outlets are offering discounts on them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/liquor-sales-dip-as-migrants-return-home/articleshow/75794389.cms||Kevin Mendonsa
May 18, 2020||Dehradun||22-year-old commit suicide||A 22-year-old man allegedly committed suicide by hanging himself from a ceiling fan at his residence in Timarpur village of Sahaspur area of Dehradun on Sunday. The deceased has been identified as Sundar Pal. According to the family members, the victim was suffering from alcohol addiction and had come home yesterday in drunken state. Officials said that there has been a spike in the number of suicide cases in the past two months. They have attributed most cases to depression and anxiety due to the nationwide lockdown from March end.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/22-year-old-commit-suicide/articleshow/75794372.cms||Gaurav Talwar
May 18, 2020||Aurangabad||GMCH hospital wing not open for patients yet||Aurangabad: The super-specialty wing of the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) received 20 ventilators through a CSR contribution of the local industry on Saturday. The GMCH, which is the only government-run critical care hospital in the division, has not opened the super-specialty wing for Covid care yet. The 248-bed super-specialty wing built at GMCH Aurangabad under the Pradhan Mantri Swasthya Suraksha Yojana was supposed to be operational around two years ago. However, due to infrastructural and human resource issues the building has nor been put to use so far. In a meeting held at the district collector in April, it was decided that the newly built state of the art facility will be opened for Covid care. According to the department of medical education, Government of Maharashtra, the facility is equipped with a total of 248 beds including 50 ICU beds, 183 isolation beds, and 15 hemodialysis beds, 25 ventilators, an ABG machine and a portable X-ray machine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/gmch-hospital-wing-not-open-for-patients-yet/articleshow/75793526.cms||Arpita Sharad
May 18, 2020||Coimbatore||Rain pounds parts of city||Coimbatore: Rain lashed parts of the city on Sunday evening, uprooting trees. Two cars and an autorickshaw were damaged after trees fell on them.Town Hall, Sundarapuram, Madukkarai, Kovaipudur, Kuniyamuthur and Thudiyalur received heavy rain.A tree fell on a compound wall at Tatabad, which collapsed, damaging a car. Police, fire and rescue services personnel removed the tree and debris.Sheds set up at Ukkadam Lorrypet for opening temporary vegetable market on Monday were damaged in strong winds. City corporation officials rushed to the spot and repaired the sheds.A traffic signal post fell on the road at Town Hall. Police are planning to reinstall it on Monday.An electricity pole on the parapet wall of the North Coimbatore flyover was not able to withstand the strong wind. Tangedco officials and police rushed to the spot and disconnected power.A tree fell on a house at Ram Nagar and another one fell on an autorickshaw.A tree fell on the road at LIC Colony in Sundarapuram. Police and revenue department field staff removed it.Power supply was interrupted at Sundarapuram, Madukkarai and Kovaipudur.However, Mettupalayam, Annur, Karumathampatti, Sulur and Pollachi did not receive rain. Valparai experienced mild showers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/rain-pounds-parts-of-city/articleshow/75795093.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Meerut||Meerut death toll reaches 19, eight new cases take infection tally to 329||Meerut: The city’s Covid-19 toll reached 19 late night on Saturday, after a 68-year-old man died in Shiv Hari Puram. Meerut also recorded eight new cases on Sunday, while 13 new cases were reported in Hapur. With this, Meerut’s infected tally hit 329 (including one found in Kanpur), while Hapur’s rose to 82.District surveillance officer (Meerut) Dr Vishwas Chaudhary said, “A 68-year-old man who lived in Shiv Hari Puram died at 11.45pm on Saturday. He was admitted to LLRM Medical College on May 8. Besides Covid-19, he had diabetes, pulmonary tuberculosis and pneumonia.”Dr Chaudhary added, “Eight new cases were reported on Sunday. One of them has travelled from Maharashtra. The other seven contacted the infection from PAC jawans who had earlier tested positive.”Earlier in the week, a 51-year-old constable of the sixth battalion of PAC, who was on duty at Naveen Sabzi Mandi — now designated a hotspot — and three of his contacts, all of whom are recruitment trainee commandos, were also found positive. Two of the commandos are aged 22 years, while the third is 30 years old.There are over 550 constables in PAC’s sixth battalion, where the danger of the virus spreading wide now looms large.“Hapur reported 13 new cases late night on Saturday, including six women. Five of the 13 are minors in the age group of 1.5-16 years. They belong to Shakar Kui and Phoolgarh localities of Hapur. At least 11 had recently entered the district quarantine centre after returning from Maharashtra,” said Hapur district magistrate Aditi Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/meerut-death-toll-reaches-19-eight-new-cases-take-infection-tally-to-329/articleshow/75794407.cms||Ishita Bhatia
May 18, 2020||Coimbatore||Tamil Nadu: Man, son use chemicals to ripen fruits, booked||COIMBATORE: Food safety department officials raided a godown at Palladam in Tirupur district and seized three tonnes of bananas. Officials said the traders were using banned chemicals to ripen the fruit. The team was led by food safety officer Vijayalalithambigai. The warehouse owner, B Sivaperumal, had rented it to store fruits. On May 15, he stocked three tonnes of banana at the godown and artificially ripened them with the help of his son Velmurugan. Based on a tipoff, officials raided the warehouse and seized and destroyed the fruit. A case was registered against Sivaperumal and his son for using chemicals to ripen fruits. Officials cautioned those involved in similar offences will be penalised and their licenses will be cancelled. People can contact food safety officials at 94440-42322 to lodge complaints.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/man-son-use-chemicals-to-ripen-fruits-booked/articleshow/75795090.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Coimbatore||Tamil Nadu: Three cops transferred after video goes viral||COIMBATORE: Three policemen from Sulthanpet and KG Chavadi were transferred to three different police stations on Saturday evening. Those transferred include a sub-inspector, a special sub-inspector and a head constable. Police said the special sub-inspector Saravanan had used cuss words against senior police officials in the presence of women cops. A video of the incident had gone viral a few days ago. Following the video, Sujit Kumar, SP, ordered the transfer of the three cops to other police stations. KG Chavadi sub-inspector Muthukumar had been transferred to Sulthanpet police station recently. The video showed that special sub-inspector Saravanan abused sub-inspector Muthukumar in the presence of women cops at KG Chavadi police station. He alleged that SI Muthukumar sent petitions against him and Madukkarai police inspector. The video was taken by head constable Muthusamy. Police sources said SSI Saravanan threatened many police officials that he was having good rapport with ruling party functionaries. More than four SIs were transferred within two year period from KG Chavadi police station as SSI Saravanan used his influence to transfer them, it was alleged. Following the video, SP Sujit Kumar directed ADSP Vijaya Karthick Raja to conduct a detail probe. He submitted a report to the SP recommending a transfer of the three cops. SI Muthukumar was transferred to Pillur dam police station from Sulthanpet police station. SSI Saravanan was transferred to Shekalmudi police station in Valparai sub-division from KG Chavadi police station and head constable Muthusamy was transferred to Kadamparai police station from KG Chavadi police station.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/three-cops-transferred-after-video-goes-viral/articleshow/75795097.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Coimbatore||Help Class X students return home for exams: Teachers||Coimbatore: A group of teachers has called for e-pass mechanisms to be made accessible for Class X students, who are to write their board exams in June, to help them return to the districts where they study. At present, many students in their hometowns are clueless on how to reach the cities where they have to appear for exams.“The procedure for getting e-passes should be made accessible for students and their families who have to return to their cities for board exams. They should be given preference, just a proof to show that they are students should be enough for giving them an e-pass,” said a teacher from the city.Many students in rural areas are clueless about the exam timetable, a teacher said, while adding that the state has to inform rural students about exam details. “When I spoke to one of my students in his native village in Theni, he had no idea about the exam timetable. There might be several students like him across the state,” said a teacher.A communication sent to headmasters and principals of all schools after an online meeting with the school education secretary said: “All HMs and principals should inform students that the exams would be held in their own schools and they should be made aware of the exam timetable.” School managements should make sure that students of Classes X, XI and XII are at their residences and in case they have gone to their hometowns in other districts or other states, they should be informed about the TN e-pass link (https://tnepass.tnega.org/#/user/pass) and should ensure that they apply for the pass and inform the CEO, the communication said. Schools should also collect the details of how students would commute to exam halls. As only 10 students should be accommodated in one exam hall, schools should ensure there is enough space in the premises and inform the CEO, said the communication.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/help-class-x-students-return-home-for-exams-teachers/articleshow/75795101.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Nagpur||Man hammers labourer to death, injures another over ‘bhikhari’ slur||Nagpur: Enraged for being called a ‘bhikhari’ or beggar, 40-year-old Vinod Mokhe hammered a daily wager to death and injured the latter’s friend grievously in their sleep at small factory area before walking into Lakadganj police station to surrender in the early hours of Sunday. Mokhe and his victims had consumed liquor before having a fight earlier in the day. The deceased, Lalchand Mendhe, along with friend, identified only as Conductor, had insulted Mokhe for asking for ‘puris’ from them. Mokhe, Mendhe and Conductor had got food packets distributed being distributed by an NGO to the needy during lockdown. Mokhe worked as a watchman while Mendhe and Conductor were labourers. They slept on the footpath behind Mehta Petrol pump where the incident took place. It is learnt Mokhe wanted some ‘puris’ from Mendhe and Conductor as he did not got them in his packet. Mendhe and Conductor hurled a one towards him and also called him a beggar following which there was a fight. Mokhe then went to Lakadganj police station to lodge a complaint. Cops got him medically treated and also lodged a non-cognizable offence against Mendhe and Conductor. Mokhe was also fed by the cops as he did not have food. Mokhe returned and waited for Mendhe and Conductor to go to sleep. He then attacked them with a hammer. Feeling grateful for the police who had fed him, Mokhe headed to the police station to surrender with the hammer in hand. Cops rushed to the spot. Finding Conductor still alive, they took him to the Mayo hospital where he is fighting for life. Mokhe was taken to the court later in the day. He was remanded in police custody till May 20.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/man-hammers-labourer-to-death-injures-another-over-bhikhari-slur/articleshow/75795615.cms||Soumitra Bose
May 18, 2020||Aurangabad||3 Beed cops suspended for taking bribe to let vehicles in||Aurangabad: A sting operation carried out by the district police found three constables guilty of allowing vehicles to illegally enter Beed after taking bribe.Beed superintendent of police (SP) Harssh Poddar has suspended the constables. The sting operation also found policemen who neither accepted bribe nor let the unauthorised vehicles pass the check points. Such policemen have been rewarded by the SP.The operation was carried out by the district police chief through additional superintendent of police Vijay Kabade at different check posts.“Our ultimate aim is to prevent the spread of Covid-19 infection in our district for which we have to be cent per cent sure that no one enters the district illegally,” Poddar said, adding that more such surprise checks will be carried out.Two people tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday night and after inquiry it was found that they gained illegal entry into the district. “One came from Jalna, while the other came from Mumbai,” a health department official said.The constables who were found taking bribe from the commuters have been identified as SB Ugle, MK Bahirwal and DB Gursale. They were posted at Shahgad-Khamgaon check point.The constables who stood their ground and did not let any unauthorised vehicle through were posted at Matori and Daulawadgaon check points. They have been identified as DM Raut, DM Dongre And TU Paval (at the former check post) and SA Yeole and VS Mali. As a token of appreciation, Poddar awarded them Rs 5,000.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/3-beed-cops-suspended-for-taking-bribe-to-let-vehicles-in/articleshow/75793545.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Aurangabad||Five Covid deaths in 24 hours, 61 new cases in Aurangabad||AURANGABAD: Five deaths within 24 hours took the Aurangabad district’s Covid-related toll to 31. The total number of coronavirus patients also went up to 962 on Sunday with 61 new cases being detected. So far, 322 patients cases have recovered in Aurangabad. Of these 180 have been discharged from Aurangabad Municipal Corporation's Covid Care Centres, 112 from district civil hospital and 20 from GMCH. The deceased include three men — aged 32, 42 and 74 years — and two women, a 32-year-old and a 53-year-old. According to Arvind Gaikwad, the nodal officer for media interaction at the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), the 53-year-old woman, a resident of Manik Nagar, died at 7.45 pm on Saturday. The 32-year-old man from Jalal Colony died at 9 pm on Saturday. The 35-year-old woman from Shambhu Nagar died at 6 am on Sunday while the 74-year-old man from Buddi Lane died at 9.15 am the same day. The 42-year-old man from Roshan Gate died at 1.15 pm on Sunday. Meanwhile, the new cases have been detected from Hussain Colony (9); Bahadurpura (8); Ganpati Bag, Satara Parisar (6); Pundalik Nagar (5); Ram Nagar (3); Kabadipura-Buddi Lane (3); Sharif Colony (3); Babar Colony (3); Nyay Nagar (2); Deolana-Kannad (2); Jalan Nagar (1); Ulka Nagari (1); Rohidas Housing Society (1); Sanjay Nagar (1); Satara Parisar (1); Vidya Nagar-Seven Hills (1); Cidco N-6 (1); Bari Colony (1); Sindhi Colony (1); Silk Mill Colony (1); GMCH (1); Rentipura (1); Maqsud Colony (1); Baijipura (1); Jadhavwadi (1); and two cases from other areas in the city on Sunday. In a meeting held on Sunday, divisional commissioner Sunil Kendrekar appealed to private doctors to contribute in Covid-19 management by offering their services at the various Covid-19 hospitals. He was addressing a meeting of medical advisors and senior district officials. Responding to the appeal, private doctors from the Indian Medical Association assured their participation in reviewing critical Covid patients and advising on their treatment. 2 cases detected in Latur Latur city reported 2 Covid-19 cases on Sunday night. The total number of Covid-19 cases in Latur district now stands at 51.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/5-covid-deaths-in-24-hours-61-new-cases-in-aurangabad/articleshow/75793532.cms||Arpita Sharad
May 18, 2020||Coimbatore||City firm brings out AI-enabled social distancing detector||Coimbatore: A city-based company has developed an artificial intelligence (AI) enabled social distancing detection system.Social Distancing Alert Device (SDAD), developed by Enthu Technology Solutions India Private Limited, can measure distance between people at public places, founder director of the company Moorthi Kanagaraj said. “We have incorporated AI in image processing technology to automatically identify social distance violations when people stand in queues. The device should be installed eight to 10 feet high to cover the entire crowd. It will capture the picture of the crowd once in three minutes and analyse whether there is 1.5 metre distance between each person. If the distance is not ensured, it will highlight the violator on the monitor and issue a warning,” he said.The device will be useful at ticket counters, entrance of factories, banks and companies, Kanagaraj said. “It will also issue a warning if a room gets crowded. It will send information like how many people had gathered at a particular time and how many people had violated the norms, to the back-end. Apart from ensuring compliance without human interference, it will help authorities to learn about movement of people at a particular place and their behaviour.”The firm is also developing a solution to identify those without masks and to detect their body temperature, Kanagaraj added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/city-firm-brings-out-ai-enabled-social-distancing-detector/articleshow/75795102.cms||Nivedha Selvam
May 18, 2020||Hyderabad||AP reports 25 cases, lowest in a month; tally now 2,380||Vijayawada: Authorities in Andhra Pradesh heaved a sigh of relief after the state reported 25 Covid-19 cases on Sunday, lowest one-day figure since April 16. The death toll touched half-century mark with one more death in Krishna district, while the cumulative tally stood at 2,380 cases. The state’s positive cases tally includes 150 Covid-19 cases of migrant workers, who returned to the state in the last few days. Of the 25 new cases reported on Sunday, five cases have links to Chennai’s Koyambedu market. For the second day in a row, no district reported double-digit cases on Sunday, while there were no cases in six districts. The relatively coronavirus-free Srikakulam contributed seven cases, followed by Chittoor and Guntur four each, Kurnool, Prakasam, and Visakhapatnam three each, and Nellore one. All seven confirmed cases in Srikakulam are the migrant fishermen, who recently arrived in the district from Chennai. While five patients were admitted to district-level Covid-19 hospital in Srikakulam, two cases were referred to state-level Covid-19 hospital in Visakhapatnam. The cases are expected to further increase in Srikakulam in next one to two days due to increasing influx of migrants. As many as 103 Covid-19 patients were declared cured and sent home till Sunday evening, taking the number of recoveries to 1433. The discharges in Kurnool district crossed the 400-mark. There are 747 active cases with the discharge of 1,433 patients and the death of 50 Covid-19 patients. The state’s recovery rate further improved to 64%. The state tested 2.39 lakh samples as of Sunday morning. Of the 150 Covid-19 cases of migrants, 23 people recovered from the pandemic in Anantapur district. The first batch of passengers who landed at Hyderabad airport on Saturday from Chicago were brought to AP in special buses on Sunday. The foreign returnees were shifted to quarantine facilities. Unlike many states, which are offering paid quarantine facility, AP is providing free quarantine facility.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ap-reports-25-cases-lowest-in-a-month-tally-now-2380/articleshow/75795099.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Ahmedabad||Daughter of fodder seller shines in test||Ahmedabad: Lack of space to study in their two-room house where nine members lived or a tight financial position of her family was no deterrent for Neha Yadav, a student of Rashtra Bharati Hindi High School near CTM. As the results of Class XII science stream were announced on Sunday, Neha was jumping with delight as she scored 98.8 percentile in the exams. “I stay in a joint family and didn’t really get a chance to study during the day. So I used to stay up at night and devote four to five hours towards my studies after everyone was off to bed. The result was indeed a pleasant surprise, and my hardwork finally paid off,” said Neha, who did not take any tuitions. Looking at her performance, Neha’s teachers helped her cope with studies and encouraged her to do her best. Dilipsinh Chavda, Neha’s classteacher at the school, said, “She was very sharp in studies. The school waived off the exam and semester fees and teachers put in extra effort so that she excels. I am very proud of her results.” Inspired by the stories of frontline workers working at Covid-19 hospitals across the country, Neha aspires to be a doctor. “The doctors may be stressed out and at risk but look how many lives they’re helping save. I too want to do the same going forward. I hope I get some financial assistance for my higher education,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/daughter-of-fodder-seller-shines-in-test/articleshow/75795151.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Coimbatore||Textile cos to tap global cloth mask market with innovative designs||Coimbatore: The textile industry in the state is gearing up for large scale production and export of ‘fashionable cloth masks’ abroad. With the Centre allowing export of non-surgical and non-medical masks, textile industry associations in the region have asked their members to tap into the fashionable mask market by creating new designs. According to them, there is an immediate demand for cloth masks worth Rs 300 crore worldwide.Industry representatives said they had earlier urged the Centre to allow export of cotton, silk, wool and knitted cloth masks that were used for non-medical and non-surgical purposes. The Centre on Saturday said the export policy of masks was being amended to allow export of the same.Following this, Tirupur Exporters’ Association (TEA) and Indian Texpreneurs’ Federation (ITF) have asked textile manufacturing units in the state to focus on new and unique designs of functional and fashionable masks to ‘capitalize on the new business potential’. ITF representatives said the sector could aim for exports to the tune of Rs 4,000 crore and employ one lakh workers.Prabhu Dhamodharan, convenor, ITF, told TOI that there have already been inquiries from countries such as Germany, Denmark, Australia, the USA and the UK. “As not only medical masks, but cloth masks could also be worn as a precautionary measure to keep Covid-19 away, there is a demand for fashionable cloth masks around the world.”He said presently textile players in Coimbatore and Tirupur have been supplying cloth masks to domestic markets. “The garments market has been hit by lockdown. They could very well manufacture cloth masks for export.”Bangladesh and Vietnam have already started exporting cloth masks, Dhamodharan said. “Though we are a bit late, there is still a huge demand for masks and we can start supplying. We have an immediate global demand for Rs 300-crore worth masks.”Textile units have already started innovating masks in various materials such as denim, woven material and knitted materials. “We have started production and expect exports to materialize in the coming days. Wearing masks could also become a basic cultural change, so we expect the demand to sustain,” the ITF convenor said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/textile-cos-to-tap-global-cloth-mask-market-with-innovative-designs/articleshow/75795110.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Coimbatore||It’s time to bond more with family, says psychiatrist||Coimbatore: The lockdown and the subsequent isolation seem to have emotionally affected a lot of people, who are increasingly turning to mental health doctors to recover from the ever-growing stress levels. According to Dr K Vinod Balaji, consultant psychiatrist at the G Kuppuswamy Naidu Memorial Hospital, the time calls for developing more intimacy and bonding with family members, especially children.He says lockdown has made an impact on everyone, including children. “When schools were shut early, children would have been a happier lot. But the reality that the summer vacation wouldn’t be fun-filled as the previous years would have sunk in them soon, eroding their happiness. They might experience a range of psychological issues like fear, anxiety, loss of appetite, boredom and sleep deprivation.”To keep them emotionally stable, Vinod says, it is important to explain to them about the current situation in simple words and reassure them. “Parents should figure out a daily routine to keep them engaged. This could include academic work, simple household chores, allowing them to interact with friends and relatives, and innovative and creative games. Parents should not vent their frustrations on children. This as an opportunity to develop strong bonding with them by having friendly conversations.”While lockdown has impacted people across the age groups, he says, the most affected are elderly people and they are likely to experience more stress and difficulties in accessing essential services. “They might feel neglected because of social isolation.”Pointing out that elderly people are more prone to the disease (Covid-19), the psychiatrist says worries about their physical wellbeing might stress them out and that they might feel sleeplessness, boredom, nightmare and fear of contacting the virus. “The only way to help them is to create more awareness, provide assurances through their friends and families and assist them with essential services.” He says there is a high chance of most people experiencing sleep disorder in the present circumstances. “Without proper sleep, one would become cranky, tired and lose focus. Prolonged sleep deprivation might cause physical illness too. Hence, it is always important to follow the bedtime schedule. Even if we go to bed late, we have to wake up on time.”While physical exercise should be done for at least 45 minutes to 1 hour, Vinod says the same should not be done around the bedtime, as it might disturb the quality of sleep. “Only lighter meal should be taken at night. It is advisable to avoid usage of television or other electronic gadgets at least an hour before the bedtime, as they would stimulate the brain. If one does not get sleep after following this routine, they might have to seek for assistance.”The psychiatrist says most people would recover spontaneously once the pandemic ends. “While some will recover on their own, others might need assistance.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/its-time-to-bond-more-with-family-says-psychiatrist/articleshow/75795105.cms||Nivedha Selvam
May 18, 2020||Nagpur||Autorickshaw drivers demand Rs5000 relief fund||Nagpur: Having driven autorickshaw in the city for the last three decades, Praful Bade found himself in a tight spot when lockdown was enforced on March 25, with all public transport off the road. Bade had to convert his autorickshaw into a mobile vegetable shop to earn bread and butter for his family of six. Bade is not the only one whose life turned upside down since the lockdown was announced to check the spread of coronavirus. Like him, there are nearly 20,000 autorickshaw drivers in Nagpur who are struggling to eke out a living. “Not having earned a single penny in the last 55 days and with no alternative source of earning, most autorickshaw drivers are now finding it difficult to arrange their daily meals. To add to their woes, the instalments of their three-wheelers, rent and electricity bills of the homes they live in the city are piling up,” said Vilas Bhalekar, president of Vidarbha Autorickshaw Drivers’ Federation. Bade used to earn Rs600-700 daily before lockdown, of which he would pay Rs300 as rent of the autorickshaw. With those earnings coming to nought, Bade has been struggling to make ends meet and defaulting on his EMIs. Like Bade, many autorickshaw drivers have started selling vegetables and fruits. Bhalekar said around 15 lakh people are dependent on the business. “I am getting calls daily as some of them are on the brink of starvation,” he said. “Our livelihoods have been destroyed by the pandemic. We do not see any hope as the state government has done nothing for autorickshaw drivers across the state,” Bhalekar said, demanding the government to release Rs5000 each to every driver so that they do not die of starvation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/autorickshaw-drivers-demand-rs5000-relief-fund/articleshow/75795624.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
May 18, 2020||Hyderabad||T to raise addl Rs 20k cr after borrowing limit relaxation||Hyderabad: Telangana will be able to raise Rs 20,000 crore additional funds after the central government raised borrowing limit of states to 5% from the earlier 3% of the Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP). Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman announced on Sunday, “In view of the unprecedented situation, the Centre has decided to accede to the (states) request and increase borrowing limits of states from 3% to 5% for 2020-21 only,” adding that this will make available an extra of Rs 4.28 lakh crore for the states. As the GSDP of Telangana for 2020-21 (at current price) is estimated to be over to Rs 11 lakh crore 14% higher than the revised estimate for 2019-20 the state will have surplus borrowing capacity of Rs 20,000 crore, in addition to the Rs 30,000 crore limit. However, Centre has laid down certain criteria to avail the additional borrowing. Out of the 2% additional borrowing space, only 0.5% is unconditional. The remaining 1.5% is conditional, out of which 1% additional borrowing will be allowed in four instalments of 0.25 percent each. The four criteria are - universalisation of One Nation One Ration card, ease of doing business, power distribution and ramping up revenues of urban local bodies. Reacting to the development, state planning board vice-chairman B Vinod Kumar said, “It is not correct to link increased borrowing limits to these reforms when States are reeling under the Coronavirus crisis. Reforms are always welcome, but they also bring in a lot of pain in the initial stages of implementation.” According to him, states would be severely constrained while undertaking such reforms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-to-raise-addl-rs-20k-cr-after-borrowing-limit-relaxation/articleshow/75795131.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
May 18, 2020||Mysuru||9 lakh saplings ready for distribution to farmers this year||Mysuru: The forest department’s social forestry division is ready with over 9 lakh saplings of various species for distribution among farmers, institutions and civic authorities for planting during the rainy season this year. The saplings have been raised in nurseries of the forest department in Mysuru and other taluk headquarters like T Narasipura, Nanjangud, Periyapatna, Hunsur and K R Nagar. The department has cultivated neem, hebbevu, silver oak and teak for distribution among farmers under ‘Krishi Aranya Protsaha Yojane.’ Sandalwood saplings will also be distributed to interested farmers. Each farmer will get an incentive of Rs 100 in three installments in the next three years for nurturing plant. A farmer can avail these benefits up to 400 saplings by planting in one hectare of land. Farmers will get Rs 30, Rs 30 and Rs 40 for first, second and third year respectively. The farmer must submit his Aadhaar, RTC, passport size photo and bank account details to the department in their respective taluk headquarters to avail these benefits. Deputy conservator of forests , Mysuru division, Dr Prashanth Kumar K C said the department had planned to develop block plantation in 500 hectares of land, city planting in 50 kilometres, roadside planting in 24 km in the district this year. Work has already started in this regard.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/9-lakh-saplings-ready-for-distribution-to-farmers-this-year/articleshow/75794432.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Aurangabad||Cops assault youths distributing free food to poor, CP warns of action||Aurangabad: Police commissioner Chiranjeev Prasad has warned of strict action against officers for assaulting youths, who have been distributing free food to the needy people for past 50 days. After the case details reached Prasad on Saturday night, the Cantonment police on Sunday registered an offence against the youths for violating the lockdown norms and cooking biryani at a road-side hotel. “We are looking in the case. If there is even a little truth in the allegations, we will definitely initiate action,” Prasad told TOI. Cantonment police inspector Manoj Pagare said, “After we reached the place, the youths fled from there, so we brought their cellphones with us. On Sunday afternoon, the mobile phones were returned to them.” tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/cops-assault-youths-distributing-free-food-to-poor-cp-warns-of-action/articleshow/75793566.cms||Mohammed Akhef
May 18, 2020||Vadodara||Four held for gangrape of minor in Mahisagar||Vadodara: Four persons were arrested on Saturday for raping a 16-year-old girl at a village in Lunawada taluka in Mahisagar district on May 13. The four accused — Mahesh Maliwad, Vikram Maliwad, Sanjay Maliwad and Chhatra Maliwad — had attacked the girl when she went to dump cattle dung near her house on the evening of May 13. The four dragged her to a nearby maize farm where they allegedly gang-raped her. Police said that before fleeing the four accused had threatened the girl to not tell anyone about the assault. However, on reaching home, the girl informed her parents and they went to Lunawada police station where an offence of rape, criminal intimidation and violation of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act was registered. “Initially, the offence was registered against only one person and the names of three other accused were not mentioned in the FIR. When the members of the girl’s community learnt about it, they met the superintendent of police and got the names added,” said the girl’s advocate Narendra Parmar. Sections of Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act were also added later, Parmar added. On Saturday, cops detained all four of them from their homes. “Their coronavirus test and medical check-up was done on Saturday. We will formally arrest them after their test results will arrive,” said deputy superintendent of police (SC/ST cell) D P Bhatt.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/four-held-for-gangrape-of-minor-in-mahisagar/articleshow/75793650.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Rajkot||Probe in attack on journalist||A reporter of a local news channel was badly injured when a group of migrants chased and thrashed him during the violence. One of the migrants who identifies himself as a native of Fatehpur in UP is clearly seen instigating the mob to target the scribe. They snatch his camera too. During the melee, some voices are heard asking the rioters to spare him, but the instigator continues with his tirade. Chief minister Vijay Rupani ordered investigation into the incident. Gondal deputy SP Pratipalsinh Jhala will probe all the attack incidents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/probe-in-attack-on-journalist/articleshow/75794437.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Delhi||We won’t leave migrants alone in crisis, says Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal||NEW DELHI: Following reports of a large number of migrant workers gathering at the Delhi borders to return to their home states on foot, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday said the government would arrange trains for them. As photographs and videos of migrant workers walking along the national highways with their families emerged on social media in the past few days, Kejriwal said it was the responsibility of Delhi government to take care of those who wanted to stay back. “The responsibility of migrant labourers living in Delhi is ours. We will ensure full care of them if they want to live here. In case they want to return to their homes, we will arrange trains for them. We won’t leave them alone in such a crisis,” Kejriwal tweeted. “Delhi government has ordered the officials to ensure that no migrant labourer should face any problem. The government will arrange trains as many as needed for the stranded labourers,” he added. Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said the migrant workers who wanted to take Shramik Specials to go home would have to register online on the government portal, epass.jantasamvad.org/train/passenger. In a tweet, Sisodia pointed out nobody would be allowed to board a train without registration. The applicants will be informed via messages on their registered mobile number about the details of trains/buses and departure timings. More than 47,000 migrant workers have returned home on 33 trains and a large number of buses in the past few days, he said. On Sunday, 12,000 people boarded eight trains. After visiting some government shelters for migrant workers, Sisodia tweeted, “Most of these labourers came to Delhi two-six months ago. They all were working but the lockdown has devastated their life. When I asked them when will they come back, I was told they would return after the lockdown.” According to a government statement, the requirement for additional trains is being assessed. While the trains are being provided by the Indian Railways, the buses are being sent by home states.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/we-wont-leave-migrants-alone-in-crisis-says-cm/articleshow/75795640.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Mysuru||Mysuru zoo to organise e-summer camp from May 28||Mysuru: To encourage children in wildlife conservation even during the lockdown, the Mysuru zoo authorities have decided to hold an e-summer camp. The camp will be held for students in the age group of 12 to 18 years from May 28 to June 16. Zoo executive director Ajit M Kulkarni said that it is an e-summer camp wherein students will get an idea on the basics of captive wild animals management and conservation. There will be e-classes over 10 days covering various aspects of these issues. “Students can learn about management of animals at zoo, animal behaviour, conservation of water bodies, wildlife crime and laws from their home,” he said. Interested can apply on zoo website (mysorezoo.info) before May 26. The camp fee will be Rs 500 which has to be paid online to Mysore zoo account number 1720-214-0000028, IFSC code: SYNB0001720. Filled in application attached with required documents – passport size photograph, Aadhaar card and fee payment details – to be sent to zoomysore@gmail.com. The fee collected will be used for the welfare of zoo animals. For more information, candidates can contact 0821-2520302, 2440752 or 9686668099.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/mysuru-zoo-to-organise-e-summer-camp-from-may-28/articleshow/75794449.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Parents’ association demands waiver of fee for first quarter||HYDERABAD: With schools insisting on payment of fee via online modes during lockdown, the Hyderabad Schools Parents Association (HSPA) demanded that the state should direct schools to waive off the fee for the first-quarter as students have been at homes since the March. HSPA said that despite the state’s order to collect only tuition fee, many schools are violating the norms by charging various other fees for food, activities, etc. “Schools are not even exempting food fee during the lockdown. Queried about this, they are saying that food is complimentary and are adding this amount to the tuition fee,” said Seema Agarwal, vice-president, HSPA. Meanwhile, Independent Schools Managements Association (ISMA), comprising managements of top schools in the city, said that asking for a 33% waiver is not practical as fees is the major source of revenue for them. “If we have to forgo one quarter’s revenue, it is impossible for us to sustain,” said Praveen Raju, president ISMA. “Even when we are not getting a rupee towards transportation, we are paying EMIs on school buses, salaries of drivers and other staff,” he added. The members of budget schools, Telangana Recognized Schools Managements Association, said that they will decide on fee after schools reopen.“Unlike CBSE and ICSE schools, state schools are yet to start their academic year. So, there is no reason for us to demand the fee now,” said Shekar Rao Y, president, TRSMA.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/parents-association-demands-waiver-of-fee-for-first-quarter/articleshow/75795146.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
May 18, 2020||Madurai||Madurai: Officials shut down fish and meat stalls||MADURAI: A team of officials from Madurai corporation shut down four stalls selling fish and meat on Sunday for violating the district collector’s order to keep the shops closed on weekends. Around 250 kg of fish and meat that were seized from the shops were destroyed. The stalls were functioning in Karimedu and Manjalmettu Colony falling under ward number 13 and 14. A health team lead by sanitary officer Vijayakumar and sanitary inspector Ramanathan closed the shops based on the instructions from corporation commissioner, S Visakan. The officials said that similar teams have been formed in all the four zones of the corporation to shut down shops operating in violation of the collector’s order. Meat and fish stalls in the city have remained closed on weekends since seven weeks as a measure to prevent the Covid-19 due to crowding. Nelpettai and Karimedu fish markets have remained shut and the wholesale fish market at Karimedu was shifted to MGR bus terminal in Mattuthavani.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/officials-shut-down-fish-and-meat-stalls/articleshow/75795638.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Jaipur||Tigress T-92 missing for 3 months from Kailadevi sanctuary||Edited 344 words Jaipur: Tigers missing from Ranthambore National Park (RNP) and it’s adjoining sanctuaries has exposed lapses in the system of monitoring of these big cats in the state. After two male tigers, tigress T-92, which gave birth to two cubs in Kailadevi Wildlife Sanctuary after 30 years, is also missing for the last three months. Since February, there has been no trace of T-92. At a time forest department is struggling to locate two males tigers — Mohan (T-47) and Fateh (T-42) —, the tigress going missing from Kailadevi in Karauli district adjacent to Ranthambore is a cause for concern. Forest official claimed that since the reserve has a rocky terrain with slopes, ravines and cave-like depressions, all clad with scanty shrubs and bushes, tracing the tigress has become difficult. Ranthambore Tiger Project field director Manoj Parashar said, “These tigers are not collared. It’s a normal phenomenon that these big cats disappear for sometime and return.” There is a possibility that tigress might have conceived and is hiding. But, not a glimpse in past three months has raised apprehensions among conservationists. Dharmendra Khandal, a conservation biologist with Tiger Watch said, “The fact cannot be denied that the tigress has conceived and found a safe place. Attempts are been made by our volunteers to trace the big cat.” With the perennial problems of poachers and ongoing tensions between villagers and forest department, the tigers are always in danger of being targeted by poachers and villagers. Sources said, “The movement of the tigress was recorded in Mandrayal and other nearby villages. As the area is surrounded by villagers and livestock is present in isolated pockets, there is a possibility of retaliation.” As there is sparse public movement during lockdown, a surge in the movement of armed poachers inside Kailadevi was also reported indicating tigress could have been poached. A forest source said, “On May 15, after raiding a village in the Kailadevi division, we arrested an armed poacher. However, other gang members managed to flee. Similarly, on April 1, a father-son duo was nabbed with a gun.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/tigress-t-92-missing-for-3-months-from-kailadevi-sanctuary/articleshow/75795641.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Not enough ice apples to quench Visakhapatnam’s thirst||VISAKHAPATNAM: Availability of ice apples or palm fruits (Thati Munjala) has witnessed a drop in the past few years due to increasing real estate in and around Vizag and parts of Visakhapatnam. Vizagites believe that ice apples are the best fruit in the summer season as it has high water content. However, few vendors are seen selling the fruit though demand is high. “I have waited for more than 45 minutes to get a dozen of fresh ice apples as there are few stalls and the queues are long,” said N Ramesh Kumar, a resident of Madhurawada. “A decade ago, there used be several stalls selling ice apples on both sides of NH-16, Beach Road, and a few other areas in the city. But gradually, palm trees in the city’s outskirts as well as Vizianagaram have been axed to give way to residential establishments,” said secretary of AP Toddy Tappers Association Y Demudu. The price of palm fruits too has increased and now ranges between Rs 40 and Rs 50 per dozen. K Prasad, a vendor at Madhurawada, said the fruits are brought from rural areas thereby lowering the availability. “Owing to high transportation costs and perishable nature of these fruits, we are earning a much lower profit,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/not-enough-ice-apples-to-quench-citys-thirst/articleshow/75794483.cms||Nalla.Babu
May 18, 2020||Nagpur||Ran out of money, so now selling fruits for survival||It hasn’t been easy for me since lockdown. Life was going pretty smoothly before March 25. Farming wasn’t a profitable affair for me at Ajaigarh town of Panna district in Madhya Pradesh. The weather conditions often meant poor returns. My relative Babbu Sahu, an auto rickshaw driver, called me to Nagpur around five years ago. Since then, I have been working as a construction labourer. Occasionally, I would also do scrap selling. I was earning a decent amount to run my family of five at Gorewada. I have a daughter and two sons. The lockdown rendered me jobless since no construction activity is taking place. Initially, I tried to return to my native place and even visited Mankapur police station for a travel pass. However, the cops told me to bring a medical certificate. Since I am not that educated, I didn’t know where to get that from. I also thought of leaving Nagpur but abandoned the idea after watching the plight of migrant workers on TV. I thought police would catch me somewhere and might beat me up. I had been surviving on whatever I had earned in the first two-three months this year. I tried to get free ration and submitted my Aadhaar card at several places but didn’t get response. After I ran out of money completely, me and Babbu decided to start selling fruits in his autorickshaw. Thankfully, Babbu had Rs 1,000-1,500 saving and we could start this. Selling fruits throughout the day, I am able to save around Rs 150 to Rs 200. However, some day I lose money too as we get several rotten fruits. The wholesale traders give us wrapped crate and we can’t see condition of fruits inside. I am now surviving on my own. We have around 10-15 people from Panna, mostly construction workers but everyone is doing some or other jobs to make ends meet. Till now, I haven’t got any government help. I just hope normalcy returns soon. (Jagdeesh Sahu, a construction worker-turned-fruit seller, spoke to Ankit Mishra)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/ran-out-of-money-so-now-selling-fruits-for-survival/articleshow/75795648.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Hyderabad||2 farmers in T killed by lightning strike||Narsampet: Two farmers died after being struck by lightning in Lingapuram village of Chennaraopet mandal on Sunday night. Mutike Kumaraswamy, 55, was heading home from the fields after finishing work when he was struck by lightning. He died on the spot. He is survived by his wife Yellamma and two children. On the same night, Ajmeera Kumaraswamy also died in a similar manner while working on the field. He is survived by his Ajmeera Lakshmi and two children. — Shiva Kumar Pinna||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/2-farmers-in-t-killed-by-lightning-strike/articleshow/75795155.cms||Shiva Kumar Pinna
May 18, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Employment exchange to address mismatch between demand and supply of labourers||JAIPUR: The department of Information and Technology (IT) and RSLDC have started developing a portal for the labour employment exchange to ensure giving jobs to the migrant workers as announced by chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Saturday. Through this, the mismatch between demand and supply of workers in the state will be addressed. The industrial units can raise their demands on the portal. So far, over six lakh migrant workers have returned to the state. The chief minister on Saturday announced creation of an online labour employment exchange for the migrant workers returning to the state. He had directed the Rajasthan Skill and Livelihood Development Corporation (RSLDC) to impart short-term skill training to inbound migrants and prepare them for local industries. Both industries and the labourers can register themselves on the exchange. “The department of information technology and RSLDC have started working on developing the portal for the labour employment exchange. The data related to demand and supply side of workers in the state will be put up on the portal. The industries will be able to register themselves on the portal. They can raise their demand for workers with certain skills on the portal. On the supply side, there are about 12.5 lakh registered unemployed persons in the state,” said Neeraj K Pawan, secretary, labour, employment, skill and entrepreneurship. “There are four lakh youths trained by the RSLDC. We also have some youths who have been trained by Industrial Training Institutes (ITIs). There are 23.5 lakh building and other construction workers. Already, 6 lakh migrant workers have come to Rajasthan from other states. We will upload the data on the portal. Therefore, through this portal the mismatch between demand and supply of workers in the state will be addressed. This portal will be open for all to register themselves,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/employment-exchange-to-address-mismatch-between-demand-and-supply-of-labourers/articleshow/75795650.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Visakhapatnam||RK Meena: Police not targeting anaesthetist||Visakhapatnam: Dismissing allegations that police are targeting doctor K Sudhakar Rao, commissioner of police RK Meena on Sunday said the police took action because Rao was creating a nuisance in public. Speaking to media persons on the day, Meena said that police responded to a call on 100 when a person complained about about Rao’s behaviour. The constables sent to the spot to look into the issue did not know who Rao was, said the police chief. He released video clips shot by the police at the time of incident where the doctor could be seen abusing chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy and the state police department. Meena said, besides he removed his shirt, threw food on the road and started to smoke. He also snatched a constable’s phone and broke it. “The videos clearly show that the doctor provoked the police,” he said. He added that based on the video evidence they have suspended a constable for his high-handedness. However the incident has stirred a political storm. Opposition leaders and activists have described it as ‘inhuman treatment meted out to a Dalit doctor for questioning the inefficiency of the YSR Congress government. The police and the ruling party are trying to project him as a mentally-challenged person to defend their action.’||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/rk-meena-police-not-targeting-anaesthetist/articleshow/75794503.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Mysuru||Over 2,800 migrant workers head for North India in spl trains||Mysuru/Hassan: Over 2,800 migrant workers left for their hometowns in North India from Mysuru and Hassan on Sunday. A total 1,391 migrant workers, who were working in various parts of Karnataka, left for Gorakhpur from the Ashokapuram railway station in Mysuru. The district administration is providing lunch for the migrant workers. The train will reach Gorakhpur at 6am on Tuesday. The migrant workers from the neighbouring districts of Kodagu, Hassan and Chamarajanagar underwent the mandatory health check-up organised by the district administration, prior to boarding the train. As per protocol, the railway healthcare workers allowed the passengers into the fully sanitised train, after recording their body temperatures. Two more Shramik Special trains are planned from Ashokapuram railway station, to take home migrant workers from Bihar. Around 1,500 North Indian migrants stranded in Hassan district since the Covid-19 lockdown, boarded the Katihar bound Shramik Special train at Hassan Junction on Sunday evening. The train comprises 22 coaches, including 18 sleeper class coaches. According to the district administration, nearly 1,000 of the migrant workers were employed in Hassan. All the passengers were screened by the district health department officials, and were issued certificates indicating good health. This train is scheduled to reach Katihar in the eastern part of Bihar, at 7.40 am on Tuesday. “The stranded migrants will be made to board the Shramik train at 5 pm. Arrangements are being made to provide packed lunch and dinner to all the passengers", said deputy commissioner R Girish.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/over-2800-migrant-workers-head-for-north-india-in-spl-trains/articleshow/75794502.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Delhi||Delhi Congress chief booked for ‘mobilising’ migrant workers||NEW DELHI: Delhi Police on Sunday registered a case against state Congress chief Anil Chaudhary for allegedly mobilising migrant workers at Ghazipur border and promising to provide them buses to go back to their native villages. A team of Delhi Police also reached his residence in east Delhi’s Dallupura village in the morning and kept him under “preventive detention”. Chaudhary said a police team, led by the New Ashok Nagar police station SHO, reached his residence and told him about his detention. “I don’t know why I have been kept under detention. I asked them several times, but police have not replied,” Chaudhary said in a video message. “The cops asked me if I had gone to Ghazipur border yesterday to which I replied in affirmative.” According to police, a case against Chaudhary had been registered under Section 188 of Indian Penal Code (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) on the complaint of a sub-inspector who was deployed at the Delhi-UP border near Ghazipur. “Several groups of migrants reached the border from different parts of the city on Sunday morning. They said they had been told that Delhi Congress president Anil Choudhary had arranged for transport for them to travel to UP and Bihar. Since a large number of people gathered at the border, social distancing could not be maintained,” the cop said in his complaint. A senior police officer said the mobilisation of migrants had started from Saturday evening and turned into a chaos when several Congress leaders, including Chaudhary, came to meet them. Addressing a digital press conference, Chaudhary said the Centre and Delhi governments were rattled with Congress’s attempt to provide food and shelter to migrant workers, which led to the registration of a case against him and his detention. “If helping those people who don’t have food or water is an offence then I have indeed committed a crime,” Chaudhary said. “When governments fail and people are thrown on to the roads, helping them is a moral duty, whether by DPCC or some other body. Whoever is helping the poor should be encouraged. And if you persecute someone, then it smacks of politics,” AICC spokesperson Anand Sharma said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-congress-chief-booked-for-mobilising-migrant-workers/articleshow/75795653.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Bhopal||Crime rate drops, domestic violence spikes as Bhopal stays indoors||BHOPAL: The lockdown in the wake of Covid-19 has put habitual offenders and criminals out of action, say Bhopal police, citing data that shows a dip in the most categories. Take for example, crime against women. As per police data, there has been an 85% decline in cases of crime against women — rape, abduction and molestation — during lockdown as compared to that during previous months, and previous year. Other serious offences like attempt to murder, loot, theft, vehicle theft have also declined by over 50%. Police said, theft cases have seen the most drastic drop. The number of thefts reported declined by 90% in April 2020 as compared to April 2019. Strict enforcement of lockdown and constant monitoring of movement has led to a reduction in crimes, said police. Senior police officials, on the condition of anonymity, however said, although there has been a decline in serious offence with everyone confined indoors, but it is also important to note that there are a few cases whicsh were not reported as the victims were not able to reach the police station to file a complaint. The side-effect of staying indoors was that there was an increase in the number of cases reported for domestic violence, assault, dispute among neighbours Psychiatrists and social activists believe that many of these cases are a result of withdrawal symptoms of those addicted to alcohol and other psychotropic substances. In addition, the city also saw rise in supply of illegal liquor. On an average around a dozen cases were registered against bootleggers daily. Even cases of online fraud and online sexual harassment are also on the rise, but cyber cops say they are not being reported as much Cyber cops said, police have been releasing advisories to make residents aware of online fraud and how to keep themselves safe. DIG Irshad Wali said, “Crime rate has gone down as people are staying at home ... People are not moving out, so vehicle thefts are not taking place. All these things are correlated. Strict enforcement of lockdown by police and constant monitoring has resulted in decline in crime rate.” Data decoded: As per police data, seven rape cases reported in the city in April while 14 cases were reported in March. During the same period last year, one rape case and two molestation cases were reported in the city on an average daily. Despite the dip in crime against women, the rape of a blind bank official on April 17 sent chills across the city. Police took the case as a challenge and nabbed the accused after a week despite unfavourable conditions due to the spread of Covid-19 in the city. If we take a look at the data of burglary, theft and vehicle theft in lockdown. Only one case of loot was reported in April while in March two cases were reported. The murder of 65-year-old railway employee in Chhola remains unsolved.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/crime-rate-drops-domestic-violence-spikes-as-bhopal-stays-indoors/articleshow/75795176.cms||Sudeept Mishra
May 18, 2020||Hyderabad||166 liquor bottles seized, 8 arrested||Vijayawada: Police arrested eight persons for illegally selling liquor at Didugu under Amaravati mandal in Guntur district on Sunday. The police conducted a series of raids across various areas and found 166 liquor bottles in possession of eight persons. The liquor bottles were seized and cases have been booked against them under the Excise Act and further probe is underway. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/166-liquor-bottles-seized-8-arrested/articleshow/75795173.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Rajkot||13 discharged in Banaskantha||Palanpur: Thirteen people who recovered from Covid-19 infection were discharged from the Banas Medical College in Palanpur on Sunday. Banaskantha district had reported a total of 86 cases, out of which 67 have been cured. Meanwhile, in Patan a 24 year-old nurse, posted in the isolation ward of the Dharpur Medical College, tested positive for the cornoavirus on Sunday. A 40-year-old man, who had come to Sami from Surat on May 14 was also found infected with the virus. Both have been admitted at Dharpur Medical College. The health officials are tracing the contacts of the infected persons.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/13-discharged-in-banaskantha/articleshow/75794529.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Jaipur||17-corona-review||12 trains to leave for 6 states with migrants next week: CollectorJaipur: District Collector Joga Ram on Sunday said 12 trains will leave for various states with migrant workers from Jaipur next week. These trains will leave for Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, West Bengal, Kerala and Jharkhand. Joga Ram said next week 4 trains wil leave for Bihar, 4 for Uttar Pradesh, one train each for Madhya Pradesh, Bengal, Kerala and Jharkhand. He said 9,665 migrant laborers have so far been sent from Jaipur to their states on 8 trains. On Sunday, 1,438 passengers left for Jharkhand from Jaipur. Divisional Commissioner K C Verma and Joga Ram on Sunday inspected the shelter camp set up at the girls higher secondary school in Kanota and enquired about the problems faced by the workers living there. They also instructed the officers to improve standard of the facilities, improve quality of food, arrange disposable plates to serve food, to arrange milk packets and biscuits for children. On Sunday also, 710 workers were sent to Uttar Pradesh border from the camp on 18 buses. Another 52 workers from Madhya Pradesh were also sent to the state border. 350 workers from Bihar were told that they would be sent to their state after getting an approval from Bihar government. Verma said a water tank should be arranged along with 100 pots made of soil in the camp. Collector instructed Bassi SDM to appoint more officials at the camp there, maintain cleanliness and arrange mattresses for workers. He told the officials that there is neither a shortage of funds nor workers to improve the facilities at the camp. Departments allotted to new junior assistants Jaipur: The state government on Sunday released the final list of 11,258 recruits for the junior assistant admission test, 2018 and the departments allotted to them. The list includes 725 for scheduled areas and 10,533 for non-scheduled areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/17-corona-review/articleshow/75795658.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Vadodara||45-year-old tests positive in Khambhat||Vadodara/ Anand: Anand recorded its 87th Covid-19 positive case on Sunday as a 45-year-old man from Khambhat tested positive. The man is a resident of Thuli ni pole of Aling crossroads area of Khambhat. So far, 937 samples have been tested in the district of which 850 have turned out to be negative. Of the 87 cases that the district has recorded, 75 patients have been discharged while eight patients have passed away in course of their treatment. Currently, counting the 45-year-old man, who tested positive on Sunday, there are three active cases of which two are being treated at cardiac care centre in Khambhat while one is being treated at Shree Krishna Hospital, Karamsad. Of the three, two patients are on oxygen while condition of one patient is stable.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/45-year-old-tests-positive-in-khambhat/articleshow/75793686.cms||---
May 18, 2020||India||Health to get more funds, district-level hospitals to get boost||NEW DELHI: Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said the expenditure on public health would be raised and health reforms implemented to strengthen hospital and lab infrastructure at the grassroots level so that they are prepared for pandemics in future. This will entail creating dedicated infectious diseases hospital blocks in all districts and establishing government diagnostic labs till the block level. The government said focus will also be on ramping up health and wellness centres in villages. Currently, India spends around 1.3% of GDP on public health, which is amongst the lowest globally. Though the Centre had set a target of spending 2.5% of GDP on health by 2025, the year-on-year increase has been low so far. “The government will be increasing investments in public health to be absolutely ready for such eventualities in future,” Sitharaman said. The Indian Council of Medical Research will help build a national institutional platform that will boost research initiatives. Also, implementation of the national digital health blueprint will be expedited to make better use of technology in delivering healthcare services in the country. The health ministry has already released Rs 4,113 crore for Covid-19 activities of the Rs 15,000 crore funds allocated by the Centre. Essential items worth Rs 3,750 crore and testing labs and kits worth Rs 550 crore have also been disbursed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/health-to-get-more-funds-district-level-hospitals-to-get-boost/articleshow/75796021.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Deputy director lets IPS officer enter Cubbon Park; suspended||BENGALURU: A deputy director of the horticulture department has landed in trouble after she was forced to open Cubbon Park gates for an IPS officer of the rank of deputy inspector general of police (DIG) for his morning walk. Kusuma, deputy director at the horticulture department and in charge of Cubbon Park, was suspended on Saturday. Entry to Cubbon Park was banned after the lockdown was announced. However, the officer working with city police, asked Kusuma to let him in. ‘IPS officer went scotfree’Sources claimed Kusuma was made a scapegoat in the entire episode while the IPS officer has gone scotfree despite showing high-handedness. While the government suspended Kusuma, it has not even issued a notice to the IPS officer who violated lockdown guidelines. The suspension order merely refers to Kusuma’s opening of Cubbon Park gates to a police officer as the reason for suspension. Kusuma was on duty as there were crucial works pending with regard to maintenance of the park. A police inspector put pressure on her to open the gates next to the high court. She should have reported the incident to the horticulture department’s director instead of obliging the police officer, sources said. The incident came to light when an IAS officer, during his routine inspection, noticed a group of people sitting inside the park without wearing masks and the gate from Century Club side was open.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/dy-director-lets-ips-officer-enter-cubbon-park-for-a-walk-suspended/articleshow/75795224.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Bhopal||Sero survey across state to determine Covid spread||Bhopal: A population-based district level survey to determine prevalence of Covid-19 is expected to be undertaken across the state in the next few days. It would determine and establish systematic surveillance for SARS-CoV-2 infection in all districts. According to the proposal from the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) from each district 10 hospitals, including six public and four private, would be selected. They would analyse two sets of population group. First, low-risk population, which would include outpatient attendees of non-influenza like illness patients and pregnant women. Second, high-risk population including healthcare workers, said a health department official. There is a need to establish systematic surveillance for SARS-CoV-2 infection in all districts of the country, cited the MoHFW advisory. As many as 400 samples or 100 samples per week of high-risk health workers would be collected from each district. 50 Non-ILI OPD patients would be tested per week along with 50 pregnant women. In all, 800 samples of COVID-19 would be collected for a month for the sampling. The sero-survey of a group of individuals would determine seroprevalence. It would then determine the prevailing Covid-19 condition in each district, an indicator for red, green and orange status of a district for Covid-19. This surveillance will be in addition to the routine testing as per current testing guidelines. The facility-based surveillance is backed by ICMR/NCDC in collaboration with key stakeholders and state health departments and is part of a case detection exercise across the country. In subsequent rounds, IgG ELISA-based testing of serum samples will replace RTPCR-based testing for surveillance purpose. **** Testing protocol: Throat/nasal swabs to be collected for RT-PCR tests Samples to be tested in a one-time pool of 25. Results only for surveillance purposes In addition to throat/nasal swabs, blood samples to be collected for detecting IgG antibodies test Data collection and analysis: Data on demographic characteristics will be collected on a standard data collection form The data will be analyzed locally using standard indicator formats. Indicators for person, place, time and trend analysis will be made Data collation and dissemination will take place as decided jointly by ICMR and health dept||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/sero-survey-across-state-to-determine-covid-spread/articleshow/75795183.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Suspended doc sent to mental care hosp, cops accused of manhandling||Visakhapatnam: The anaesthetist from Narsipatnam Area Hospital who was suspended in April after he went vocal on social media about lack of PPEs, is currently undergoing treatment at Government Hospital for Mental Care (GHMC). He was brought to King George Hospital (KGH) on Saturday evening by the police. GHMC superintendent Dr S Radha Rani said Dr K Sudhakar Rao seems to be suffering from acute transient psychosis. “However, it can be ascertained only after a psychiatric evaluation that would last for at least a couple of weeks. Sudden onset of such abnormal behaviour can be treated with medication,” she said. Medically, such patients usually suffer from delusions, hallucinations, incoherent and incomprehensible speech. On Saturday, Dr Rao got down from his car in Akkayapalem and allegedly hurled abuses at passers-by and police. He also tried to remove road barricades, flung liquor bottles creating a ruckus and when cops reached the spot tried to whisk him away, he refused to budge. The police had to tie his hands and take him to KGH in an auto-rickshaw. “His blood samples were sent for testing alcohol content. The results are awaited,” said Dr G Arjuna, superintendent of KGH. Medical sources said that Dr Rao was suspended a few years ago for neglecting duty as anaesthetist at the operation theatre. Following his accusations on social media, a three-member medical investigation committee found his allegations to be baseless and he was suspended for flouting government service rules. Meanwhile, video grabs of the police trying to bring Dr Rao to the hospital has drawn criticism. A constable has been suspended. AP Civil Liberties Committee has asked the government to withdraw his suspension.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/suspended-doc-sent-to-mental-care-hosp-cops-accused-of-manhandling/articleshow/75794530.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Rajkot||61 trains took 1.37 lakh migrants home||Rajkot: The Western Railways Rajkot division has operated 61 special trains up to May 5, which transported 1,37,617 migrants. Of these, 34 trains have been operated from Rajkot station alone taking home 50,477 labourers to their native states. Later in the evening, around 500 were taken in buses to the railway station to board train scheduled on Monday. Sources said that there was also lack of coordination by district authorities who failed to communicate about train cancellation to the waiting labourers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/61-trains-took-1-37-lakh-migrants-home/articleshow/75794551.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Relief as no new coronavirus case in Krishna district||VIJAYAWADA: The Krishna district administration heaved a sigh of relief as no new Covid-19 cases were registered in the district on Sunday. While the number of positive cases remained at 367, 291 patients were discharged. Only 62 active cases remain in the district. The district administration and Vijayawada Municipal Corporation (VMC) were put on high alert after a sudden spike in the number of people testing positive for Covid-19 in the city in the first week of May. Krishna Lanka alone registered 120 cases and Karmika Nagar in Machavaram registered around 70 cases. Following quick response from officials and all close contacts of Covid-19 patients were shifted to quarantine centres. Around 500 people were sent to quarantine and tested regularly. Meanwhile, health wing authorities increased the pace of testing at red zones and containment areas in the city. Around 22,000 suspects were tested in Krishna district, which helped detect asymptomatic cases too. The number of people who recovered from coronavirus in the city increased with the healthcare facilities and diet provided by the health wing. Around 130 patients have been discharged since May 10. “The recovery rate is very satisfactory in Krishna district. Our district stood top in recoveries in the state. We thank our doctors, health care providers who have strived hard to treat patients,” Krishna district collector A Mohammed Imtiaz said. Imtiaz directed health wing officials and civic bodies across the district to come up with an action plan to control the spread of Covid-19. He also directed officials to streamline 108, 104 ambulance services in rural areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/relief-as-no-new-cases-in-krishna-district/articleshow/75794562.cms||Venu Lanka
May 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Parts of city witness 24-hour power cut after two hrs of rain||Hyderabad: Two hours of heavy rainfall in the city on Saturday plunged many areas into darkness for almost 24 hours. Venkatagiri in Yousufguda was among the worst hit as power supply was restored only by Sunday afternoon. Telangana State Southern Power Distribution Company Ltd officials attributed the disruptions to fallen trees and snapping of cables.  The power outage led to acute water shortage in some areas as residents could not operate water pumps. “There was no water in the building as we were not able to turn on the water pump. Due to the lockdown, getting water from outside was an issue. We had to constantly call the power department,” said Satya Pulugundla, a resident of Hylam Colony in Venkatagiri. In Jubilee Hills, similar woes was aired by residents who said power outage lasted for close to 22 hours. Power outage of up to 24 hours was reported at Rd No. 60 Jubilee Hills, Rd No.3 Banjara Hills, Journalist Colony and Madhura Nagar in Ameerpet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/parts-of-city-witness-24-hour-power-cut-after-two-hrs-of-rain/articleshow/75795189.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Mother dies hours after son drowns||Hyderabad: A 35-year-old woman, whose 15-year-old son had drowned on Saturday morning, died of cardiac arrest in Mancherial district on Saturday night. At around 9 am, Sampath, went swinning with hour other boys and drowned after going into the deep end of a rivulet abutting his village, according to police officers. Shocked by the sudden death, his mother Rajeswari continuously cried without eating till she lost consciousness. She was rushed to the hospital, where she was declared dead. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/mother-dies-hours-after-son-drowns/articleshow/75795180.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Jaipur||Despite Priyanka’s requests, UP govt refuses to allow entry of buses with migrants||Jaipur: All India Congress Commitee (AICC) general secretary in-charge of Uttar Pradesh (East) Priyanka Gandhi on Sunday appealed to Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath to give permission for the entry of around 500 buses that were stranded at the UP border and were carrying migrant workers from Alwar and Bharatpur districts. However, the party said, despite several requests Uttar Pradesh government refused to give permission for the entry of the buses. The buses were arranged by the Congress party to ferry migrant workers to Uttar Pradesh. Rajasthan deputy chief minister and state Congress chief Sachin Pilot too requested Uttar Pradesh government to allow entry of the buses carrying migrant workers into the state. “The Uttar Pradesh government has stopped the buses carrying migrant workers at the border and is not allowing entry. The workers have come out after facing many difficulties and want to reach their homes. The government of Uttar Pradesh is requested to allow entry of all the workers into the state for the sake of humanity.” “Respected chief minister, I am requesting you, this is not the time for politics. Our buses are standing on the border (Uttar Pradesh). Thousands of labourers, migrant brothers and sisters are walking towards their homes on foot without having eaten anything. Allow us to help them. Give permission to our buses (for entry),” tweeted Gandhi. “Our buses are standing on the border. Thousands of workers and migrant brothers and sisters are walking in the sun. Give permission @myogiadityanath. Let us help our brothers and sisters,” Gandhi had tweeted earlier. State tourism minister Vishvendra Singh, who was in touch with the authorities in Uttar Pradesh, said, “We were waiting for UP government to give permission for the buses to enter. But they denied permission in the evening.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/despite-priyankas-requests-up-govt-refuses-to-allow-entry-of-buses-with-migrants/articleshow/75795674.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Aurangabad||2 more cops test positive for Covid-19||Aurangabad: With the addition of 2 more cases, the total number of police personnel testing positive for Covid-19 reached nine on Sunday. A traffic police constable posted at Gadhe Chowk and a 32-year-old woman constable posted in the containment zone of Pundalik Nagar have tested positive for coronavirus between Saturday and Sunday. Authorities informed that after two policemen tested positive, as many as 13 policemen who were working closely with the constables have been quarantined. Pundhaliknagar police station in-charge Ghanshyam Sonawne said that the woman constable had high fever for two consecutive days following which she got herself tested for Covid-19. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/2-more-cops-test-positive-for-covid-19/articleshow/75793687.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Delhi||AAP and BJP spar over plight of poor||NEW DELHI: Aam Aadmi Party on Sunday blamed the BJP-led Centre for the plight of lakhs of migrant workers across the country. Addressing a digital press conference, AAP spokesperson Raghav Chadha said while the Centre was sending special planes to bring back those stuck abroad, it had done nothing for the poor migrants. BJP countered the allegations by saying AAP had completely failed to provide food and health facilities to the migrant workers, forcing them to take the drastic step of going back to their home states. अपने राज्यों को छोड़कर देश की अलग-अलग जगहों में जाकर भारत का निर्माण करने वाले प्रवासी मज़दूरों की दर्दनाक स्थिति… https://t.co/rHPZSMAQhq— AAP (@AamAadmiParty) 1589726035000Chadha, however, said: “BJP arranged luxurious ships and private chartered planes to bring the rich and the capitalists back to India from abroad. But it did not make any arrangement to send the poor labourers and migrants to their home states.” He added: “The kind of atrocities they are facing along with the negligence from BJP government is unacceptable.” He said it was first time since 1947 that India was witnessing such a huge exodus of the poor. “The recent situation has devastated their lives, ruined their livelihood and they are left with nothing (sic),” he said. “Are they not human beings? Are they not Indians? What is their mistake? Is there no value of the lives of poor Indians?” Chadha asked, adding that the “reluctance in providing help to them” showed that BJP was an anti-poor party. Delhi BJP media co in-charge Neelkant Bakshi said” “It all started because of the mishandling of the migrants’ issue in March when AAP government ferried the poor workers to Anand Vihar ISBT,” Bakshi claimed. “Also, AAP government failed to distribute dry ration to the poor and cooked food to the needy. The tests are not happening and people are turned away from hospitals despite there being vacant beds. There is a fear among migrant workers that they cannot survive in Delhi and that’s why they are in a hurry to leave the city,” he alleged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/aap-bjp-spar-over-plight-of-poor/articleshow/75795673.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Hyderabad||A quiet Ramzan in Hyderabad after 112 years||HYDERABAD: Ramzan 2020, being somberly celebrated in Hyderabad clouded by Covid-19 lockdown, has all the trappings of Ramzan 1908, when a devastating deluge of river Musi left a trail of death and destruction in the city. Muslims in Hyderabad did not celebrate Id-ul-Fitr, which marks the end of Ramzan, in 1908 as there was human misery and economic loss everywhere. Ramzan 2020, which coincides with Covid-19 pandemic outbreak, has put the principal minority community under social and financial stress so much so that many Muslims have decided to not make it a joyous occasion. Ramzan 2020 — like the one in 1908 — will be limited to just spiritual celebrations. Archival records reveal that though mosques in Hyderabad were open and Id prayers offered in Idgah in 1908, there were no Iftar parties and grand celebrations with Id Milap events. People did not buy new clothes in 1908, and so in 2020 too many do not want to buy clothes, and instead donate money to the poor. The economy of Hyderabad was hit then as Covid-19 has damaged the business now. Both Covid-19 and Musi deluge in 1908 coincided with Ramzan. Hyderabad had received unprecedented rainfall on September 27, 1908, the day Ramzan moon was sighted, and inundated the city in the next two days. Historians draw a parallel between the two Ramzan seasons separated by 112 years but united by human suffering, misery and economic downtrend. Ramzan in 1908 began on September 27. Soon after the first fast began, the skies opened up bringing in an unprecedented rainfall. The city was in floods on September 28 after it received 43.18 cm rainfall in just 36 hours. Afzalgunj hospital was washed away. About 15,000 people died and about 80,000 houses were damaged. “About 8% of the city population was wiped out,” recalled INTACH city convener P Anuradha Reddy. With most of the people living in shelters after the deluge, Id celebrations were limited to offering prayers and supplications. “This time mosques and Idgahs are closed but with about 70% of the Muslim population in Hyderabad earning their livelihood daily, the Covid-19 lockdown has taken a heavy toll on the economics of Ramzan 2020. The restriction on movement and social distancing norms have forced the poor to remain indoor and not venture out to seek Zakat, Sadaqa, Fitra and other forms of charity during Ramzan 2020,” said Najaf Ali Khan, grandson of Nizam VII, Mir Osman Ali Khan, urging upper middle class and rich Muslims to not buy clothes and accessories for the Id.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/a-quiet-ramzan-in-hyd-after-112-years/articleshow/75795187.cms||Syed Akbar
May 18, 2020||India||Covid-19: 88 of total 223 Jharkhand cases are migrants||RANCHI: Six more people, including two Mumbai returnees, tested positive for Covid-19 in Jharkhand on Sunday, taking the total number of coronavirus infection cases in the state to 223, health officials said. Two persons recently returned from Mumbai to Ramgarh and were detected to be Covid-19 positive. The four other cases were reported from Deoghar, Ranchi, Hazaribag and Lohardaga districts. Health officials said 88 of the total 223 cases were migrants. The state now has 107 active cases and they are from 14 of the 24 districts of Jharkhand. So far, 113 patients have recovered from the disease and discharged from hospitals while three persons had died of the infection since its outbreak in Ranchi on March 31. Ranchi, which is in the Red Zone, has 19 active cases now||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-19-88-of-total-223-jharkhand-cases-are-migrants/articleshow/75796024.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Hyderabad||5 persons die in separate accidents||Hyderabad: Five persons died in separate road accidents across the state on Sunday. In the first incident, two persons died and five others suffered injuries when a truck hit them near Narsapur in Medak district on Sunday. Minutes before that, the duo came out unscathed from an accident. Around 5am, Narsing Rao and Sri Hari, both 25 and who traded in fish, were run over by a truck while loading their goods in an auto after their vehicle met with an accident, Medak police said. Narsing Rao and Sri Hari, who usually buy fish from a market in Musheerabad and re-sell them in Narsapur, boarded a truck after purchasing goods. As they were nearing Narsapur, the truck driver dozed off and rammed the vehicle into a road-side tree. Luckily, none of the seven occupants of the truck got injured. They got out of the truck and started loading their goods into an auto rickshaw. When they were shifting their bags into the auto, another truck hit the seven, killing Narsing Rao and Sri Hari on the spot. Police registered a case under Section 304-a (negligence causing death) of the IPC against the unidentified truck driver. In another accident at Keesara, a biker died in hit-and-run case on Sunday. Chitti Babu, 26, who was riding a two-wheeler, died after an unidentified vehicle hit the bike from the rear, while pillion-rider suffered injuries. Meanwhile, two lorry drivers died after their vehicles had a head on collision in Khammam district in the wee hours of Sunday. Police extricated the two bodies, which got trapped in cabins. One of the deceased was identified as Venkat Rao from Krishna district, while the other person was from Maharashtra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/5-persons-die-in-separate-accidents/articleshow/75795191.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Trichy||Residents urge state highways dept to finish works during lockdown||Trichy: Trichy residents urged the state highways department to utilize the lockdown period to complete the long-pending road project to eliminate frequent traffic snarls on Chennai-Trichy-Karur national highways. The Anna statue roundabout size reduction which would pave way for seamless traffic on the highway connecting famous tourist destination Srirangam temple is kept pending for over a year now.As traffic bottlenecks were frequently recurring on Chennai-Trichy-Karur NH near Melachinthamani Anna statue roundabout, state highways proposed to reduce the diameter of the roundabout from 10 metres to 6 metres. However, even as the adjoining civil work such as widening the approach roads connecting the roundabout with Chathiram bus stand was completed, the roundabout size reduction work is pending for the past one year. Utilizing the current situation, residents urged the highways department to complete the Rs 40 lakh project. “Highways should utilize the lockdown to reduce the size of Anna roundabout. Once the public transportation resumes, it is going to be difficult,” P Aiyarappan, a resident of Allur said. The approach road connecting Melachinthamani with Anna roundabout is already widened to 12 metres. While residents sought a centre median, highways officials said that the demand cannot be facilitated as the widened road is less than 15 metres wide, a benchmark width to establish median. “We will take up the roundabout size reduction work within a month,” an official with state highways department told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/residents-urge-state-highways-dept-to-finish-works-during-lockdown/articleshow/75795675.cms||Deepak Karthik
May 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Amid lockdown, students ask govt to pay exam fee||Hyderabad: With Osmania University (OU) announcing the schedule for payment of examination fee for various degree courses, students are demanding that the state should bear the examination fee of all students. They said that it will be difficult for many students to pay the examination fee during lockdown period. Students, who were asked to submit application forms and fee at their respective colleges, allege that colleges are asking them to clear fee dues in order to accept the examination fee. “Every year, the state collects at least Rs 500 from each candidate appearing for various entrance exams. The expenditure for a student will not be more than Rs 200. The state should use this excess money and not collect any fee from students,” said P Srihari, general secretary, Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad. OU registrar Ch Gopal Reddy, meanwhile, said that they are yet to take any decision on students’ demand concerning exam fee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/amid-lockdown-students-ask-govt-to-pay-exam-fee/articleshow/75795193.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Trichy||DMK distributes aid to temple priests||DMK’s principal secretary K N Nehru on Sunday distributed cash assistance and essential commodities to 160 temple priests and 210 workers in Srirangam, Trichy. The DMK said that welfare assistance was provided to ensure the livelihood of priests as temples were closed due to the lockdown to contain the Covid-19 outbreak. Welfare assistance was issued to priests of Arulmigu Ranganathaswamy temple and smaller shrines in Srirangam. “People cannot ignore DMK in the name of god or religion. There are believers in our party. Irrespective of religion, the DMK is helping everyone who is struggling to make ends meet during the lockdown,” Trichy West MLA K N Nehru told TOI. The party also gave away welfare kits to minorities in Trichy city, the MLA said. The support includes cash assistance and 10 kg of rice. They added that the party volunteered to help the 160 priests who were relying on 54 temples in Srirangam to make a living.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/dmk-distributes-aid-to-temple-priests/articleshow/75795676.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Nagpur||The 1918 Spanish Flu spread at deadly rate in region, infected every sphere of life||TOI Dusts Off Some History Books, Journals And Its Archives To Tell You About The Impact Of The Influenza Epidemic That Rattled Nagpur And The Entire World 100 Years Ago‘And the rest is history …’ wrote TGN Stokes, in the annual sanitation report of Central Provinces and Berar, 1918, in which he had detailed the impact of influenza on Nagpur and neighbouring cities. Little would he have thought that the clichéd ‘history-repeats-itself’ adage would hold so true 100 years down the line. While corona continues to ask imposing questions to humans, another equally perilous disease, Spanish Flu, spelled catastrophe for the entire world a little more than 100 years. The striking similarity in both the scenarios is making 2020 look a lot like 1918. The influenza was disastrous for Nagpur, a part of CP & Berar back then. The epidemic was accompanied by scarcity and was followed by a crop failure, which wiped out the increase in population of the region for the previous seven years. Influenza invaded India in two distinct waves, and visited almost every portion of CP & Berar. The first wave was between June and September 1918. The October 15, 1918, edition of The Times of India, when the second wave had just hit the region, said the influenza is raging in Nagpur and causing an appalling mortality. Just like today, there was a complete lockdown. “The daily mortality figures have gone up from 59 on October 1 to 152 on October 15,” it said. DIRECT IMPACT ON CENSUS At 102.6 per thousand of the population, the region experienced the highest death rate of any province in 1918. The census report said, “Though the influenza mortality was very high throughout the division, regions like Wardha, Nagpur and Bhandara — that attract immigration for cotton picking and labourers to work in mines — remained populated.” FLOATING BODIES “Scepticism over getting infected by burning bodies forced people to dump the bodies into Narbada (now Narmada) river in Madhya Pradesh (a part of CP & Berar),” a letter sent by an officer in the report reveals. The officer also wrote that he saw bodies being dumped into the river, and crows sitting on eight highly decomposed bodies floating in the river. REPLAY OF TIMES PAST Just like these days, when NGOs and Good Samaritans are coming forward to help, “the leaders of the societies, the heads of castes and urban magnates mobilized their resources and networks to assist the sick and the poor,” wrote Stokes, the then sanitary commissioner, in the report. “Never before have the educated and fortunately placed come forward to such extent to help the poor in the times of distress,” he added. FAKE NEWS aka SUPERSTITION While fake news spreads as fast as the virus itself these days, the past too had superstitious theories that kept floating around. There were rumours that the ‘extensive use of poisonous gas in the western front’ has caused the pandemic. During the influenza, the Gonds of Bastar and Gadchiroli had fenced off their villages and placed guards armed with bows and arrows at the gates, to ward off the ‘evil spirit’. WHISKY AND INFLUENZA ‘Can alcohol kill the virus?’ Our generation isn’t the only one asking this question. Back in the influenza days, theories about the therapeutic value of alcohol abounded. A TOI report on April 4, 1919, said, “The demand for an increased issue of whisky emanates from those who would use sickness and death rate as an additional argument in favour of a relaxation. If whisky’s sale is permitted, it is certain that much of it will be consumed for other than purely therapeutic purposes.” The report, though, went on to count the benefits of whiskey as described by the scientists. “Whisky is not only a stimulant but a sedative too. It induces a sense of well-being and freedom from anxiety, which is certainly a help in resisting infection,” it said. MADE-IN-CHINA VIRUSES The Covid has unleashed a tsunami of hate against China. But as it turns out, this isn’t the first time China has been questioned for ‘breeding the virus’. One of the TOI archives dated August 17, 1972, says, “Four pandemics have occurred in recent times, all of them curiously originating in mainland China — 1889, 1918 (which left 20 million dead), 1957 (Asian flu) and 1968 (Hong Kong A2 virus).” It also talks about the vaccine developed against the 1968 pandemic, which was tested on two prisoners. Ironically, it also said that though the vaccine has been developed, “it doesn’t mean that the battle against an insidious group of viruses has ended.” It certainly hasn’t.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/the-1918-spanish-flu-spread-at-deadly-rate-in-region-infected-every-sphere-of-life/articleshow/75795716.cms||Sudhanshu Bisen
May 18, 2020||Delhi||RWAs step in to help workers on long walk home||New Delhi: Resident welfare associations in several cities are coming to the rescue of the stranded migrant workers. While residents of societies in South Delhi are donating food and essentials to the needy, those in Mumbai and UP’s Mathura have provided cooked meals and masks to many trekking home. In Delhi, the RWA office of Sarvodaya Enclave has set up a ‘Covid-fund’ from donations by residents, which is being used to assist the local staff as well as providing essentials to stranded migrant workers. General secretary of Sarvodaya Enclave Residents’ Welfare Association, Shafali Mittal, told TOI they had earlier teamed up with a group — Workers Unity — to distribute food packets to migrant workers in Anand Vihar. On Saturday, another RWA in south Delhi’s Vasant Vihar started collecting bedsheets, biscuits and chappals among other items for migrants. A resident who made the appeal to her RWA to step forward told TOI, “The lockdown has created a lot of desperation and it hits the poorest the most. There is a huge need to help those going home and to provide them sustenance.” Similar initiatives are under way in other cities too. In Mumbai, the Swapna Sangeet Cooperative Housing Society, which has 48 families, has tied up with Neptune Foundation, a non-profit, to provide food to migrants headed home. Satyajeet Mohanty, a resident of the society, who is also an employee of the NGO, said the RWA committee donated money, which is being used to distribute cooked meals of ‘dal khichdi' since April 20. An RWA in Mumbai teamed up with an NGO to provide food packets to migrant workers“Many residents of the society were upset after hearing stories about no food and water being available for migrants walking in hordes. We are now able to distribute 250 plates of dal khichdi every night.” In Mathura, a society that has 110 families is distributing ration kits to workers passing through. Member of Mathura Residents’ Welfare Association, Ajay Kant Garg, said they have distributed 2,500 ration kits so far. Mathura Residents Welfare Association distributes food packets among migrant workers walking home||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/rwas-step-in-to-help-workers-on-long-walk-home/articleshow/75795680.cms||Ruchika Uniyal
May 18, 2020||Dehradun||Migrant workers stranded in Haridwar desperately trying to find means to reach home||HARIDWAR: Migrant workers stranded in Haridwar were spotted in large numbers on Haridwar roads on Sunday. The workers, who are mainly from Uttar Pradesh and other parts of the country said they are desperate to reach home and had been trying to contact government authorities for their return but nobody has come to their rescue. Many also alleged that the government authorities did not support them and they were till now surviving on their savings and loans but now have no money left. Thirty-eight-year old migrant worker Gurang Mandal from West Bengal who reached Haridwar railway station with his family and other migrant labourers from SIDCUL area to board the special train for West Bengal, told TOI, "We worked in a local company in SIDCUL but after lockdown, we lost our jobs and the company management denied to give us any financial assistance as we are contractual labourers. Even our contractor refused to pay us. We survived on our savings and sought help from our relatives, who sent some money to buy ration. We even went to the local gram pradhan for ration but he sent us to another person but even then we didn’t get any ration. Now without any money, we just want to go home." Echoing a similar story, two migrant labourers -- Rajkumar and his disabled friend Haneef --- both residents of Uttar Pradesh’s Hathras who were working in Doiwala area of Dehradun, were spotted on Haridwar-Delhi highway on Sunday, struggling to reach home. Rajkumar told TOI, "My mother is ill and we have no money left to survive here. We tried to approach officials for help but failed, so now we have no option but to walk to our homes." Another migrant labourer from UP’s Lakhimpur Kheri, Sunil Kumar, said that he lost his job due to the lockdown and wanted to leave the city as he had no money left to care for his family. "I ran from pillar to post but nobody came to help. Forget ration, we were not even sanctioned a seat in a bus," he lamented. Meanwhile, the district administration claimed that proper arrangements were being made for migrant labourers and ration kits were being given through public distribution system. Haridwar district magistrate C Ravishankar told TOI, "Sufficient arrangements are in place to provide ration and other food items to the migrant labourers and we will soon address all the complaints. E-pass facility has been given to migrant workers and 1,148 workers and tourists of West Bengal were sent home by special train on Sunday. We are taking all possible steps to address the concerns of migrant workers."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/migrant-workers-stranded-in-haridwar-desperately-trying-to-find-means-to-reach-home/articleshow/75793693.cms||MS Nawaz
May 18, 2020||Aurangabad||Covid-19 cases rise in Nanded, Hingoli||Aurangabad: The total number of Covid-19 cases across Marathwada, excluding Aurangabad, rose to 258 on Sunday till 5pm. Hingoli and Nanded account for the highest number of cases—99 and 97 respectively, as per the official data. Nanded district reported 13 fresh Covid-19 cases on Sunday. Of the 13 patients, 12 are men and one woman. Seven men of the 12 who tested positive are below 30 years of age. While there are 64 active cases, 26 patients have recovered in Nanded district, said the authorities concerned. Nanded district has reported five deaths due to Covid-19 till Sunday, which is highest in the region after Aurangabad which has reported 31 deaths. Among the remaining districts from Marathwada, Latur has witnessed two Covid-19 related deaths, as per the official data. Vasmat taluka from Hingoli district reported eight new Covid-19 cases on Sunday, taking the total number of cases to 99. The district, however, has only 15 active cases as 84 patients have recovered, as per an official release. Among the other five districts from Marathwada, Latur has 49 Covid-19 cases till Sunday 5pm , followed by Jalna ( 25 ), Osmanabad (7), Parbhani (5) and Beed (3). Aurangabad district leads in terms of number of Covid 19 cases, as 962 coronavirus cases have been reported till Sunday. Aurangabad divisional commissioner Sunil Kendrekar has asked all the district administrations from Marathwada to take stern measures to contain the spread of Covid-19. While lockdown has been further extended in the state, district administrations have been asked to strictly follow the norms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/covid-19-cases-rise-in-nanded-hingoli/articleshow/75793696.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Lockdown effect? Hyderabad parks sport lush greenery||SECUNDERABAD: The lush greenery spread over at a sprawling park at Teachers’ Colony at East Marredpally, Secunderabad looks like a green carpet. Nearly 200 residents living in surrounding apartments used to walk in the park daily, but now, the footfall in the park has dipped sharply due to the lockdown. Locals residents of another park situated at Nehru Nagar Colony in West Marredpally were impressed with birds chirping and the cool breeze, during summer, from their park. A similar environment can be found in 120 parks being maintained by the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), North Zone wing. Officials of Urban Biodiversity (UBD) wing of the civic body have analysed reasons for lush greenery in a wide range in these parks, and admitted that it was due to walkers from areas abutting to the parks staying at home due to the lockdown. “As a result, the activity of morning and evening walking at these parks have been completely shut,” Maqsood Ali, deputy director of UBD wing, GHMC (North Zone) told TOI. Hundreds of walkers, with their brisk walking and rubbing with shoes regularly damaged the green grass in these parks. Now, for the past two months, no such walking activity has taken place in these parks. “As a result, the lush greenery has spread over entire open areas,” Ali said. Soon after the lockdown was announced, the GHMC shut all the parks at Secunderabad, Begumpet, Malkajgiri, Musheerabad, and Amberpet and restricted walkers. But, GHMC is maintaining the parks by watering the ornamental plants, bushes, lawns and other plants,” added the GHMC official. “Due to round-the-clock vigilance at the parks, the parks are being protected from land sharks and no complaints on encroachments of park lands have been reported anywhere,” said the deputy director. “All the infrastructure, like benches and child play equipment in the parks is safe and here have been no complaints of stealing at the 120 parks in North Zone,” said the GHMC official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/lockdown-effect-city-parks-sport-lush-greenery/articleshow/75795222.cms||Sunil Mungara
May 18, 2020||Rajkot||Rajkot: Security guard’s daughter secures bright future for self||RAJKOT: A couple of years ago Komal Shiyar’s father, a security guard at a girls school in Rajkot, underwent a bypass surgery. What her family went through in terms of financial and emotional crisis, left a deep impression on the 17-year-old girl, who decided to become a heart surgeon and help the poor patients. On Sunday she scored 99.96 percentile in her Class XII (science stream) board exam, and bagged a place among the toppers in Rajkot, that too with out and private tuition. This is her first step towards fulfilling her dream. Komal lives in a small one bedroom-hall-kitchen house in Gandhigram area of Rajkot with parents and two siblings — an elder sister and younger brother. Her father works as a security guard and earns Rs 11,000 per month and manages an additional Rs 5,000 by doing ad-hoc labour work. “It is a big day for me and my family. Now I can pursue my dream and become a heart surgeon,” Komal told TOI. “Two years ago my father had to undergo bypass surgery and at that time we did not have any money, but we managed somehow. I want to help the poor patients who face difficulties like us,” the topper added. Her father Lakshman Shiyar said, “I was not financially sound, but since Komal was a bright student, her school waived off the fees. I am thankful to them.” District education officer R S Upadhyay said, “Students like Komal are a motivation for others. Her story proves that lack of resources cannot stop you from pursuing your dreams.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/security-guards-daughter-secures-bright-future-for-self/articleshow/75794611.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Trichy||‘Locked up’ in flats, they yearn for green space||Trichy: The extended lockdown has taught a bitter lesson to apartment dwellers who are forced to spend their leisure time indoors rather than in the airy green space outside. Within the concrete jungle where they live, children are the worst hit, being forced to rely on parking lots for physical activities. The lockdown has been making parents of school-going children ponder about relocating to a gated community that has a play area and green space to relax. With the lockdown in effect for more than 50 days now and further extended till May 31, parents have been struggling to confine their children. Most of the existing apartments including those having over 50 dwelling units lack play area for kids and the green cover. “After sunset, we play in the parking area as there is no exclusive play area. I told my father that an apartment with a play zone is better to reside,” S K Anshika, a class IV student residing at an apartment in KK Nagar, said. Even adults are deprived of free space in the apartments and many come out in the night to take a stroll on the terrace. “Unlike the situation before the lockdown, we are interacting with our neighbours on the terrace. A park within our apartment would have been a better place,” R Priyavarshini, who lives in a flat added. Architects have a solution for such people deprived of vacant spaces. “Apartments can raise the height of the parapet walls and provide barricades made of mesh for safety to install badminton court or a walking track on the terrace. Vertical gardens are a solution to improve the green cover,” Shabbeer Hussain, an architect said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/locked-up-in-flats-they-yearn-for-green-space/articleshow/75795678.cms||Deepak Karthik
May 18, 2020||Trichy||Trichy population in containment shrinks from 2L to 13K in a month||Trichy: As the four major containment zones established in Trichy city are getting rid of the tag recently, the number of people in containment zone has come down by 94% in a month. With no fresh Covid-19 positive cases in the city since May 6, Trichy Corporation is likely to shake off one more active containment zone in the next two days. Authorities attributed the fall in number of Covid-19 cases and active containment zones to the effective isolation of people with travel history for the past 50 daysAs on April 17, there were four major containment zones in the city covering 23% of the 65 wards including Thillai Nagar, Bhima Nagar, Palakkarai and Thennur comprising 2.25 lakh people. After a month, the number has reduced to two and the population in containment zones has nosedived to 13,200. Corporation officials said that the two containment zones, one in Srirangam (Jalal Kudiri Street) and Ariyamangalam (Krishnapuram), are relatively smaller in size. The size was reduced for effective isolation of the Covid-19 positive patients. “In late March and April, we isolated 67 people who had travelled to New Delhi in a quarantine facility. As it was a timely move, we prevented their family members from contracting the infection,” a corporation official said.The recent most Covid-19 positive case was a 23-year-old pregnant woman who frequented to her parent’s house in the Alwarthope containment zone. Officials said that the woman had stayed for a few days in the containment zone and was visited by her relatives. “Around 140 people in the containment zones with influenza-like illness (ILI) and severe acute respiratory infection (SARI) were tested negative for Covid-19. The situation is under control now,” the official said. As many as 27 Covid-19 positive cases were reported in the city so far, of which, 26 have been discharged. The corporation collects 200 samples a day, focusing mostly on frontline workers and pregnant women.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/trichy-population-in-containment-shrinks-from-2l-to-13k-in-a-month/articleshow/75795681.cms||Deepak Karthik
May 18, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: 500 cured of Covid-19 in Ramganj||JAIPUR: More than 500 people who had tested positive for Covid-19 in Ramganj, the biggest hotspot of the state, have been cured. However, 17 people have died from the area till Saturday. Ramganj in Walled city had reported the highest number of cases not only in the city but in the state. According to a health department report, in all 583 people tested positive from March 26 till Saturday. Out of those, 506 have been cured and 60 are still undergoing treatment. In this month, only 49 persons have been found infected with the virus from Ramganj area. At one point, cases were reported in clusters. However, health authorities are worried that cases are still being reported from the area, though they have managed to bring down the growth rate of the virus. On Saturday, the Walled City area breached the 1,000-mark reporting an overall count of 1,008 cases. Out of those, 583 were reported from Ramganj, 190 from Ghat Gate, 44 from Chandpole, 43 from Johri Bazaar, 37 from Manak Chowk, 32 from Purani Basti and 25 from Gangapole. While other areas reported cases are Subhash Chowk (18), Bhrampuri (8), Chhoti Chauper (9), Kishan Pole (13), Sanganeri Gate (4) and Ajmeri Gate (2). Out of 1,008 cases, 674 have been cured while 37 died. There are 297 patients who are still undergoing treatment. In Ghat Gate area where 190 persons tested positive till date, 142 are still undergoing treatment. The areas in the Walled City area which reported deaths are Ramganj (17), Chandpole (5), Ghat Gate (4), Subhash Chowk (3), Manak Chowk (3), Bhrampuri (1), Johri Bazaar (1), Chhoti Chauper (2), and Kishanpole (1). The entire city has so far reported 1,510 cases till Saturday. In Jaipur, 901 persons have been cured of Covid-19 and 61 have died, excluding deaths of people who belonged to other states. In the city, 548 are still positive and they are undergoing treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/500-cured-of-covid-19-in-ramganj/articleshow/75795683.cms||Syed Intishab Ali
May 18, 2020||Aurangabad||Farmers seek purchase of cotton before monsoon||Aurangabad: Sanjay Lande, a farmer from Sandarwan village in Beed district, is worried as around 35 quintal of cotton harvested during the last crop season is still lying with him and monsson is around the corner. “The authorised cotton purchase centre has restricted buying activities due to lockdown. I have already registered my name and awaiting my turn. The moisture in the air during rainy season makes good quality cotton substandard. If this happens I will incur huge loss,” he said. Like Lande, many other cotton growers from Marathwada are seeking to sell of their cotton before monsoon. According to farmers, the authorised cotton purchase centres are allowing unloading of only 20 to 40 vehicles per day — around 30% efficiency as compared to normal purchase every year. Subhash Shelke, a cotton grower from Aurangabad, said that farmers can only rely on government-run purchase process of cotton during lockdown. “We approached a network of private players, but they are offering low prices. We also found that these players are later selling our produce at higher rates at the authorised cotton purchase centers. We cannot afford to sell cotton below Rs 5,000 per quintal,” he said. MLC Vinayak Mete, in a memorandum submitted to the government, has demanded the process of cotton purchase from farmers must be expedited and finished before monsoon. “Around 35% to 40% of cotton produced by farmers is still with the farmers. The government must speed up the purchase process to offer them relief as monsoon can damage the cotton left with the farmers,” he said. The regional authorities at Cotton Corporation of India Limited could not be reached despite repeated attempts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/farmers-seek-purchase-of-cotton-before-monsoon/articleshow/75793704.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Trichy||Tamils stranded in Singapore urge state to bring them back||Trichy: With the ministry of external affairs not arranging even one flight to bring back Tamils stranded in various countries under phase 2 of Vande Bharat Mission, those stuck in Singapore are clueless about returning to the state. An earlier rescue flight meant for them was also cancelled citing operational reasons. A total of 84 rescue flights were operated by Air India Express from May 7 including nine from Chennai and one from Trichy. Two rescue flights were announced for Trichy, one from Kuala Lumpur and another from Singapore. K Mythili, an IT professional from Namakkal, told TOI that her mother and son who visited Singapore are stranded there for over 60 days even after their visa period lapsed. “Around 150 stranded in our locality in Singapore have come together on a WhatsApp group and conveyed our difficulties to high commissioner Jawed Ashraf. A few days ago, a video call with him was arranged, but he expressed his inability to take any steps to send us back as there is no proper response from the officials in Tamil Nadu”, Mythili said.Altogether around 2,000 people including guest workers have been stranded in Singapore, she said, while urging the Tamil Nadu government to take steps to bring them back. Relatives of several people stranded in Kuala Lumpur, Kuwait and Saudi also faced the same challenge. Hundreds of Tamils are still expecting rescue flights from Tamil Nadu to taken them home, relatives said. Air India Express, Scoot Tiger Air and IndiGo Air have been operating four services to Singapore from Trichy every day, handling around 1200 passengers, but since the lockdown not even one flight was operated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/tamils-stranded-in-singapore-urge-state-to-bring-them-back/articleshow/75795685.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
May 18, 2020||Vadodara||Bamboo barricades confuse commuters||Vadodara: If you want to go out for shopping and return soon, don’t think of shortcuts. For, barricades on almost every area of the city will prevent you from cutting your trip short. The police have set up barricades on most of the main roads with the help of bamboos, which are meant to block a portion of the road and ensure smooth checking of vehicles. However, their efforts have only left commuters puzzled and running around in circles. On majority of the main roads, only one side of the road is kept open for commuters making it risky when the traffic flow increases in day time. Many a time heavy vehicles and cars come face to face, blocking the road and causing traffic snarls and even risking accidents. Low visibility of the bamboos at night is also a risk. However, with traffic set to increase in the fourth phase of lockdown, cops are now planning to handle the vehicle movement effectively. “We have now prepared nearly 280 new barricades that will be installed on main roads across the city. These barricades will be visible from a distance and will be safer,” said Anupam Singh Gahlaut, city police commissioner. He added that if traffic movement increases during day time, both sides will be made operational but in evening barricades will be placed again on one portion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/bamboo-barricades-confuse-commuters/articleshow/75793667.cms||Tushar Tere
May 18, 2020||Trichy||Corpn pushes for rainwater harvesting in smart projects||Trichy: Trichy Corporation is aiming to promote roadside rainwater harvesting (RWH) pits in a big way and to incorporate RWH structures in the ongoing smart cities mission projects for recharging groundwater table in the city. In an online conference, organised in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic as it has signified the importance of water in ensuring personal and public hygiene, the corporation discussed the possibilities of augmenting groundwater table with experts in the field.The webinar on water conservation was organized on Sunday by the corporation in association with a citizens group, in which experts from the National Biodiversity Authority (NBA) and the groundwater department of the government of Kerala participated.Senior officials including Justin Mohan IFS, secretary, National Biodiversity Authority and senior hydrogeologists from Kerala groundwater department participating in the webinar shared their experiences and suggestions in augmenting groundwater table. The civic body has agreed to set up rainwater harvesting facilities at the Chathiram bus stand, where redevelopment work is underway utilising Rs 17.34 crore smart cities mission fund. Though a majority of the houses in the city have RWHs, corporation asserted that it will ensure that all the houses and government offices have proper RWH structures.Another proposal was to install roadside RWHs on the roads adjacent to the Uyyakondan canal in the city to recharge it. “Roadside RWHs are already installed near Central bus stand. We will promote it further to prevent groundwater table depletion. Similarly, stakeholder departments will be coordinated to prevent water contamination in the Uyyakondan, Korayar, Kollidam and Cauvery,” Trichy Corporation commissioner S Sivasubramanian told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/corpn-pushes-for-rainwater-harvesting-in-smart-projects/articleshow/75795686.cms||Deepak Karthik
May 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Eatery owner alleges harassment by cop||Hyderabad: Alleging harassment by a sub-inspector (SI), the owner of an eatery has approached the Telangana State Human Rights Commission (TSHRC). Vasu Indarapu, who runs a tiffin centre in Jagtial district, claimed in his petition that SI K Srikanth of Dharmapuri police station had falsely implicated him in a land grabbing case. “The land dispute has been going on for the past five years. When the opposite party tried to encroach the land, we complained. But no action was taken so far,” said Vasu. He then approached the court in 2019. “It’s only after the court intervened the police filed an FIR. But no investigation has been done so far,” Vasu said. However, Dharmapuri inspector Laxman said that it is a civil case regarding a land dispute and the police are still investigating it. Vasu alleged that police acted against him as he approached the court and had booked a lockdown violation case against him. But inspector Laxman said a case was booked only after Vasu violated lockdown rules. “He secured an e-pass for travelling to Mumbai from Jagtial but he used the same pass for the return journey as well,” said the inspector. Countering the inspector’s allegations, Vasu said: “Telangana police said that an e-pass can be used for round trips. We even informed about our travel history and submitted the medical fitness certificate. But a case was registered by the SI only in Jagtial district,” said Vasu. TSHRC directed Jagtial superintendent of police to submit a report by July 10.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/eatery-owner-alleges-harassment-by-cop/articleshow/75795419.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Rajkot||‘Want to pursue career in space science’||It's was a dream come true for Hirva Kanjariya, who had being studying in Rajkot, away from her family settled in Khambhaliya town od Devbhumi Dwarka. She secured 98.45 percentile in Class XII (science) board exam. She wants to pursue career in space science. Hirva has been studying in Rajkot since last two years and lives in a hostel. Her father Hasmukh Kanjariya owns a small medical store in Khambhaliya town. Talking to TOI, Hirva said, “I want to study space science. This has been my childhood dream. Former President Dr. APJ Abdul Kalam is my role model.” TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/want-to-pursue-career-in-space-science/articleshow/75794626.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Man attempts to kill two friends||Warangal: A man, in an inebriated state, allegedly tried to slit the throats of two of his friends after an argument on Saturday night in Mills Colony. According to inspector Naresh Kumar, three friends Jeevan, Krupkar and Banti engaged in an argument after consuming alcohol. An enraged Jeevan attempted to slit the throat of the other two, but they managed to escape. They were shifted to MGM hospital by family members and continue to be stable, according to a doctor there. Jeevan surrendered to the police on Sunday. - Shiva Kumar Pinna||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-attempts-to-kill-two-friends/articleshow/75795219.cms||Shiva Kumar Pinna
May 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Cops stop bizman’s bid to immolate self near Pragati Bhavan||Hyderabad: Upset over the extended lockdown which has led to a major disruption in his business, a footwear shop owner attempted suicide in front of Pragati Bhavan on Sunday. However, police in the area intervened and prevented 42-year-old Mohammed Nazeerudin from setting himself ablaze. He later revealed that he had not been able to earn any money due to the lockdown and is facing severe financial problems. “...Before starting from his house, he removed half a litre of petrol from his bike and filled it in a plastic bottle,” Punjagutta inspector M Niranjan Reddy said.“After reaching close to the RTC bus stop, Nazeeruddin sprinkled the petrol on himself. Police team at the security post spotted him and intercepted him. They took away the match box from his hand and doused him with water, ,” the inspector said. “There has been no business. I have to give money to people. I have to pay rent. I have taken loan and have to repay it,” Nazeeruddin said during questioning. “During our inquiry, we found out that Nazeeddin incurred loss in footwear business. He has to pay nearly Rs 20 lakh to a chit fund company and had received legal notices from them. We suspect it could be a reason for the attempt. An attempt to suicide case was booked under section 309 of the IPC and after counselling we handed him over to his family,” the inspector said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cops-stop-bizmans-bid-to-immolate-self-near-pragati-bhavan/articleshow/75795393.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Hyderabad||2-month-old baby’s body found in drain||Hyderabad: The body of a two-month-old baby girl was found floating in a drain near Radon function hall, Gulshan Iqubal Colony, at Chandrayangutta on Sunday evening. Police suspect that the body was dumped in the drain an hour before a patrolling team found it around 6.30pm. “The baby may have died and later the body was dumped in the nala. The body was shifted to mortuary. There were no external injuries. We found no CCTV cameras near the area. We are investigating the incident,” Chandrayangutta inspector Rudra Bhaskar said. A case has been registered under Section 318 (Whoever, by secretly burying or otherwise disposing of the dead body of a child whether such child die before or after or during its birth, intentionally conceals or endeavours to conceal the birth of such child) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/2-month-old-babys-body-found-in-drain/articleshow/75795425.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Trichy||16 cases recorded in a day in Karur||Trichy: Total 16 people were tested positive for Covid-19 in Karur district on Sunday. All of those who have tested positive had returned from Maharashtra recently and belong to Pallapatti of Karur district. This has taken total active cases in Karur district to 27 This was the highest number recorded in a single day in Karur district so far, health officials said and there are about 50 more people, who have come from Maharashtra and their test results are awaited Among the 11 active cases till Saturday, at least six are from Pallapatti, who returned from Maharashtra. Deputy director of health services (DDHS), Karur, N Selva Kumar said that all of them were intercepted at the check post before entering the district and were shifted to medical college. Kumar said that they had been staying in congested locality in Maharashtra where most of them work as labourers. He said that they are closely watching people coming from other states. The tally of Covid-19 positive cases in Trichy, Thanjavur and Tiruvarur districts remained unchanged on Sunday with 67, 72 and 32 positive cases respectively. However, one more case was recorded in Nagapattinam district taking the toll to 50. The 41-year-old male and a resident of Vitheesvarankoil has been admitted to Nagapattinam government hospital. After reporting no new Covid-19 positive cases for the past three days, Ariyalur on Sunday recorded five new Covid-19 positive cases. All the five cases were men, who were in contact with the Koyambedu returnees, who had tested positive earlier. The positive cases were reported in Poiyathanallur, Periyathirukkonam and Royapuram hamlets. The total number of positive cases in Ariyalur increased to 353, of which, 329 were discharged so far. The active cases are admitted at Ariyalur, Trichy and Thanjavur GHs. Meanwhile, Perambalur did not get any fresh Covid-19 positive cases on Sunday. So far, 139 positive cases were reported in Perambalur district, of which, 95 were discharged so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/16-cases-recorded-in-a-day-in-karur/articleshow/75795688.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Road in neglect for yrs, officials cite problems over jurisdiction||Hyderabad: A stretch of road, almost two two-kilometres-long,between Hanuman mandir junction and Jawaharnagar kaman in Yapral, has been left neglected since several years. Municipal authorities from different areas have shrugged off the problem citing jurisdiction while the road, now dotted with pot holes, has become a nightmare for motorists. Gated residential societies have been constructed on either side of this stretch. In some pot holes, granite stones have been filled which increases the risk to motorists. With many facing such difficulties over the years, locals have been pursuing the matter with authorities, the local MLA and corporator, however, no solutions have been forthcoming. On a normal day, several TSRTC buses, cars and other vehicles ply on this stretch which connects several defence establishments such as the Army Dental College and populated locales such as Balajinagar and Jawaharnagar. “The condition of the road has been very bad for a very long time. Before the lockdown, we approached the local GHMC authorities and concerned public representatives but it has been of no use,’’ Prakruthik Vihar Residents Welfare Association, Treasurer Rajender Singh told TOI. Some in the area claim that the road was last laid before a visit by former President APJ Abdul Kalam several years ago. When contacted, GHMC executive engineer (Malkajgiri) Anil Raj said the stretch falls under the jurisdiction of defence authorities.“We have been getting several complaints about this stretch for a long time but since the road does not come under GHMC, we are helpless. Otherwise, we would have laid the road long time back,’’ Raj said. When TOI contacted the Defence Public Relations Office, officials redirected the matter to the Secunderabad Cantonment Board (SCB) who instead claimed the area falls under the GHMC. However, some officials claimed it may even fall under the Military Engineering Services (MES).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/road-in-neglect-for-yrs-officials-cite-problems-over-jurisdiction/articleshow/75795413.cms||Srinath Vudali
May 18, 2020||Hyderabad||168 fly in from Chicago as Vande Bharat Phase-1 ends||Hyderabad: A Vande Bharat Mission flight carrying 168 passengers from Chicago in the US landed at Rajiv Gandhi International Airport (RGIA) at Shamshabad in the early hours of Sunday. The Air India flight, which came via Delhi, was the ninth in the series and the last in phase-1 of the mission. Phase-2 is likely to commence from Monday. At 4.45am, the Air India flight (AI 126) landed at RGIA. All passengers and crew were brought out from the aircraft in batches of 20-25 persons. Among those who arrived in Hyderabad, 31 were from Andhra Pradesh. The AP government arranged special buses to take the passengers to Vijayawada. The Hyderabad airport also handled a repatriation flight from Hyderabad to Delhi. The flight, AI-1840, departed at 6.41am on Sunday with 68 passengers. “...These passengers were supposed to be airlifted to various destinations in the UK and the US from Delhi. All departing passengers were serviced through the fully sanitised interim international departures terminal (IIDT) of Hyderabad international airport as per all safety protocol in place,” the RGIA said in its statement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/168-fly-in-from-chicago-as-vande-bharat-phase-1-ends/articleshow/75795318.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Trichy||Tamil Nadu: Man hacked to death by his friends||TRICHY: A 19-year-old labourer was hacked to death by four of his friends in Srirangam on Saturday night. The man had consumed liquor with the accused after which a verbal duel ensued which ultimately led to his death. Police arrested the four accused on Sunday and further inquiries are on. The deceased was identified as S Vignesh of Nariyan Street in Thiruvanaikoil. He had got into an argument with his friends Gokul, 21, Vignesh, 24, Udhayakumar, 20 and Mari, 22, while consuming liquor at a secluded place in Srirangam. Vignesh soon got into a fist fight with the accused and eventually left for his home. However, at around 11 pm, the four accused contacted Vignesh and asked him to come over to the railway station in Srirangam. As Vignesh reached the station, the quartet began to attack him with sharp weapons. Even though Vignesh tried to flee he was chased down by the gang and attacked. The passersby who saw Vignesh lying in a pool of blood took him to the government hospital in Srirangam where he succumbed to injuries. Police have registered a case against the accused.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/man-hacked-to-death-by-his-friends/articleshow/75795687.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Delhi||With 19 deaths, Delhi’s Covid tally inches closer to 150 mark||NEW DELHI: The capital reported 19 deaths from novel coronavirus on Sunday, taking the state’s toll to 148. Of the total deaths, data shows that more than 80 fatalities have been recorded in the last eight days, from May 10 to May 17. This takes the total deaths from 68 as on May 9 to 148 on Sunday. Health officials say that the spike in deaths took place because many a number of old cases (which were listed under review) have been listed under Covid-19 deaths. The state government has formed a death audit committee, which is perusing case summaries of all coronavirus fatalities to assess the actual cause of death. Government officials said the cumulative death figures refer to fatalities where the primary cause of death was found to be Covid-19 as per the report of the committee on the basis of case sheets received from various hospitals. “We are following the guidelines by Indian Council of Medical Research to report deaths caused by novel coronavirus each day,” an official claimed. After facing criticism for “under reporting” Covid-19 deaths, the Aam Aadmi Party government on May 10 issued a standard operating procedure for hospitals and other health facilities in the city on reporting fatalities due to the deadly virus. Since then, the number of fatalities being reported is on the rise. Of the total coronavirus deaths, data shows that 77 were aged above 60 years and accounted for over 52% of the total fatalities. While 40 of them were aged between 50-59 years, 31 were less than 50 years, the health department said in a bulletin on Sunday, Covid-19 cases in the capital have continued to be in excess of 400 for the past few days. On Sunday, the city reported 422 cases, taking its tally 9,755. A total of 1,35,791 Covid-19 tests have been conducted so far, officials said, adding that the total number of patients under home isolation stands at 2,142. According to the health department bulletin, of the total 9,333 cases recorded so far, at least 1,767 are admitted at various hospitals like LNJP, Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital, Safdarjung Hospital, Rajiv Gandhi Super Specialty Hospital and AIIMS Jhajjar. Of them, 152 are in ICU while 21 are on ventilators. The number of containment zones in the capital, meanwhile, has been reduced to 74.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/with-19-deaths-delhis-tally-inches-closer-to-150-mark/articleshow/75795229.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Property registrations pick up, Telangana realty sector upbeat||HYDERABAD: In less than 10 days after full-scale operations of the registration and stamps (R&S) department began, the Telangana government has earned Rs 78 crore, logging over 28,000 property registration transactions since May 8. The revival of property registrations has given hope to the real estate sector gasping due to the lockdown and spiralling cement and steel prices. The state government had set a target of Rs 10,000 crore to the R&S department for the 2020-21 financial year and it has realised Rs 91 crore so far. R&S department joint inspector general Vemula Srinivasulu said the number of registrations has picked up and currently they were recording half the number of transactions that were done before Covid-19-triggered lockdown came into force. Officials of the R&S department claim the actual scenario would be known only after a month as currently old agreements, which happened earlier and only registration was pending, were being done. “Usually, over 6,000 documents used to be registered every day before Covid-19. Currently, we are doing between 3,000 and 3,500 documents. The R&S department used to earn revenue of Rs 25 crore per day earlier. Now, it is hovering around Rs 10 crore to Rs 13 crore per day. These transactions could be agreements done before lockdown came into force and want to register to avoid any legal complications. If we watch out for one more month, we will know the scenario of the real estate sector as most registrations would be of current transactions,” Srinivasulu told TOI. “We are hoping the registrations will pick up. People initially invested in gold as stock markets crashed as land is not an easy commodity to liquidate,” he added. “In the pre-Covid-19 era, we used to collect Rs 600 crore revenue per month. In the last financial year, wea earned revenue of around Rs 7,200 crore. We have been carrying out minimum operations, but full-scale operations resumed after May 8,” R&S department additional IG Movva Rajesh told TOI. Meanwhile, realtors have been demanding the Centre and the state government to revive construction activity. Telangana Real Estate Developers’ Association executive vice-president Meka Vijay Sai said: “The real estate sector will witness a slowdown due to the lockdown impact initially. Projects nearing completion have no problem. Cement prices have increased sharply from Rs 220 to Rs 400 per bag. The government should help both buyers and developers. Buyers should get interest concession (till March of this financial year) and GST concession as well.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/property-registrations-pick-up-t-realty-sector-upbeat/articleshow/75795291.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
May 18, 2020||Jaipur||Send arrested persons in judicial custody only after they test negative: Rajasthan high court||JAIPUR: A division bench of Rajasthan high court through a special hearing on Sunday asked the state government to incorporate some standard operating procedures (SOPs) including a Covid-19 test of arrested accused by local medical authorities. The arrested accused should be allowed in judicial custody only if their report comes negative. The court has also asked the authorities to give special attention to the jail authorities who are in direct contact with prisoners in isolation to ensure that the virus is not transmitted to them or their families. The bench comprising Chief Justice Indrajit Mahanty and Justice Ashok Kumar Gaur on Saturday took a suo motu cognizance on a PIL registered on Saturday. The bench said they have gone through various news reports and have also gone through the Times of India report published on Sunday on Covid-19 cases in the jail. In its directions, the bench asked the state that an accused in judicial custody should be allowed to be lodged in jail only after his Covid-19 test comes negative. “After the accused is tested and prior to his/her entry into the jail premises or police custody, the accused must spend a period of 21 days in isolation ward. The jail authorities must ensure that prior to releasing such prisoners from isolation, they must once again be presented before the local medical authorities for a check-up,” the court said The court further stated that the jail authorities who are in direct contact with such prisoners in isolation also require special attention. NRK Reddy, DG (Prisons) and Rajveeva Swarup, ACS (Home), informed the court about the initiatives taken by the government in jails. Swarup said the state government has created SOPs to deal with the process of admission of an accused to jails and the manner in which they are to be tested at the time of entry. He brought to the notice of the court that isolation wards have been identified within the premises of the jails where the accused will spend 21 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/send-arrested-persons-in-judicial-custody-only-after-they-test-negative-hc/articleshow/75795692.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Bhopal||Migrants at rly stn provided buses to go back home||Bhopal: Stranded migrant workers are still pouring into Madhya Pradesh and are being helped by the state government to continue on their journey ahead to reach their hometowns. On Sunday, as many as 500 labourers reached Habibganj station in a Shramik special train from Palanpur, Gujarat. From here, they left for their home district by buses provided by the district administration. From Habibganj, the train left for Gwalior. SDM Rajesh Gupta said, all passengers were thermal screened, and given food packets and water bottles, before they boarded buses ferrying them to their home districts. Another Shramik special rain will reach Habibganj railway station at 2:40pm on Monday. The train is coming from Vapi and will go to Rewa. The train will also stop at Bairagarh. Another train from Vijayawada to Bihar’s Purnia station will also stop at Habibganj station at 4am. The district administration made arrangements for the migrants who will deboard from the train early in the morning. The government is also making arrangements to send the stranded passengers, workers, students in Bhopal to their hometown via buses during lockdown 4.0. As many as 200 students were sent to Balaghat in seven buses. The students were screened and were provided with food and water for the journey.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/migrants-at-rly-stn-provided-buses-to-go-back-home/articleshow/75795237.cms||Ramendra Singh
May 18, 2020||Delhi||NDMC chief to lead migrant rescue plan||NEW DELHI: New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) chairman has been appointed as the chief nodal officer to help the migrant workers stuck at Delhi-UP border. A Delhi government order designated chairman Dharmendra to co-ordinate with the resident commissioner of Uttar Pradesh regularly on the issue. “The chairman will take swift action, make recommendations for addressing the issues or problems being faced by residents of UP, who are stranded in Delhi,” stated the order. It has been observed that migrants are walking along railway lines and roads in large numbers to reach their hometowns. Taking note of the issue, Delhi government nominated nodal officers to streamline the process and ensure migrants do not resort to walking on road and on railway tracks. In the order issued by chief secretary Vijay Dev on Friday, migrant workers found walking on the streets have to be counselled and accommodated in shelter homes and arrangements for their return should be made through special trains. Meanwhile, NDMC has also temporarily deputed 25 officials to the district magistrate’s office, New Delhi, to aid the efforts of the administration in controlling effects of the Covid-19 pandemic. An order issued on Friday by the civic body stated that these officials would report to the DM office with immediate effect, failing which action would be taken. “No request for retention or change of duty shall be entertained,” it said. “The decision has come at the request of the district administration. At present, many staff from the DM office are engaged at quarantine centres and home shelters. This has created a demand for more staff at the office of district disaster management authority and other places,” said an NDMC official. The official said the deputation would not affect the work of the civic body. “The list clearly specifies the name and designation of employees. We are currently just calling one third of the staff to work,” said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/ndmc-chief-to-lead-migrant-rescue-plan/articleshow/75795231.cms||Vibha Sharma
May 18, 2020||Trichy||BDU to function from Monday with 50% staff||Trichy: The Bharathidasan University will resume its regular functioning from Monday with 50% staff in the academic departments and administrative offices while maintaining social distancing. As the university will operate after a gap almost two months, reopening of the university will help faculty members focus on research, said the university administrators. The online classes for students are expected to be conducted in a more convenient way from university. To compensate for the working hours already lost, a system of six-day working week, Monday to Saturday, with present office timings will be brought into force by the university. Speaking to TOI, BDU registrar G Gopinath said that they will be functioning as per government order. While the order details on the measures to be taken for safe functioning ruling out possible spread of Covid-19, he said that the university has charted out teaching and non-teaching staffs into two batches and each batch will be working for two days and the staff off duty were also asked to attend office if called for at any point of time. Gopinath said that the faculty members can apply for research activities and added that few of our faculty members have also submitted projects on mathematical modelling to contain Covid-19. Further, government of India has announced several schemes and projects for which scientists and professors can apply, he said. The university had advanced information technology infrastructure, which can help in conducting of online classes in a more convenient way. Speaking on the challenges, he said some of the faculty members are in far of places and they are not getting e-passes. Such teachers will be working from home. We have got permission from the district collector to operate five of the university buses and a few vans with 50% of the passengers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/bdu-to-function-from-monday-with-50-staff/articleshow/75795695.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Trichy||Special train taking 1,400 guest workers to UP leaves Trichy||Trichy: A Shramik special train carrying around 1,400 guest workers departed from Trichy junction for Akbarpur in Uttar Pradesh on Sunday night. They had been stranded in Trichy and surrounding districts like Karur, Perambalur and Ariyalur after the lockdown was announced to contain the spread of Covid-19. The train has 24 coaches including 18 sleepers, four general seating and two luggage coaches. As per the norms, the train will not stop at any station for passengers. The train has been scheduled to make two halts at Jhansi and Lucknow junctions before reaching Akbarpur. The train departed from Trichy at 11 pm on Sunday and will reach Akbarpur station in Uttar Pradesh at 4.15 pm on Tuesday. The passengers included 984 guest workers from Trichy, 67 from Ariyalur, 120 from Perambalur and 250 from Karur districts. Collectors of the respective districts sent off the guest workers from the collector offices by a special bus. It may be noted that a Shramik Special superfast is to be operated between Delhi and Tirunelveli on May 18.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/special-train-taking-1400-guest-workers-to-up-leaves-trichy/articleshow/75795694.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Raipur||Snakebite kills migrant at quarantine centre in Chhattisgarh||RAIPUR: A migrant died from a snakebite at a quarantine centre in Chhattisgarh’s Mungeli in the wee hours of Sunday. The victim, Yogesh Verma, had fallen asleep on the verandah of a government school that has been converted into a quarantine centre. There are no beds, but “enough mattresses,” said Mungeli Collector Dr Shrveshwar N Bhure. “The migrant had returned from Maharashtra on Saturday. He was deep in sleep and didn’t realise he was bitten by a snake. Later, he experienced pain in his chest and was taken to hospital but died on his way,” the collector said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/raipur/snakebite-kills-migrant-at-quarantine-centre-in-chhattisgarh/articleshow/75796027.cms||Cherrupreet Kaur
May 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Cong: Migrants’ death is govt failure||Hyderabad: All India Congress Committee secretary V Hanumanth Rao, Sangareddy MLA T Jayaprakash Reddy and other leaders of the party observed one-day hunger strike at Gandhi Bhavan on Sunday to protest against the indifferent attitude of the state and central governments towards migrant workers. Hanumanth Rao lambasted the state government for not arrangement transport for migrant workforce to go to their homes. “It is because of the failure of government to provide them transport facilities that migrant labourers have started to walk back to their home states and some of them have died too,” Hanumanth Rao said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cong-migrants-death-is-govt-failure/articleshow/75795235.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Kolhapur||Lockdown extended till May 31 in district||Kolhapur: District collector Daulat Desai, in a new order on Sunday, said as per the state government’s directive, the lockdown in the district has been extended till May 31. He said that according to the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897 and Disaster Management Act, 2005, the spread of the Covid-19 needs to be contained and hence the extension was needed. He said the earlier relief and impositions will continue and as per the Union government’s guidelines. He said that those not complying with the order will have to face action under the Disaster Management Act and Epidemic Diseases Act, which can involve booking a criminal case as well. Meanwhile, from May 3, Kolhapur city and the district has seen over 16,000 returnees from Mumbai, Pune, and other parts of the state. Of the said returnees, around 4,900 have been advised to stay in home quarantine. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/lockdown-extended-till-may-31-in-district/articleshow/75793728.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Rajkot||‘Would like to serve at AIIMS’||Samvedna Tejswani secured A1 grade in Class XII (science) board exam with 99.97 percentile. Her parents, both father and mother, are teachers in government primary school. Her mother Sonal teaches at Bamanbor primary school, while father Girish is posted in primary school at Jinjda village of Chotila taluka in Surendranagar. Samvedna’s elder sister is pursuing MBBS. “I want to become a doctor and my dream is to serve at AIIMS. The coronavirus pandemic has shown that there is acute shortage of doctors in government hospital,” said Samvedna. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/would-like-to-serve-at-aiims/articleshow/75794650.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Jaipur||New technique at Jaipur's JK Lon Hospital for newborns’ lung treatment||JAIPUR: JK Lon Hospital has introduced the less invasive surfactant administration (LISA) technique at its neonatal intensive care unit (NICU) for treatment of premature lung disease in newborns. “Most of the premature babies admitted in NICU have problem of less mature lungs and they have difficulty in breathing at the time of birth. For this, premature babies need ventilator support with surfactant administration via endotracheal tube placed in air pipe,” said Dr Ashok Gupta, superintendent, JK Lon Hospital. He said after the maturation of lungs, ventilator support is gradually weaned and babies are put on non-invasive ventilator like CPAP. “This is what we have been doing, but it has its own limitations as it may cause damage to lungs and also long-term dependency on ventilators. To minimise these side effects, LISA technique is very helpful. In this surfactant is administered via thin feeding tube and immediately removed after procedure, while baby is on CPAP machine,” Dr Gupta said. The hospital claimed that the NICU team has started this procedure initially for babies weighing less than 1,500 grams at birth.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/new-tech-at-jk-lon-hospital-for-newborns-lung-treatment/articleshow/75795701.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Delhi||Don’t hire kids to fill labour gap: Rights body||NEW DELHI: With the capital staring at a labour shortage problem due to the exodus of migrant workers, the Delhi Commission for the Protection of Child Rights (DCPCR) has asked factory owners and market/residents welfare associations not to employ child workers. In a new set of guidelines meant to curb child labour and trafficking during the novel coronavirus pandemic, the child rights body has proposed to have dedicated anti-child trafficking units at the district level, headed by a DCP and assisted by the deputy labour commissioner who can keep a record of offending employers. “As migrant workers are leaving Delhi, possibilities are that when factories, shops will be fully functional, owners of these establishments may employ child labourers and their families who are in Delhi to scale up their production work,” said Roop Sudesh Vimal, a member of DCPCR. According to the guidelines, despite various laws prohibiting child labour and trafficking, many children are illegally employed or forced into prostitution. “Their cases usually don’t get reported to the government bodies. The traffickers, placement agents take advantage of their compromised situation and earn huge profit due to which minor children suffer tremendously,” DCPCR said. The guidelines suggested that at least SHO-ranked officers should hold sensitisation meetings with RWAs and market welfare associations to focus on child labour and trafficking, and their legal consequences. “Issues like tracking, role of touts, information-gathering network, child labour helpline, success stories, liaising with various NGOs shall be imparted in such meetings.” The beat constables should be regularly in touch with these associations to collect information about any child — up to 14 years of age — being employed. Even if there is no such information, “the meeting must take place to create a sense of fear among offending potential employers/traffickers”, it said. Police have also been urged to treat rescued children with respect and dignity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/dont-hire-kids-to-fill-labour-gap-rights-body/articleshow/75795239.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Mangaluru||Karnataka: PG student treks 1km, climbs tree on hill to attend online classes||MANGALURU: Unlike his friends from urban pockets, Shriram Hegde, a second-year post-graduate student, treks up a hill to access glitch-free internet signals in Bakkal village of the largely forested Uttara Kannada district’s Sirsi taluk, about 400 km west of Bengaluru, to attend online classes. The MSW (master of social work) student of SDM College in Ujire in Belthangady taluk of Dakshina Kannada district was missing out on virtual classes because of poor net connectivity. An exasperated Hegde climbed a hill hoping his cellphone would sputter to life. And it did. Next, he climbed a tree to access better signals. That, too, worked. Shriram HegdeEvery morning, Hegde walks about 1km from his house and settles down on a well-marked branch of the tree for his online classes and access live lecture sessions for three hours. Forget data, cellular signal, too, is a luxury in this remote village since Hegde walks about 500 metres from his house before his phone springs to life. “Only BSNL network is available here. I discovered the signals were good after I walked for 1km and climbed a tree on a hill,” Hegde added. His college conducts three classes a day – two in the morning from 10am to noon, and a 3pm class. Afternoon treks are tough due to the scorching heat, but this doesn’t stop me from learning,” said Hegde, who is busy planning a different strategy to attend the classes during monsoon. SDM College authorities praised Hegde’s initiatives. “He is doing his best to attend the online classes despite network issues,” said lecturers Suveer Jain and Chitra BC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/pg-student-treks-1km-climbs-tree-on-hill-to-attend-online-classes/articleshow/75794641.cms||Kevin Mendonsa
May 18, 2020||Aurangabad||Unfazed by Covid-19 cases, Beed residents throng markets||AURANGABAD: Even as the lockdown rules were relaxed in Beed city for a few hours on Sunday, residents were seen engaging in shopping of essential as well as non-essential purchases in large numbers. Also, it was observed that people failed to follow social distancing in public places, especially shops selling non-essential items. Notably, clothing stores, bangle shops, cosmetics stores, clock shops and many other stores of non-essential items were thrown open with people crowding them. Meanwhile, Beed district registered nine new Covid-19 cases on Saturday while Latur reported 12 new cases, taking the district’s total to 51. In Hingoli, eight new cases were reported, taking the district’s count to 99. Incidentally, a family had returned to Itkur from Mumbai on May 10 and were placed in home quarantine. On May 13, the family members were admitted to the Beed district hospital after the experienced Covid-19 symptoms. Following their throat swab tests, it was found that a 12-year-old of the family tested positive for the contagion on Saturday. Meanwhile, a married couple had returned to Hivra from Mumbai on May 7 and were placed in institutional quarantine. They were admitted to the isolation ward of the district hospital on May 14. On Saturday, the woman tested positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/unfazed-by-covid-19-cases-beed-residents-throng-markets/articleshow/75793722.cms||Arpita Sharad
May 18, 2020||Chennai||Covid-19 was not their only enemy; they fought hatred||CHENNAI: When Mohammed Anees boarded a special train at New Delhi on Saturday afternoon, a sense of relief overwhelmed him. Two-and-a-half months after coming for the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Nizamuddin and being stuck in the national capital following the Covid-19 outbreak, the 49-year-old and several other Tamils were finally going home. During this period, the Namakkal-based businessman told TOI over phone, they fought through bouts of homesickness, deaths of a few friends and the backlash from a section of their countrymen accusing them of spreading the virus. Worse, they were isolated during the month of Ramzan, which is a time for special prayers, diet and charity, spent with family members. READ THE FULL STORY ON TOI+||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/covid-was-not-their-only-enemy-they-fought-hatred/articleshow/75795240.cms||Siddharth Prabhakar
May 18, 2020||Rajkot||14 booked for attacking Dalits, molesting woman||Rajkot: As many as 14 persons were booked for allegedly beating up three Dalits including two women in Shergadh village of Keshod taluka in Junagadh district on Saturday. The accused also allegedly hurled casteist slurs at the victims and molested one of the women. According to police, the victims were protesting against the work of sinking a water stream in their area, stating that their children would drown if the stream was sunk.According to the complaint lodged by Numu Vala (30), a group of seven persons led by the accused, identified as Kapil Dayatar, Mohan Dayatar and Shailesh Kumbhani, attacked her, her brother-in-law Jeyenti Vala and sister-in-law Jyoti Vala. “Vala alleged that the accused had molested her and also hurled casteist slurs at her and her family members,” said H I Bhati, inspector with Keshod police station. “We have transferred the case to ST/SC cell of Junagadh police as the victims are from Dalit community,” added Bhati. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/14-booked-for-attacking-dalits-molesting-woman/articleshow/75794660.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Delhi||Opium masked as ‘essentials’ seized||NEW DELHI: The Narcotics Control Bureau on Saturday arrested three alleged smugglers, including the kingpin of a cartel, and seized 31 kg of opium worth several crores in the international market. The opium was concealed inside the hood of a truck, which was being plied on the pretext of carrying essential commodities, KPS Malhotra, NCB zonal director, said. NCB sleuths acted on an intelligence input indicating a truck carrying narcotics was coming from Jharkhand. The truck, bearing Punjab registration, was intercepted and the opium wrapped in tarpaulin sheet was seized. The accused were identified as P Singh and H Singh, both from Haryana, and S Das of Punjab. “It was found that the consignment belonged to a notorious inter-state drug trafficker named Manoj Dangi of Jharkhand. A team was sent to Chhatra district and Danga was apprehended,” Malhotra added. NCB has launched a concentrated drive against opium smuggling and have seized around 127 kg of the drug in the last five months, majorly disrupting the supply chain across the country. Investigation has revealed that the supply of opium from Jharkhand is destined to various places in Punjab, Delhi, Haryana, UP, Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh. The illicit production of opium is mainly concentrated in Jharkhand, Bihar, West Bengal, Manipur, Arunachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh and Jammu and Kashmir. In 2019, law enforcement agencies destroyed over 10,000 hectares of illicit opium cultivation. As per the drug abuse survey, there are 2.3 crore opioid users in India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/opium-masked-as-essentials-seized/articleshow/75795247.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Delhi||Jamia Millia Islamia student held for role in December violence||NEW DELHI: Delhi Police’s Crime Branch has arrested a BA student from Jamia Millia Islamia for his alleged involvement in the riots that took place outside the university in December last year. Asif Iqbal Tanha, an office-bearer of Students Islamic Organisation, was allegedly found to be instigating some students for violence during the anti-CAA protests outside the university on December 16. He was arrested on the basis of eyewitness accounts. Tanha, a resident of Hazaribagh in Jharkhand, was staying in Abul Fazl Enclave and pursuing a bachelor’s course in Arabic from Jamia. He was also one of the leaders of the United Against Hate movement. Tanha, along with student leader Chandan Kumar and former MLA Asif Muhammad Khan, was named in the FIR registered at the Jamia Nagar police station after the December violence. The Crime Branch called Tanha for questioning at their office in Chanakyapuri and arrested him. “In several videos, Tanha was seen leading students who later got violent and started pelting stones,” said police sources. During interrogation, the accused told the police officers that he tried to contain the students, but left the spot when the crowd grew violent. The FIR against Tanha stated that he had asked his followers to block the road near the university even as a mob had gone berserk and burnt several DTC buses. He, along with others, had allegedly been provoking the students for three days before the riots broke out. Tanha was produced before a judge and later sent to judicial custody till May 31. The other two accused are likely to be called for questioning soon. “Tanha had played an active role in organising protests and riots at Jamia in December 2019. He is a close associate of Umar Khalid, Sharjeel Imam, Meeran Haider and Shafoora who were the key members of anti-CAA protests and subsequent riots,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/jamia-student-held-for-role-in-december-violence/articleshow/75795243.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Dehradun||First meeting of Devasthanam Board on May 22, important decisions likely||DEHRADUN: The first meeting of the newly-established Devasthanam Board will take place on May 22 to discuss crucial issues, including financial implications of losses incurred due to the suspension of Char Dham Yatra during the ongoing Covid-19 nationwide lockdown. Ravinath Raman, Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of the Devasthanam Board said on Sunday that the meeting will take place at the chief minister’s residence. The agenda of the meeting includes a discussion of financial implications due to the current state of Char Dham Yatra, financial conditions of Devasthanam Board, and the proposed structure of the board’s website. Sources told TOI that an amendment to the Devasthanam Board Act is also likely to take place in the meeting to protect the interest of priests and other temple staff. Besides, a Char Dham Fund may also be set up for payment of wages, salaries, and expenses of the temple staff. To recall, over 50 temples in Uttarakhand, including the Char Dham shrines of Kedarnath, Badrinath, Gangotri and Yamunotri, have been brought under the purview of the Devasthanam Board.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/first-meeting-of-devasthanam-board-on-may-22-important-decisions-likely/articleshow/75793745.cms||Gaurav Talwar
May 18, 2020||Kozhikode||Four from other states test +ve in Malappuram||Malappuram/Kozhikode: Four more Covid-19 cases were reported in Malappuram on Sunday. Health authorities said coronavirus infection was confirmed in those who returned from Chennai, Coimbatore and Mumbai. Kozhikode district reported two Covid-19 cases. Those who tested positive for the disease were expats who arrived from Gulf. In Malappuram, a 25-year-old man from Vazhikadavu and a 61-year old man from Valanchery, who tested positive for the virus had returned from Mumbai. A 33-year-old man from Tanalur, who returned from Coimbatore and a 23-year-old man from Edappal who came from Chennai, were the other confirmed virus cases. They have been admitted to isolation wards at Manjeri Medical College Hospital. The Vazhikadavu native was a jewellery worker in Mumbai who arrived at Kozhikode from Mumbai on May 11. From Kozhikode he travelled to a Covid care centre along with his father and brother in a private car. On May 14, he was shifted to the medical college after he developed symptoms of infection. The Valanchery native was a street vendor in Mumbai and had returned on May 12 along with other 46 persons by a bus. The man from Tanalur and the patient from Edappal had come from Tamil Nadu on May 6 and May 14, respectively.  The total number of active cases in the district has now increased to 21. Among those who tested positive for the virus in Kozhikode, one came from Dubai and the other from Kuwait. The 78-year-old NRK hailing from Nadappuram who came from Dubai was admitted to the Kozhikode Government Medical College hospital’s (KGMCH) isolation ward on May 16 while a 23-year-old female who came from Kuwait was admitted to KGMCH hospital on May 15. District medical officer Dr V Jayasree said the health condition of both of them was stable. With this, the total number of Covid-19 cases in the district has reached 33. Out of this, 24 have recovered. At present, 35 persons, including nine confirmed cases from Kozhikode, are undergoing treatment at the KGMCH. The district health department has sent 5,654 persons to quarantine at homes and Covid care centres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/four-from-other-states-test-ve-in-malappuram/articleshow/75793760.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu villagers force man to spend days on hillock||CHENNAI: The government may be telling people not to boycott those who have Covid-19 or are in quarantine, but the ground reality is different. For the past one week, 28-year-old Shamim Ali has been away from his family, living on a hillock on the outskirts of Kannagapattu in Thiruporur. A guest worker from the Kannauj district of Uttar Pradesh, Ali has been working as a loadman at the Koyambedu market after being forced out of his job at a scrap dealer’s shop. He was taken for Covid-19 screening in the first week of May and was advised home quarantine. Since then, the villagers have refused to let him stay in the village. A father of four children, Ali, a resident of MGR Nagar in Kannagapattu for four years, had worked at the vegetable market for a few days. “Officials traced me along with three others from the same locality as we worked in the market. We were screened and advised to stay at home. When I returned, the locals feared that I might be carrying the virus and could spread infection. They told me to stay away from the village,” Ali said. With no place to go, Shamim took shelter near a temple on a hillock in the vicinity. But the villagers prevented his wife from visiting him. His younger brother, Khalil Ali, who lives with his family in the same locality, dropped food near him. Finding it difficult to survive in the wilderness, Shamim got in touch with his friend, Chand, to help him return to his family. “With the help of a volunteer we contacted revenue officials and sought help for Shamim,” Chand said. Revenue inspector of Tiruporur, N Pushpa Rani, along with police officers reached the village on Saturday morning. “We spoke to the villagers and tried to ward off their fears. We told them to let Shamim stay at home. Later, he came back to the village,” Rani said. “It was very difficult for me to stay away from my children. I am very happy now that I am back,” Shamim said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tamil-nadu-villagers-force-man-to-spend-days-on-hillock/articleshow/75795250.cms||Shanmughasundarm j
May 18, 2020||Rajkot||Murder accused nabbed for parole violation in Surendranagar||Rajkot: A murder accused who had gone absconding after jumping parole was nabbed from Kudala village of Chuda taluka in Surendranagar district on Sunday. Police said the accused, identified as Manglu Khachar, had been hiding in the farm belonging to his maternal uncle Bikhu Bhambhala since January 25. “Khachar was lodged in Surendranagar sub-jail in a murder case. He had obtained 10 day parole from the Gujarat high court. He was supposed to produce himself before the jail authorities on January 25. However, he had gone absconding,” said D M Dhol, inspector with Surendranagar local crime branch (LCB). Meanwhile, the cops received a tip-off that Khachar was hiding in Bhambhala’s farm and that he was being aided by his brother Shivraj Khachar.“Acting on this information, we laid siege to the farm and nabbed Khachar. We also arrested Shvraj and Bhambhala for allegedly providing shelter to the accused and aiding him,” said V R Jadeja, sub-inspector with Surendranagar LCB. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/murder-accused-nabbed-for-parole-violation-in-surendranagar/articleshow/75794672.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Goa||‘Alight in Goa only with prior permit from home state’||Margao: The state government will act tough on those alighting at railway stations in Goa and then wanting to travel ahead to Maharashtra and Karnataka. It has warned such passengers of punitive action if they fail to furnish prior permission from their state government on arrival and said that they will be sent back by train at their own cost. “If you don’t furnish a permission letter, you will be sent back by the next available train and all costs incurred in this process will be borne by you. Further, punitive action may also be taken against you,” state the terms and conditions for entering Goa by train. “If your end destination is Goa, you must have a valid residential address in Goa and carry documentary proof of the same. After testing negative for Covid-19 you will be required to undergo mandatory home quarantine for 14 days. Marking/stamping with indelible ink will be done on your arm for the same,” state the terms and conditions. The government’s terms and conditions clearly state that Covid-19 testing is mandatory and chargeable at Rs 2,000 per person except for those who are covered under Ayushman Bharat Pradhan Mantri Jan Aarogya Yojana and other exempted categories. Passengers are also informed that after testing they will be “kept in isolation till test results are out. This may take up to 8-10 hours”. They have been asked to download the Aaroygya Setu app and confirm their status as ‘Safe’ before starting the journey and hand over a filled up self-reporting form while deboarding at the station. Those who don’t agree to the terms and conditions for entering Goa by train will have toterminate their journey.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/alight-in-goa-only-with-prior-permit-from-home-state/articleshow/75795904.cms||Lisa Monteiro
May 18, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Anxiety robs Puri residents of their sleep||Bhubaneswar: Cyclonic storm Amphan, which advanced north-westwards and looked set to turn into a very severe cyclonic storm, has left people in the coastal areas of Puri district panic-stricken. Although Amphan will not make landfall in the district, the residents are yet to overcome the trauma caused by Cyclone Fani on May 3, 2019. The state government has sounded a high alert in 12 districts, including Puri, which was the worst affected when Fani made landfall along the coast with winds blowing at nearly 230kmph and rendered lakhs of people homeless. At least 30 deaths were reported in Puri alone last year, and it took the state three months to completely restore infrastructure across the district. “I completed the repair of my house in February this year. It was fully damaged by Fani. With much difficulty, I arranged for some money and repaired my home. Cyclone Amphan has left me terrified of what will happen,” said Prabhat Pradhan of Hunda village near Satapada. Fishermen living in huts along beaches in Puri district are also spending sleepless nights. “We have seen several cyclones in Puri but the destruction caused by Fani was beyond our imagination. News of another cyclone is scaring us. Add to that the coronavirus situation,” said Mayema Reddy, a resident of Penthakota fishing slum. The Puri administration on Sunday fine-tuned its preparedness to handle Amphan’s impact. “We had a district-level preparedness meeting. The 885 cyclone shelters are ready to accommodate at least 95,000 people. Decision on evacuation, if required, will be taken on Monday. We are identifying the vulnerable households for evacuation,” district collector Balwant Singh said. The collector said five senior officers had been camping at six coastal blocks in the district. “We have mobilised personnel from the National Disaster Response Force, Odisha Disaster Rapid Action Force, fire service and police to guard vulnerable locations,” Singh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/anxiety-robs-puri-residents-of-their-sleep/articleshow/75793771.cms||Debabrata Mohapatra
May 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Revamp irrigation dept, says CM||Hyderabad: Taking a serious view of land sharks encroaching upon land being acquired for irrigation projects, chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao on Sunday directed officials to launch a special drive to evict squatters and mutate the parcels of land in the name of the irrigation department. The chief minister held a review meeting on utilisation of Godavari water through Kaleshwaram and other projects in the Godavari basin for irrigation purposes during the ensuing monsoon and thereafter. He also instructed the officials to complete works by month end to draw additional three TMC water from the Kaleshwaram project so that all tanks and water bodies downstream of irrigation projects would be filled to the brim, enabling farmers to draw water. “The parcels of land acquired for irrigation purposes have been encroached upon by others. Take a serious view on this. At several places in the state, especially urban areas, illegal constructions have come up on canal embankments and periphery of water bodies. This is not only a crime, but dangerous too. Since water will flow into canals and water bodies in the state, there is danger of untoward incidents. Hence, vacate all those living on the encroached canal land. Officers should deal with this strictly. Remove the illegal structures,” he said. In case, land acquisition was pending for any project, complete it at the earliest. The government would release funds, he said. The CM also directed the officials to bring major, medium, micro, irrigation development corporation and wings related to irrigation under a comprehensive irrigation department. Construction of pumps under Kaleswaram should be completed by May-end and water should be pumped till Kondapochamma Sagar, he said. “In monsoon, when water is released from the projects, fill up all tanks and water bodies. For this, construct channels and distributor canals immediately. Implement a plan by which all water bodies in the state are filled with water all through the year,” he added. The CM said river gauges should be set up at all projects and, utilising latest technology, real time data operating system should be created.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/revamp-irrigation-dept-says-cm/articleshow/75795252.cms||Roushan Ali
May 18, 2020||Madurai||Tamil Nadu: Woman, paramour hacked to death||A 26-year-old woman from Therkutheru in Melur and her paramour were hacked to death by an armed gang on Sunday morning. The gang intercepted the two, A Anbu Nathan, 32, and V Ayyammal, 26, who were travelling on a bike, near Nallanpetha Kanmoi, on the Andipatti-Naickerpatti Road. Ayyammal got married to Vimal eight years ago and had two children. She parted ways with Vimal as she developed relationship with Anbu Nathan, a bachelor. Deputy superintendent of police T Subash said that they suspect role of three family members of Ayyammal in the murder, as they were against the relationship. The two were found dead with multiple cut injuries. The gang had slit open Anbu Nathan’s throat. A police team from the Melur station reached the spot on an alert and shifted the bodies to a government hospital for post mortem. A search is on for a few members of Ayyammal’s family.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/woman-paramour-hacked-to-death/articleshow/75795722.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Lucknow||Migrants to steer Uttar Pradesh govt’s green drive||LUCKNOW: Migrant labourers will now be mobilised in plantation activity by the state forest department under MGNREGA norms. The move assumes traction with the UP government’s decision to plant 25 crore trees this year under ‘vriksha mahakumbh’, generating an extra demand for workforce for soil work, plantation and post-plantation care. The forest department would require labourers to collect seeds, raise saplings in nurseries, prepare organic manure, ready soil mixture, remove weeds and shift saplings from one point to another to prevent roots from penetrating too deep into ground. Also, migrants would be required for plantation care, including watering and maintenance. Transportation of saplings and loading and unloading from vehicles too require labour, said sources in the department. Forestry is a labour-intensive sector and workers are hired every year on daily wages. At some areas like Bundelkhand and Vindhyachal, where trenches are dug around plantation sites, the labour component is as high as 90%. This year, forest department will plant 10 crore trees, rural development department 8.8 crore saplings and the remaining by other government departments. Sources also said, migrants would also be involved in other forestry activity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/migrants-to-steer-govts-green-drive/articleshow/75795723.cms||Neha Shukla
May 18, 2020||India||Cyclone Amphan likely to hit Bengal & Odisha||NEW DELHI: The cyclone Amphan is likely to cross West Bengal — Bangladesh coasts between Digha (West Bengal) and Hatiya Islands (Bangladesh) on Wednesday evening, the India Meteorological Department said on Sunday. Meanwhile, governments of both West Bengal and Odisha have geared up their local disaster management authorities for relief and rescue operations in coastal areas in view of the upcoming cyclone-linked extreme weather events. Issuing its track and intensity forecast, the national weather forecaster said Amphan is very likely to intensify further into extremely severe cyclonic storm during the next 24 hours. It said, “The (cyclonic) system is under continuous surveillance and the concerned state governments are being informed regularly.” As far as advance of southwest monsoon is concerned, the India Meteorological Department said, “The conditions are favourable for further advance of southwest monsoon into some more parts of south Bay of Bengal, remaining parts of Andaman Sea and Andaman Islands during next 48 hours.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/cyclone-amphan-likely-to-hit-bengal-odisha/articleshow/75796030.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Amaravati||Andhra Pradesh sets up food stalls along NH for travel-weary migrant workers||AMARAVATI: The state government has set up food stalls at every 20km interval on the national highway for migrant workers on their way home on foot. Special buses are being plied to transport them to the border districts. The government has already opened relief centres for the migrant workers close to the national highways. While the workers, who agreed to take the next available train, were shifted to the relief camps, buses were arranged for the others. The state government is bearing the entire financial cost of providing food, shelter and transportation to the migrant workers. On Sunday, chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy reviewed the arrangements made for them at his camp office. The state government had, in fact, started the relief centres almost four days ago while the food stalls and special buses became operational on Sunday. Following the chief minister’s directive that all possible measures be taken to help migrant workers returning home, the district collectors had swung into action. Covid-19 taskforce chairman and R&B principal secretary MT Krishnababu has said that they have already shifted nearly 5,000 workers to the relief centres. Speaking to media here on Sunday, Krishnababu said they have started operating special buses for the migrant workers from border to border. He explained that the workers would be sent in Shramik trains if they were willing to stay in the relief camps. He said that they have set up 62 relief camps in which 4,200 people have been put up in the last four days and booked 10 special trains to send the workers home and will operate at least five to 10 trains to different states from Monday. Workers from Odisha (966), Bihar (815), Uttar Pradesh (1,012), Jharkhand (576), Chhattisgarh (331) and other states are staying in relief centres. About 902 migrant labourers from Prakasam (470), Krishna (410) and Srikakulam (22) have been sent to Ganjam district of Odisha in special buses on Saturday night and another 450 persons from Guntur on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/state-sets-up-food-stalls-along-nh-for-travel-weary-migrant-workers/articleshow/75793781.cms||Samdani MN
May 18, 2020||Indore||4 Areas See +ve Cases First Time||Indore: District administration on Sunday notified four new areas under containment zones in Indore after fresh cases of Covid-19 were detected there. The new areas under the containment zones are New Palasia, Adarsh Bijasan Nagar, Sheelnath Camp GPO and Shiv City. District collector has also de-notified 14 containment zones in Mhow and five in Indore after surveys showed that no Covid-19 cases were present in these areas. The areas have been sanitized and health examination of all inhabitants has been carried out. According to order of district collector, all kinds of movement to and from these areas will remain stopped till next notification. Health workers will continue intense survey and screening work by visiting door-to-door in all those areas. For this, dedicated teams are constituted, stated the order. All teams will monitor suspect cases with symptoms like fever, cough, cold, throat infection, breathlessness and immediately report to higher authorities about it. The quarantining, regular follow up will also continue in those areas, added the order. In the last one week, around a dozen containment zones were de-notified after no new positive cases were reported in last 21 days in those areas. Indore reported 92 positive cases on Saturday including 13 in Juni Risala and 12 in Gema Ki Fel. Also, other areas, where new positive cases were found were five each in Musakhedi and Chandrashekhar Nagar, and three in Bheel Colony. The other corona hotspot areas of the city like Nehru Nagar and Azad Nagar reported four and six new positive cases. Kumharkhadi reported 10 new cases on Saturday, while Murai Mohalla in Chhawani reported three cases. Murathi Mohalla of Sadar Bazaar reported four new positive cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/4-areas-see-ve-cases-first-time/articleshow/75795266.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Goa||Goan seafarers will arrive from Italy in batches||Panaji: Goan seafarers onboard multiple Costa Cruise vessels in and around Italy are being grouped into batches to be sent back home on the first three flights chartered by the company to Goa expected to reach this week. Captain Venzy Viegas, who along with the Goa Seamen Association of India has been advocating to bring back stranded seafarers home safely, told TOI that the crew are from the cruise liners Costa Magica, Costa Diadema and Costa Favolosa, among others. “The Goan boys have been divided into batches. Around 35 of the 100 Goan crew on Costa Magica, all 41 Goan crew on Favolosa along with Goan crew from other cruise liners will be brought back on the charters,” Venzy said. TOI reported that three chartered flights from Italy to Goa are expected to bring back 414 seafarers from Italy. The three chartered Boeing 737 jets arranged by Costa Cruises are likely to arrive around May 20. They will be tested on arrival at Goa airport and sent on 14-day quarantine at hotels only once they test negative. The association appealed to the government to revert the decision on paid quarantine. “This is a big burden on shipping companies and can also affect seafarers and jeopardise their job prospects,” president of the association Frank Viegas said. Venzy said they should be given an option of government and paid quarantine. “According to the Disaster Management Act, the state authority is supposed to provide quarantine facility,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goan-seafarers-will-arrive-from-italy-in-batches/articleshow/75795906.cms||Lisa Monteiro
May 18, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Social distance may be casualty during cyclone evacuation||Bhubaneswar: As different rescue agencies have taken guard in vulnerable districts to tackle Cyclone Amphan, they face imminent hurdle of breach of social distancing norms during the possible evacuation and rescue operations amid the Covid-19 pandemic. “We know it is a catch-22 situation for our personnel. They have to touch and take people, mostly elderly and children, in their arms during evacuation and rescue operations. It will be difficult for them to maintain social distance and enforce the same norms among the evacuees. We have advised our personnel to use body protectors, face shields, masks and gloves while carrying out the evacuation and rescue tasks. Personal protective equipment (PPE) have also been supplied to our personnel,” director general of police Abhay said. Fire service personnel too apprehend non-compliance of the social distancing norms. “We are alert to the dual worry — Covid-19 and Amphan — and realise the danger of the breach of social distance norms. “Since zero casualty is our government’s motto, our immediate priority will be to evacuate and rescue people from vulnerable locations to safe places,” inspector general of police (fire service and home guards) Asheet Panigrahi said. The state government is also in a fix as to how to enforce the social distancing norms in cyclone shelters and other places where the evacuees will be accommodated. The government is more worried in Covid hotspots like Ganjam, Bhadrak, Balasore and Jajpur districts to carry out evacuation. “We normally keep nearly 300 or 400 persons in a cyclone shelter during natural disasters. If we follow the social distancing norms now, we have to give shelter to only 100 persons in each cyclone shelter. Since lakhs of people are likely to be evacuated, we need more shelter units. We have to compromise the social distancing norms while handling the the large number of people,” a senior officer in revenue and disaster management department said. An official sources said some institutional quarantine centres that have so far not been used in different gram panchayats are likely to be converted into temporary shelter places for the evacuees. The state government appealed to people to wear masks and use hand sanitisers during evacuation and rescue operations. “We have asked district administrations to provide masks to people in villages,” the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/social-distance-may-be-casualty-during-cyclone-evacuation/articleshow/75793790.cms||Debabrata Mohapatra
May 18, 2020||Lucknow||Rlys’ Setu helpline bridges supply chain gap for farmers||Lucknow: For farmers who could not sell their fruits and vegetables due to the lockdown, the ‘Setu’ helpline is a rescuer.Started by Indian Railway Traffic Services (IRTS), Setu helped a farmer in Chamrajnagar district of Karnataka transport three tonnes of cabbage grown by him reach community kitchens in Chennai. He initiated the process after he found that there were no loading vans while he was desperate to lose his produce sown over 3.5 acres.Now, Konkan farmers are ready to transport oranges, pomegranates and melons from Nagpur, Sangli and Solapur after the helpline made them transport tonnes of Alphonso mangoes to various parts of the country.Having a 24×7 helpline, 84488448477, as its mainstay, the IRTS fraternity explained the initiative was a Setu or bridge that aims to plug the gaps in the supply chain of essential items due to the lockdown. The acronym otherwise stands for Swift and Efficient Transportation of Utilities.It was launched on April 15 and has since received more than 3,000 calls.The best part about the service is that any individual wanting to send or receive parcel but facing difficulty can call the helpline number. The helpline calls are answered by IRTS probationers who have a parcel guide ready for the caller.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/rlys-setu-helpline-bridges-supply-chain-gap-for-farmers/articleshow/75795729.cms||Neha Shukla
May 18, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh sets up food stalls along NH for travel-weary migrant workers||AMARAVATI: The state government has set up food stalls at every 20km interval on the national highway for migrant workers on their way home on foot. Special buses are being plied to transport them to the border districts. The government has already opened relief centres for the migrant workers close to the national highways. While the workers, who agreed to take the next available train, were shifted to the relief camps, buses were arranged for the others. The state government is bearing the entire financial cost of providing food, shelter and transportation to the migrant workers. On Sunday, chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy reviewed the arrangements made for them at his camp office. The state government had, in fact, started the relief centres almost four days ago while the food stalls and special buses became operational on Sunday. Following the chief minister’s directive that all possible measures be taken to help migrant workers returning home, the district collectors had swung into action. Covid-19 taskforce chairman and R&B principal secretary MT Krishnababu has said that they have already shifted nearly 5,000 workers to the relief centres. Speaking to media here on Sunday, Krishnababu said they have started operating special buses for the migrant workers from border to border. He explained that the workers would be sent in Shramik trains if they were willing to stay in the relief camps. He said that they have set up 62 relief camps in which 4,200 people have been put up in the last four days and booked 10 special trains to send the workers home and will operate at least five to 10 trains to different states from Monday. Workers from Odisha (966), Bihar (815), Uttar Pradesh (1,012), Jharkhand (576), Chhattisgarh (331) and other states are staying in relief centres. About 902 migrant labourers from Prakasam (470), Krishna (410) and Srikakulam (22) have been sent to Ganjam district of Odisha in special buses on Saturday night and another 450 persons from Guntur on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/state-sets-up-food-stalls-along-nh-for-travel-weary-migrant-workers/articleshow/75793781.cms||Samdani MN
May 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Leopard found dead at Kalyandurg in Anantapur||Hyderabad: A leopard was found dead under suspicious circumstances in the revenue land hillocks of Kambaduru in Rayadurg range of Anantapur district in Andhra Pradesh. According to forest officials, the claws, teeth and skin of the leopard are intact. “It was a female leopard, aged around seven years. Locals informed the mandal revenue officer (MRO) on Saturday evening and he alerted us. The carcass was found in hillocks owned by the revenue department in the wee hours of Sunday. It is not a notified reserve forest,” said Kalyandrug forest range officer, Ram Singh. He added that they are not suspecting the involvement of poachers. “Veterinarians conducted post mortem on the spot. We burnt the animal’s body after the procedure. As all claws and teeth are intact, we are not suspecting the involvement of poachers. It is also not a case of poising. We have been paying compensation to the locals if any cattle gets killed. There are neither instances of cattle carcass poisoning nor signs of electrocution. The leopard died three days back. We suspect it to be a death due to disease,” he added. He also said that around 30 to 40 leopards are spotted in this area regularly. “The spot where this leopard died is 3km away from the village and 30km from Kalyandurg. So far we have not come across any instances of wildlife hunting and poaching,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/leopard-found-dead-at-kalyandurg-in-anantapur/articleshow/75795260.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
May 18, 2020||Madurai||Man found murdered||A man was found dead with his body partially burnt near Samayanallur in Madurai district on Sunday. Police are yet to identify the victim, whose age has been estimated to be between 40 and 50 years. The body was found at Kattupuli Nagar around 7 am by local people. Based on information, a police team from the Samayanallur station reached the spot. Police said that the body was covered by partially burnt clothes. A stone with blood strains was found at the spot. It is suspected that he was attacked with the stone, before setting the body on fire. A forensic team was swung into action to gather evidence. A dog squad was also pressed into action.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/man-found-murdered/articleshow/75795724.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Bhopal||Normal actvities allowed in state barring Bhopal, Indore & Ujjain||BHOPAL: With the Union Home Ministry leaving it to respective states to decide the red, orange and green zones in the state in addition to containment and buffer zone within a district, Madhya Pradesh government's proposal sent to the Union government earlier this week on relaxations and restrictions in each of these zones in the state will largely stand as the country enters lockdown-4.0 on Monday. The state government had proposed that only three districts Indore, Bhopal and Ujjain be kept in the red zone as the three districts account for 80% of the total Coronavirus cases in Madhya Pradesh and strict restrictions should continue in the urban areas of the district. Bhopal district collector, Tarun Pithode, however said that there would be one major relaxation in the lockdown- 4.0 at Bhopal. Private offices and industries with an attendance of 33% would be allowed to operate in all areas which are not in "containment zone”. MP Nagar would be an exception though because of its proximity to Coronavirus hotspot in the city-Jehangirabad. Commercial and construction activities would also be allowed in peripheral areas of the city and in areas beyond municipal limit, all the activities allowed in orange and green zone will.be allowed. Liquor shops in the municipal limits will remain closed. The administration has also tweaked the concept of home delivery. "If you book an order at an electronic shop or hardware shop and go to fetch it yourself, it would be allowed," said Pithode. Take home facility from hotels and restaurants will also be allowed with only kitchen to be open. Besides, 3 red zone districts, 9 districts with up to 20 active Coronavirus cases will be in orange zone and those with less than 20 cases will be in green zone. While all major economic activities would be allowed in orange and green zone districts except for mass gathering in any form. Hotels, restaurants except for home delivery and take home facility, religious places, schools and colleges, gyms, salons and beauty parlours, coaching classes, socio-religious or political gatherings will remain banned. Markets and public transport with 50% capacity would, however, be allowed. Inter- district buses will also operate but not inter-state buses. The state government will also continue with night curfew from 7.00 pm to 7.00 am across the state during which all "non-essential" activities will remain banned. In green and orange zone areas, government and private offices will open with 100% capacity and inter-district public transport buses will also operate at 50% capacity in addition to resumption of public transport like city buses, taxis and autos inside the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/normal-actvities-allowed-in-state-barring-bhopal-indore-ujjain/articleshow/75795261.cms||Ashutosh Shukla
May 18, 2020||Dehradun||Man who returned to Rishikesh from Mumbai tests positive, Covid-19 cases rise to 92 in Uttarakhand||DEHRADUN: After Uttarakhand recorded the biggest single-day spurt of nine coronavirus cases on Saturday, a man who returned to Rishikesh from Mumbai last week tested positive for Covid-19 on Sunday, taking the state’s tally of coronavirus cases to 92. According to the health department, the 27-year-old patient worked at an upscale luxury hotel in Mumbai for the past several years and had returned home to Rishikesh last week. “The patient had initially tested negative during random sampling done at the hotel he worked at, after some of the staffers tested positive there. However, he developed some symptoms of the infection upon reaching his home in Rishikesh and visited our OPD on Saturday to have his sample taken. He was found positive later that night,” said Harish Thapliyal from All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) Rishikesh. Thapliyal added that the district surveillance officer had been requested to complete detailed contact tracing of the person and take necessary action. Meanwhile, the health department collected 575 samples on Sunday. The state has 39 active cases, of which 92 people tested positive for the novel coronavirus after March 15. A total of 951 reports were awaited till 2pm on Sunday in Uttarakhand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/man-who-returned-to-rishikesh-from-mumbai-tests-positive-covid-19-cases-rise-to-92-in-ukand/articleshow/75793776.cms||Ishita Mishra
May 18, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh forms panel on Covid-19 package||VIJAYAWADA: The state government has constituted a state-level committee for planning and utilisation of the recent Covid-19 relief package announced by the Union government. The committee will be headed by the chief secretary and principal secretary of the finance department will be the convenor. Special chief secretaries, principal secretaries, secretaries and other officials from various departments will also be members of the committee. Three MPs — V Vijayasai Reddy, PV Midhun Reddy, and Talari Rangaiah —have been included in the committee as special invitees. They will be invited for panel deliberations. The committee can also invite other secretaries and officials necessary to facilitate deliberations. In the first tranche of the economic package, the Union government announced assistance to MSMEs, non-banking financial institutions, housing finance companies, micro finance sector and the power sector. The second tranche included measures to ameliorate hardships being faced specifically by migrant labourers, street vendors, migrant urban poor, small traders, self-employed people and small farmers. The third tranche covered infrastructure logistics, capacity building, governance and administrative reforms for agriculture, fisheries and food processing sectors, while the fourth tranche was devoted to policy and structural reforms in power, coal, defence and aircraft maintenance, repair and overhaul.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/state-forms-panel-on-covid-19-package/articleshow/75793791.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Goa||1,290 migrants head to Haridwar on Shramik spl||Panaji: The first train from Goa to Haridwar, Uttarakhand, carrying 1,290 passengers left Karmali Railway Station on Sunday night. The commuters were ferried from the state in the Shramik Special Train 01622. The train which was supposed to depart at 7pm was delayed by over an hour. It left the railway station only at 8.25pm. Delayed boarding of passengers was cited as the reason behind the delay. “A few passengers arrived late which resulted in the late departure of the train,” a railway official said. The passengers mainly comprised migrant labourers who were stranded in Goa during the lockdown. They were given permission by the North Goa district collector to board trains that left from Karmali railway station on Sunday. Over the past one week, several Shramik special trains have taken stranded citizens to their native places. These included residents of Jammu & Kashmir who were stuck in Goa for nearly two months after tourism activities came to a grinding halt due to the pandemic. The first train carrying migrant workers was bound for Madhya Pradesh. Trains have picked up migrant workers from Tivim, Margao and Karmali railway stations. The government arranged for buses to ferry the departing passengers from their designated shelter homes to the railway station. After a thorough medical check-up, a medical certificate was issued to them to be carried for the journey, and to be furnished at the destination. Kadamba Transport Corporation limited (KTC) buses were used to transport the labourers to the railway stations. Sources said that documents of the passengers were analysed before they were allowed to board the buses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/1290-migrants-head-to-haridwar-on-shramik-spl/articleshow/75795909.cms||Nida Sayed
May 18, 2020||Bhubaneswar||State eyes more jobs under MGNREGS with fund boost||Bhubaneswar: Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman’s announcement regarding additional Rs 40,000 crore allocation under the MGNREGS is expected to help states like Odisha that has seen reverse migration as tens of thousands of people returned from different states due to lockdown over Covid-19. An official source said the state government plans to create 20 crore person days under MGNREGS during the current financial year. If a person works for a day, it is counted as one person day. “We are now creating nine lakh person days work under the MGNREGS and we would increase them to 20 lakh person days by May-end as directed by the chief minister. Since the Centre has allocated additional Rs 40,000 crore under the MGNREGS, funds would not be a problem for us,” said a senior government official. As directed by chief minister Naveen Patnaik to make MGNREGS target-oriented to create employment opportunities in rural areas, especially in view of the return of scores of people from different states, the state panchayati raj department has been preparing a detailed plan to create more jobs under the rural job scheme. Nearly 1.65 lakh people have returned to Odisha from different states as on Sunday, said an official source. “Under MGNREGS, we are trying to generate more and more jobs by merging works of various other departments like forest and environment, water resources, ST & SC development and agencies like horticulture and soil conservation. Our focus is to ensure more jobs,” said panchayati raj minister Pratap Jena. Under the rural job scheme launched by the UPA government, the Centre bears 100% labour cost, which is directly transferred to the accounts of the labourers while on material cost on various projects, the fund sharing pattern is 75:25 between the Centre and the state government. Union minister Dharmendra Pradhan also welcomed the Union finance minister’s announcement to allocate additional Rs 40,000 crore under the MGNREGS. “The move will help the migrant workers get livelihood opportunities in their localities which will also help in boosting the local economy,” said Dharmendra. As part of the economic package, the state government is also looking forward to gain from the Centre’s plan to strengthen public health infrastructure like establishment of health and wellness centres in rural and urban areas, setting up of infectious disease blocks in all districts and strengthening of laboratory and testing network.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/state-eyes-more-jobs-under-mgnregs-with-fund-boost/articleshow/75793824.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Goa||Goa: Former CM Digambar Kamat slams government after elderly sleep on stadium floor||PANAJI: Former chief minister and opposition leader Digambar Kamat slammed the state authorities for making hundreds of travellers wait and sleep out in the open at night at the Fatorda Football stadium, including senior citizens. Kamat said that elderly people were left without food, water and safety gear as they waited for hours for the results of their rapid Covid-19 tests. The government is housing travellers who arrive by train from Delhi and other states at the Fatorda stadium after they submit swab samples for their Covid-19 rapid test at the South Goa District Hospital. With the tests taking a couple of hours, several passengers were left to fend for themselves as they awaited their results. “With sudden rise in Covid-19 cases in Goa, there are shocking reports of our own elderly Goan travellers kept at Fatorda stadium awaiting test reports without food, water and safety gear. This is disturbing,” said Kamat. Pictures circulated on social media showed women and men sleeping on the floor or on seats in the seating stands. Women and men we kept waiting with the floodlights on. On Sunday, 368 passengers arrived at the Margao railway station from Delhi. On Thursday, 14 passengers arrived from Delhi on a Delhi-Trivandrum special train. Around 13 passengers who arrived by train from Delhi tested positive for the coronavirus. “I demand immediate intervention of Goa chief minister to ensure that this is not repeated again,” said Kamat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/kamat-slams-govt-after-elderly-sleep-on-stadium-floor/articleshow/75795907.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Indore||80% export orders cancelled, textile cos eye govt relief||Indore: Closed shutters of major fashion retailers in the United States, European Union countries and other developed countries owing to lockdown has left textile mills baffled with around 80 per cent orders cancelled in last two months. Some orders were almost ready to be shipped while a major chuck is stuck at ports, said leading textile mills of the state claiming around 80 per cent cancellation of export orders for readymade garment and fabrics while yarn shipments have seen 50 per cent cancellation. Akhilesh Rathi, chairman, MP textile mills Association said, “The lockdown has taken a severe toll on textiles, facing high cancellations from across the globe. Demand in apparel segment has shrunk as most front-end retails in developed countries are shut for last eight weeks.” Such a high cancellations for bulk orders have resulted in towering inventories with textile mills. Apparel manufacturers said that with extended lockdown and change in season, fabrics and apparels manufactured in summer months will not find market in winters due to change in preferences resulting in hefty losses to manufacturers. HS Jha, vice chairman, Madhya Pradesh Textile Mills Association said, “Orders scheduled to be dispatched in summers are getting cancelled due to lockdown while new orders are almost negligible in last one and half months. Textile mills are going through one of their worst phases.” Industry experts said sealing of India-Bangladesh borders amid Covid-19 outbreak has restricted movement of woven and knitted fabric resulting in towering inventories. Rathi said, “Woven and knitting fabric from India goes for garment conversion to Bangladesh but as the border is sealed, this has resulted in piling up of huge inventory at India-Bangladesh border causing uncertainty due to LC expiry and order cancellations.” Industry players said government should announce a relief package for the sector as it is the largest employer in the country after agriculture. MC Rawat, secretary, Madhya Pradesh Textile Mills Association said, “Mills are working at 35-40 percent capacity and capacity utilization may grow gradually. State government should extend support to the sector by charging electricity and water at actual consumption and fixed charges be waived.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/80-export-orders-cancelled-textile-cos-eye-govt-relief/articleshow/75795268.cms||Meenakshi Sharma
May 18, 2020||Kolhapur||Solapur registers 2 deaths, 21 fresh cases||Kolhapur: Solapur registered 21 more fresh Covid-19 cases on Sunday taking the tally to 385 so far. Two deaths were also recorded which took the count to 26 in the city. Out of the 21 cases registered so far, 16 are close contacts of the earlier positive cases. Two cases are of health care professionals while the remaining are associated with Severe Acute Respiratory Illness (SARI) patients. Out of the 385 cases, 201 are active cases in Solapur while 158 have recovered from the infection said a health report from the administration. Four new cases in Satara Satara district witnessed four new Covid-19 cases on Sunday. Out of the four cases, three are the close contacts of the earlier positive patients while one has a travel history of Gujarat. All the patients are admitted to the Satara district hospital. The district hospital now has 24 active cases, Sahyadri hospital in Karad has 10 cases while Krishna Medical College in Karad has 30 cases. Out of these 64 cases, 62 patients are asymptomatic, while rest two have mild symptoms, said a report from the district administration officials. With this, Satara district now has a total of 133 positive cases, of which around 66 have recovered from the contagion and 65 are active. Two tested positive in Sangli A married couple from Nigdi village in Shirala taluka of the Sangli district were tested positive on Sunday. The 30-year-old male and 24-year-old female had returned from Mumbai on May 14 to Nigdi village. On Saturday, they developed mild symptoms and their tests on Sunday confirmed their infection. They have been shifted to the isolation ward of the Miraj Government Hospital. Meanhwile, the administration has formed containment zones across Bhikawadi Khurd village and Kundalwadi village .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/solapur-registers-2-deaths-21-fresh-cases/articleshow/75793802.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Dehradun||Man held for killing female friend in Haridwar||Haridwar: A 23-year-old man was arrested by city police for killing his female friend on Sunday. The accused had earlier tried to mislead the police by saying that his 19-year-old friend had jumped into Ganga a few days ago and he tried to save her but failed. However, police suspected his story and interrogated him further. At last, the man confessed to his crime. He told the police that he killed her because she was forcing him to marry her. The accused has been identified as Ankit Kumar, a resident of Laksar region in Haridwar. Shankar Singh Bisht, SHO Ranipur police station, told TOI, “We registered a missing report of the girl three days ago. During probe, the name of victim’s friend surfaced and we called him for interrogation. Initially, he tried to mislead us but later confessed to his crime. A case has been registered against him under section 302 (murder) and we are trying to fish out the body of the victim.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/man-held-for-killing-female-friend-in-haridwar/articleshow/75793796.cms||MS Nawaz
May 18, 2020||Indore||Stigma over Covid-19 leading to social discrimination||Indore: Covid-19 is curable in most cases but we have to follow certain precautions — the message should be loud and clear in the society to reduce stigma associated with the disease that has led to social discrimination of positive patients and even those making a full recovery, said experts. Dr Nidhi Jain, psychiatrist at district hospital counselling patients on state helpline said, “We have come across cases in Bhopal and in Indore, where neighbours and residents of society have discriminated persons cured of Covid-19 and their families. This discrimination is in form of avoiding such persons, denying ration and supply of essentials daily.” The discrimination goes on with members of family with any Covid-19 positive case, though others are tested negative, said Dr Jain. Stigma surrounding any disease takes place because of lack of knowledge leading to formation of negative thoughts finally culminating into discrimination. The state government should disseminate proper information about the disease, added Jain. Dr Salil Bhargava, HoD respiratory department MGM said, “We are defeating Covid-19 infection with the help of immunity of our body in absence of any anti-viral drug to help so far.” “We have to follow certain precautions like we do in other communicable diseases. But it should be clear in our minds that any cured person is not spreader of the disease and such discrimination should not be practised,” said Bhargava. There are around 60 to 80 per cent asymptomatic carrier about whom we don’t know but remain normal with them. So, such things will not help in this fight against disease, added Bhargava.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/stigma-over-covid-19-leading-to-social-discrimination/articleshow/75795276.cms||Antriksh Singh
May 18, 2020||Lucknow||No relaxation in lockdown curbs for now||Lucknow: The district administration on Sunday decided to continue with the existing guidelines on lockdown till further orders as the state government has not issued any instructions in this regard so far. District magistrate Abhishek Prakash said, “The guidelines with some relaxations, which came into effect on May 3, will continue without any new addition or relaxation till further orders.” Earlier, the guidelines had allowed private offices and firms to start operation with up to 33% workforce. Further, construction acitivities in sites having space for workers to live there were permitted. Standalone shops and stores offering a few goods and services were also allowed to operate. According to existing guidelines, it is must to follow safety protocol such as social distancing and masks. No shops in market places, main roads and malls were allowed to open. Barring those involved in essential works and services, movement of people was restricted between 7pm and 7am.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/no-relaxation-in-lockdown-curbs-for-now/articleshow/75795742.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Bhopal||Doc tests +ve; 38 cases in a day take Bhopal count to 1,038||Bhopal: The state capital reported 38 more positive cases on Sunday, taking the total number of cases in the city to 1,038. A doctor from a private hospital located at Bhanpur, tested positive for Covid-19. The doctor was treating patients till May 10. After getting symptoms of the virus, he got himself tested. A team of 10 members of the medical practitioners have now tested positive. All have been admitted to a private hospital in Bairagarh. Fatehgarh area, has been deemed a containment zone by the administration. The doctor was not treating Covid-19 patients. A policeman from 25th battalion tested positive, after which Bhadbhada area locality has been declared containment zone. Another medical practitioner, linked to Arera Hills facility has tested positive, according to the health department. Meanwhile, 10 new cases were reported from Jehangirabad area, four cases from Mangalwara and Jatkhedi area reported its fifth cases in three days. So far Bhopal has reported 1,038 cases that has resulted in 38 deaths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/doc-tests-ve-38-cases-in-a-day-take-bhopal-count-to-1038/articleshow/75795308.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Kolhapur||Eight more test +ve in Kolhapur district||Kolhapur: Eight more people with travel history from Mumbai and Solapur has tested positive for Covid-19 infection in Kolhapur on Sunday. All the patients have been admitted to the Chhatrapati Pramila Raje Rugnalaya (CPR) and undergoing treatment. With this, the total count of positive cases in the district have jumped to 43 out of which 29 are active cases while 13 have recovered from the infection. Chhatrapati Shahu State Government Hospital and Medical College’s dean Minakshi Gajbhiye told TOI that the three family members from Sion (Mumbai) had come to Gargoti were tested positive along with a 28-year-old male from Ambarnath. The hospital officials said that eight people had traveled from Palghar to Kolhapur out of which five tested negative while rest results are awaited.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/eight-more-test-ve-in-kolhapur-district/articleshow/75793819.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Small businesses fear death blow, desperately hope lockdown eases||HYDERABAD: The government’s decision to open up wine, electrical and hardware shops even in the red zone but preventing other small shops to restart created a lot of problems for the latter. There are hundreds of people who run small shops like photoshop and internet centres, stationary, paan, chai bandis, bakeries, tailoring, mechanic, puncture repair. The lockdown has dealt a severe blow to their livelihood. Some of them are forced to sell vegetables and fruits to survive. Take the case of Mohammed Sameer, who has a small ‘dabba’ at the Mehdipatnam bus stop from where he operates his puncture shop. “This has been the most difficult phase of our lives. We are ruined as the lockdown destroyed our livelihood. For the last 45 days, I was not able to earn even a single paisa as I had to keep my shop closed. Luckily, I don’t have to pay rent but there are many others who are struggling to even pay the rent of their shops," he told TOI. Sameer is from Bihar and has been in the city for the last six years. “There is no point in going back as we will be quarantined for 21 days. We don’t even know what the conditions are back there,” he said and added that he doesn’t have a ration card and therefore cannot avail the government’s scheme. “One day someone was giving rice, so I stood in the line for several hours before getting some. But it was very fat rice and there were a lot of stones in it,” he said. Mohd Afzal, who has been a mechanic for the last 50 years and works in Paradise circle, said the long lockdown is killing poor people. “A week or so would have been manageable but this is too long for anyone to survive. The government should allow small business to restart or several families will end up in debts and poverty,” he said. ”If is highly unfair to allow select shops to open. We too need to survive as we are forced to pay rent for the ‘mulgi’ even though we are shut. The government needs money and so do we,” said Pradeep Kumar, who runs a Xerox shop near AWHO Colony.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/small-businesses-fear-death-blow-desperately-hope-lockdown-eases/articleshow/75795316.cms||Solomon S Kumar
May 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Elusive leopard spotted at Himayatsagar lake||Hyderabad: The elusive leopard that created scare on city roads four days back has again sent jitters to forest and police officials after it was spotted at Himayat Sagar on Sunday morning. The movement of wild animal has created panic among the villagers. Teams of forest officials and police have swung into action and rescue operation started in and around Himayat Sagar. “Few locals have spotted leopard quenching thirst at Himayat Sagar. We have taken up rescue operation again,” said DCP Shamshabad N Prakash Reddy. A few locals also found footprints suspected to be of the leopard in the Naga Reddy area, but the forest officials have denied the claim and said they are dog paw prints. Forest and Nehru Zoological Park officials could not track the movement of the big cat at a farm in Kateedan last week. Traps have now been laid around Himayat Sagar and CCTVs are also being installed. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/elusive-leopard-spotted-at-himayatsagar-lake/articleshow/75795267.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Indore||Indore: Corona positivity rate dips from 25 to 10% in a month||INDORE: Indore has witnessed a drastic decline of positivity rate in city in last 30 days — — from 25.43% to 10.82%. According to daily health bulletin record of CMHO office, a total of 19,320 samples were tested between April 17 and May 16, but only 2,078 were positive. Earlier, positivity rate was around 30% between March 24 and April 16 for most of the days. However, it declined afterwards helping in reducing overall positivity rate in city. CMHO Dr Praveen Jadia said, “We are able to contain the spread of virus in last one month in city with the support of grass root workers like ASHA, ANM, working in survey and screening team along with people’s support.” The intense screening and survey, which began in and around first week of April helped in identifying and isolation of suspects leading to containment of infection. The lockdown combined with all these factors resulted in decline of overall positivity rate, said Jadia. The survey has also helped in decreasing death rate because of early identification of virus infection and awareness to report immediately to hospital after developing symptoms reduces chances of fatality, said Jadia. Active cases have also gone down in the period with almost 50 per cent of positive cases recovering from the disease. It has decreased from 86.77% to 50.64% in the same period.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/corona-positivity-rate-dips-from-25-to-10-in-a-month/articleshow/75795283.cms||Antriksh Singh
May 18, 2020||Dehradun||Dist admin issues order against illegal pet shops||DEHRADUN: Taking cognisance of the complaints related to illegal breeding and trade of animals, the Dehradun district administration has issued orders to stop functioning of non-registered breeding centres and pet shops. Officials in the district magistrate's office told TOI that pet shops were allowed to operate during the lockdown but in view of the several complaints regarding illegal breeding centres and pet shops, a crackdown will now be initiated and the defaulters are to be booked under Dog Breeding and Marketing Rules of 2017 and Pet Shops Rules of 2018. Member Secretary, People for Animal, Uttarakhand, Gauri Maulekhi said “ We have been fighting to regulate the pet shops for the last 10 years. The move by the Doon district administration is a welcome move against stopping illegal breeding and trade of animals”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/dist-admin-issues-order-against-illegal-pet-shops/articleshow/75793803.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Kolhapur||Online fraud: Man loses Rs 19.62 lakh||Kolhapur: A 54-year-old man lost Rs 19.62 lakh after he shared his account details along with the one-time password (OTP) to a conman who claimed to be a bank employee.According to cybercrime police, the complainant — Srinivas Joshi, a resident of Salokhe Park — got a call from the suspect who claimed to be calling from the private bank in which the former has an account. “Joshi was told that due to some technical issues there has been some issue with his account. In order to get the issue resolved Joshi was asked to provide the details of his account and the OTP. Joshi followed all the instructions asked by the caller following which the amount was debited from his account,” an officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/online-fraud-man-loses-rs-19-62-lakh/articleshow/75793828.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Indore||No breath analyzer test for aviation staff for now||Indore: Devi Ahilyabai Holkar Airport has suspended breath analyzer test for all air traffic controllers (ATC) and ground staff deployed at the airport. This comes following after an instruction from Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) ordering temporary suspension of breath analyzer tests for all aviation staff at all airports till further order. Airport director Aryama Sanyal said that breath analyzer test was meant to keep a check on airport and airline staff and also to ensure safety of passengers. “We had made it compulsory for all airport staff including pilots, ATC controllers, and even ground staff to keep a check if he or she has consumed liquor or not,” said the director, while adding that they had also installed CCTVs and also maintained daily record of staff undergoing breath analyzer test. The test was made compulsory for pilots, flight staff, ATC and ground staff. All these employees had to use breath analyzer machines, which involves risk of spreading Covid-19 infection. “The DGCA has however lifted this compulsion and instructed for immediate it’s suspension till further instruction,” the director said. She said that as alternate arrangements, they would be asking all concerned staff and employees to fill a self-declaration form stating that they are not drunk during duty hours. “All employees involved in operations will have to compulsorily fill this self-declaration as instructed by DGCA,” she added. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/no-breath-analyzer-test-for-aviation-staff-for-now/articleshow/75795298.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan govt will arrange special buses for migrant labourers||JAIPUR: In a major relief for inbound and outbound migrant workers, chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Sunday announced Rajasthan Shramik (workers) Special buses to transport stranded labourers to their home states and bring them back. Following the Centre’s decision, Gehlot also extended the lockdown till May 31 in the state. The official guidelines for the same will be released on Monday. For the smooth operation of these buses, the CM also asked state governments to grant their consent for safe and speedy interstate movement of migrant labourers. However, it is not clear if the state will ply buses under the Rajasthan State Roadways Tranaport Corporation. In a tweet on the subject, Gehlot said, “I would also urge Government of India to facilitate transportation of migrant workers by interstate coordination and funding of their travel by buses under State Disaster Response Fund.” CM: Pained by the way migrants are walking towards their homesDuring a meeting on Sunday he said, “I am pained by the way migrant labourers are walking towards their destinations. It has caused embarrassment across the country and also globally." While reviewing the pendency of recruitment in government departments, he also assured that the state would complete the recruitments on a priority basis. He said directions have been issued to all departments in this regard. “The delay in the recruitment process due to legal issues or any other issues like complexities of rules creates a negative impact on the mind of the job-seeker. The department concerned should amend the rules, if necessary, to streamline the process,” said Gehlot. At the meeting, he asked various departments to streamline the recruitment process by preparing an exam calendar with the RPSC and the recruitment board so as to not inconvenience candidates.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/state-will-arrangespecial-buses-formigrant-labourers/articleshow/75795743.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Ajmer||With 242 Covid-19 cases, Rajasthan records highest in a day; jails report 29||JAIPUR: As many as 242 new Covid-19 cases were reported on Sunday, making it the highest single-day spike and taking the virus count to 5,202 in the state. For the past four days, the state has reported over 200 cases daily. The highest number of infected persons in a single day reported earlier was 213 on Friday, which was repeated on Saturday. Five persons died in the state on Sunday taking the toll to 131. While two deaths happened in Jaipur, one each person died in Bikaner, Bharatpur and Kota. After the district jail reported virus cases, the health department detected 26 inmates from the Central jail and three from the district jail with Covid-19 on Sunday. A total of 157 inmates have now tested positive for Covid-19 at the district and central jails so far. Out of those who tested positive, 76 are migrants who came to Rajasthan recently and reached their hometowns in various parts of the state. The migrants accounted for 31% of the total persons testing positive on Sunday. From May 1, 460 migrants tested positive. “There are 20 lakh people who have registered for coming and going out of the state. Those entering the state will be quarantined at their homes if they have sufficient place, otherwise they will be kept at institutional facilities,” health minister Raghu Sharma said. The districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (60), Jodhpur (43), Dungarpur (18), Udaipur (17), Pali (14), Churu (13), Sikar (12), Nagaur (11), Rajsamand (10), Sirohi (10), Bhilwara (5), Kota (5), Bikaner (5), Barmer (4), Jalore (3), Chittorgarh (2), Jhunjhunu (2), Alwar (2), Dausa (1), Ajmer (1), Karauli (1), Sawai Madhopur (1), Jhalawar (1) and Pratapgarh (1). The number of persons who have been discharged after being cured has increased to 2,572. This is almost half the total number of cases reported in the state till date.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/with-242-cases-staterecords-highest-in-aday-jails-report-29/articleshow/75800985.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Dehradun||No pilgrims this Char Dham season, women’s group resorts to making masks||Dehradun: With no pilgrim being allowed to undertake the Char Dham Yatra due to the novel coronavirus pandemic, a group of 25 women, who were earlier dependent on the tourism industry for livelihood, have now started making cloth masks for sale in the local markets. In the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak, civic officials in Rudraprayag has joined hands with a local self-help group and provided training to 25 women on manufacturing cloth masks based on the Union health ministry’s guidelines. Rudraprayag Nagar Palika executive officer Seema Rawat said, “Masks have emerged as the most sought after product in the wake of the novel coronavirus pandemic. Hence, we sourced the cloth locally and started making masks with the help of the women’s group. We gave them sewing machines, electric irons and packaging materials. Our efforts have paid off as they have done business to the tune of Rs 2 lakh already.” Each mask made by the group is priced at Rs 20 and they make over 300 pieces daily. With hundreds of migrants returning home due to the extended lockdown, they expect that the demand would grow manifold in the coming days. The group’s head Deepa Panwar said, “All of us work from our homes and the masks are collected from our doorsteps for delivery. We have roughly made a profit of over Rs 8,000 each so far. It is way better than what we used to earn by making incense sticks.” With the revival of the tourism industry not likely anytime soon, others associated with the hospitality sector, too, have resorted to other vocations like agriculture and poultry farming to make up for their losses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/no-pilgrims-this-char-dham-season-womens-group-resorts-to-making-masks/articleshow/75793833.cms||Yogesh Kumar
May 18, 2020||Indore||Varsity rolls back decision to hike fee||Indore: Devi Ahilya Vishwavidyalaya (DAVV) has decided to refrain from increasing fee for any course in new academic session. Considering the current situation of economy due to the pandemic, the varsity has decided not to hike fees of any of the under graduate or post graduate courses for the new session. The fee committee had already submitted report with increased fee for all subjects in the January. However, looking at the situation, the fee plan has been rolled back, media spokesperson of DAVV, Dr Chandan Gupta told TOI. “This decision of taking back the fee plan was done unanimously in the meeting of the heads of various university teaching departments (UTD),” he added. The varsity had also decided to take no fee from the students who lost either of their parents to Covid or their siblings on whom they were financially dependent especially for the fee. While the varsity has planned to conduct examination of various under graduate and post graduate students of university teaching departments in July and that of affiliated colleges after lockdown is over. DAVV has decided to conduct separate special examination after a span of two months. This exam will be conducted separately for those students who are unable to come for the exam in July due to genuine reason including being stuck in red zone. Moreover, five-member committee of vice chancellor formed by Governor office has given time span from June 20 to July 31 to conduct the examination of final year students. The report has been submitted to Governor office and the major focus of the committee was examinations. The committee has suggested that the duration of exam time should be decreased from three hours to two hours and the number of questions to be attempted should also be decreased for second year and first year. Those students that couldn’t fare well in the exam will get second chance but that will not be called supplementary exam, one of the committee members told TOI wishing anonymity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/varsity-rolls-back-decision-to-hike-fee/articleshow/75795306.cms||Laveena Francis
May 18, 2020||Lucknow||Four health workers on Covid-19 battlefront among nine new cases||Lucknow: The number of Covid-19 cases in the city crossed the 300-mark on Sunday, with four more corona warriors — all health workers, including a female doctor and two women staff nurses, testing positive for novel coronavirus among the nine new cases that pushed the city tally to 305. The three corona warriors, a female doctor and two female nurses who were part of a 25-member team from Hardoi, got infected during duty at Ram Sagar Mishra Hospital, taking the number of medical personnel diagnosed with Covid-19 to nine since the outbreak on March 11. The Ram Sagar Mishra Hospital, which successfully treated 97 patients, highest in comparison to other hospitals in the city so far, was closed for four days for sanitisation. The health workers and 17 indoor patients in the hospital were shifted to Lokbandhu hospital. “The employees of the hotel where the team was staying have been asked to home quarantine themselves,” said Lucknow district chief medical officer Dr Narendra Agarwal. Besides, an emergency medical technician, a resident of Charbagh, deployed in ambulance duty for Covid-19 was the fourth corona warrior to test positive. The reports of the four health workers were found positive during precautionary drill under which all frontline medical personnel are tested at regular intervals. Earlier, a doctor, two nurses and paramedics each had tested positive, but all of them have recovered now. Meanwhile, four patients were discharged from various hospitals after defeating the virus. So far, the city has recorded 305 Covid-19 cases, of which 237 have recovered, translating into an exceptionally good recovery rate of over 77%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/four-health-workers-on-covid-19-battlefront-among-nine-new-cases/articleshow/75795749.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Nagpur||Officer among two killed in Maoist ambush||Nagpur: Police sub-inspector Dhanaji Honmane, in-charge of Bhamragarh Quick Response Team (QRT), and C-60 commando Kishor Atram were killed during a gun-battle with the Maoists in the forest of Poyerkothi-Koparshi in Bhamragarh tehsil of south Gadchiroli on Sunday morning. Three more jawans, including one identified as Dasru Kurchami, were injured. Police claimed that few Maoists too were hit but there is no confirmation yet. SP Shailesh Balkawade was not available for comment. The incident, now being analysed as a ‘call ambush’, took place at the gateway of Maoist bastion of Abhujmadh on Maharashtra-Chhattisgarh border. A failure of standard operation procedure (SOP) cannot be ruled out as the combined party of QRT and C-60 commandos had made a night halt at the sensitive location and the Maoist managed to trap the jawans returning through the forest on foot. Honmane and Atram were piloting the squad through the forested trail when they were targeted by the Company 10 formations of the Maoists along with Bhamragarh and Gatta Local guerrilla squads (LGS). The latest incident marked the comeback of Maoists in the district where police had sent them on back foot after last year’s Jambhulkheda blast where 15 QRT jawans and one civilian were killed. Honmane had received the director general of police insignia for his outstanding work in Gadchiroli on April 30 this year. Son of a farmer, Honmane had come from a struggling family in Solapur. He was engaged but marriage had to be deferred due to lockdown. Honmane was posted in Gadchiroli since August 2017 and taken part in several encounters. Constable Atram, a local tribal from Arewada of Gadchiroli, is married with a four-year-old son. Maoists had to wait for almost 11 years to hit an officer of Gadchiroli police after the martyrdom of sub-inspector of Chandrashekhar Deshmukh at Laheri encounter in 2009. In 2013, the Maoists had managed to eliminate an officer of the State Reserve Police Force (SRPF) in a blast. It’s learnt, the combined force of QRT and C-60 commandos had left their police base on Saturday and entered deep forests following information about Maoist presence along the border. The cops had learnt that the Maoists were visiting and conducting meetings at villages to send messages to tendu leaves contractor for extortion. Sources in the district said the police patrolling party was lured by the Maoists who had set up a fake camping site with empty tents and some utensils and such material around. The jawans, who had halted on the hillock in the forest, were informed by the villagers about this camp. The jawans searched the place and halted in the night. They became easy target for Maoists who had laid an ambush in the forest along the single path which the jawans used for their return. The Maoists opened fire after the police party led by PSI Honmane and Atram reached within their firing range. It’s learnt, DGP Subodh Jaiswal and Addl DG (Operations) Rajender Singh are in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/officer-among-two-killed-in-maoist-ambush/articleshow/75795747.cms||Soumitra Bose
May 18, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Govt asks all depts to clear pending dues of MSMEs, industries & civic bodies||Bhubaneswar: In a significant move to help the lockdown-hit micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs), industries and also the municipalities and service providing utilities facing financial crunch owing to Covid-19, the state finance department has asked all departments to clear the dues pending against the above entities by the end of this month. Keeping in view the difficult times owing to the lockdown to prevent the novel coronavirus, all government offices, state PSUs and other autonomous bodies are instructed that all dues/claims of MSMEs, industries, municipalities and utilities should be released immediately within two weeks, state finance secretary Ashok Meena wrote in a letter to all the secretaries and heads of departments. The move aims to help the entities tide over the period of extremely low revenue realisation, thereby improving their financial health to some extent. This is a part of government’s consolidated efforts to fight this crisis on multiple fronts, a senior government official said. While the government offices, state PSUs and other autonomous bodies like universities procure goods and avail services from MSMEs and industries, they don’t settle the dues/claims in time pushing them to financial hurdles. Similarly, dues like electricity bill, holding tax and water bills are also pending against utilities and municipalities. Though there is no official figure of the pending dues against the entities, official sources said it could be more than Rs 1,000 crore. Clearing the dues of MSMEs and industries is crucial for their survival at this critical moment. The MSME associations also raised the issue during a recent meeting with the state government. The finance department has made an adequate budget provision for all the departments. They should utilise the amount and clear the dues, the official said. The Centre’s recent economic package for the MSME sector also emphasised on creating a special fund to clear the dues of small and medium industries. Apart from the dues, the departments have also been asked to release the security deposits or performance securities collected from contractors and suppliers to ensure the proper and timely execution of a contract. The amount deposited by the suppliers or contractors is usually refunded by the authorities once a contract is successfully executed. However, many departments have held the deposit for years without clearing them on time, the official said. In his letter, the finance secretary also asked the departments to submit a consolidated report to the finance department on the amount cleared by various departments and PSUs under their administrative control by June 5.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/govt-asks-all-depts-to-clear-pending-dues-of-msmes-industries-civic-bodies/articleshow/75793858.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Udaipur||With 242 Covid-19 cases, Rajasthan records highest in a day; jails report 29||JAIPUR: As many as 242 new Covid-19 cases were reported on Sunday, making it the highest single-day spike and taking the virus count to 5,202 in the state. For the past four days, the state has reported over 200 cases daily. The highest number of infected persons in a single day reported earlier was 213 on Friday, which was repeated on Saturday. Five persons died in the state on Sunday taking the toll to 131. While two deaths happened in Jaipur, one each person died in Bikaner, Bharatpur and Kota. After the district jail reported virus cases, the health department detected 26 inmates from the Central jail and three from the district jail with Covid-19 on Sunday. A total of 157 inmates have now tested positive for Covid-19 at the district and central jails so far. Out of those who tested positive, 76 are migrants who came to Rajasthan recently and reached their hometowns in various parts of the state. The migrants accounted for 31% of the total persons testing positive on Sunday. From May 1, 460 migrants tested positive. “There are 20 lakh people who have registered for coming and going out of the state. Those entering the state will be quarantined at their homes if they have sufficient place, otherwise they will be kept at institutional facilities,” health minister Raghu Sharma said. The districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (60), Jodhpur (43), Dungarpur (18), Udaipur (17), Pali (14), Churu (13), Sikar (12), Nagaur (11), Rajsamand (10), Sirohi (10), Bhilwara (5), Kota (5), Bikaner (5), Barmer (4), Jalore (3), Chittorgarh (2), Jhunjhunu (2), Alwar (2), Dausa (1), Ajmer (1), Karauli (1), Sawai Madhopur (1), Jhalawar (1) and Pratapgarh (1). The number of persons who have been discharged after being cured has increased to 2,572. This is almost half the total number of cases reported in the state till date.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/with-242-cases-staterecords-highest-in-aday-jails-report-29/articleshow/75800984.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Jaipur||With 242 Covid-19 cases, Rajasthan records highest in a day; jails report 29||JAIPUR: As many as 242 new Covid-19 cases were reported on Sunday, making it the highest single-day spike and taking the virus count to 5,202 in the state. For the past four days, the state has reported over 200 cases daily. The highest number of infected persons in a single day reported earlier was 213 on Friday, which was repeated on Saturday. Five persons died in the state on Sunday taking the toll to 131. While two deaths happened in Jaipur, one each person died in Bikaner, Bharatpur and Kota. After the district jail reported virus cases, the health department detected 26 inmates from the Central jail and three from the district jail with Covid-19 on Sunday. A total of 157 inmates have now tested positive for Covid-19 at the district and central jails so far. Out of those who tested positive, 76 are migrants who came to Rajasthan recently and reached their hometowns in various parts of the state. The migrants accounted for 31% of the total persons testing positive on Sunday. From May 1, 460 migrants tested positive. “There are 20 lakh people who have registered for coming and going out of the state. Those entering the state will be quarantined at their homes if they have sufficient place, otherwise they will be kept at institutional facilities,” health minister Raghu Sharma said. The districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (60), Jodhpur (43), Dungarpur (18), Udaipur (17), Pali (14), Churu (13), Sikar (12), Nagaur (11), Rajsamand (10), Sirohi (10), Bhilwara (5), Kota (5), Bikaner (5), Barmer (4), Jalore (3), Chittorgarh (2), Jhunjhunu (2), Alwar (2), Dausa (1), Ajmer (1), Karauli (1), Sawai Madhopur (1), Jhalawar (1) and Pratapgarh (1). The number of persons who have been discharged after being cured has increased to 2,572. This is almost half the total number of cases reported in the state till date.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/with-242-cases-staterecords-highest-in-aday-jails-report-29/articleshow/75795752.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Sholinganallur sees 13-fold rise in Covid-19 cases||CHENNAI: While the focus on increasing number of Covid-19 cases has been on Royapuram, Thiru-vi-ka Nagar and Kodambakkam zones, statistics released by Greater Chennai Corporation show that the rate of increase in May has been higher in zones like Sholinganallur, Adyar and Madhavaram. For instance, from May 4 to 10, cases in Royapuram have increased by 107% (doubled). During the same period, cases in Adyar zone saw a 448% jump, increased by 5.5 times. Similarly, cases went up by 4.2 times in Sholinganallur zone and 5.1 times in Madhavaram. A similar trend is seen during the period from May 4 to May 17, with Sholingnallur registering a 13-fold jump in number of cases, while cases in Adyar and Madhavaram surged by 11.6 times. Considered a troublesome hotspot, Thiru-vi-ka Nagar however, had the least surge, indicating that containment measures may have worked best in the zone. Twitter user @amasaesle, who posted a comparison of the rate of growth of the cases on social media, said between May 9 and 15, cases in Sholinganallur grew by a daily average of 28%, while the city’s average was 11.2%. Cases in Thiru-vi-ka Nagar grew at 6% daily. Speaking to TOI, officials said this indicated that the Covid-19 virus was now spreading across the city, while it was restricted to a few clusters in April. “For instance, cases in Adyar and Sholinganallur shot up in few days due to the Thiruvanmiyur market and the Kannagi Nagar slum clearance board apartments clusters,” an official said. Cases reported in residential colonies in Madhavaram were linked to the milk factory as well as Koyambedu market clusters. Ambattur zone, which had zero cases for around three weeks, saw a five fold jump between May 4 and May 17. J Radhakrishnan, special officer for Covid-19 deputed to Greater Chennai Corporation, has stated that they have formed street-wise plans for different zones to tackle the spread. For instance, a separate plan has been formed for Kannagi Nagar, while the narrow streets of Royapuram will have a different containment strategy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/sholinganallur-sees-13-fold-rise-in-cases/articleshow/75795303.cms||Siddharth Prabhakar
May 18, 2020||Kolhapur||Man injured in leopard attack||Kolhapur: A 34-year-old man was injured in a leopard attack at Charan village of Shirala taluka in Sangli district on Saturday. The incident has led to panic among the residents of the region as it was the third occasion where a big cat has attacked a human or animal. According to an official from the forest department, the victim, Raju Kondiba Shingmode, had gone to his farm with two other people for harvesting the maize crop in the wee hours of Saturday. “After Shingmode entered the farm, the leopard, which was already present there, attacked him. After hearing Shingmode’s cry for help, the other two people rushed to rescue him following which the leopard fled,” he said, adding the victim was first taken to a primary health centre and then to Sangli civil hospital for treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/man-injured-in-leopard-attack/articleshow/75793846.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Jodhpur||With 242 Covid-19 cases, Rajasthan records highest in a day; jails report 29||JAIPUR: As many as 242 new Covid-19 cases were reported on Sunday, making it the highest single-day spike and taking the virus count to 5,202 in the state. For the past four days, the state has reported over 200 cases daily. The highest number of infected persons in a single day reported earlier was 213 on Friday, which was repeated on Saturday. Five persons died in the state on Sunday taking the toll to 131. While two deaths happened in Jaipur, one each person died in Bikaner, Bharatpur and Kota. After the district jail reported virus cases, the health department detected 26 inmates from the Central jail and three from the district jail with Covid-19 on Sunday. A total of 157 inmates have now tested positive for Covid-19 at the district and central jails so far. Out of those who tested positive, 76 are migrants who came to Rajasthan recently and reached their hometowns in various parts of the state. The migrants accounted for 31% of the total persons testing positive on Sunday. From May 1, 460 migrants tested positive. “There are 20 lakh people who have registered for coming and going out of the state. Those entering the state will be quarantined at their homes if they have sufficient place, otherwise they will be kept at institutional facilities,” health minister Raghu Sharma said. The districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (60), Jodhpur (43), Dungarpur (18), Udaipur (17), Pali (14), Churu (13), Sikar (12), Nagaur (11), Rajsamand (10), Sirohi (10), Bhilwara (5), Kota (5), Bikaner (5), Barmer (4), Jalore (3), Chittorgarh (2), Jhunjhunu (2), Alwar (2), Dausa (1), Ajmer (1), Karauli (1), Sawai Madhopur (1), Jhalawar (1) and Pratapgarh (1). The number of persons who have been discharged after being cured has increased to 2,572. This is almost half the total number of cases reported in the state till date.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/with-242-cases-staterecords-highest-in-aday-jails-report-29/articleshow/75800983.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Bengaluru||Nearly six lakh labourers wait to leave Karnataka||BENGALURU: While several industry representatives expressed concerns over the continuing exodus of workers and labourers from the state, migrants themselves continued relentless efforts to find transport – just about any means – to return to their home states. As on Sunday, about 6 lakh inter-state migrant workers stranded in Karnataka had registered with the state government’s Seva Sindhu portal to leave and were awaiting confirmation. More than 3 lakh of these workers are stranded in Bengaluru city alone. Officials coordinating travel arrangements promised transport for all wanting to leave and urged them not to walk back home on highways and railway tracks. "So far, nearly 1.2 lakh migrants have been sent back to their home states in trains from Karnataka," N Manjunath Prasad, state nodal officer responsible for handling migrants who want to leave, told TOI. "We are working day and night to ensure all those who’ve registered get trains to go, but it is a complex process given that we are not the only stakeholder." Data accessed by TOI shows that until Sunday morning, a little over 1 lakh migrants were sent on 76 trains operated from May 3. A majority of them (32,132) went to UP in 23 trains, followed by Bihar (29,038) in 21 trains, and the rest went to 10 other states including Jharkhand (15,081) and Odisha (6,701). On Sunday alone, South Western Railway operated 12 Shramik special (SS) trains, which according to Prasad, transported 15,000 people. This takes the total number of people who’ve left in SS trains to 1.2 lakh. Separate data accessed shows that as on Sunday morning, 5.6 lakh migrant workers had registered on the state government portal, of whom 3.1 lakh are in Bengaluru city, while another 69,038 are in Bengaluru Rural, Kolar-Chikkaballapura and Ramanagara. By evening, the number of applications stood at 5.9 lakh, with most applicants from Bihar (1.4 lakh) and Uttar Pradesh (1.1 lakh). A construction company managing director told TOI: "If this continues, it will become difficult for us to resume our projects, including several government projects. The government must work on giving them a reason to stay back." Prasad said, "Our teams have been burning the midnight oil to ensure no migrant is left behind. From ground teams collating lists to senior officers coordinating with 12 to 15 different states, we’ve been working without a break. But the process is time consuming given that other states also have to cooperate with us and they have their own challenges. All the railway officials, Bengaluru police commissioner and his team, BMTC and various deputy commissioners are doing good work." Prasad said states like Bihar, UP, Jharkhand and Odisha, for instance, were accepting migrants from across the country, which means trains going to destinations there will be phased out. "If they give consent for trains from Karnataka today, they look at other states before coming back to us, and it is understandable given that they cannot manage the huge influx of people in one go," Prasad said. Among the people stranded in Karnataka too, more than 60% are from these four states which makes it difficult for the authorities. Of the 12 SS trains that departed from Karnataka on Sunday — the highest number of such trains on a single day — one from Hubballi and two from Hospet left for UP, while seven Bihar-bound trains departed from Bengaluru. Two other trains from Mysuru also went to Bihar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/nearly-six-lakh-labourers-wait-to-leave-karnataka/articleshow/75794754.cms||Chethan Kumar
May 18, 2020||Chennai||Parked vehicle at Chennai station? Get ready to pay a bomb||CHENNAI: Hundreds of city residents who left for their native places, leaving vehicles in metro stations, bus stops and railway stations might on their return have to pay a hefty parking fee, except in Chennai Moffusil Bus Teminus (CMBT) at Koyambedu. These stations, on an average, charge Rs 25-Rs 60 a day for parking two-wheelers and almost twice that for four-wheelers. When the lockdown was announced on March 23, most people who parked their vehicles at bus/train stations and left didn’t anticipate it would be extended beyond two months, with the latest extension going up to May 31. With the norms relaxed, many people are returning to the city, and many two-wheeler owners may have to pay more than Rs 1,500 for the bikes they left behind. Chaos erupted at CMBT during the weekend that just passed. The CMDA then directed the contractor to collect the parking fee only for one day and not for the entire period. An official circular said 1,359 two-wheelers and 145 cars were parked at CMBT. No such announcement was made for other major transit hubs like Tambaram, Broadway, Egmore and Mambalam. “…If not for one day, the contractors can charge a fixed amount like Rs 500 per vehicle,” said R Gopalan, who left his vehicle at Mambalam railway station. S Rangaprasad, a civic activist from Satta Panchayat Iyakkam, said tyres of most vehicles may be flat by now. Also, other technical issues might arise since the vehicles have been lying idle for a long time. “To avoid such issues, an air supply kiosk could be set up near major parking lots. This way, even if there is a technical issue, the vehicle can be towed away.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/parked-vehicle-at-city-stn-get-ready-to-pay-a-bomb/articleshow/75795310.cms||Ram Sundaram
May 18, 2020||Chennai||Away from island home, Andaman natives struggle in Chennai||CHENNAI: The lockdown has left about 600 residents of Andaman and Nicobar Islands stranded in Chennai, where they had come on business, for medical treatment or to visit kin. Unlike the rest of the country that is connected by roads and railways, the islands in the Bay of Bengal can be accessed only by air or sea. Anand Thyagarajan, a businessman from Port Blair, has been staying with a relative at Tiruvottiyur since before the lockdown began on March 24. “I came to Chennai on business and am unable to return because there is no connectivity to Andaman and Nicobar Islands,” he said. He wonders why no one is trying to help people like him when buses and trains are being run for guest workers and flights are being operated to bring back Indians stranded abroad. “I do not understand why no such effort is being made to return us home. A passenger vessel that was scheduled to take us to our Union territory on May 6 was cancelled,” he said. Daljeet Kaur of Dollygunj in the Andamans came to the city for medical treatment along with 11 members of her family on March 21, expecting to go back home in a week. But, the lockdown has left them cooped up in the Andaman and Nicobar Islands government guest house at KK Nagar. “We are running out of money and struggling to get back to our hometown,” she said. The family has spent Rs 1 lakh during their stay of two months and lost Rs 20,000 on airfare.  When contacted, Andaman and Nicobar Islands’ deputy resident commissioner in Chennai V Boobalakani said the territorial administration was taking steps to send those stranded here back home by air. “Another 1,100 people are stranded in other parts of the country. The guest house is not charging for accommodation and is providing food free to the stranded people. Measures are being initiated to return them home soon,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/away-from-island-home-andaman-natives-struggle-in-city/articleshow/75795313.cms||Yogesh Kabirdoss
May 18, 2020||Goa||IGP urges cops to treat migrants with compassion||Panaji: With migrant labourers stranded in Goa getting restless waiting to return to their native states, inspector general of police (IGP) Jaspal Singh directed Goa police personnel to “deal with migrants with compassion”. Around one lakh migrant labourers have registered with the nodal officer to leave the state, out of which over 15,000 have already departed in rains, buses and private vehicles.Singh said migrant workers hailing from Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and many other states are desperately trying to leave Goa on foot or by bicycle. “We need to handle them with compassion and explain to them that undertaking such journeys is fraught with dangers, and that several people have met with road accidentstrying to get home on foot, in different parts of the country,” Singh said. The IGP said that migrants also need to be told that the state administration is in touch with their state governments and very soon, possibly next week, they would receive information about their travel arrangements from the interstate movement cell. “Migrants need to be told that they would be sent home in turns, dsitrict-wise, and they need to stay calm. They must wait for the message on their mobile, and not attempt to walk to different government offices,” he said “The administration is well aware of their eagerness to get back home and is doing everything possible to ensure their return home. Our officers and men at all levels need to handle them in the most compassionate and sympathetic manner,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/igp-urges-cops-to-treat-migrants-with-compassion/articleshow/75795915.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Kolhapur||Kolhapur’s quarantine units full, travellers shifted to other facilities||Kolhapur: The institutional quarantine centres set up in the city, which can together take in 3,500 people, have exhausted their capacity. On Saturday midnight, travellers bought for swab collection at the Chhatrapati Pramila Raje Hospital had to wait for almost the entire day. Eventually, after the complaints, the district disaster management staff decided to shift them to the quarantine centres in nearby towns. Prasad Sankpal, the district disaster management officer, said, “The travellers are compulsorily bought to the covid care centres for screening and swab collection. They are not allowed to return to their homes till they test negative. We have a capacity of 3,500 people in the quarantine centres in the city, and we are all full now. Therefore, we have shifted over 300 travellers to the quarantine centres set up outside the city.” Like at the CPR hospital, rush is observed in all the 12 other screening centres in the district. Recently, many people who had returned from Covid hotspots have tested positive. To avoid community transmission, the district administration has decided to compulsory carry out swab testing and quarantining of people coming from Pune, Mumbai, Satara, Karad and Solapur. People are being directed to the nearest screening centre from the district border checkpoints. District collector Daulat Desai has written to the state police chief to order the police commissioners and superintendents of the hotspot cities and red zone districts to not allow people to travel to Kolhapur without an approval from the Kolhapur district administration. Without travel passes, many have been asked to stay at the district borders while those coming from neighbouring districts have been asked to go back. The travellers lodged at the Shivaji University hostel, which has been turned into quarantine facility, also complained of poor treatment. Many took to social media stating that they are neither allowed to go home nor informed about their test results.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/kolhapurs-quarantine-units-full-travellers-shifted-to-other-facilities/articleshow/75793896.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Nagpur||64 new cases in Vid, Covid count crosses 850-mark||Nagpur: Covid-19 cases in Vidarbha region surpassed 850-mark on Sunday with total 64 new confirmed positive cases reported from three Red zone districts in the region. Akola reported 38 cases, followed by 18 in Nagpur, and five in Amravati. Buldhana, which was almost Covid-free a week ago, reported four new cases in the last two days taking Vidarbha’s Covid-19 count to 858. These include two deaths — one in Nagpur and another in Akola. In Nagpur, swab samples of a man from Shanti Nagar, who was brought dead to the IGGMCH, tested positive on Sunday confirming sixth Covid-19 death of the city. In Akola, a 48-year-old man had died on May 13 at Murtizapur, a tehsil headquarters 40km from the city. This man tested positive for Covid-19 on Sunday which indicates that novel coronavirus has reached to rural parts of Akola district. Apart from the post death +ve, Akola recorded 37 new cases on Sunday which took total number of cases in the district to 257. Sudden surge in number of positive patients has put the district administration on alert. District collector Jitendra Papalkar announced that Akola district will observe full lockdown on May 19 and 20. From May 21 onwards, shops will remain open only between 7am to 1pm. Shops related to farming can stay open up to 4pm. Buldhana, which was Covid-free till May 10, has reported five cases in the last six days. More worrisome fact is that all these cases are from different rural areas of the district. A 55-year-old fruitseller, who had travelled to Burhanpur in MP, tested positive on May 11. On May 16, a 35-year-old sanitary worker of Shegaon Municipal Council area tested positive. On May 17, a 60-year old woman, who had returned from Mumbai to her hometown Khamgaon, tested positive along with a seven-year-old girl who came from Mumbai to Narvel village in Malkapur tehsil of Buldhana. Health administration is also awaiting result of swab samples of 72-year-old man in Jalgaon Jamod, who had died on Saturday. In Amravati, two SRPF jawans are among five to test positive for novel coronavirus since Saturday night, taking the district’s Covid count to 106. The SRPF jawans — aged 27 and 29 — were among the 56 called back to Amravati following six of their colleagues testing positive in Malegaon and quarantined here. Swabs of 17 of the 56 were sent for testing and reports of the duo came positive late on Saturday night. While they have been admitted to Covid ward, swabs of the rest 15, who tested negative, have been taken again and sent for testing. With these two jawans, the district has thus far seen nine corona warriors contracting the virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/64-new-cases-in-vid-covid-count-crosses-850-mark/articleshow/75795763.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Goa||Goa: Locals protest against development of playground||SALIGAO: Throwing caution and social distancing rules to the wind, a large number of sportspersons and sportslovers, both young and old, assembled at an open space at Cunchelim on Sunday to oppose the comunidade's plan to convert the land, which has always been a playground for the locals, into plots. On being informed, the Mapusa police arrived at the spot and dispersed the gathering. Speaking to TOI, Shekar Naik, a local, said that it was not right to demarcate plots in the open space , which has always been a playground. Naik further said that citizens planned to move the courts to bring a stay on the development of the land by the comunidade. When TOI contacted the attorney of the Cunchelim comunidade, Amancio D'Souza, he said, “The comunidade has all the approvals from the Planning developement authority (PDA) and Mapusa Municipal Council to undertake the development“.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/locals-protest-against-development-of-playground/articleshow/75795750.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Lucknow||Fewer elderly patients keep recovery rate high||Lucknow: Covid-19 cases in the city crossed 300 mark on Sunday, but thankfully, only one death has been reported so far. The lone death was reported on April 16 when a 64-year-old patient, who also had diabetes and kidney problem, died due to renal failure during treatment. According to experts, the number of infections among the elderly is very low in comparison to other age groups. Of total patients, the age group of 61-80 years constituted only 12.45% and only 1% patients were over 81 years of age. More than 45% patients reported so far have been in 21-40 age group and 27.54% between 41 and 60 years. About 11.58% patients belonged to the age group of 11-20 years while only 1.9% were children below 10 years. Overall in the state, 49.5% patients are of 21-40 age group and 25.6% are in the age group of 41-60 years. In charge of infectious disease unit at KGMU Dr D Himanshu said, “It is good that infection rate in the city has been low among elderly who have co-morbid health conditions which may prove fatal. World over, death rate of elderly patients has been higher.” According to experts, people in the age group of 21-60 years have strong immunity which helps in recovery. This also reflects in city’s recovery rate. So far, 237 patients (78%) have recovered. UP’s recovery rate is 57.32%. Additional chief medical officer Dr AP Singh said, “The recovery rate is also high as 72% cases are asymptomatic because of strong immunity.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/fewer-elderly-patients-keep-recovery-rate-high/articleshow/75795760.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Kolhapur||Raju Shetti: Add farm & dairy operations in MNREGA to provide jobs to migrants||Kolhapur: To accommodate the large number of people returning to their villages and reduce the financial burden on the farmers, farmer leader Raju Shetti has suggested the inclusion of farm and dairy work in the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA).Speaking to TOI, Shetti said most of those returning to the villages were employed in the cities as industrial workers or in the services sector. Their return to the villages will put a strain on the rural economy, which has no jobs other than farming activities.“If a person is provided work through MGNREGA, then he or she will get a daily wage as fixed by the Centre. I have learnt that the Centre is increasing MNREGA allocations. While the local and state authorities are more focussed on fighting the Covid crisis, I suggest the inclusion of farming and dairy activities in the MNREGA scheme,” he said. — Abhijeet Patil||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/raju-shetti-add-farm-dairy-operations-in-mnrega-to-provide-jobs-to-migrants/articleshow/75793878.cms||Abhijeet Patil
May 18, 2020||Hyderabad||American out mountain biking, trips & dies||Hyderabad: An American passionate about mountain biking died in Gandipet area after he lost control on a hillock on Sunday afternoon. Narsingi police said that Paul Robert alias Little John, 42, was staying in Hyderabad for the last one-and-half-years with his wife, who is an employee in an IT company in the city. On Sunday morning, Paul left his residence at Gachibowli and cycled his way to the Gandipet reservoir area. Since Robert was inaccessible on his phone, his worried wife reached out to Gachibowli police late evening. Cops eventually pinpointed the tower location to Gandipet. Paul’s friend, who generally accompanies him on cycling trips, did not accompany him on Sunday. But after hearing about the accident, he took cops to the hilly terrain near the lake where they generally go for mountain biking. After reaching the spot, Paul was found dead with a cracked helmet bleeding injuries. “He was wearing a helmet which had cracked and he died following the impact. Such was the fall,” said a senior Cyberabad police official. “It looks like he lost control and fell down and sustained injuries on his head. Post-mortem is yet to be done,’’ he added. Police suspect that he might have had a 10 meters fall, resulting in his death. Paul, a mechanical engineer by profession, has two children. A case was registered under section 174 (suspicious death) of CrPC||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/american-out-mountain-biking-trips-dies/articleshow/75795766.cms||Srinath Vudali
May 18, 2020||Bhopal||Silver lining: Doubling rate of corona cases reduces in Bhopal||BHOPAL: The doubling rate of coronavirus cases in Bhopal has reduced, giving hope that if the efforts continue, the state capital could start witnessing a downward curve or at least flattenining of the Covid-19 curve. The rate at which Covid-19 cases are doubling in Bhopal has gone down, said Bhopal chief medical and health officer (CMHO), Dr Prabhakar Tiwari. Exactly a month ago, on April 18, the case increase rate was pegged at 45% (data from April 10 to 18, when cases jumped from 116 to 213). The recovery rate at the same time was pegged at 14% or 31 of the 213 identified cases had been discharged after hospitalisation for Covid-19. In the next four days, Bhopal reported 90 new Covid-19 cases, while only four patients recovered. The total number of cases on April 22 touched 303. By May 1, Bhopal had reported 526 Covid-positive cases. While 223 new cases were reported in nine days, the recovery rate improved too. As many as 148 people were discharged from hospital in the same period. The percentage of the number of people who have recovered and those who have been diagnosed has inverted to some extent. “Sampling and identification of cases improved. Also, this was the period wherein most of the health and police department officials were added to the list of recovered. Most of them were asymptomatic,” said a health department consultant. So far, about 525 or about 52% have recovered from Covid-19 in Bhopal. The city ranks in the top 20 urban cities in India with a recovery rate of more than 50% and reported more than 200 Covid-19 cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/silver-lining-doubling-rate-of-cases-reduces-in-bhopal/articleshow/75795315.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Amaravati||From Chicago to safety in quarantine facilities in Andhra Pradesh||AMARAVATI: The first batch of passengers who landed at the Hyderabad international airport on Saturday from Chicago were brought to the state in special buses on Sunday. The foreign returnees were shifted to quarantine facilities of their choice. Unlike many states, which are offering only paid quarantine facility, AP is also providing free quarantine facility. The first direct flight carrying foreign returnees will reach Visakhapatnam airport on May 19. About 2,040 people, stranded in different Gulf nations, will be returning to the state in 13 special flights over the next one week. “We will be bringing in about 2,500 people stranded in Kuwait in two special flights as the Centre has agreed to operate the flights following the chief minister’s request,” said Covid-19 taskforce chairman and principal secretary (R&B) MT Krishnababu. He said another 10,000 people would be returning to the state from different foreign countries in the next seven to10 days. The Telangana government has agreed to set up a special reception centre at the Rajiv Gandhi International Airport for the Andhrites. They will be brought back to their states in special buses. Speaking about the quarantine facility, he said they have readied quarantine facilities in five-star, three-star and two-star hotels along with the government’s free facility. “People can opt from any of the four quarantine facilities. No state government in the country has provided free quarantine facility,” said Krishnababu. While each person staying for two weeks in a five-star hotel, will be charged Rs 35,000, it is Rs 23,000 in three-star and Rs 20,000 in two-star hotels. The package is inclusive of food and accommodation. Meanwhile, the state government has named senior IAS officers Baburao Naidu and Srinivas as special officers to assist the foreign returnees. “In case of emergencies, the people who test negative for Covid-19 will be allowed to be home quarantined after a field inspection officer visits their residences and check the available facilities there and submit a report,” said Krishnababu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/from-chicago-to-safety-in-quarantine-facilities-in-ap/articleshow/75793876.cms||Samdani MN
May 18, 2020||Goa||Student returnees to answer SSC exams separately: GBSHSE||PANAJI: The Goa Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education (GBSHSE) on Sunday released the revised seating arrangement for students who will appear for the Class X public examinations, scheduled to be held from May 21. Chief minister Pramod Sawant said that the SSC exam would be conducted in 2,460 classrooms across the state and said that people should not try to scare students unnecessarily. “Most of the people are of the opinion that exams should be conducted,” he said. As per the new seating arrangement, students, who had left Goa and will be returning to answer the exams, will be seated separately from other students, as a precautionary measure, Goa board chairman Ramkrishna Samant said. To maintain social distancing, the number of exam sub-centres have been increased and only between 10 and 13 students will be seated in each classroom. The board has roped in more teachers, including higher secondary school teachers, to oversee the conduct of the exams but fewer students will be accommodated per examination hall. Along the border areas of Goa, many students from areas of Maharashtra like Banda are enrolled in Goa schools. These Class X students will cross the border each day to answer the board exams, and separate seating arrangements have been made for these students. 41 of such students will be entering Goa from the Satarda entry point, 24 from Ibrampur, Hankane, and 30 from Patradevi, as per the information released by the board. In addition to this, under the Sakhali exam centre, there are 24 students who have relocated outside Goa and will return to the state to answer the Class X exam. This is also the case with three other students under the Valpoi centre. Similarly, information from the board shows that one student of a Sanguem school who had been stranded during the lockdown at Hubballi in Karnataka, will be seated separately in a classroom in a Mollem institute. Two each of such stranded students will be answering the exams under the Margao, Colva and Curtorim sub-centres, and one under Verna sub-centre. In the case of children with special needs who will be answering Class X exam from across Goa, for those who have requested for a reader or writer, even fewer students will be accommodated in each class to maintain social distancing, as per the revised seating arrangement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/student-returnees-to-answer-ssc-exams-separately-board/articleshow/75795756.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Madurai||High court refuses to release lorry used to smuggle PDS rice||Madurai: The Madras high court dismissed the plea to release a lorry that was seized while smuggling PDS rice, observing that every grain of rice is important when there is a shortage during extraordinary situation such as Covid-19 pandemic.The petitioner, M Ramar, moved the court seeking to release the lorry which was seized by Thiruparankundram police on April 23. The petitioner, who is a transport contractor, submitted that had entered an agreement with the Thiruparankundram Co-operative Credit Society to transport essential commodities from the godown at Thoppur to 19 fair price shops functioning under the society. He submitted that a memo was issued granting permission for transportation of commodities, however, the vehicle was seized along with 15kg of PDS rice. He stated that the driver had taken the rice from ration card holders without his knowledge and was ready to contest the criminal case, and sought to release the lorry on conditions.However, the special government pleader submitted that the authorities are maintaining theft and smuggling. She submitted that though the memo was issued at 11.25am, the lorry was seized by the officials at around 10pm and therefore the petitioner had indulged in unlawfully smuggling and transporting PDS rice.On perusal of the submissions, Justice C V Karthikeyan observed that during an extraordinary situation like Covid-19 pandemic, there is a necessity for the government to distribute rice and other essential commodities through fair price shops to the people. “There is shortage of rice and other essential commodities. Transporting such rice, whether after getting it back from the ration card holders or by smuggling the rice to be supplied to the common people, cannot be condoned by this court. Now, we are facing an extraordinary situation where every grain of rice is important for every family,” observed the judge.“The petitioner’s lorry was seized by due process of law and this court is not inclined to grant any order directing return of the same,” added the judge.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/high-court-refuses-to-release-lorry-used-to-smuggle-pds-rice/articleshow/75795323.cms||Kaushik Kannan
May 18, 2020||Nagpur||Enough liquor stock. Won’t go dry, say city wholesalers||Nagpur: Despite witnessing unprecedented rush for liquor after restarting of sale, the city is unlikely to run out of stock very soon. Wholesalers have enough stock to last for over 15 days and they are waiting for transport to resume so that fresh stocks arrive from distilleries. Shiraz Gimi of Bapuna Group, a partner in several wine shops, said he has enough stock for the city to last for days, though some brands might not be available after a couple of days at several locations. “It is a matter to two to three days before fresh stock arrives from distilleries. Wholesalers have enough stock to supply retailers. They had stocked up for summer before the lockdown began so there is nothing to worry,” he told TOI. Adesh Jaiswal of Shriram Sales too said that he had enough stock for 15-17 days. “However, fresh stock is not arriving. I hope transport starts soon,” he added. Wholesalers are happy that administration has allowed home delivery of liquor. “Our stock was lying in godowns for weeks and we were incurring losses. Now as retailers are able to sell huge volumes of liquor, they are placing orders with us,” said Gimi. He added that government had a negative attitude towards liquor industry even though excise duty is second largest revenue generator after goods and services tax (GST). “Home delivery of liquor should have started from day one of the lockdown,” he said. Meanwhile, retailers continue to do roaring business. They are getting too many orders and have limited number of staffers to deliver the stuff. They have started facing problems since Saturday as police and excise staffers have tightened the screws and are allowing them to supply liquor only to permit holders. Action was taken against four retailers for selling liquor to non-permit holders. On Sunday, cops and excise officials were seen at many wine shops and were ensuring a double check of permit at the time of dispatch of liquor. Many shops were selling liquor to permit holders only from day one. This has led to hundreds of people applying for permit online and offline. Excise department earned Rs4.90 lakh by issuing liquor permits on the first day of home delivery. Most of the people applied for one-year permit. Siddhant Agrawal of Sohanlal and Sons at Variety Square said, “We have enough stock and can fulfil the requirement of people. We have also placed orders and from Monday onwards supply is expected to start.” Vinod Johri of Johri Wines said he has run out of regular brands and now has only premium tipples like Scotch whisky. “I also have enough stock of beer and wine. I am expecting a delivery in a day or two,” he told TOI. Meanwhile, a bar near Mahal Zenda Chowk put up a display of contact no. for home delivery. Hundreds of people were seen in front of that bar on Sunday afternoon. A wine shop near Gandhi Gate was found selling liquor with half shutter down. According to a TOI reader, another outlet at Gittikhadan Square flouted home delivery guidelines and surreptitiously supplied liquor to its customers directly in their cars. Covid distancing was nowhere in sight at many wine shops, despite police presence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/enough-liquor-stock-wont-go-dry-say-city-wholesalers/articleshow/75795755.cms||Ashish Roy
May 18, 2020||Vijayawada||Migrant labours from Bengal seek transport to return home||Vijayawada: Tensions prevailed at Patamata after migrant workers from West Bengal staged protests demanding transport to return home. The incident occurred after local YSRC workers prevented CPM state secretary P Madhu along with other party members from visiting a shelter home. They said that they have been taking care of the migrant workers and the state government was making arrangements to send them back home. Amid the war of words, some miscreants hurled stones at the crowd injuring a migrant worker. However, the city police swung into action quickly and managed to control the situation. Madhu alleged that the situation precipitated because of inaction by the West Bengal government. He alleged that chief minister Mamata Benarjee has not given permission for migrant workers to return. Sources in the city police said more than 1,200 migrant workers from West Bengal have registered to go back and now they are waiting for response from the respective government. The workers will be sent back once they receive confirmation from the West Bengal government and till then the workers will stay in the shelter home.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/migrant-labours-from-bengal-seek-transport-to-return-home/articleshow/75793887.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Farmer provides watermelons for migrants walking home||NIZAMABAD: A farmer from Nizamabad district has risen above personal financial constraints to help the poor and hungry migrant workers walking hundreds of kilometers to their native places. Devi Singh, a farmer from Balkonda mandal’s Velkatoor village owns a farm and grows a few watermelons that are barely enough for his subsistence. However, moved by the plight of the migrant workers walking hundreds of kilometers to their native places, he decided to help. Speaking to TOI at Perkit junction on National Highway 44, Singh said, “There are so many people walking. If you look closely, you can see many are walking with sores on their feet. When I saw their suffering, I decided to help them in whatever way I can. So, I started supplying watermelons to the volunteers at this junction.” Singh has been supplying at least two baskets of watermelons free of cost daily to the volunteers who have been struggling to gather resources to help the migrants.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/farmer-provides-watermelons-for-migrants-walking-home/articleshow/75795365.cms||Moulika.KV
May 18, 2020||Goa||Quarantine fee could impact job safety, seamen tell Goa deputy CM||QUEPEM: A group of over 70 seafarers from Quepem, accompanied by their wives, recently marched to deputy chief minister and Quepem MLA Chandrakant Kavalekar’s residence, demanding an immediate withdrawal of the fees imposed on seafarers for the 14-day quarantine. They also demanded that ships bringing back stranded seamen be allowed to anchor directly at the Mormugao port or in Goan waters, without them being quarantined in Mumbai, which is a red zone. Pointing out that seafarers in other states are not being charged such fees, one seafarer Jeff Goes told Kavalekar that the government must withdraw the quarantine fees as this would only add to the shipping companies’ burden. “If these companies are made to pay for quarantining thousands of seafarers for 14 days, it will be majorly affect our job safety as companies will refrain from employing Goans,” a seafarer told Kavalekar. They also said that many of them had obtained bank loans for construction of new houses and if shipping companies retrenched Goans, it would leave them jobless. Kavalekar assured the group that he would discuss the issue with chief minister Pramod Sawant and get back to them. Speaking to TOI, Kavalekar said that he would speak to Sawant on Monday. He said he would also bring up the topic of pension to seafarers which was recently stopped by the state government. “When I was the leader of the opposition, I had tabled a resolution in the legislative assembly to double the pension amount from Rs 2,500 to Rs 5,000. I will discuss both these important issues with the CM and I hope for the positive outcome,” Kavalekar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/quarantine-fee-could-impact-job-safety-seamen-tell-dycm/articleshow/75795765.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: ‘Truck driver charged Rs 3,500 each for family of four’||LUCKNOW: As unbearable May heat with temperature over 40 degrees making foot march difficult, many migrant workers are forced to pay Rs 2,5000-3,500 to travel on truck, packed like sardines, to their home districts. “Despite paying fare six times than train, we were stuffed in the truck with no space even to stretch arms. The truck drivers are not carrying any good, but using the crisis to make money,” said Ram Kishor, who claimed to have paid Rs 3,500 each for his family of four to travel from Mumbai to Pratapgarh. Kishor was among over 10,000 migrants who were stopped by the police and administrative officers. Many came on foot and bicycle, but thousands arrived on trucks. They came from various states after losing jobs and heading to their native places. “All were medically screened at three centres in the city and given food before being sent to their destinations on 200 UPSRTC buses without charging any fare,” said nodal officer and additional district magistrate KP Singh. Ram Babu, a factory worker in Indore, told TOI, “When walking on foot with kids became impossible, I decided to get on a truck, but driver said he will charge Rs 2,500 each for five family members to take us till Basti. I paid him because there was no other option, but now I have nothing to feed my children.” Ghanshyam, coming from Ahmedabad, who paid Rs 3,200 each for six family members for journey till Gorakhpur, said “My 3-year-old son got dehydrated as there was no space in the truck and the heat was unbearable.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/truck-driver-charged-rs-3-5k-each-for-family-of-4/articleshow/75795776.cms||Rahul Tripathi
May 18, 2020||Dehradun||Elderly woman, asymptomatic, dies at quarantine facility in Pauri||Dehradun: A 77-year-old woman who had recently returned to Pauri Garhwal from Delhi and was lodged at a quarantine facility, died on Saturday night. However, she did not have any symptoms of the coronavirus and was cremated without being tested for the virus. “The woman died in a quarantine facility in Pauri Garhwal’s Reba village and had not developed any symptoms, which is why there was no need to take her sample. She was fine till Saturday evening and died after developing nosebleed. She died of natural reasons,” the chief medical officer (CMO) of Pauri, Dr M Bahukhandi, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/elderly-woman-asymptomatic-dies-at-quarantine-facility-in-pauri/articleshow/75793868.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Bhubaneswar||State sees 91 new cases, infection spreads to Sambalpur||Bhubaneswar: The state recorded 91 fresh cases of the novel coronavirus on Sunday, pushing its total number of cases to 828. It also recorded its fourth death, taking the number of people who have succumbed to Covid-19 to four. Twenty-four patients were discharged on Sunday, which pushed up the number of recovered cases to 220. The 91 new positive cases include one sarpanch, three locals and 87 people who were staying in different quarantine centres after returning from Gujarat, West Bengal, Telangana, Maharashtra and Andhra Pradesh, the health and family welfare department said. News about the sarpanch's infection has led to some concern in the government as sarpanches are in charge of the quarantine centres across the state. The locals who got infected hail from Puri, Khurda and Balasore districts, and include the inmate of a jail who was arrested for robbery on Friday. "We are tracking the travel history and contacts of all positive patients," said a health department official. With 15 new cases, Ganjam district has 292 patients, the highest in the state. All of these were detected in 16 days. Among other districts, Bhadrak added 28 new cases, Balasore 17, Cuttack 12, Puri 7, Keonjhar 4, Khurda 3, Balangir 2 and Kendrapada, Sundargarh and Sambalpur one each. An 18-year-old who returned from Ahmedabad became Sambalpur's first case. The number of affected districts now is 21. Meanwhile, the Indian Institute of Science Education & Research (IISER), Berhampur, has been accorded the necessary approval by AIIMS, Bhubaneswar, for conducting Covid-19 test. As many as 5,083 samples were tested in different centres including the Regional Medical Research Centre (RMRC), Bhubaneswar, AIIMS, Bhubaneswar, SCB, Cuttack, MKCG, Berhampur, VIMSAR, Burla, ILS, Bhubaneswar, and IGH, Rourkela, on Saturday. The total number of samples tested so far is 91,223.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/state-sees-91-new-cases-infection-spreads-to-sambalpur/articleshow/75793931.cms||Minati Singha
May 18, 2020||Nashik||Ward boy alleges assault by cops||Nashik: A ward boy, working at a Covid care centre in Malegaon, on Sunday took to twitter to complain against the harassment meted out to him by rural police and CRPF jawans while going to work. The complainant, Momin Arshad Zeeshan, also attached a photograph of his bruised leg, claiming he was hit by the policemen despite informing them that he worked at the Covid centre. After the complaint went viral, superintendent of police (Nashik rural) Arti Singh said she is looking into the issue. “The man should have approached senior police officers with his complaint,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/ward-boy-alleges-assault-by-cops/articleshow/75794770.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Goa||Complexes told not to convene meets||Panaji: Housing societies in the state have been asked not to convene or permit any meetings within residential complexes unless there are unavoidable circumstances, said the state government. The North and South Goa collectors have issued advisories to all residential housing societies under the Goa Epidemic Diseases Act as part of the measures to contain the spread of the novel coronavirus. “All the housing colonies are hereby advised not to convene meetings in the private spaces. In case of acute requirements such meetings are to be held with necessary precautionary requirements of social distancing, face cover, hand hygiene and such other instructions and guidelines issued by the department of health from time to time,” stated the advisory. The collectors said that the advisories have been issued in view of the prevailing situation, particularly the “health emergency” posed by the novel coronavirus. The collectors have issued advisories to all residential housing societies under the Goa Epidemic Diseases Act as part of the measures to contain the spread of the novel coronavirus||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/complexes-told-not-to-convene-meets/articleshow/75795767.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Nagpur||NMC permits more shops to open in city||Nagpur: State government has extended the lockdown in Maharashtra till midnight of May 31. An order signed by chief secretary Ajoy Mehta stated calibrated phase wise relaxation (lifting of lockdown) orders will be notified in due course. Municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe has meanwhile permitted more shops and offices to function from Monday. These include shops repairing home appliances, mobile phones and computers. Also sub-registrar and regional transport offices can function with limited personnel. As per the Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s (NMC’s) new notification shops of electrical items including air coolers, repairing shops of computer, mobile and home appliances, hardware and building materials will remain open on Monday, Wednesday and Friday. Auto spares, auto repair workshops, flat tyre repair shops, oil and lubricants, opticals, stationery and hosiery shops will remain open on Tuesday, Thursday, Saturday and Sunday. However, only standalone shops and those in residential areas will be allowed to open and that too if there are only five shops selling non-essential items (excluding essential item shops) on the road. This means that main market areas like Sitabuldi, Dharampeth, Sadar, Gandhibagh, etc will continue to remain closed. Sub-registrar offices can function with maximum five persons and RTOs can function with maximum 10% clerical staff. District collector Ravindra Thakare has also issued an order extending the lockdown in rural areas except those coming under Nagpur police commissionerate. The conditions mentioned in his order dated May 3 will continue to remain in force. Reacting to state government’s decision to extend the lockdown, leader of opposition Devendra Fadnavis said lockdown was essential but it could not be a policy to fight coronavirus. “Now the government should come out with an exit policy. The economy is equally important,” he told TOI. Pramod Pande, president of social organization Jan Manch, said that relaxation should be given in all areas except in containment zones. “Complete freedom should be given in green and orange zones and inter-district travel should be permitted. Lot of relaxations should be given in red zones. People are suffering a lot due to lockdown. Economic activity has to be restarted. In containment zones too, people should not be locked up just because one person is coronavirus positive,” he added. TS Renu, secretary of Vidarbha Taxpayers Association, said opening of more non-essential goods shops was a welcome step. “However one important suggestion, 'sports goods' should also be included by allowing them twice a week as many homes are wanting to buy indoor games and small gym equipments for home use. Now it's almost two months since lockdown, family members need some indoor sports for relaxation. In public interest, sports shops may be permitted through an appropriate amendment in the order soon,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nmc-permits-more-shops-to-open-in-city/articleshow/75795771.cms||Ashish Roy
May 18, 2020||Bengaluru||In desperate bid to leave, migrant workers form queues at Palace Grounds from 3am||BENGALURU: Penniless, homeless and jobless, thousands of migrant workers stranded in Bengaluru are thronging Palace Grounds as early as 3am, hoping to land a berth on board a Shramik special train. Palace Grounds is the first stop for migrant labourers, where they are screened for symptoms and their documents verified. They are then put on BMTC buses which ferry them to stations like Malur and Chikkabanavara from where Shramik special trains depart. But train tickets are not issued on a first-come-first-served basis. Passengers for these trains are chosen in advance by multiple agencies including city police and officials of the Seva Sindhu portal. Workers have to register with the portal in advance, sources familiar with evacuation operations said. Volunteers helping migrant workers at Palace Grounds say a majority who get to the venue do not have a ticket. They land up at the venue after learning about the train schedule from a friend of a statemate. Information on trains is passed on by word of mouth or phone messages. Most land up at Palace Grounds in a desperate bid to get home. Dhruv Jatti, a volunteer, said, “When one person gets a message that his ticket is confirmed, he assumes everyone else is going as well and forwards it to his friends and family from his state. All those who receive the message land up at Palace Grounds, hoping to go back.” Volunteers say at least 5,500 migrants flock to Palace Grounds every day – more than four times the capacity of a Shramik special train. This means only a fraction get a berth. Sohan Singh from Rajasthan who worked in a garment industry in Bengaluru for over five years said, “I have been standing in this queue since 5.30am. Police keep changing their instructions every now and then. Nobody gives us concrete information, but I haven’t given up. In any case, I have nowhere to stay or work. I have to feed my wife and three children. All I want to do at this point is to go back home to Jodhpur and be with the rest of my family.” Pratap Pradhan from Odhisha had a similar story to tell. “I have been working in Bengaluru for about eight months now. I’ve already left my room and I have nowhere to go. A train to Odisha left two days ago. Someone here told me that the next train is in two days and I hope I get a ticket,” Pradhan said. Gurshankar Sharma, who worked with a marble dealer in Bengaluru, said, “I have been in Bengaluru for over six years now. My brothers and I work here, while our wives and children are back in Rajasthan. Once all this settles, we will consider returning to Bengaluru and working here.” Police say many migrants are not familiar with the local language and they have a tough time enforcing social distancing norms. Volunteers hand out bottles of water, bread, buns and bananas at regular intervals to those standing in long queues. Dhruv said there have been instances of volunteers pooling money for ticket fares of some migrants. Dev Bhagat, another volunteer, said, “Many employers of these labourers have provided them with accommodation. Some have blatantly told them not to come back if they leave, but many want to be with their families during these difficult times. Now they do not have a place to stay or work. Their plight is very sad.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/in-desperate-bid-to-leave-migrant-workers-form-queues-at-palace-grounds-from-3am/articleshow/75794775.cms||Mrinalini Bhat
May 18, 2020||Madurai||HC denies bail to accused booked for cheating investors||Madurai: The Madras high court dismissed the bail plea of two people who were arrested for swindling money from people by making them believe they were investing in an online trading company in Ramanathapuram district.Justice G Jayachandran observed that only during the course of investigation can it be ascertained whether there is any violation of foreign exchange law or if there was money laundering. If the petitioners are released on bail at this juncture it would derail the investigation and hence the judge dismissed the petition.The Ramanathapuram district crime branch police arrested T Praveen Kumar and S Vishwanathan for cheating people by promising them attractive returns. Based on the complaints from two people who invested Rs2.83 lakh and Rs7.5 lakh respectively, two cases were registered against them under IPC sections 406 and 420 and under sections 65 and 74 of Information Technology Act.The additional public prosecutor submitted that the petitioners in connivance with Habiz, an agent of an online trading company, opened an account in the name of Sri Krishna Traders at Erode and asked the people to invest in it promising high returns. The complainants who had invested lakhs found out that they were cheated since no profit was generated as promised.The prosecutor submitted that during investigation it was found out that the accused deposited the amount in crypto currency. The police are contemplating to consult the ED to ascertain if investigation under PMLA is required, he said, adding, the process was delayed due to the pandemic situation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-denies-bail-to-accused-booked-for-cheating-investors/articleshow/75795327.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Madurai||DYFI honours sanitary workers by cleaning roads and bridges||Madurai: While people across the country shower their respects to sanitary workers in different ways to appreciate their service to fight Covid-19, members of the Democratic Youth Federation of India (DYFI) in Madurai did it by sharing the work burden of the sanitary workers on Sunday.As many as 120 members of the DYFI split into groups and cleared silt that was accumulated on city roads and bridges. As the entire sanitary workforce is involved in keeping the containment zones and the rest of the city clean, the corporation could barely concentrate on road cleanliness.T Selva, Madurai district secretary, DYFI, said, “Cleaning the road will ultimately fall on sanitary workers one day, if not today, hence we thought of sharing some work. Parents of some of our members are sanitary employees. We know the challenged they face because of the pandemic.” He further stated that the workers wake up early in the morning, walk for an hour to reach work place as there are no public transportation.Cleaning work on roads was carried out at four places between 7am and 11am. Railway subway at Palanganatham, Girder Bridge, roads from Tamukkam ground to Goripalayam and two kms stretch from Jaihindpuram Main Road to Jeeva Nagar were cleaned by the volunteers, despite the hot weather.DYFI members said huge quantity of silt was removed from these areas and were packed and dumped in an empty site. The corporation can now shift these bags to an appropriate place using vehicles.The volunteers were lauded by passersby and shopkeepers for their work. Selva said, “A tea shop owner from Jaihindpuram refused to take money for the 25 cups of tea the volunteers bought. Also, a doctor, who passed by the Girder bridge stopped and sponsored cool drinks for all. Police officers, who were posted at Palanganatham appreciated our work and and bought cool drinks for the members.”A couple of corporation sanitation workers, who spotted the youth cleaning the road at Goripalayam, appreciated them. "They told us that cleaning silt from roads is the one of the most difficult tasks," Selva added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/dyfi-honours-sanitary-workers-by-cleaning-roads-and-bridges/articleshow/75795329.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Hyderabad||MoEF to hear plea against LG for leak||Hyderabad: An expert committee at the ministry of environment and forest (MoEF) will hear on May 19 allegations of violations by LG Polymers, leading to the styrene leak in Visakhapatnam that left 12 persons dead and landed over 500 in hospital. Sources in MoEF said that the video conference would examine allegations of violation of terms of reference for manufacturing polystyrene and expandable polystyrene, while raising total capacity to 655 tonnes per day from 415 tonnes per day by LG Polymers in Visakhapatnam. MoEF has asked representatives from LG polymers to produce salient features of the project, the related environmental issues, and the proposed environmental management plan while examining the May 7 tragedy. The expert committee is likely to grill the company over the tragedy, sources said. A case of culpable homicide not amounting to murder is already booked against the company. Environment conservationist and general secretary of Janasena Party Bolisetty Satyanarayana said, “MoEF can cancel the ToR for the expansion of the LG Polymers Unit and clearances given previously if it fails to satisfy all the norms as per the Indian environmental laws. A proper enquiry has to be done to find out the composition of the gas that was leaked, and whether it was mixed with some other harmful chemicals," Meanwhile, officials at the inspector of factories said that styrene shifting from the mishap locality would be completed by Monday morning. KBS Prasad, deputy chief inspector of factories (Visakhapatnam) said they have so far shifted 8,000 tonnes of styrene monomer from the LG Polymers site. “We are shifting 5,000 tonnes by Monday morning. The styrene will be taken to Vizag port and from there to South Korea. As people have already returned to their houses, we are ensuring safety. Regarding probe, we are assisting the government-appointed committee,” he said. The police investigation into the styrene vapour leak is underway. “I took the investigation into the case of culpable homicide temporarily as the West DCP is on leave. We are waiting for the report of inspector of factories on the issue,” Visakhapatnam (Dwaraka zone) assistant commissioner of police RVSN Murthy said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/moef-to-hear-plea-against-lg-for-leak/articleshow/75795814.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
May 18, 2020||Madurai||Immunity boosters distributed in slums||Madurai: Vitamin tablets to boost immunity were distributed to more than 2,000 people in colonies in ward number 33 of the Madurai Corporation by minister for revenue, disaster management and IT R B Udayakumar in the presence of corporation commissioner S Visakan on Sunday. Speaking at the event, the minister said that the state government under the leadership of CM Edappadi K Palaniswami was taking all efforts to prevent the spread of Covid-19 in the state. This is part of the move as the chances of the disease spread are high in slum areas. There are 143 designated slum areas and 189 undesignated slum areas in Madurai city and all steps were being taken to ensure that people living in these places were not affected. It was estimated that about one lakh people live in these slums. Vitamin C, zinc tablets and Kabasura kudineer were distributed in the slums. Rice, groceries and vegetables were also distributed to the people in the area. Maintaining social distancing was the key to move Madurai district to the green zone. The chief minister has announced a compensation of Rs 50 lakh to those dying while on Covid-19 duty, and this was also done for a VAO who died in an accident while returning from Covid-19 duty, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/immunity-boosters-distributed-in-slums/articleshow/75795333.cms||---
May 18, 2020||India||Migrants’ anger spills on to streets of Gujarat, UP||RAJKOT/AGRA/MEERUT: Enraged at being kept waiting for shramik trains to take them home from Gujarat, thousands of migrant workers on Sunday turned on police and journalists near the industrial clusters of Shapar and Veraval adjoining Rajkot, leaving five cops and a TV reporter injured in a frenzied burst of stone-pelting. The build-up to the violence and vandalism that accompanied it — at least 15 trucks, buses and cars were damaged — had apparently started on Saturday night with migrant workers converging on a large playground near the Fieldmarshal automobile company’s premises in Rajkot. Police sources said the migrant workers were to be taken in buses to the railway station, but were told in the morning that the shramik train to Bihar had been cancelled. Western Railway’s divisional manager Parmeshwar Funkwal contradicted the police’s version, saying no train was cancelled or rescheduled on Sunday. In UP, hundreds of migrant labourers on a long march home blocked the NH-2 at Raipura Jat village in Mathura district for almost an hour after they were prevented from continuing their journey. The district administration said it was only following the Yogi Adityanath government’s directive to stop migrants going to their native places on foot and arrange “safe and authorised vehicles” for their onward journey. But those who blocked the Mathura-Agra highway claimed they did so because they were allegedly not provided transport from Kosi Kalan, close to the UP-Haryana border and a transit point. “It’s 12pm and there’s no food and water. No sign of buses either. And we are not being allowed to continue walking. Our children are hungry. Life has become hell,” said Aman Kumar, who walked on foot from Kosi Kalan to Raipura Jat hoping to a get a vehicle to reach Etawah. As in Mathura, confusion over travel arrangements provided the spark for the pandemonium in Rajkot around 9am. The migrant workers first blocked the Rajkot-Gondal highway by placing boulders on the road. Soon, many of them started targeting the windshields of trucks, buses and cars passing by. A team from Shapar-Veraval police station bore the brunt of the heavy stone-pelting. A sub-inspector and a constable were struck on the head. The latter also fractured a hand. When reinforcements arrived, led by Rajkot (rural) SP Balram Meena, he was hit on the head, too. Two other constables and a journalist covering the unrest were injured. The FIR names 29 people, all of whom have been arrested, and a mob of 2,500-3,000 others. About four lakh migrant labourers from UP, Bihar, Odisha and MP are employed in the factories located in Hadamtala, Bhunavah, Shapar and Veraval industrial estates, located along a 30km stretch from the outskirts of Rajkot towards Gondal. Western Railway’s Rajkot division operated 61 shramik trains till May 5. “Our factory owner has not paid us our wages. We have no money left. When we asked for wages, the owner asked us to go back to our native places,” a migrant worker said. UP’s Saharanpur reported a 6,000-strong gathering of migrant labourers from Bihar raising slogans against the Nitish Kumar government. The protesters, many of them wielding lathis, also alleged bias by the UP authorities in sending migrant workers home.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/migrants-anger-spills-on-to-streets-of-gujarat-up/articleshow/75796035.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Goa||Governor must stop malpractices in name of Covid-19: Goa Congress||PANAJI: Unfazed by governor Satya Pal Malik’s validation of the efforts of chief minister Pramod Sawant, Congress party reiterated its stand that the state government is defective. State Congress president Girish Chodankar also side-stepped Malik’s call for the opposition to work hand-in-hand with the government and instead said that Malik’s silence on the Congress allegations about corruption within the BJP had vindicated the opposition’s stand. Going one step further, Chodankar said that the governor must use his constitutional authority and ask for files pertaining to procurement of various testing kits, mobile apps and other equipment during the lockdown period. Chodankar also asked Malik to call for all the files of scams where the Lokayukta has identified lapses and “defects” of the BJP-led state government. “Congress party reiterates our stand that Sawant-led government is defective and the past records will confirm that it is only after the governor’s intervention that the administration has become effective on various issues,” said Chodankar. To illustrate its point, Chodankar said that visible defects are hoarding of essential commodities by BJP ministers and MLAs, the decision to shut grocery shops in the first few days of the lockdown against MHA guidelines, defective approach towards repatriating seafarers, procurement of defective Covid-19 testing kits, decision to hold SSC examinations and a precarious financial position. “The governor should ask the chief minister to speak on various defects brought to light by cabinet ministers like Manohar Ajgaonkar, Michael Lobo, and others about drugs, prostitution and bribes in Goa,” said Chodankar. He said that the Congress party has supported the government’s efforts to combat the novel coronavirus since the start with opposition leader Digambar Kamat making valuable suggestions. “Unfortunately, the chief minister Sawant completely sidelined the opposition parties,” said Chodankar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/guv-must-stop-malpractices-in-name-of-covid-cong/articleshow/75795779.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Madurai||Number of abandoned, dead community dogs going up||Madurai: The population of community dogs has increased on the outskirts of the city as many have been abandoned by their owners recently during the lockdown owing to the Covid-19 scare. Nandri Maravel, an NGO, is striving hard to get them adopted. K P Marikumar, founder of the NGO that works with community dogs, said that the number of dogs in places like Pandikoil has increased. “We feed community dogs with the help of donors and have been working five times more during the lockdown period because the number of dogs has gone up, from about 60 pre-lockdown to 180 during lockdown,” he said. Meanwhile, about 40 dogs were found dead poisoned in the last two months. Two days ago, Marikumar said, he was informed that about eight dogs were lying dead in Pudukulam in Muthupatti in the corporation limits. “There is nothing we can do in such cases, because many of the complainants do not lodge a complaint with the police,” he said. Helping Marikumar is a city-based businessman M Muthu who takes him around in his car to feed the animals and also makes donations in the form of rice. The other is Kannan, a student, apart from many volunteers in various parts of the city to help them distribute the rice and food to the animals. Marikumar said that he strives to find homes for abandoned dogs. “If you look around the city today, you would find many of the dogs with collars to show that they were abandoned recently,” he said. Around 95% of these abandoned dogs are females and making people adopt them is a big challenge. “We even promise a monthly finance of Rs500 towards food and animal birth control, but still the takers are less,” he said. Dr D Suresh Christopher, joint director of animal husbandry, had warned people against abandoning their pets during the lockdown. He said that they were helping 26 volunteers who were feeding dogs to get rice, adding they did not received complaints of abandoned dogs till date.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/number-of-abandoned-dead-community-dogs-going-up/articleshow/75795337.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Lucknow||May turning mercurial, Sunday season’s hottest||Lucknow: A day after touching 40 degrees Celsius for the first time this summer, the upward trend of the mercury continued in the city for the fourth continuous day, making Sunday the hottest day so far. The maximum temperature was 40.7 degrees Celsius. Dry hot winds or ‘loo’ also lashed the city for the first time this season. No relief is likely as weatherman predicted that maximum temperature will cross 42 degrees Celsius in the coming days. Last year, during the first 15 days in May, day temperatures had crossed 43 degrees Celsius four times — with highest 43.7 degrees Celsius recorded on May 8. However, this year, as a steady stream of thunderstorms lashed the state and the city in April and during the first two weeks of May, temperatures mostly remained 4-6 degrees below normal till May 13. State Met director JP Gupta said dry hot northwesterly winds coming from Rajasthan are responsible for the rise in temperatures in Uttar Pradesh and Lucknow. Similar conditions will prevail till Tuesday, with clear sky and slight rise in maximum temperatures, he added. Sunday witnessed bright sunshine and clear sky. Moderate humidity made heat more uncomfortable as the day progressed. The scorching heat continued till the evening hours. On Monday, sky will be clear, with maximum and minimum temperatures expected to be around 42 and 23 degrees Celsius, respectively. High temperature was also recorded in most parts of the state on Sunday. Jhansi was hottest with maximum temperature 43.5 degrees Celsius.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/may-turning-mercurial-sunday-seasons-hottest/articleshow/75795782.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Nashik||1.74L quintal rice distributed under PMGKAY||Nashik: The district administration has distributed 1.74 lakh quintal of rice to the beneficiaries under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana in the month of April. Under the scheme, all people registered under the public distribution system as either Priority House Hold or Antyodaya are eligible for free 5 kg of rice per person per month. “By the end of April we have been able to distribute the rice to almost all the needy people,” district supply officer Arvind Narsikar said. Around 1.65 lakh beneficiaries under Antyodaya and 5.32 lakh beneficiaries under the Priority House Hold category have benefited from the scheme across the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/1-74l-quintal-rice-distributed-under-pmgkay/articleshow/75794781.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Madurai||Tamil Nadu: Father, grandmom held for killing female baby with cactus sap||MADURAI: The Sholavandan police on Sunday arrested the father and grandmothers of a four-day-old female infant on the charges of murdering her. Police suspect it is a case of female infanticide, but the relevant section has not been included in the FIR so far. The accused confessed of feeding the infant cactus sap during inquiry. She had died on Thursday and her parents had claimed the infant died of illness. However, they confessed to killing on Sunday, a day after the body was exhumed to conduct post mortem. The accused were identified as K Davamani, 35, and his mother K Pandiammal, 60, from Poomettu Street in Sholavandan. They did not want the baby since it was the fourth girl child born to him and his wife Chithra. On interrogation they stated that they fed the child with cactus milk and, to make the murder look like a natural death, Davamani called up the village health nurse on Thursday complaining that the baby developed health problem. Within 10 minutes he again called her up to inform her that the child died before they could rush her to the hospital. Later, the couple buried the child in the banks of Vaigai river in the same village. Watch Madurai: Father, grandmom kill female baby with cactus milk, held||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/dad-grandmom-held-for-killing-female-baby-with-cactus-sap/articleshow/75795343.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Nagpur||‘How I did Mumbai to Howrah, 2,100km, Apr 22 to May 15’||Nagpur: Shyamal was sitting on a pavement on Nagpur-Kamptee Road with a group of locals on May 9 when TOI spoke to him. He had started off from Mumbai on April 22, and finally reached home in West Bengal, 2,100km away, on May 15. His account of travels: “I kept counting kilometres on the milestone, and said to myself, even if I walk 20km daily, and get food and water on the way, I’ll reach home one day. Or, it may just end somewhere in between. “I started off on April 22 along with 22 others, including women and children. We all had worked at a site at Kandivli in Mumbai, engaged by a private contractor. I reached home at Dharampur Manasatala village, in West Bengal’s North Pargana district, on May 13. “We were not aware of the route but kept walking. I was the only one heading for West Bengal in the group. Others belonged to villages in Washim district and nearby. “In three days, we were at Nashik, and my phone’s battery was drained by that time. After that, I could not keep track of the date and lost contact with my family too. “From Nashik, we reached a place starting with ‘Bhu’ after a two-day trek (he remembered Bhusawal after prompting). Six out of the group of 22 boarded a vehicle from here. They were mainly women and children. I gave them my luggage, hoping to collect it when we meet ahead, but then lost track of them. “The next place we reached, after maybe two days walk, was perhaps Akola. There we stopped at a dhaba. The owner was very kind. Finally we had a bath, and ate to our fill. The man served us two meals and asked us to wait till we got a ride. From here, the others remaining in the group also dispersed, and I was all alone. “I waited for a day but could not find a truck going till West Bengal. Then I boarded truck for Nagpur, where I ran into you. “I barely had Rs500 in hand when I started. The contractor did not even pay my wages of Rs15,000, which were due from before the lockdown. “At Nagpur, I came across a group of boys, who took me around and also duped me of a couple of hundred rupees. They promised to arrange transport, I knew they were lying, but kept quiet, I was helpless. After wasting may be 2-3 days, I found my way to a camp from where buses were taking off. Here, I boarded a truck laden with onions, there were others too atop the truck. “The onion truck took me till Odisha, by which time the others started complaining. There were 11 of them from Murshidabad district in Bengal. They asked me to get down, saying that they had paid Rs1,000 and I could not get a free ride. I quietly got down when the truck stopped in between, and started walking. Then the cleaner saw me, and the driver took pity and asked me to get back on. “Getting food was a struggle after crossing Maharashtra. I hardly had a couple of hundred left, I spent Rs50 eating a rice plate somewhere in Odisha and managed with biscuits after that. Others in the truck had money, so they could buy food platters. “Crossing Odisha, I entered West Bengal border. After waiting for a day, I was finally put in a bus till Howrah. We were asked to get down there. A senior police officer, whom I came across at Howrah, arranged a car for me till my village. I reached home at 4am. When I reached home, I had Rs20 left. “The kids rushed to hug me when they saw me at the doorstep. I asked them to stay away, but they just wouldn’t listen. I went to the local clinic later, and was found fit, and am now in isolation at home.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/how-i-did-mumbai-to-howrah-2100km-apr-22-to-may-15/articleshow/75795783.cms||Shishir Arya
May 18, 2020||Kochi||Doc designs wearable sanitizer||Kochi: An ayurvedic doctor based in the city has designed a wearable watch-like device that dispenses right amount of sanitizing spray into the palm with the press of a button. Nisar Mohammed, speciality medical officer with National Ayush Mission, said he thought of designing the wearable device because of practical issues in frequently accessing sanitizers in healthcare settings. Mohammed said wearability is the most unique feature of the sanitizer dispenser which has a refill type container that facilitates longer usage period. While the initial concept and design was by him, Mohammed took the help of a design firm called ID Of Things to visualize it in 3D format. “We had entered this in Break Corona challenge but was crestfallen when I later saw it coming out as a product by Kerala State Drugs and Pharmeceuticals based on a design by a medical institute,” said Mohammed. The product was entered by Saptaveda Herbals Pvt Ltd, which is planning to market the product after manufacturing it locally.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/doc-designs-wearable-sanitizer/articleshow/75788325.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Nashik||Electrical fittings stolen from quarantine facility in Malegaon||Nashik: A building in Malegaon, at Mhada Colony in Mhalde village, which had been acquired to set up a Covid-19 quarantine facility, was recently broken into and ceiling fans, bulbs and other electrical fittings worth nearly Rs 30,000 were stolen from there. Sources in the Pawar Wadi police station said that the theft took place between 11 pm on May 13 and 7 am on May 14. The building did not have any Covid-19 patients at the time. With many patients getting discharged, several quarantine facilities have also become vacant. Taking advantage of the empty building in Mhalde village, some unidentified burglar made away with 18 ceiling fans from different rooms. They also stole 60 LED bulbs and other electrical articles.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/electrical-fittings-stolen-from-quarantine-facility-in-malegaon/articleshow/75794777.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Puri jail inmate tests +ve, 1st in state||Bhubaneswar: An inmate of Puri jail tested positive for Covid-19 on Sunday, making it the first instance of virus attack in a jail in the state. “We have taken all precautions after an inmate tested positive. The person was arrested in a robbery case on Friday. According to the standard protocol, he had undergone Covid test before being forwarded to judicial custody. His swab report came out positive. He is a local resident of Puri. Investigation is on to find out the source of infection. Contact tracing is also underway. The police personnel who had come in contact with the accused have been sent on home isolation and their swab test is being done,” Puri SP Uma Shankar Dash said. DGP (prisons) Santosh Upadhyay said the undertrial was kept in a separate cell. Official statistics said the capacity of 85 jails in the state is 19,016. At present, there are 16,931 prisoners in the jails. Debabrata Mohapatra||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/puri-jail-inmate-tests-ve-1st-in-state/articleshow/75793947.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Goa||Khaunte: Govt not disclosing cases||Panaji: The number of active novel coronavirus cases in Goa is much higher than the official figures and is closer to 40, said independent MLA and former revenue minister Rohan Khaunte here on Sunday. Khaunte blamed “faulty decisions” of the BJP-led state government for the increase in Covid-19 cases. Addressing reporters, Khaunte said that Goans are compelled to seek written permission to return to Goa and have to undergo weeks of waiting, while residents of other states are arriving without permission and without completing mandatory testing. “The faulty decisions of the state government has led to the increase of Covid-19 cases in Goa. Though officially coronavirus cases has been reported as 19, the unofficial figures as informed to me by reliable source is 40 plus,” said Khaunte. “The state government is not disclosing the actual cases.” Khaunte also slammed the state government for arresting social activist Walter Lobo for pointing out that motorcycles with Maharastra registration have entered the state. “Goans are required to take written permission from government authorities concerned and do necessary paperwork to enter Goa, whereas non-Goans get direct entry to the state without any paperwork. Recently 16 motorcycles were seen parked outside a hotel in Calangute,” said Khaunte. He also said that the use of state machinery to arrest the activist shows the arrogance of chief minister Pramod Sawant. Khaunte also questioned the Calangute MLA’s silence on the presence of non-state registered motorcycles||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/khaunte-govt-not-disclosing-cases/articleshow/75795781.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Goa||Goa: Congress students’ wing wants examinations postponed||PANAJI: All political parties need to come together to launch a statewide movement to compel the Goa government to postpone the exams scheduled from May 21, said National Students’ Union of India (NSUI) in a letter to President Ram Nath Kovind and Prime Minister Narendra Modi. NSUI Goa president Ahraz Mulla said that they were forced to write the letter and launch a statewide movement because chief minister Pramod Sawant refused to meet and listen to the pleas of students and parents. “The decision of conducting exams of SSC students from May 21 during a pandemic after the recent information of 15 Covid-19 cases within a span of three days has been widely criticised by the students and people of Goa,” said Mulla in the letter. Mulla requested the Centre to intervene and ask the Goa government to postpone the examinations. Social distancing in institutions is not practically possible and transportation is a major hurdle, with authorities yet to provide a detailed plan for the exams, said NSUI. Parents and other stakeholders have said that children are not mentally prepared to answer exams. “NSUI Goa will not allow exams to take place till the government prepares a detailed plan to ensure social distancing during transportation and examinations,” said Mulla. NSUI urged all NGOs, political parties, activists, MLAs, parents and others to join the movement irrespective of political affiliations. “In the interest of the students and people of Goa let us unitedly demand to postpone exams,” said Mulla.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cong-students-wing-wants-examinations-postponed/articleshow/75795785.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Madurai||As more non-Covid patients trickle in, private hospitals take safety measures||Madurai: Private hospitals across the state have been strengthening measures to prevent crowding at outpatient departments after non-emergency and non-Covid patients started turning up at OPDs in a slow but steady trickle. Amid the growing cases of Covid-19, these hospitals are preliminarily triaging and screening all patients, including outpatients, for the disease before they enter the hospital premises. Hospital managements agree that the process is time-consuming and they may not be able to handle it if there is crowding. Indian Medical Association (IMA) state secretary Dr A K Ravikumar said the IMA has given guidelines to all its members. "Most private hospitals are fully-functional now for outpatients. Though crowding is a concern, we cannot turn patients away either. We have given guidelines for triaging at front desks," he said. Aravind Eye Hospital, Madurai has asked all non-emergency outpatients to first make advance appointments at a particular time before visiting. "Keeping in mind how many can ideally be in the hospital at a time, we fixed the number of patients who can come in every hour. We have also taken measures to ensure all testing equipment are regularly sanitised after every use," said Dr R Kim, chief medical officer. In Trichy, a section of private clinics including paediatric, has resumed OP service, particularly, to vaccinate children less than five years. While only one person as attender was permitted inside consultation room, staff found it difficult to insist on social distancing among other visitors accompanying the patients. Watchmen and support staff in private clinics were instructing patients and attenders to wear a facemask. K Govindaraj, chairman, Dr G Viswanathan group of hospitals, said they have used the outdoor parking area to erect a shamiana to accommodate at least 50 out-patients. It will be challenging for small clinics to manage the crowd especially the dental clinics and ENT hospitals to follow lockdown norms with limited space, said another doctor from the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/as-more-non-covid-patients-trickle-in-private-hospitals-take-safety-measures/articleshow/75795357.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Kolhapur||160 inmates released on Parole||Kolhapur: As many as 160 inmates from Kalamba central prison have been released on parole. This decision comes after some inmates tested positive for Covid-19 in Arthur Road Jail and Satara prison. Sharad Shelke, the superintendent of Kalamba Jail said, that the inmates will be on parole for 45 days and they will have have to visit the local police stations daily. The jail administration has prepared a list of 250 inmates that will be released on parole next week.“We have released the inmates as per the procedure after getting a personal bond of Rs 15,000 signed by them about good behaviour ,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/160-inmates-released-on-parole/articleshow/75794787.cms||Vivek Waghmode
May 18, 2020||Kochi||Restrooms set up for those on their way to quarantine||Kochi: Ernakulam rural police have released a list of restrooms arranged at petrol pumps in the district for people on their way to quarantine from other states and countries. Police said they are putting out the list of these facilities so that those who are on their way to quarantine could use them and stay away from the ones used by public. Facilities have been arranged at fuel pumps at Arikupurath, Arakkunnam, Arayankavu, Pezhakkappilly, Chengamanadu, Arakkapady and Vengola, among other locations. The rural police have released the phone numbers of these outlets as well as their geolocation links on its Facebook page. “The facilities are arranged across the state keeping in mind those who are on their way home or institutional quarantine. If they use the facilities used by the general population, it would affect containment strategy. That is why such restrooms have been arranged,” said Ernakulam rural SP K Karthick. He added that the names and locations of the district are being publicised so that anyone coming from the affected areas can use them. “A list has been given to drivers of KSRTC buses that carry passengers returning from other states or countries. The KSRTC staff can also contact the police through a helpline number and seek assistance from police vehicles escorting them who will guide them to the nearest restrooms,” said the SP. He added that those who are in special cabs or private vehicles on their way to quarantine can also make use of the facilities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/restrooms-set-up-for-those-on-their-way-to-quarantine/articleshow/75788346.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Madurai||MKU gets DBT nod to continue MSc Biotech for five more years||Madurai: The Department of Biotechnology (DBT) under the Government of India has given approval for the School of Biotechnology at the Madurai Kamaraj University (MKU) to continue and develop the MSc Biotechnology course for five more years. MKU remains the only state university in south India to offer this programme.Recently, the Department of Biotechnology evaluated the progress of universities currently offering this programme, including MKU, to continue support and also provide opportunity to other universities to take part in this programme through open selection process.The entrance examination (Graduate Aptitude Test for Biotechnology- GAT-B) to the course is conducted by the Regional Center for Biotechnology (RCB), Faridabad, with the support of DBT. The sanctioned strength for the course is 25 seats and currently there are 17 students enrolled at MKU.“MKU is among the most preferred centres by top candidates. The university provides hands-on training. Around 90% students who complete the course either apply for PhD or go for fellowships abroad. Even this year, two students from MSc Biotechnology got a fellowship for which 3 lakh students across the globe had applied,” said Dr Sankar Natesan, registrar (in-charge) and head of department of genetic engineering at MKU School of Biotechnology.MKU vice-chancellor Dr M Krishnan said that by retaining the programme the university is on the path of development through high quality research and education. The VC also congratulated Bharathiar University and Alagappa University for being selected under this prestigious teaching programme. He further added that addition of two more universities under this programme is a near reflection of overall quality of higher education in biotechnology in Tamil Nadu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/mku-gets-dbt-nod-to-continue-msc-biotech-for-five-more-years/articleshow/75795363.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Chikkaballapura lab opens on Monday||CHIKKABALLAPURA: A dedicated TrueNat Lab to test throat swab samples for suspected Covid-19 patients is slated to begin operations in Chikkaballapura on Monday. Until now, samples were sent to Bengaluru for tests. Deputy commissioner R Latha told TOI that the lab, located in Chikkaballapura district hospital, will be of great use especially since the ranks of primary and secondary contacts are swelling in the district. Dr Ramesh, district surgeon, said TrueNat lab tests have 97% accuracy, but are still considered screening in nature. The screened samples will then be sent to RT-PCR labs for confirmation of results. TrueNat is a diagnostic machine for tuberculosis, but in April, Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) allowed the machines to be used to test for Covid-19. The lab has two TrueNat machines, each with a capacity to conduct 20 tests in eight hours. Working two shifts a day, technicians can test 80 samples daily, Ramesh said. Dr Ramya, nodal officer, TrueNat Lab, said results will be available in 90 minutes and this will help to quickly formulate follow-up action. Ramesh said the lab will soon have RT-PCR equipment and once it is commissioned, more samples can be tested for confirmation at the district level itself. It takes a couple of days for RT-PCR test results to come through. The Gadag Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS) is the only place where there is already a TrueNat Lab in operation. Dr Satish, district health officer, Gadag, said the TrueNat equipment at GIMS was commissioned in the third week of April and it is testing 40 samples every day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-chikkaballapura-lab-opens-on-monday/articleshow/75794800.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Lucknow||Migrants treated like outsiders in UP: Akhilesh Yadav||LUCKNOW: Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav on Sunday asked UP government’s Team 11 to explain how and why the state government has sealed state borders and treating migrants like outsiders in their own state. He said hardships faced by migrants will compel them not to go out of UP for work ever again. “Why does Vande Bharat (rescue mission) not include the poor and hapless migrants,” Akhilesh asked. He said the government has sealed state borders, stopped all movement of migrants on roads and rail and left them stranded under the scorching summer sun with women and children to fend for themselves. “We don’t treat even the outsiders in such manner in which our people from different parts of the state are being treated by the state government,” Akhilesh said. He pointed out instances and tweeted videos of police resorting to lathicharge at migrants and driver of trucks and DCMs ferrying them. “Government is not providing them with transport, and if they are managing a ride themselves, the poor labourers are being mercilessly beaten up by the police … this has never happened earlier in India,” he said. SP leader and leader of opposition in the assembly Ram Govind Chaudhary said the government has been only issued one set of directions after another without making any efforts to verify if they were being implemented on the ground.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/migrants-treated-like-outsiders-in-up/articleshow/75795791.cms||Pervez Siddiqui
May 18, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: BJP to equip all party offices with sanitization tools||LUCKNOW: After conducting grassroot organisational functioning through video-conferencing, the UP BJP has decided to equip all its offices in the state with sanitization tools to prevent the spread of novel coronavirus pandemic. In the first phase, the party has installed a sanitization tunnel at its state headquarters in Lucknow through which visitors will have to pass before gaining entry in the office. The BJP would also be installing mask and sanitizer dispensing machines for party functionaries and visitors at the party office amid indications of the government easing down lockdown norms in the days to come. Talking to TOI, UP BJP chief Swatantra Dev Singh said that the BJP has decided to initiate these measures to prevent party functionaries and supporters from getting infected with Covid-19. “A lot of people visit party offices which need to be equipped with these measures to prevent the spread of novel coronavirus,” he said, confirming BJP offices in other districts would also be taken care of vis-a-vis sanitization measures after due consultation with party functionaries. BJP sources said that the idea to equip the party offices with sanitizing equipment was floated by BJP general secretary (organisation) Sunil Bansal. The move is seen as BJP’s attempt to allow more interaction with party functionaries and supporters which has largely remained suspended in the wake of novel coronavirus triggered lockdown for 50 days. At the same time the party seeks to maximize the use of technology to reach out to its grassroot functionaries. The BJP has already formed nearly 40,000 Whatsapp groups at different organisational levels in a bid to pass on key information to the grassroort functionaries. Singh said that the BJP plans to increase its interaction with party functionaries by calling regional level meetings every 15 days beginning Monday. The BJP would subsequently hold meeting with its functionaries at the sector level to gain feedback about the prevailing political situation. “We need to increase our organisational functioning while carrying out relief works in the days to come,” he said. Earlier, the party had decided to carry out relief operations in 150 routes through which the migrants are expected to pass.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/bjp-to-equip-all-party-offices-with-sanitization-tools/articleshow/75795797.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Cuttack||Cyclone on radar, Odisha prepares for the best||BHUBANESWAR: The Odisha fire service has made special arrangements in Bhubaneswar and Cuttack in the wake of Cyclone Amphan. Eight teams have been stationed in Bhubaneswar and five in Cuttack to meet any kind of exigencies. “We apprehend urban floods and damage to trees in Bhubaneswar and Cuttack owing to the heavy rain and gusty winds. Besides existing staffers of the fire stations, these special teams have been constituted and positioned in the twin cities. We have mobilized 38 motor pumps in Bhubaneswar and 15 in Cuttack to flush out floodwaters from the waterlogged areas,” inspector general of police (fire service and home guards) Asheet Panigrahi said. Power saws and boats, tree cutting tools and inflatable tower lights have been kept ready in the twin cities. “Similar arrangements have been made in Puri that often witnesses waterlogging after heavyrain. At least 15 pump sets are kept on standby there,” Panigrahi added. While the Bhubaneswar municipal corporation (BMC) has chalked out its own preparedness measures to tackle the cyclone, commissionerate police, too, has pulled up its socks for assisting the needy during the calamity. “We are coordinating with the office of the special relief commissioner and the BMC to deal with the crisis. Several low-lying areas, which are prone to waterlogging, have been identified. Residents of these areas may be shifted to a safer place if required,” additional commissioner of police Anup Kumar Sahoo said. The state police headquarters said its specialized Odisha disaster rapid action force was ready to assist the fire services personnel and commissionerate police in carrying out the evacuation, relief or restoration work. Director general of police Abhay is scheduled to visit Balasore and Bhadrak districts to take stock of their preparedness on Monday. A number of local communities, voluntary organisations and civil society outfits have decided to help police in the pre and post calamity management across the twin cities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/cuttack/cyclone-on-radar-state-prepares-for-the-best/articleshow/75796901.cms||Debabrata Mohapatra
May 18, 2020||Indore||24 Indians back from Kuwait test positive for Covid-19 in Bhopal||INDORE/BHOPAL: As many as 24 of the 134 Indians who landed in Indore on Kuwait Airways flights on May have tested positive for Covid-19. Eighteen were detected late Saturday night, and eight more on Sunday. News of this triggered alarm at Indore airport, which had handled their disembarkation and immigration and put them on buses for Bhopal, where they were quarantined at the Army’s 3 EME Centre. A CISF personnel, who had handled their passports, has been put in home quarantine in his barracks. All the officials who handled the six-hour operation that day wore PPEs, including the security personnel now in quarantine. The airport was sanitized yet again on Sunday, though it’s a regular feature and had been cleaned up soon after the homecoming Indians had been sent off. All 24 patients have been admitted to Chirayu Medical College, say sources in the district admiration. The others are in quarantine at the Army facility in Bairagarh on the outskirts of Bhopal. Officials didn’t disclose too many details on the Covid patients but sources say they are from Kerala, Telangana, Goa, Uttar Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and Punjab. The quarantined CISF officials hasn’t shown any symptom so far. “He is under close supervision as a precautionary measure since he had touched the passports of arriving passengers for verification," said airport director Aryama Sanyal, adding that he was kitted out in protective gear while on duty that day. With a domestic Air India flight expected from Ahmedabad on May 24, Indore airport authorities may take a relook at their procedures to see if they can virus-proof it even further.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/24-indians-back-from-kuwait-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-bhopal/articleshow/75801341.cms||Jamal Ayub
May 18, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Isaac welcomes centres move but slams conditions attached to it||Thiruvananthapuram: The state government has welcomed the Centre’s decision to raise the borrowing limit of states from 3% of gross state domestic product (GSDP) to 5% in the current fiscal, but has expressed reservations on ‘clauses for adhering to specific financial reforms for availing additional loans’. Responding to Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman’s announcement in this regard, state finance minister T M Thomas Isaac said the state was opposed to reforms mentioned by the central government and that the state would demand removal of such clauses for availing of loans. “It’s meaningless to impose clauses for availing loans which have to be spent in accordance with the respective state’s priorities,” he told reporters here on Sunday. Pointing out that the decision to raise the borrowing limits would help avoid administrative deadlock in states, Isaac said it was chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan who first made the demand. “However, it will facilitate Kerala avail of an additional loan of Rs 18,087 crore only, which would be insufficient to make up for the Rs 35,0000 crore revenue dip estimated for the state in the current fiscal,” he said. “So, the Centre should pay out the whole GST share due for the state immediately,” he added. Besides, the borrowing limits should be based on the states’ revenue already approved in the central budget, as the state’s revenue in actual will see a further dip in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic and lockdown, the finance minister said. Isaac also demanded permission for procuring loans directly from the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) rather than from other banks, “so that loans could be availed at a reasonable interest rate”. “The state borrowed Rs 9,000 crore out of Rs 14,000 crore available as per authorised limit from banks, at 9% interest rate,” he pointed out. Stating that Kerala will officially register its protest on clauses and try for discussions and negotiations with the Centre, Isaac said the Centre was exploiting the situation to force reforms on states ruled by political parties of diverse views. “We are against limiting the role of public sector units and also against reforms in the power sector. What if such reforms are placed as clauses for additional borrowing?” he asked. The state is not against concepts like ‘one nation one ration card’ and ‘ease of doing business’, but several announcements made to achieve ease of doing business are detrimental for the public sector, Isaac said. “The CM will be writing an official letter registering protest and seeking opportunity for negotiations,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/isaac-welcomes-centres-move-but-slams-conditions-attached-to-it/articleshow/75793987.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Madurai||South TN records over 50 Covid cases for third consecutive day||Madurai: The southern districts of Tamil Nadu recorded more than 50 Covid-19 positive cases for the third day in row on Sunday. The southern region count has now reached 834, of which 169 cases recorded during the past four days have been of those who had returned from other states or countries.On Sunday, out of the total 81 imported Covid-19 cases in the state, 40 were from the southern region. Tirunelveli recorded the highest number of cases in the region for the fourth day with 14 imported cases, all who returned from Maharashtra.The total cases in the district are now 195 and as many as 93 imported cases have been reported in the district in the past four days. Sivaganga, which has only 12 local cases had not reported a fresh case for more than 20 days now, has reported 14 imported cases, all who returned from Maharashtra, in the past four days. Meanwhile, a total of 12 imported cases were reported in Tuticorin, four in Virudhunagar, and three each in Tenkasi and Madurai.Out of the 12 local cases in the south on Sunday, 10 cases were from Madurai. The 10 cases include a frontline worker, four with travel history to Chennai, three contacts of Covid-19 patients, and a pregnant woman and a person with flu-like illness both from containment area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/south-tn-records-over-50-covid-cases-for-third-consecutive-day/articleshow/75795378.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Goa||Testing of all arriving in Goa to continue||PANAJI: Given the jump in positive Covid-19 cases in the last few days due to the arrival of travellers from other states, the state executive committee (SEC) has decided that every traveller arriving will continue to be tested, irrespective of how they arrive. Secretary for fisheries P S Reddy will oversee the movement of persons arriving not just by sea, but also by flights, while the inter-state movement cell will continue to handle movement of persons arriving by trains and buses, the SEC has decided. The collectors will continue to coordinate the arrival and departure of people and will provide necessary support to P S Reddy and the inter-state movement cell, the SEC said. The decisions were taken at an SEC meeting chaired by chief secretary Parimal Rai. The SEC also directed the inter-state movement cell to send bulk SMSs, with a link to fill up a self-declaration form, to all incoming travellers and ensure that all arriving passengers download the Arogya Setu app. “Arrangements may also be made, if required, to make available these forms in paper format at the railway stations or in the train,” the SEC said in a statement. Contrary to chief minister Pramod Sawant’s statement that Goan origin individuals will not be charged for the rapid tests, the state executive committee took the decision that all travellers coming to Goa will have to pay Rs 2,000 for the compulsory testing unless they are covered under the Ayushman Bharat Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana or under any other exempted category, like government staff on duty. The SEC said that people will be charged for the testing irrespective of whether they arrive by train, air or by road. The department of information technology informed the SEC that 17,085 people have left the state while 2,129 have entered since April 29. Acting on the directions of chief minister, secretary for science and technology Puneet Goel visited the Patradevi border checkpost and met with the guardian minister of Sindhudurg district Uday Sawant. The two discussed various issues pertaining to residents living on either side of the border.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/testing-of-all-arriving-in-state-to-continue/articleshow/75795795.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Madurai||Tamil Nadu: No bail for man who created fake vehicle pass||MADURAI: Madras high court has dismissed the anticipatory bail plea of man who arranged fake vehicle pass to move people from Chennai to Tirunelveli during the lockdown. Veeravanallur police in Tirunelveli district has registered a case against petitioner Jaffer Sathick for offences under various sections of IPC. When the police intercepted a vehicle near Tirunelveli, they found the pass carried by the people was a fake one. Investigation revealed that one Ashok, a computer centre owner, had created the pass at the insistence of the petitioner. Sathick subsequently moved the high court Madurai bench seeking anticipatory bail. Hearing the plea, Justice G Jayachandran observed that considering the nature of the crime alleged to have been committed during the lockdown violating travel restrictions, he finds no merit in this petition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/no-bail-for-man-who-created-fake-vehicle-pass/articleshow/75795371.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Cyclone on radar, Odisha prepares for the best||BHUBANESWAR: The Odisha fire service has made special arrangements in Bhubaneswar and Cuttack in the wake of Cyclone Amphan. Eight teams have been stationed in Bhubaneswar and five in Cuttack to meet any kind of exigencies. “We apprehend urban floods and damage to trees in Bhubaneswar and Cuttack owing to the heavy rain and gusty winds. Besides existing staffers of the fire stations, these special teams have been constituted and positioned in the twin cities. We have mobilized 38 motor pumps in Bhubaneswar and 15 in Cuttack to flush out floodwaters from the waterlogged areas,” inspector general of police (fire service and home guards) Asheet Panigrahi said. Power saws and boats, tree cutting tools and inflatable tower lights have been kept ready in the twin cities. “Similar arrangements have been made in Puri that often witnesses waterlogging after heavyrain. At least 15 pump sets are kept on standby there,” Panigrahi added. While the Bhubaneswar municipal corporation (BMC) has chalked out its own preparedness measures to tackle the cyclone, commissionerate police, too, has pulled up its socks for assisting the needy during the calamity. “We are coordinating with the office of the special relief commissioner and the BMC to deal with the crisis. Several low-lying areas, which are prone to waterlogging, have been identified. Residents of these areas may be shifted to a safer place if required,” additional commissioner of police Anup Kumar Sahoo said. The state police headquarters said its specialized Odisha disaster rapid action force was ready to assist the fire services personnel and commissionerate police in carrying out the evacuation, relief or restoration work. Director general of police Abhay is scheduled to visit Balasore and Bhadrak districts to take stock of their preparedness on Monday. A number of local communities, voluntary organisations and civil society outfits have decided to help police in the pre and post calamity management across the twin cities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/cyclone-on-radar-state-prepares-for-the-best/articleshow/75793970.cms||Debabrata Mohapatra
May 18, 2020||Goa||Govt seeks to up Margao Covid-19 hosp bed capacity||Panaji: The state government is looking at enhancing its Covid-19 facilities in preparation for possible increase in patient load with people entering the state. Chief minister Pramod Sawant on Sunday said that there is scope for increasing the bed capacity of the Covid-19 hospital in Margao from 100 to 160. “With asymptomatic patients, we can manage with a 100-bedded hospital. About 20 to 25 patients requiring ventilator support can also be managed there,” Sawant said, while talking about the rising cases and the need to upgrade existing facilities to offset the possible increase in patient load.In the last three days, the state has seen 22 cases, all of whom have travel history. The figures were expected to rise by late Sunday evening. If the patient load increases, we will have to look for other hospitals, and we have kept our options open, Sawant said.“Different options are being considered, but if we control people coming from outside, I’m confident that the cases will not rise,” he said. Except for two patients, 16 others under treatment in the Covid-19 hospital were asymptomatic. “We are confident they will recover after treatment,” he said. He said the strategy adopted by the Goa government is completely different from that of other states. “Ours is the only state where incoming people are permitted entry only after they are tested,” he said. He said not all Covid-19 patients need ventilator support. “Even a symptomatic patient with respiratory problems can be managed with simple treatment. Complications can arise in patients with diabetes, or those above 60 years of age. “Such patients may need ventilator support,a nd we have made provisions for the necessary equipment,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/govt-seeks-to-up-margao-covid-19-hosp-bed-capacity/articleshow/75795798.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Nashik||180 students return from New Delhi||Nashik: As many as 180 Nashik students returned from New Delhi in a special train on Sunday. All the students were stranded in the capital city amid the country-wide lockdown. A special train carrying 1,345 students from Maharashtra left from New Delhi on Saturday at 10 pm. The train reached Nashik Road railway station at 7.30 pm on Sunday. The students were dropped at Bhusawal, Nashik, Kalyan and Pune stations. A team of eight doctors were deployed at the station by the Nashik Municipal Corporation to do the thermal screening of the students. The students will be home quarantined for 14 days. The students that alighted at Nashik Road station are from Nashik, Ahmednagar and Beed, out of which 79 students were from Nashik district. Most of the students had gone to New Delhi to prepare for the UPSC exams. Ramdas Kakade, father of a student, said, “I was keenly waiting for the government to arrange a conveyance for the students to return home. My daughter Payal was preparing for UPSC in New Delhi, but when the government imposed the lockdown, she was facing difficulties in getting food everyday and was worried how will she be able to manage.” The families of the students reached the railway station to pick them up while the district administration had arranged for nine buses to take the students to Ahmednagar, Beed and different talukas. “After a long wait of two months, I will be able to take my sister home. She somehow managed for two months and now will be all relaxed at home,” said Rahul Tajanpure, brother of a student.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/180-students-return-from-new-delhi/articleshow/75794804.cms||pragya jain
May 18, 2020||Mysuru||Industrial operations hit by exodus of migrants; most units functioning at less than half capacity||Mysuru: Relaxation of the lockdown norms may have kickstarted operations in small and medium-scale industries in some of the major industrial corridors in Mysuru. But with the government allowing inter-state travel, thousands of labourers have left the district, coupled with difficulties in commute, has impacted operations adversely. According to sources, nearly 60,000 labourers could not reach their respective workplaces. Representatives in the Mysuru Industries Association (MIA) said that working capacity in industrial units had reduced drastically owing to lack of difficulties in transport of materials and commuting. Joint director of District Industries Centre DK Lingaraju said that there were 16,420 industrial units, of which 14,800 had resumed operations following relaxation of lockdown norms. Around 1,68,000 of the total workforce of 2,30,000 employed across industries have returned to the district. “Officials in the department are in touch with industrialists on reopening of their units. Labourers have returned from their homes, and have assured the management that they will return to work,” said Lingaraju. Meanwhile, around 12,000 migrant workers in Mysuru district have registered themselves to return home. Lingaraju said that this exodus from the district could impact construction and hospitality sectors, which had been hoping to resume operations soon. He said that migrant workers accounted for nearly 60% of the labour force, and their non-availability would affect the completion of several projects. MIA president and former MLA Vasu said that restrictions on commuting and disruption in the supply chain were likely to further delay the already slow limp to normalcy in industrial operations. “Most units are not functioning at their full capacity,” he said. Suresh Kumar Jain, MIA general secretary, said that several units were in fact functioning at around 40% of their total capacity. He attributed this condition to restrictions on movement of goods and people. “Transportation of raw materials has become an expensive affair now. Where truck drivers were demanding Rs 8,000 to Rs 9,000 to transport good from Coimbatore to Mysuru earlier, they are now asking for Rs 12,000 to Rs 13,000,” Jain added. A Mysuru-based industrialist said that inability to settle salaries to employees for the months of April and May was among the deterrents to resumption of operations. “Owners are running out of capital, and it will not be easy to pay salaries to employees when the units reopen. They are likely to restart their factories when there is inflow of cash,” he added. President of Builders’ Association of India’s Mysuru chapter M Rathnaraj said that nearly 30% of the migrant labourers involved in the construction sector had returned. “Those who hail from West Bengal are also keen on returning and are only waiting for a green signal from their state. Consequently, work on several under-construction apartment complexes has stopped,” he said. Nanjangud pharmaceutical firm could resume work Jubilant Life Sciences, the pharmaceutical company in Nanjangud that was the epicentre of India’s first ‘Covid-19’ cluster case, may resume operations in the coming week, said Nanjangud MLA B Harshvardhan. He said that the company had agreed to adopt 10 villages, and distribute ration kits to 50,000 households affected directly or indirectly by the cluster case. Mysuru district in-charge minister ST Somashekar held a discussion with the representatives of the company’s management on the measures they needed to take, Harshvardhan said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/industrial-operations-hit-by-exodus-of-migrants-most-units-functioning-at-less-than-half-capacity/articleshow/75793992.cms||Shrinivasa M
May 18, 2020||Patna||560 Bihar migrants test Covid positive||PATNA: Altogether 560 migrant workers, who returned Bihar from different states during the lockdown, have so far been tested positive for Covid-19. According to data released by state health department’s principal secretary Sanjay Kumar on Sunday, the medical teams collected altogether 10,385 samples of returnee migrant workers randomly. The results of 2,746 samples are still awaited. Out of the remaining 7,639 samples, nearly 7% (560) tested positive. The health department teams collected samples on random basis from altogether 1070 migrant workers, who returned from Delhi. Of them, 172 tested positive and 548 negative while the results of 349 are awaited and one sample is still undecided. So far, altogether 7,40,819 migrant workers have returned to Bihar from different states by 566 special trains, state’s disaster management department (DMD) principal secretary Pratyaya Amrit told TOI on Sunday. Of the 560 positive cases among the migrants, the maximum 172 returned from Delhi, followed by 128 from Gujarat and 123 from Maharashtra. Principal secretary (health) said the maximum 24% samples collected from the migrant workers returning from Delhi and whose results came have been tested positive. The figures are based on the health department’s data of migrant workers, who have returned from Delhi. Similarly, 12% of the samples collected from those migrants who returned from Maharashtra and 7% from West Bengal have been found positive. Some of the migrant workers, whose samples were collected, returned by other means of transport than special trains. Pratyaya said altogether 23,633 migrant workers have returned from Delhi by 18 special trains so far. He said the migrant workers who returned from Delhi by other means or on foot are not included in this figure. Moreover, the health department didn’t collect samples from all the 23,633 migrant workers who returned by trains from Delhi. The health department teams collected samples on random basis from altogether 1,070 migrant workers, who returned from Delhi. Of the 1,070 samples, results of 349 are awaited and 548 were found negative. One sample is still undecided. As per the health department data, altogether 26 migrant workers, who returned from West Bengal by different means of transport and on foot, have been tested positive. Altogether 25 such migrants from Haryana and 16 from Uttar Pradesh were also found infected with the virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/560-state-migrants-test-covid-positive/articleshow/75794819.cms||Madan Kumar
May 18, 2020||Lucknow||Central package will make nation self-reliant: Yogi Adityanath||LUCKNOW: Hailing the financial package announced by Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman, chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday said the move would pave the path for the country to become self-reliant. Yogi said the decision to raise the limit of Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management (FRBM) from 3% to 5% for a year would allow state governments to avail loans as per their need in times of economic slowdown following coronavirus pandemic. Under the FRBM Act, it is mandatory for all states to keep their fiscal deficit under 3% of their respective GDP. Lauding the finance minister for focusing on employment, health and education, the CM said: “In MSME sector, the government allowed leniency by raising the limit of insolvency from Rs 1 lakh to Rs 1 crore. This sector is the backbone of country’s economic activity.” He said at least 30 lakh people were being provided work under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MNREGS). “The second big step was that of running Shramik Special trains to take migrants to their native places,” the CM said while highlighting the contribution of the state government in providing free train journey to migrants. The Centre is providing 85% rebate on tickets of migrants. Two days ago, UP government announced payment of its dues to the railways to bring back migrants. More than 475 Shramik Special trains, ferrying nearly 6 lakh migrants, have already arrived in the state till date. “As many as 26 PPE kit production units have been established in the state. UP is providing sanitizers to 28 states. Many major tasks have been accomplished in UP in health sector,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/central-package-will-make-nation-self-reliant-yogi/articleshow/75795799.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Goa||Rajdhani Express passengers pay Rs 2,000 for Covid-19 test without fuss||PANAJI: The second Delhi-Goa Rajdhani Express arrived a little before 1pm on Sunday with 347 passengers. With word having already got around that all passengers will have to pay Rs 2,000 for testing, there were fewer anxious moments witnessed as compared to the drama that unfolded on Saturday. Close to half the passengers who disembarked at Margao railway station had already paid for the testing online, while the others were given the option to pay in cash, scan a QR code and even withdraw money from a mobile State Bank of India ATM parked at the entrance of the railway station. Officials of the bank also set up a counter at the station verifying those who had already paid online for the test. Card swiping POS machines were not used. Cash paid at counters manned by district authority staff, who were all wearing gloves, was put directly into an envelope to avoid contact with those who arrived from red zones. Those from armed forces and those on government duty were exempted from paying for the tests. One family did say they had no money to pay for the tests but after authorities refused to budge, they used the ATM machine and paid up. District authorities Konkan Railway and police ensured social distancing was maintained during the entire process that lasted around four hours. There was heavy police presence in and around the Margao railway station as migrants began gathering after hearing about the Shramik special trains. One left in the morning at 10.30am with 722 passengers while another left late evening for Uttarakhand. Passengers who arrived on Saturday on the Rajdhani Express were inconvenienced as they had to wait overnight at the stadium while their test results came back. Learning from this experience, Covid-19 task force’s incident commander for Margao, Ajit Panchwadkar said the passengers were put up in hotels near the district hospital in Margao to avoid any inconvenience to them||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/rajdhani-express-passengers-pay-rs-2k-for-covid-19-test-without-fuss/articleshow/75795923.cms||Lisa Monteiro
May 18, 2020||Nashik||Three injured as bus carrying migrants overturns in Ahmednagar||NASHIK: Three migrant workers, including a woman, got injured after the bus carrying a total of 26 people from Pimpri Chinchwad to Uttar Pradesh overturned near Newasa Phata in Ahmednagar district early on Sunday. According to police inspector Ranjeet Dere,the accident took place at 5 am on the Ahmednagar-Aurangabad highway. “The bus driver was sleepy owing to which he lost control of the vehicle. The bus first hit the divider and then went off the road. No one sustained serious injuries.” He added, “Soon after the accident, the passengers started calling for help. The locals rushed to the accident spot to help the passengers and informed the police. A police team soon reached the spot and took the injured to the hospital.” Meanwhile, police also provided all the possible help, including tea and snacks, to the passengers. The transport company was informed about the accident following which another bus was sent in the afternoon to take the passengers to their destination.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/3-injured-as-bus-carrying-migrants-overturns-in-ahmednagar/articleshow/75794824.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Kochi||Ship, 4 flights arrive with 1,257 Indians||Kochi/T’puram: INS Jalashwa, the repatriation ship deployed by the Indian Navy as part of ‘Operation Samudra Setu’ and four repatriation flights carrying expatriates from Abu Dhabi, Bahrain, Dubai and Muscat reached the state on Sunday. A total of 1,257 Indians reached the state from various countries. The warship reached Cochin Port at 11.30am from Maldives with 588 Indians, including 70 women of which six were pregnant and 21 children. A total of 568 passengers were Keralites and 15 were from Tamil Nadu. Three passengers belonged to Telangana and two were residents of Lakshadweep. According to Port Health Organisation, three passengers were symptomatic of Covid-19 and they were shifted to isolation ward of Ernakulam Medical College hospital. Extensive arrangements were made by the port authorities for streamlining the process of Covid screening and immigration procedures and also by the civil administration for transportation for evacuated Indians to their respective districts/states. Meanwhile, three repatriation flights carrying expatriates from Abu Dhabi, Bahrain and Dubai landed at Cochin International Airport Limited (Cial). The Gulf Air flight (GF 7712) from Bahrain landed at 6.50pm carrying 127 passengers. The second flight operated by Air India Express (IX 434) from Dubai landed at 7.27pm with 179 passengers, including two infants. The third flight (IX 452) from Abu Dhabi landed at 10pm with 181 passengers, including an infant. While one passenger from Bahrain was symptomatic of Covid-19, all who came from Dubai were asymptomatic. The Gulf Air flight later departed from Kochi with 48 passengers, who work in Bahrain and were stranded here due to lockdown. The repatriation flight carrying expatriates from Muscat landed in Thiruvananthapuram on Sunday. The AIE flight (IX 0554) landed at 6.15pm with 182 passengers, including five children and around 90 women. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/ship-4-flights-arrive-with-1257-indians/articleshow/75794034.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Ahmedabad||Doors unlocked for business outside containment zones in Gujarat||GANDHINAGAR/ AHMEDABAD: After 57 days of idling, Gujarat’s economic engine will finally hum from Tuesday. A couple of hours after the Union home ministry issued guidelines for Lockdown 4.0, the Government of Gujarat announced a slew of relaxations outside containment zones. These include reopening of industries, private offices and shops, the movement of autorickshaws, two-wheelers, state transport and city buses. “The Gujarat government will henceforth decide relaxations to be given for lockdown based on containment zones and non-containment zones,” said Gujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani. “A final list of containment zones will be declared on Monday after consultation with district collectors, municipal commissioners, and district development officers. No relaxation except for supply of essentials such as groceries, milk and medicines, and healthcare services will be provided in containment zones.” Rupani said that the curfew from 7pm to 7am imposed during the lockdown will continue, except for movement for essential work. In Ahmedabad, Jamalpur, Kalupur, Dariapur, Danilimda, Shahpur, Gulbai Tekra and parts of Maninagar, among others, have been designated as containment zones. “The modalities of how shops and establishments as well as private offices will operate outside the containment zones will be decided on Monday in accordance with the guidelines of Union ministry of health,” said Rupani. The decision promises major relief to businesses in Ahmedabad, Vadodara, Surat, and Rajkot. Ahmedabad, which has emerged as a national Covid-19 hotspot with the highest number of corona cases and deaths, reported 276 new cases on Sunday. The city’s tally rose to 8,420 cases. The number of deaths has crossed 500. Restaurateurs across the state finally have a reason to rejoice as the state government has also allowed them to resume operations, albeit on a takeaway basis only. The CM announced that wearing masks in public places is now mandatory and spitting in public is prohibited. Any violations of these norms will attract a fine of Rs 200 across the state, said Rupani. “People have co-operated exceedingly well with the administration in the three phases of the lockdown,” Rupani said. “I expect similar co-operation in Lockdown 4.0 as well. We will have to live with the virus. The fight is long. If we strictly observe guidelines, we can continue with our activities and remain safe as well.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/doors-unlocked-for-biz-outside-containment-zones/articleshow/75795396.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Nagpur||39 days on, 13-yr-old tests Covid +ve 4 times, in Mayo ward alone||Nagpur: A 13-year-old boy is perhaps the only one remaining from the high risk group — immediate neighbours of the city’s first Covid deceased from Satranjipura — to get a discharge. His samples have tested positive repeatedly even after collectively spending 39 days in institutional quarantine followed by admission in Indira Gandhi Government Medical College and Hospital (IGGMCH).One of the boy’s parents wants to stay with the minor in the ward. Overcoming his fears of being unaccompanied by a relative, the minor himself has asked them to stay away from him. Both the parents have comorbidities and as per doctors infectivity of the boy is still high.The new 10-day discharge policy has, however, come as a ray of hope for the aggrieved parents, who haven’t seen the body since April 12 when the Covid positive results forced their separation one after another. On Saturday when a lot of 11 patients returned home, the parents had gone to the hospital hoping to get the 13-year-old discharged.“He is scared and keeps crying. Yet he doesn’t want us to be with him. Only one of his test results has been negative. They are discharging people admitted at a later date, but not my son,” said the mother.On April 8, entire family was sent to institutional quarantine at Lonara. Four days later, mother and her elder son’s wife tested positive and shifted to GMCH. The boy's brother tested negative. The boy remained at Lonara centre. The 13-year-old tested positive on April 20 and was admitted to IGGMCH. The boy’s parents and his elder brother’s wife returned home after recovery on April 28.NMC sampling record submitted to IGGMCH at the time of admission shows the boy as 15-year-old, though the parents say he is 13 years old and is in Std VII, says the boy’s mother.IGGMCH deputy medical superintendent Dr Sagar Pandey told TOI that the 14th day sampling was already done even before the new guidelines for 10-day discharge were implemented. “His 14th day sample was positive. We took another sample after six days which too was positive and same was the result after another six days. After four days, sample will be taken again and depending on the result decision on his discharge will be taken,” he said.Regarding permitting a guardian in the ward, Dr Pandey said, “The boy’s father stayed back for two days and then left. The boy is also not willing to have any relative with him for fear of infecting them. We have allowed two other parents to stay with their positive minor daughters after taking an undertaking. We can’t force a parent or relative to stay back.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/39-days-on-13-yr-old-tests-covid-ve-4-times-in-mayo-ward-alone/articleshow/75794816.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
May 18, 2020||Kochi||Rural SP conducts surprise checks at textile shops||Kochi: District police chief (Ernakulam rural) SP K Karthick on Saturday conducted surprise checks at textile outlets to ensure that they were following the necessary precautions and restrictions relating to the lockdown. The officer visited textile shops at Aluva town and talked to the owners about the importance of following restrictions during the lockdown. Police said that all textile shopowners are required to file an affidavit with the local station house officer about the area of the shop, the number of customers that can be admitted and about other facilities at the shop. “Close circuit cameras are mandatory. Thermal scanning system has to be in place and one of the staffers should be assigned for this. Sanitizer and soaps should be readily available at all shops. If the restrictions are violated, the shops concerned will have to face legal consequences,” rural police said. Rural Police on Saturday registered as many as 38 cases in connection with violation of lockdown restrictions. As many as 31 persons were arrested and 46 vehicles were seized in this connection. Police said that as many as 47 persons were booked for coming out to public places without wearing face masks. Rural police have registered as many as 11,260 cases and arrested 10,229 persons so far in connection with lockdown violations. Meanwhile, Kochi city police on Saturday arrested three youths for illegally storing liquor. The accused were nabbed with 25 bottles of high-end liquor in their car by a special squad of the city police from Chalikkavattom. Officials said that they have information that the accused used to take advantage of the unavailability of liquor and used to sell the liquor at exorbitant rates. A probe is on in the case, police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/rural-sp-conducts-surprise-checks-at-textile-shops/articleshow/75788393.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Nashik||Relaxation in penalty for not depositing PF||Nashik: Around 1,300 of total 8,000 establishments registered under the retirement fund body Employees’ Provident Fund Organization (EPFO), Nashik region, have not paid their monthly provident fund (PF) contribution of Rs 10 crore during lockdown. However, they are entitled to get relaxation from being penalised by the government for not depositing the monthly PF contribution of their employees due to lockdown. Interestingly, over 6,600 establishments in Nashik region have paid their monthly contribution amounting to Rs 90 crore during the lockdown phase. The monthly contribution of both workers and employers amounts to 12%. Nashik regional office of EPFO includes five districts — Nashik, Ahmednagar, Dhule, Nandurbar and Jalgaon. The establishments covered under EPFO are distressed and are unable to function normally and pay the statutory contributions in time due to lockdown imposed in view of Covid-19 outbreak. Considering the difficulties faced by establishments in timely deposition of PF contribution or administrative charges due for any period during lockdown, the EPFO has decided that such delays due to operational or economic reasons will not be treated as default and penal damages would not be levied for such delays, said EPFO officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/relaxation-in-penalty-for-not-depositing-pf/articleshow/75794820.cms||Tushar Pawar
May 18, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh CM orders 10,000 pool testing every day, 1 lakh covid beds||LUCKNOW: Amidst a massive influx of migrants into the state, chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday issued directives to raise daily pool testing of samples from 6,500 to 10,000 per day to check spread of coronavirus. He also sought increasing covid-19 beds from 75,000 to 1 lakh for infected patients during a high-level meeting with Team 11 at his office-cum-residence in Lucknow. Additional chief secretary, home and information, Avanish Awasthi, said, the CM approved the health department’s two-pronged strategy to battle the virus amidst a record 1.5 lakh arrival of migrants on Sunday, taking the count to 16.5 lakh since reverse migration kicked off. “The CM directed that every person be administered quality treatment in the first stage,” Awasthi said, while admitting a possibility of spike in covid-19 cases following arrival of lakhs of migrants. At least 522 Shramik special trains have brought around 6 lakh migrants to the state. He said, another 87 trains are expected to reach the state in next couple of days. Of this, 11 trains are expected from Delhi alone. The CM also asked the field officer to establish communication with officials of other states from where migrants are being brought back. Chief minister’s turf Gorakhpur alone received 79 trains that brought 90,000 people home. Likewise, 45 trains have reached Lucknow till date with 52,000 migrants. He said, 250 trains have chugged into the state from Gujarat and 121 trains from Maharashtra till date. Awasthi said, the CM urged people not to travel on foot and instead take the facility of railways and buses. The state government, said Awasthi, would soon be paying another tranche of Rs 20 crore to Railways by Monday after paying Rs 6 crore in the first phase. Yogi also directed officials to rope in private vehicles to bring back migrants through swift approvals from district magistrates. Awasthi said, this would be over and above the facility of 10,000 UP State Road Transport Corporation (UPSRTC) buses, which have been deployed to bring migrants home. In another decision, Yogi asked officials to facilitate purchase of wheat and conduct regular inspection of wheat purchase centres. The officials should also inspect public distribution ration shops and help provide subsidised food grains to the needy. The CM also sought simplifying rules to draw investment and provide employment to the people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cm-orders-10k-pool-testing-every-day-1-lakh-covid-beds/articleshow/75795805.cms||Pankaj Shah
May 18, 2020||Nagpur||EPS-95 pensioners write to PM for pension hike||Nagpur: Aggrieved over Employees Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO) filing a review petition in the Supreme Court, the pensioners have written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi requesting him to withdraw the plea.Under the umbrella of Employees Pension (EPS-95) Coordination Committee (EPCC), they appealed to PM to direct Government of India to withdraw another case filed in the apex court challenging verdicts of several high courts in their favour granting them enhanced pension. The copies of letter are also forwarded to the labour minister and provident fund commissioner.According to EPCC secretary Prakash Pathak, this matter is related to the 67 lakh pensioners and 17.2 crore existing working employees. “The Centre announced in the Parliament in 2017 and 2018 that the problems of the EPS-95 pensioners will be resolved after SC’s decision. The labour ministry also gave assurance in this regard. But till date, no assurance was fulfilled. Moreover, during declaration of recent packages for different sectors by the government for fighting Covid-19 pandemic, they totally forgot the pensioners who are struggling with meagre pension,” he told TOI.The Kerala High Court on October 12, 2018, decided the cases (WP No 13120/2015 and WP No 602/2015) in pensioners’ favour and those were upheld by the apex court while rejecting the EPFO appeal on April 1 last year. However, EPFO has chosen to file a review plea in SC instead of complying.Pathak claimed the EPFO discriminated EPS-95 pensioners between exempted and un-exempted establishment employees and through a circular of May 31, 2017, deprived former from the pensionary benefits. “Due to this circular, there are about 800-850 cases in the various high courts across the country and about 49 in the top court. The EPFO is spending a big amount of the exchequer on fighting legal battles,” he said.He pointed out that poor and old aged pensioners were being forced to fight legal battle at the fag end of their life. “It’s requested to be sympathetic toward the senior citizens, who served the country throughout the life and now are in a precarious condition,” he said in letter to PM.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/eps-95-pensioners-write-to-pm-for-pension-hike/articleshow/75794821.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
May 18, 2020||Hubballi||10 more test positive in Kalaburagi||Kalaburagi : Ten more Covid-19 cases were reported from Kalaburagi on Sunday. With this, the total number of positive cases in Kalaburagi has crossed 100. Most of the persons who tested positive on Sunday are from families of migrant labourers who returned from Mumbai to Kalaburagi recently. The patients include a 10-year-old boy and another 13-year-old boy. Along with this, the total number of infected persons increased to 104 in Kalaburagi. Of them, seven persons died, 51 have recovered and released from hospital seven have died and 46 cases are still active in Kalaburagi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/10-more-test-positive-in-kalaburagi/articleshow/75794029.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Lucknow||Open Ayodhya temples: Seers||Ayodhya: On the eve of Lockdown 4, seers and priests in Ayodhya who are grappling with low resources and zero dakshina (offerings) for over 50 days, demanded that temples be thrown open to pilgrims. On Sunday, another group of seers sought an economic package for Vedic Brahmins, who are in deep distress due to drying up of dakshina. Speaking to TOI, president of Ayodhya Sant Samiti, Mahant Kanhaya Das, said, “If markets and liquor shops can be allowed to operate, then why are temples still shut? We demand that temples be allowed to open in the holy town in accordance with social distancing norms.” Mahant Raju Das of Hanuman Garhi temple said, temples should be opened to enable devotees to invoke the divine and receive spiritual power to battle coronavirus. Another group of seers demanded an economic package for Brahmins, who have lost all source of income due to the lockdown. On Sunday, Pandit Kalkiram, president of Ram Dal Trust, an organisation of Vedic Brahmins, submitted a memorandum to chief minister Yogi Adityanath seeking government funds to help them tide over the crisis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/open-ayodhya-temples-seers/articleshow/75795810.cms||Arshad Afzaal Khan
May 18, 2020||Nashik||Idli vendors leave for their hometowns in Chennai||Around 440 idli vendors from the city have left for their native place in Tamil Nadu. A total of 16 buses carrying 440 people, including women and children, left for Pune from Nashik at 8 pm. A special train of 13 bogies will then carry them from Pune to Chennai. President of Nashik Tamil Sangam S Ramamoorthy spoke with the Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu administrations after which all the necessary provisions for made for their travel. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/idli-vendors-leave-for-their-hometowns-in-chennai/articleshow/75794831.cms||pragya jain
May 18, 2020||Kochi||Two killed in jeep-truck collision||Kochi: Two persons were killed and at least three persons injured after a jeep collided with a mini-truck at Arayankavu near Mulanthuruthy in Ernakulam on Saturday morning. The deceased persons have been identified as Sundereshan Mani (38) of Karivathara, Kaduthuruthy, Kottayam and Babu Chacko (54) of Kallirikumkalayil, Muttuchira, Kottayam. According to police, the deceased were construction workers and were travelling in the jeep. “The jeep, which was on the way from Kaduthuruthy and was heading towards Chottanikkara, was overtaking another vehicle when it collided with the truck at Arayankavu near Kanjiramittom around 6.30am on Saturday. There are reports that the jeep was speeding,” said an officer. The jeep was carrying five workers. The right side of the jeep got crushed in the impact and the deceased who were sitting on this side got stuck between the jeep and the mini-truck, police said. At least, three others who were in the jeep too sustained serious injuries. “Some of them have sustained head injuries, however, none are critical. They were admitted to Tripunithura Taluk Hospital,” said a police officer. Mulanthuruthy police have registered an FIR under 304 A (causing death by negligence) of the IPC. Police said that the vehicles involved in the accident have been seized and an investigation is on. Bodies of the deceased were handed over to the relatives after an autopsy on Saturday. This is the third accident reported from the district in a short span of time since the lockdown restrictions were lifted. Over a week ago, in an accident reported from near Muttom at Aluva, three people who were standing by the road, including a girl, died when a car went out of control and rammed into them. A day before this incident, three persons were killed when the car they were travelling in rammed a house by the road. Several minor accidents, where vehicles carrying commodities overturned, were also reported from rural Ernakulam during this period. Roads safety experts have been warning that this transition period is a dangerous time for commuters and they have to be extra cautious while driving as there are fewer vehicles on the road and there are chances of reckless driving by many.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/two-killed-in-jeep-truck-collision/articleshow/75788412.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Goa||Centre nixes Delhi-Goa Rajdhanis on state’s request||Panaji: Chief minister Pramod Sawant said on Sunday that the Rajdhani Express trains from Delhi to Goa this week have been cancelled. However, the Rajdhani from Delhi to Kerala via Goa is on schedule, but it hasn’t yet been decided whether or not it will make a stop in Goa. “The train (Rajdhani from Delhi to Goa) has been cancelled, and Railways has stopped accepting bookings for it,” Sawant said. A few days ago, the CM wrote to the Centre asking that if possible, trains to Goa be cancelled in view of the rising number of cases. Sawant said that the state government has to control the number of people arriving in Goa by train. He said that so far, 90% of train passengers to Goa are Goans, and only 10-odd percent arrive here to then travel to neighbouring areas like Belagavi. Further, Sawant said that all passengers who arrived on Saturday in the Rajdhani Express from Delhi have been tested. All the passengers were taken to the South Goa district hospital for Covid-19 testing. A swab collection facility and testing centre has also been set up at the hospital. Reacting to the rising number of coronavirus cases in the state, Sawant said that the spike is because of Goa’s testing regimen. “We test each and every person who comes to the state, something that no other state does,” he said. Meanwhile, more than 6,000 persons outside the state (but in India) have registered to return home. Two thousand have already entered Goa after registering with the interstate movement cell. “We have to give permission to Goans who want to return to the state,” he said. Over 8,000 Goan expatriates and 3,000 seafarers have also registered to return.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/centre-nixes-delhi-goa-rajdhanis-on-states-request/articleshow/75795830.cms||Murari Shetye
May 18, 2020||India||Priyanka Gandhi makes a video appeal to Yogi Adityanath||LUCKNOW: A day after writing to UP CM Yogi Adityanath to seek his government’s permission to let Congress ply 1,000 busses to facilitate return of stranded migrant workers, party national general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Sunday posted a video, appealing to let buses enter UP from Alwar and Bharatpur in Rajasthan. “Respected chief minister, I’m requesting you, this is not the time for politics. Our buses are standing at the border. Thousands of labourers and migrants are walking towards their homes without food and water after fighting all troubles. Let us help them. Give permission to our buses,” she said in the video.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/priyanka-gandhi-makes-a-video-appeal-to-yogi-adityanath/articleshow/75796037.cms||Shailvee Sharda
May 18, 2020||Ahmedabad||Businesses rejoice, rev up for restart||Ahmedabad: The decision to allow the resumption of a slew of economic activities across non-containment zones of the state came as a major relief to Gujarat Inc. Industry players believe that the state’s economy will get a big boost with most economic activities including the operation of private offices, industries as well as shops and establishments, likely to resume from Tuesday, outside containment zones. “Most economic activities across majority of urban centres in the state will be up and running,” said Chintan Thaker, co-chair, Assocham Gujarat Council. “This is a real boost to the state’s economy and a welcome decision. Trade and industry are geared up to resume business with necessary precautions and adherence to SOPs.” With retail remaining completely shut, traders were reeling from severe liquidity crunch during the lockdown. “We are happy that the government has taken cognizance of the concerns of trade and industry,” said Jayendra Tanna, president, Gujarat Traders’ Federation (GTF). “As the revenue cycle restarts, there will be much ease in terms of liquidity.” Industrialists are also expecting that the implementation of Lockdown 4.0 be made smooth to ensure no harassment of people travelling for work and business. A major relief came to the hotels and restaurants sector which has been allowed to resume operations, albeit on a takeaway basis. “The decision to allow restaurants to resume operations will bring relief to the business which was already under stress,” said Narendra Somani, president, Hotels and Restaurants Association (HRA). “However, it may not gain much momentum as most takeaway orders take place during the evening.” However, hoteliers also say that the operation of permit liquor stores should be allowed to resume. “Meanwhile, health liquor permit holders have also been anxious, as they are deprived of the supply of liquor for health reasons. We hope the government takes their plight into consideration,” Somani further added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/businesses-rejoice-rev-up-for-restart/articleshow/75795430.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Patna||Bihar records 8th Covid death and 106 fresh cases||PATNA: Bihar on Sunday reported its eighth death due to Covid-19 and 106 fresh cases, including the highest 57 in Patna district in a single day. The new cases took the tally of Covid positive cases in state to 1284. Altogether 475 people have recovered from the virus infection so far while the number of active cases stood at 801. A 54-year-old diabetic man died of cardiopulmonary arrest on May 15 while undergoing treatment at the Gogri referral hospital in Khagaria district. He, along with his wife and grandson, had come from Mumbai by a Shramik special train on May 11. The medical team collected his samples for Covid- 19 testing after his death and the report came positive on late Saturday evening, said principal secretary (health department) Sanjay Kumar. His wife has also tested positive, he added. “The family had reached Khagaria via Saharsa. They were kept at Sharda Gayatri College in Maheshkhunt block. He complained of breathlessness around 3pm on May 14 after which he was admitted to Gogri hospital. After treatment, the man showed signs of recovery. On May 15 around 4.30am, he passed away,” Sanjay said and confirmed it as 8th Covid death in state. With 57 fresh cases, including 18 women patients, Patna district has so far registered 164 coronavirus cases, out of which 44 recovered and two died. With the 21 fresh cases (including six women constables) reported from BMP-14 Khajpura, altogether 50 personnel of BMP have been infected. Barh reported 17 such cases, closely followed by 12 in Athmalgola, two each in RPS Mor area and Belchhi and one each in Agamkuan, Patel Nagar and Fatuha in Patna district. There were substantial increase in the number of fresh Covid cases in Rohtas an Madhubani. Dr Ragini Mishra, state nodal officer for Covid-19, told this newspaper that all the positive cases were migrants who had returned to Bihar by special trains while the constables at BMP-14 were infected from a colleague who was tested positive on May 7. “So far, 840 samples randomly of migrants have been collected randomly from the quarantine centres across the state. Of which 140 tested positive. The medical teams collect the samples randomly from quarantine centres every day and send them to testing centres,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/state-records-8th-covid-death-106-fresh-cases/articleshow/75794846.cms||Faryal Rumi
May 18, 2020||Nagpur||Two Mominpura Covid-19 +ve women deliver after C-section at Mayo, GMCH||Nagpur: Two Covid-19 positive women from Mominpura delivered baby girls at Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) and Indira Gandhi Government Medical College and Hospital (IGGMCH) on Friday and Sunday. Both were caesarean section deliveries.A 30-year-old woman with precious pregnancy delivered a healthy baby girl at GMCH on Friday morning. The newborn was discharged as she tested negative. The woman became the third Covid-19 positive patient from city to deliver.Though not covered under guidelines, the GMCH administration arranged an ambulance to send the baby girl home with her relatives on Sunday.A 29-year-old woman from Mominpura was admitted with labour pains at IGGMCH on Saturday. Her samples were taken immediately after admission and sent for testing for Covid-19. She had to be taken for caesarean on Sunday. Doctors wearing PPE took all precautions and successfully conducted caesarean. Later, the woman’s reports came positive. The baby’s samples have been taken.The woman became the fourth Covid-19 positive woman from the city to deliver baby.The relatives of the 30-year-old have accused the NMC of mixing up her sample which led to her spending an entire day in the Covid ward on May 13.Earlier, two positive women — one each at Mayo and GMCH — delivered babies who were kept away from the mothers as they tested negative for Covid-19.GMCH doctors said that the 30-year-old mother is stable and isolated from other positive patients within the Covid hospital. “Due care is being taken of her. An NGO had arranged for new clothes and baby food for the newborn for the first three days. As the relatives were willing to take her home, we gave discharge,” a senior doctor said. The 29-year-old woman was directly brought to IGGMCH while the 30-year-old was reportedly detected in a special ante-natal camp (ANC) organized by NMC health team at Mominpura.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/two-mominpura-covid-19-ve-women-deliver-after-c-section-at-mayo-gmch/articleshow/75794834.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
May 18, 2020||Nashik||Civic body lifts restrictions in 4 containment zones||done Nashik: The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has lifted restrictions in four more containment zones in the city after patients were discharged and no new suspects were found in these zones in the last 14 days. These zones include Pathardi Phata, Uttam Nagar, Savta Nagar and Satpur colony, said municipal commissioner Radhakrishna Game. With these new four zones, restrictions in total 10 zones have been lifted by the municipal commissioner so far. At present, there are a total of 23 containment zones in the city, including three new containment zones which were sealed on May 15 after three more patients tested positive from these two new zones. On Thursday, the municipal corporation had lifted restrictions in three containment zones — Dhongde farm in Nashik Road, Sanjeev Nagar in Satpur and Kishor Suryavanshi Marg in the Mhasrul area of the city. Earlier on May 4, the NMC had released restrictions in the three containment zones — Govind Nagar, Anandvalli on Gangapur Road and Bajrangwadi — for the first time. So far, 45 people have been tested positive for Covid-19 with two casualties reported. Of these 45 people, 32 have been discharged while 11 are still undergoing treatment. A total of 14 patients were discharged two days back. “The Covid-19 positive patients from the newly released containment zones have recovered and discharged from the hospital. No new suspects have been reported from these three zones in the last 14 days. Hence, we have lifted all restrictions in these four zones,” said a civic official from the health department. The first confirmed Covid-19 patient from Nashik city was reported from the Govind Nagar area on April 6 while the second and the third patient tested positive for the contagion from the Anandvalli and Rajlaxmi lawns areas on April 10.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/civic-body-lifts-restrictions-in-4-containment-zones/articleshow/75794836.cms||Tushar Pawar
May 18, 2020||Nagpur||Central team asks Ytl GMCH to set up testing lab soon||Nagpur: A central rapid response team (RRT) from AIIMS Nagpur visited Yavatmal, one of the districts worst hit by the Covid-19, and recommended a slew of measures to contain its spread. The team recommended setting up of dedicated Covid operation theatre and labour room on urgent basis and also starting a Covid-19 helpline. It also instructed the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) to start a testing laboratory at the earliest.The team comprising Dr Ranjan Solanki (epidemiologist), Dr Amol Dube (physician) and Dr Vishal Shete, (microbiologist) visited the Covid hospital at GMCH, institutional quarantine centres, and containment zones to assess the preparedness and administration’s response to the pandemic.The team further recommended installation of CCTV in isolation ward to monitor patients closely and starting recreational activities, relaxation techniques and counselling services for the inmates. “The ward has been left to the care of junior residents without much hand-holding from seniors. The college administration was made aware of these facts,” the team stated.RRT observed that the quaranine centre inmates were satisfied with food and residential arrangements. They however pointed out that very purpose of quarantine seems to be failing. “As the inmates share the same balcony and socialize with each other, Covid distancing is not being followed. If the positives intermingle with negatives, there is a high risk of transmission,” it said.For containment zones, the team recommended regular screening of high-risk population, including elderly, pregnant/lactating mothers, and children below 12 years for finding out suspected Covid-19 cases. It called on to involve Mahila Arogya Samiti, Asha and Anganwadi workers, and community leaders into this exercise for better community participation.To alleviate the fear and stigma caused due to Covid-19, RRT suggested use of education and communication material designed for the community in its local language. “It needs to focus on positive message like only 20% of patients infected with Corona need hospitalization and only 2-3% of them may get severely ill. Also, the messages for a healthy lifestyle like regular exercise, nutrition, and relaxation techniques, need to be emphasized regularly,” it said.RRT recommendations:* Dedicated Covid operation theatre & labour rooms on urgent basis* Covid-19 helpline with psychiatry dept’s help to alleviate anxiety * Telemedicine facility to support Covid Hospital & Primary Health Centre* Complete Civil work & get testing laboratory functional at earliest* Enforce proper distancing in quarantine centres||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/central-team-asks-ytl-gmch-to-set-up-testing-lab-soon/articleshow/75794830.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
May 18, 2020||Nashik||Nashik Rd station to have restricted entry points||Nashik: The Nashik Road station authorities have decided to restrict the number of entry points coming into the railway station to ensure proper screening of every passenger when the railway services resume. Currently, special or Shramik trains are being run by the railways for the stranded migrant workers. They are pre-checked and given clearance before boarding the trains. It won’t be the same when train service resumes and that is why the necessary precautions are taken. “While we have the CCTV coverage to ensure that every person is tracked, we will have to do an additional activity – that of thermally scanning every person who comes into the railway station,” the railway authorities said. The entrance to the station will only be allowed from behind the current booking office that has now been replaced by the advance booking office, just outside the platform number 1. “There is an entrance near the Parcel Gate where the passengers will be thermally scanned before proceeding. The passengers can use the foot over bridge (FOB) which also has an elevator thus enabling to passengers to cross the tracks and get down at platform 2/3 (a joint one) and at platform 4. The work on the extension of the FOB along with the construction of the staircase and elevator have begun on platform 4. Similarly, the travellers coming to the station from the parking area can use the escalator to FOB on platform 1, where they will be thermally scanned before allowed to proceed further. The alighted passengers will exit from the main entrance of the station. “The entry will be banned from this ‘main entrance’ till the development of the alternate arrangement – near the old current booking office, is completed. The passengers will be thermally scanned even at the time of exiting the station,” the authorities said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-rd-station-to-have-restricted-entry-points/articleshow/75794835.cms||Abhilash Botekar
May 18, 2020||Nagpur||31 of 40 Covid deaths in Vid from Akola and Amravati||Nagpur: Out of total 40 Covid-19 deaths in Vidarbha recorded till date, 31 are from Akola and Amravati. While the number deaths in Akola (18) are more than Amravati (13), mortality rate in Amravati is highest in Vidarbha at 12.26%. Nagpur has reported six deaths followed by one each from Buldhana, Washim and Wardha.Most deaths have been reported in the last two weeks. On May 1, Vidarbha had recorded 12 deaths. By May 17, the toll surged to 40. Most deaths in Amravati and Akola are of elderly people or those who had some comorbidities.In most of the cases, deceased tested Covid-19 positive post death. Seven deaths have been reported from isolation wards during treatment. Two of them are from Nagpur, two in Amravati and three in Akola, which has recorded sudden surge in deaths and number of patients in the last few days.“Akola has seen 16 deaths in the last 10 days. Three of them were of patients undergoing treatment at the isolation ward. All three patients were having severe comorbidities. Age factor was also important in it,” said divisional deputy director of health services, Akola, Dr Riyaz Faruqui.According to sources, there has been unusual surge in death records of Akola Municipal Corporation. Local sources said total 42 deaths were recorded at one Masoom Shah cemetery during April 21 to May 10. This cemetery comes in one of the hotspot areas in the city. In 2018, only eight deceased were buried at this cemetery during the same period while in 2019, the number was 11. This means, nearly four times more people have been buried this year in this one cemetery. While no official from Akola was ready to comment on the records, no one refuted the numbers.While Covid casualties are a cause of concern for Akola and Amravati, there is a silver lining from Yavatmal. Total 98 cases have been recorded in Yavatmal, but no patient has died here till date. By May 17, 91 out of the 98 patients have been cured and discharged. Washim, Buldhana and Wardha have registered one death each, but none of the deceased had resulted in chain of Covid-19 patients like that in Nagpur’s Satranjipura case. Doctors have advised that elderly people should stay at home and those having diabetes, hypertension and other comorbidities should take extra care. Deaths in RegionDistrict | number of deaths | mortality rateAkola | 18 (17+1 Suicide) | 7.14%Amravati | 13 | 12.26%Nagpur | 6 | 1.69%Buldhana, Washim, Wardha | 1 each | NATotal | 40 | 4.73%Youngest deceased in Vidarbha | 22-year-old in Nagpur Oldest deceased in Vidarbha | 89-year old woman in Amravati||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/31-of-40-covid-deaths-in-vid-from-akola-and-amravati/articleshow/75794840.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
May 18, 2020||Mangaluru||2, including man who came home from Delhi test +ve in DK||Mangaluru: A 31-year-old man who voluntarily came for testing is among two Covid-19 positive cases that Dakshina Kannada district reported on Sunday. He was among the 55 fresh cases that the state reported in 24 hours, ending at 5pm on Sunday. The other case reported is that of a 35-year-old woman (P-1095), who had travelled to Mumbai. The total active cases in Dakshina Kannada has gone up to 30, with the addition of these two fresh cases, and five people have succumbed to the disease here so far. The state bulletin mentioned that contact tracing is going on for the youth, who has been designated P-1094. Officials in the district administration and department of health and family welfare said the contact tracing process for this youth, a businessman, will be a Herculean task, given that he has a history of travel to Delhi. Efforts are on to corroborate large parts of his travel history, from the time he left Delhi, till he reached the city on May 13. Gayathri Nayak, deputy director, district urban development cell, who is in charge of the district bulletin, said that steps are being taken to confirm whether he had travelled to Dubai or not, while it is certain that he was in Delhi prior to heading home. The authorities said that the youth is believed to have travelled through Maharashtra, Telangana and Bengaluru, and reached his relative’s house at Jeppu Patna in Mangaluru taluk, parts of which, including 48 houses, have been designated a containment zone and sealed,” said deputy commissioner Sindhu B Rupesh. Noting it was his desperation to reach home at any cost that saw him criss-cross so many states, Gayathri said that the youth used various means of transport to reach home, including walking for parts of his journey. “He was asymptomatic and voluntarily came to a designated testing centre in Deralakatte on May 13. He has been shifted to Wenlock Hospital,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/2-including-man-who-came-home-from-delhi-test-ve-in-dk/articleshow/75794065.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Lucknow||200 buses in every district to ferry migrants: Uttar Pradesh CM Yogi Adityanath||LUCKNOW: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday ordered officials to ready at least 200 buses in every district of the state to ferry migrants who are reaching the state in large numbers. Presiding over a meeting of Team-11 at his official residence here, Yogi said that in case of shortage of buses the district authorities can hire private vehicles. The government has already deployed 10,000 buses of UPSRTC to ferry migrants back to their native districts. A total 522 trains brought 6.5 lakh migrants to the state between March 1 and April 30, and 1.5 lakh people who came by their own vehicle. With this the total number of migrants reaching the state has climbed to around 16.5 lakh. Additional chief secretary, home, Awanish Awasthi said the trains were reaching in 48 railway stations across the state. He said that they have entered into an agreement with Delhi for receiving 11 trains on a daily basis. Awasthi said that the railway has also agreed to run 250 additional trains. By Sunday afternoon, the state received 87 trains. Awasthi said the state government has already made a payment of Rs 2 crore, while another Rs 6 crore is in the process of being made to the railways. He said the government would further make a payment of Rs 20 crore to the railways for running trains for migrants. Yogi has directed officials to prepare the data, including the one related to skills of the migrants coming back to UP. He said that the data may be used for wheeling in the relief package announced by the Centre. Awasthi said the government distributed loans of over Rs 2,000 crores to the MSMEs, a day after the Centre announced a relief package to the sector. The street vendors would also be distributed the relief amount by Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cm-200-buses-in-every-dist-to-ferry-migrants/articleshow/75795811.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Ahmedabad||Nehra shunted to rural development||Gandhinagar: The Gujarat government on Sunday transferred Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation commissioner Vijay Nehra. In a rare instance, Mukesh Kumar has been re-appointed as municipal commissioner of Ahmedabad for the second time since he left office in July 2018. Nehra has been transferred to the post of commissioner, rural development and relieved Manoj Aggarwal, principal secretary, social justice department, from additional charge. A few weeks back on May 5, Kumar was brought in as in-charge commissioner of the civic body, after Nehra self-quarantined following coming in contact with a Covid-19 positive colleague. Additional chief secretary Rajiv Gupta was put as the overall in-charge of the city. Four days later, on May 9, Nehra had tweeted that he had tested negative for Covid-19 and would resume office, the government was of the opinion that he completes the 14-day quarantine period. Evidently, the political leadership thinks that Nehra has failed to control the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic despite being given a free hand. Nehra admitted in one of the press statements broadcasted on social media that an estimated 8 lakh people in the city are likely to be infected if lockdown measures aren’t followed. This created an alarm and did not go down well with the government. This is also a crucial year for municipal elections. But owing to aggressive testing, which still is the highest in the state, a number of asymptomatic cases, nearly 75% had emerged. He focussed on increasing testing in cluster zones at a rate of over 1,400 tests per million populations against the national average of 331. Gupta to continue to oversee Covid control action Ahmedabad: Rajiv Gupta, additional chief secretary (ACS), forest & environment, whom the state government appointed as the overall in-charge of the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) to control Covid-19 spread, will continue to hold the charge. The city could witness a spike in Covid-19 cases as several relaxations have been planned in Ahmedabad and other cities during lockdown 4.0 which comes into force from Tuesday. Sources said that Gupta’s strategy of stopping sale from all grocery and vegetable outlets for a week and identifying over 700 super-spreaders and micro-hotspots, has helped in checking the spread of the pandemic to a big extent. Aulakh appointed CEO GMB Avantika Singh Aulakh will replace Mukesh Kumar as CEO, Gujarat Maritime Board (GMB) after his appointment as municipal commissioner, Ahmedabad . Aulakh had been awaiting posting after returning from an overseas study stint. Watch Ahmedabad: AMC commissioner transferred for failing to contain COVID-19||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/nehra-shunted-to-rural-development/articleshow/75795432.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Nashik||ISP Nashik to restart operations today||Nashik: The India Security Press (ISP) at Nashik has decided to start operations from Monday with 30% manpower. ISP Nashik, a unit of the Security Printing and Minting Corporation of India Ltd (SMPCIL), had shut operations on March 24 due to the coronavirus-related lockdown. But the unit had started some emergency operations, like printing of over 27,000 emergency passport certificates, as per orders issued by the external affairs ministry. Moreover, it had also printed certification tag for the government for fertilizer bags. “Around 1.5 lakh passports were in different stages of printing when the lockdown was announced and we had to shut our operations. Now, the printing of these incomplete passports will be done first,” said sources in ISP Nashik. “We will call 30% of our staff to work every week on a rotation basis. Before calling them to work, we are ensuring that they had not in contact with people from affected areas like Malegaon, Mumbai and Pune. The employees will have to submit an affidavit in this regard before joining work,” said the ISP Nashik sources. The SPMCIL, which prints government currencies and other security documents and manufactures coins, has nine units across the country. It has two units in Nashik – Currency Note Press (CNP) and India Security Press (ISP). The CNP has also decided to start operations with less manpower. Around 150 million pieces of currency notes were in different stages of printing here before the lockdown. Printing of these notes are to be completed first.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/isp-nashik-to-restart-operations-today/articleshow/75794847.cms||Tushar Pawar
May 18, 2020||Kozhikode||Muslims in Kerala confused about relaxation for mosques||KOZHIKODE: Muslim community in the state is confused about asking government to relax restrictions on prayers at mosques imposed after the spread of Covid-19 around two months ago. A section in the community feels that there is nothing wrong in bringing relaxation for mass prayers as it is done in the case of shops and other sectors. The demand is getting louder with the month of Ramzan entering the last leg. But others argue that there will be chaos if restrictions are removed in places of worship now. All India Imams’ Council, an organization owing allegiance to Popular Front of India (PFI), has written a letter to chief minister seeking relaxation in the restrictions. “Government can think of allowing prayers in mosques in green zones where there is no threat of virus infection. Of course, such gatherings should follow the guidelines of the health department authorities,” said Aburehman Baqavi, state president of Imam Council. Baqavi also asked the government to desist from registering cases against those who offer namesake prayers at areas where there is no threat of Covid-19. Basheer Faizy Deshamangalam, state secretariat member of Samastha Kerala Sunni Students Federation, echoed similar sentiments. In a Facebook post, he questioned the rationale behind keeping the places of worship closed while allowing liquor outlets and other establishments to function. “Around 50 journalists attend news conferences of chief minister and opposition leader,” he said in the post. “We are not demanding to open the mosques in cities that are frequented by people in large numbers. But can’t we think of keeping open at least small mosques in rural areas where prayers could be held by keeping social distancing,” he asked. But others are suspicious about the practical angle of the suggestion. “It is true that people are disturbed as they are barred from mass prayers even in the month of Ramzan. But we should think logically rather than getting emotional,” a leader in the Muslim community said. “I deliver Friday sermon in a mosque where the attendance is above 4,000. How can we restrict the numbers,” he asked. “There will be pressure from rank and file but no organisation can take the responsibility of managing the crowd,” he said. A Sunni leader, who earlier supported lifting of restrictions in mosques, now feels that time is not ripe for relaxations. “We got fatwa from a senior scholar that obeying the government authorities is the most advisable thing in the current circumstances,” he said. “Some persons in the community post photographs of mass prayers from Muslim countries where there was ban for congregations. But in those countries the mosques are under the control of police,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/muslims-confused-about-relaxation-for-mosques/articleshow/75794064.cms||Prashanth M P
May 18, 2020||Pune||Pune: 160 citizens help police man checkpoints||PUNE: The staff at Haveli police station includes only three officers and 42 policemen but it has 17 villages under its jurisdiction that stretches over 9sqkm jurisdiction. The Sinhagad Road police station, covering 10sqkm area from Dhayari to Rajaram Bridge, has 16 officers and 133 men on its staff. When the Covid-19 pandemic broke out with the first patient in Pune from Dhayari area, the two police stations were responsible for cordoning off the area and they were able to effectively manage the situation thanks to 160 alert citizens. Local residents stepped forward to help the police man check posts, prevent crowding at public places and patrol the area. Senior inspector Nandakishore Shelke, in-charge of Sinhagad police station, said, “The citizens felt they were duty-bound to assist the police and enrolled as volunteers. We appointed them as special police officers and allotted them duty in areas close to their residence along with our men. They were asked to work for a few hours in the mornings and evenings. They worked diligently and in a disciplined manner while following the social distancing norms themselves.” “When the lockdown was declared, we met villagers and appealed the young, able-bodied people to help us. They responded positively. We formed ‘village defence parties’ and assigned them to patrol their villages with our staff,” said senior inspector Ashok Shelke, in-charge of the Haveli police station. However, the officers said, a big shot in the arm came from a private security firm run by Prashant Deokar (38). “Some 25 days ago, he offered to provide the services of 11 trained personnel to assist us along with patrol vehicles. We decided to post the guards, temporarily called as ‘martials’ at vantage points such as Navale Bridge, Dhayari Phata, Nanded Phata, Kolhewadi, Kirkatwadi and Khadakwasla,” said Shelke. Deokar and his team have been working with the police for over three weeks now. “We have even helped the police patrol teams at isolation centres. This is our contribution to the society and the police force. I have a special affinity for the police as my father was an officer. When the pandemic broke out, I could see the policemen stressed out and decided to do everything possible to help them,” he shared.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/160-citizens-help-police-man-checkpoints/articleshow/75795416.cms||Shyam Sonar
May 18, 2020||Ahmedabad||CM appoints IAS officer to probe death at bus stop||Ahmedabad: After furore over death of a 67-year-old Covid-19 positive patient at BRTS bus stand in Danilimda on Saturday, Gujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani appointed J P Gupta, commissioner, commercial tax, to probe the incident and submit a report within 24 hours. Gupta, former state health commissioner, will submit the report on Monday, said Jayanti Ravi, principal secretary (health & family welfare). Ravi said that ‘stringent action’ will be initiated against those responsible. On Saturday, body of Ganpat Makwana was found from Danilimda BRTS bus stand. Makwana was discharged from Civil Hospital on Saturday along with five others who were being dropped by an AMC bus. Makwana had reportedly told the staff that he lives nearby at Rohit Park Society, and he would walk home when they dropped him. All were to observe seven-day self-isolation according to ICMR discharge protocol. Danilimda police probing the incident said that Kirti, Kamlesh and Dharmendra – three sons of the deceased – live nearby in Ravi Park Society in the same area. “The body was discovered by a security guard at BRTS bus stand at 1pm. He thought that Makwana might have fallen asleep,” said V R Vasava, inspector of Danilimda police station. “But he soon realized that the man was dead, and he immediately informed his superiors, who in turn, informed police control room.” The hospital authorities approached Makwana’s son Dharmendra based on a number found from his pocket. The brothers then reached the hospital and identified their father. The cremation took place after post-mortem on Saturday. Sources at Civil Hospital said that Makwana had got admitted to the hospital with severe breathlessness in first week of May. “The patient had a history of lung disease and he had got admitted to the 1200-bed hospital after he had tested positive. He had completed his 10 days of hospitalization and he was free of symptoms associated with Covid-19 including fever,” said a senior official. My father died because of Civil Hospital’s negligence: Kirti Makwana Ganpat Makwana’s elder son Kirti, 45, told TOI that his father died due to negligence of Civil Hospital. “Nobody from the hospital informed us that they were sending our father back home. We came to know about his death when police called us. We are hoping that the persons responsible for negligence will be punished after the inquiry,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/cm-appoints-ias-officer-to-probe-death-at-bus-stop/articleshow/75795436.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Pune||Internet trouble adds to work from home burden||PUNE: Kartik Ghai, a resident of Salunke Vihar Road, has been facing internet connectivity issues for the past few days and it is now starting to affect his high pressure job as he struggles to work from home. “It has been almost a week now. I have a Vodafone-Idea network and I use my phone’s internet to connect to my laptop. There has been practically no connection since the last five days. I just cannot work as a result. The network comes suddenly for a few minutes and I receive a string of WhatsApp messages that include official documents that I need to download. However, I lose network connectivity soon and I can’t download anything. My office colleagues say they don’t want to hear excuses. I am really stressed,” he told TOI. Parth Kusalkar, who lives in a housing society in lane number 11, said, “Until around 10am, the network is okay before it starts to deteriorate. Then, until at least midnight, it becomes impossible to connect. My work deadlines are getting affected and it is just an increase in frustration levels. Considering present times are so uncertain due to increasing lay-offs, I am quite worried. Office meetings and interactions with clients over projects are taking place over various online platforms and I have not been able to connect to any,” he said. Even homemakers were feeling the pinch. “After working for the family, I just want to connect to a video on-demand service and watch some shows but I cannot do that anymore with either the websites not opening or the videos buffering at all times. My husband even went to look for any telecom shop to get a new SIM card but he couldn’t find any,” she said. A Vodafone representative said the company would look into the situation. “A representative called me and took down my address details stating that an engineer will call me. That was on Friday but I haven’t heard from anyone yet,” Kusalkar said. Vodafone was asked about the issue over Twitter and the company sought address details. A further reply from the telecom company was awaited until the filing of the story.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/internet-trouble-adds-to-work-from-home-burden/articleshow/75795424.cms||Joy Sengupta
May 18, 2020||Nashik||Soaring temp sees 25 tankers providing water to 57 villages||Nashik: Due to the rising temperature in the district, the number of water tankers deployed by the administration has now increased from three to 25 so far. These tankers are assigned to provide water to 57 villages in the district. The ground water-levels are dropping and this is the reason that the villagers are not finding drinking water supply in their areas. “The need of drinking water is being felt baldy and the number of tankers in the district have shot up from three to 25 in the span of seven days only,” a senior officer from the district administration said. Due to non-availability of water, some locals are forced to trek for long distances to get water for drinking and cleaning purposes. Looking at the situation, the gram panchayats have started demanding the supply of water tankers with the district administration. “Usually by middle of March we have water tankers pressed into service in some or the other villages of Yeola taluka, but this year the water available underground provided relief to the villagers – thanks to the very good rains this year. But now the water levels have gone below and hence the demand for drinking water is on the rise,” said Pankaj Usheer from Yeola taluka. According to the administration, Yeola taluka tops the chart with nine tankers, Surgana taluka with seven tankers, Peth with five tankers, Deola with two tankers, while Nandgaon and Trimbakeshwar has one tanker each. The officers have stated that there is more demand of tankers in Yeola taluka. The demands are being verified by the field officers as they have to check if alternate options like the water in wells, temporary work for the water supply in the existing source, etc are exhausted or not.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/soaring-temp-sees-25-tankers-providing-water-to-57-villages/articleshow/75794848.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Bareilly||Uttar Pradesh: ‘Cow smugglers’ pelt stones at cops during raids||BAREILLY: A police team was allegedly attacked by some locals at Chakkar Ki Milak under Civil Lines police station limits in Moradabad after the cops had carried out a search operation on Sunday. They had information that cows were being slaughtered there. Police said that some locals began pelting stones and targeting cops and their vehicles as they entered the village. Seeing the situation getting out of hand, additional force was pressed in. Station house officer, inspector Naval Marwah said that at least five people were arrested while three managed to flee. “Now, the situation is under control,” the SHO said. SSP Amit Pathak said that they had instructions from additional director general of police (law and order) to crack down on cow smugglers active in the district amid the Covid-19 lockdown. He added that a police team led by sub-inspector Umesh Kumar reached the Chakkar Ki Milak village and then came under heavy stone pelting. “The police team immediately informed the control room for more force. A mobile team rushed to the spot. Five people were arrested,” he said. The accused were booked under charges of rioting, Gangster Act, Epidemic Diseases Act and other relevant sections of IPC, the police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/cow-smugglers-pelt-stones-at-cops-during-raids/articleshow/75794081.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Mangaluru||Villagers refuse to be photographed while receiving food kits||Mangaluru: Villagers near Puttur town refused to accept grocery kits from an organisation that insisted that they pose for pictures while being given the same, a few days ago. Members of the organisation from Mangaluru came to Mukrampady with a letter from their organisation, to distribute food kits to families near mosques. When the organisation members insisted that the beneficiaries pose for a photograph with the team members near a mosque while being given the food kit, the villagers refused to accept the same. The organisation members then left the place without handing over the food kits.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/villagers-refuse-to-be-photographed-while-receiving-food-kits/articleshow/75794086.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Nashik||BJP, Shiv Sena at loggerheads over holding general body meeting||Nashik: BJP and Shiv Sena functionaries are at loggerheads over holding the General Body Meeting (GBM) of the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) scheduled to be held at Kalidas Kala Mandir on May 20. On one hand, BJP wants to hold the GBM to sanction the pending civic work while Shiv Sena is against holding any meeting due to the ongoing Covid-19 crisis. The town secretary of NMC has already declared the date and venue of the special meeting. The district collector Suraj Mandhare has given a letter to municipal commissioner Radhakrishna Game asking him to take a call on the meeting but still there is no decision taken with just two days left for the GBM. The leader of the opposition from Shiv Sena Ajay Boraste said that GBM should not be held in view of the outbreak of Covid-19 in the city. There is risk to call a meeting as social distancing will not be maintained. Boraste also questioned who will be responsible if anything happens bad after the meeting. “We had sought permission from the collector for holding GBM, but he has thrown ball into the court of municipal commissioner, saying that decision be taken at NMC level and considering the lockdown and outbreak of covid-19,” said official from the office of town secretary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/bjp-shiv-sena-at-loggerheads-over-holding-general-body-meeting/articleshow/75794862.cms||Tushar Pawar
May 18, 2020||Pune||RTOs to reopen today with registration of new vehicles||PUNE: The regional transport offices (RTO) in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad will reopen from Monday, but only for the registration of new vehicles. “The registration system will, however, be new. Earlier, the representatives of the automobile dealers used to visit the RTOs for the new registrations. But as per the new system, the RTO inspectors will visit the dealers and collect the vehicle documents,” a senior RTO official told TOI on Sunday. The registration will be done after the vehicles are inspected. The official said the new system would ensure fewer people visited the transport offices. Registration of quite a few BS-VI vehicles was still pending. “The focus will be to register these vehicles,” the official said. The state government had on Saturday said the RTOs outside the containment areas in the red zones could open with a work force of 10%. All the RTOs in the state have been closed since March 25. The Pune RTO registers 1,300 vehicles on an average per day. “The registration number allotment of the BS-VI vehicles purchased before the lockdown will be completed within a week. The dealers can then process and issue the high security registration plates for such vehicles. The postal department will be contactedto ensure that the registration certificates reach the owners without hassles,” another RTO official said. “Other works, mainly related to issuing of driving licences and fitness certificates, will not be done for now. If someone’s licence has suspended, it will be considered valid till June 30,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/rtos-to-reopen-today-with-registration-of-new-vehicles/articleshow/75795435.cms||Joy Sengupta
May 18, 2020||Lucknow||Bharat Kisan Union leader shot in Amethi||LUCKNOW: A 45-year-old district president of Bharat Kisan Union (BKU) was shot dead by unidentified miscreants barely two-km from his residence in Kotwali police station area of Amethi district in the wee hours of Sunday. The police have lodged an FIR against unidentified persons and started the probe. The kin have expressed shock and awe at his murder. Pramod Kumar Mishra was a resident of Shrirampoor Danapatti under Amethi police station. He along with his father Hanuman also owned a shop of electronic goods, said the police. Police circle officer, Amethi, Piyush Kant Rai said that Mishra was returning home on a bike when he reached Loniyapur village barely two-km from his house. Two unidentified miscreants shot him in the back and fled. Some passers-by saw Mishra lying in a pool of blood and informed the police. “Mishra was rushed to a local community health centre from where doctors referred him to Sultanpur district hospital. However, he was declared brought dead by the doctors,” said Rai. Sources in the police said that a white colour bike was seen in a CCTV installed near one of the houses where the murder took place.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/bku-leader-shot-in-amethi/articleshow/75795816.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Pune||Lockdown 4.0 norms release in PMR put off||PUNE: Citizens hoping for more relaxations in the lockdown norms in the Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad municipal corporation areas will have to wait for another day or two. The Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad civic chiefs on Sunday deferred the release of their orders, laying down fresh norms for the lockdown 4.0, which begins from Monday,. The state’s instructions or guidelines relating to implementation of lockdown 4.0 were not issued to the civic and district administrations till late Sunday night. PMC Shekhar Gaikwad, the PMC commissioner, told TOI, “We will take a call on the new rules and regulations once we get the state’s guidelines. We are expecting to get these details by Monday.” Gaikwad’s counterpart in Pimpri Chinchwad, Shravan Hardikar, said, “The old order issued on May 3 will continue for now. We may consider issuing a fresh order on Monday.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/lockdown-4-0-norms-release-in-pmr-put-off/articleshow/75795440.cms||Siddharth Gaikwad
May 18, 2020||Dehradun||Fungal diseases hit mango crop in Haridwar||Roorkee: Fungal diseases have severely hit mango crops in Haridwar taking a toll on around 30% of the total produce, say growers of the fruit. This, they claim, has affected the incomes of nearly 5,000 farmers involved in mango plantation in the district. In local parlance, these diseases are called — Bhunga and Chippa — and they occur because of an insect pest known as mango hopper. These insects suck the nutrients from soft tissues of leaves, flowers, and fruits and release sweet liquid onto the leaves which leads to fungal infection in trees. As a consequence, the fruit drops from the infected tree prematurely. Rakam Singh Saini, former village head of Ibrahimpur Masaai village near Bhagwanpur, told TOI, “About 50% of my standing mango crop is ruined because of the outbreak of these fungal infections. Non-seasonal rain spells in March and April left moisture in the air and that is why, even the spray of pesticide on mango trees didn’t help.” Saini added that he produces around 875 quintals of mango every year. In Haridwar, mango orchards are spread over 5,000 hectares and the district produces more than 23,700 metric tonnes of mango yearly. “My mango orchard has come under the effect of Chippa disease and it has damaged 40% of my standing crop,” said Tilak Raj Siddharth from district’s Sunehra village. Agro-scientists also agree that mango hoppers and fungus-based diseases like Anthronose and Powdery Mildew are damaging crops in the district. “Bad weather conditions in March and April left moisture in the air and that has led to fungal infections in the mango produce,” said Purushottam Kumar, officer-in-charge of Krishi Vigyan Kendra Dhanouri, a field unit of GB Pant Agriculture University. However, the officials of district’s horticulture department have refuted the claim by farmers that 30% of the total produce has been affected and say that the loss is insignificant. “The mango crops have suffered no major loss in the district as farmers sprayed pesticides and other drugs to kill fungus and insect pests within time,” said Narendra Yadav, district horticulture officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/fungal-diseases-hit-mango-crop-in-haridwar/articleshow/75794090.cms||Tapan Susheel
May 18, 2020||Kolhapur||SUK starts review of final year exam schedule||Kolhapur: The Shivaji University, Kolhapur, (SUK) has started reviewing its final year examinations scheduled for July. SUK vice-chancellor Devanand Shinde said that the review of exams is underway and around 50,000 final year undergraduate and postgraduate students from Satara, Sangli, and Kolhapur districts will have to appear for the exam if the conditions return to normalcy in the month of July. He said that they are working on the possibilities of the exams and making sure that the stakeholders get proper information regarding the current happenings regarding the exams. According to Shinde, the exam schedule they are working on is based mainly on the fact that things will return to somewhat normalcy so that exams could be conducted. In case, the conditions are not suitable, we will have to wait for the state’s and University Grants Commission’s (UGC) guidelines, Shinde said. SUK pro-VC D T Shirke told TOI that they have constituted a committee to look after the recommendations given by the state panel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/suk-starts-review-of-final-year-exam-schedule/articleshow/75794883.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujaratis stranded in Saudi Arabia cry for help||AHMEDABAD: To start their own business and become self-reliant, many Gujaratis moved to Saudi Arabia but as the state government has not made any arrangements to bring them back, they are stranded there. They are struggling to get even daily essentials. This has been alleged by Gujarati citizens staying in the industrial city of Jubail, an eastern province of Saudi Arabia. According to these citizens, about 70 have been stranded there and no arrangements have been made to bring them back to India despite several emails sent to authorities and tweets posted over the issue. Among the stranded is a resident of the Satellite area, Rajesh Rabari, a software engineer. Rabari had gone to Jubail in January and was supposed to return on April 9. But he was stuck there after the Covid-19 pandemic hit flight operations. Rabari’s wife is pregnant and his sister has cancer. They are at his home in Satellite with nobody to take care of them. Rabari has no job and is struggling to make ends meet. “Every day, I have been writing mails to the Indian embassy here and have also tweeted to Indian authorities and ministers including foreign minister S Jaishankar. I have not got any help,” Rabari said. “The only thing we have learnt from the embassy is that the Gujarat government is not making arrangements to bring us back.” Another Gujarati, Rajiv Shah from Bharuch, is also stranded at Jubail. He has no job either. “Due to the Covid-19 outbreak, I have been laid off. I am facing hardships as I am not receiving salary,” Shah told TOI. “Currently, I am staying with my friend and he is taking care of my accommodation and food. Since I have been laid off, I want to go back as early as possible and be with my family.” Atul Kanzaria, a native of Jamnagar, said, “I was terminated from my job due to the Covid-19 situation on March 30. I am waiting for the Gujarat government to bring us back. I also filled a from as asked by the Indian embassy, but have not received any response so far.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gujaratis-stranded-in-saudi-cry-for-help/articleshow/75795443.cms||Ashish Chauhan
May 18, 2020||Nashik||Auto driver drowns in Panchaganga||Kolhapur: A 45-year-old autorickshaw driver drowned in Panchaganga river on Saturday morning after he lost control of his vehicle and fell into the waterbody from Shingnapur barrage. A case has been registered with Karveer police station and the deceased has been identifed as Ranjit Virupaksha Swami, a resident of Shivneri Colony in Laxtirtha Vasahat. According to police, Swami was heading to Shingnapur from Kolhapur in his autorickshaw. When the vehicle reached Chanbukhadi area, the autorickshaw hit a car parked owing to which Swami lost control of the vehicle and it feel into the river. Passers-by alerted the police about the incident and Swami’s body was fished out in the afternoon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/auto-driver-drowns-in-panchaganga/articleshow/75794870.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Bareilly||Civic body ropes in grocery stores, local vendors for home delivery of essential goods in hotspot Biharipur||Bareilly: To ensure that people stay indoors and follow the lockdown protocol in Biharipur area – a Covid-19 hotspot – Bareilly Municipal Corporation (BMC) has begun to rope in grocery stores and local fruit and vegetable vendors to enable home delivery of necessary household items to residents. Contact details of shopkeepers and delivery agents will be shared with the local residents. Bareilly police has barricaded the main entrance to the locality, while 40 other arterial roads and bylanes within the area have also been sealed. Movement has been completely restricted and the local residents are being advised to remain indoors. Bareilly municipal commissioner Abhishek Anand said, “Movement has been completely restricted in the 400m radius of Bhiharipur area of the city. Hence, no one can step out to even purchase grocery items. However, to ensure that residents of the area do not face any inconvenience, the process of identifying prominent grocery stores and shops in Biharipur has been initiated. A list is being prepared and the identified shopkeepers will be deputing their workers to execute home deliveries to residents. A few vegetable vendors and milkmen, among others, will be issued passes which will enable them to go door-to-door to provide their service.” According to police, the local residents will also be provided with medicines in case of an emergency. Police personnel deputed in the area will be delivering the medicine. Biharipur was declared as a hotspot after a person, who had recently returned from Mumbai, tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday. The area will remain sealed for a minimum of 15 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/civic-body-ropes-in-grocery-stores-local-vendors-for-home-delivery-of-essential-goods-in-hotspot-biharipur/articleshow/75794092.cms||Maria Khan
May 18, 2020||Bareilly||Doc among 15 test +ve for Covid in Bareilly, Kheri & Shahjahanpur||Bareilly: Father of a youth who had returned from Mumbai and tested positive for Covid-19 was also found positive on Sunday. Ten people, including seven migrants from Mumbai, two from Jaipur and one doctor on surveillance duty were tested positive for Covid-19 in Kheri. In Shahjahanpur, a youth and his friend were tested positive. District surveillance officer, Bareilly, Dr Ranjan Gautam said, “A 57-year-old man has been tested positive and he was quarantined after his son was found positive for Covid-19. With this case, the district tally has reached 15 with four active cases. Ten patients have been discharged while one succumbed during treatment.” A doctor in Kheri who was screening the migrants on the district border was also tested positive while two brothers, who returned from Jaipur on their bicycles, were tested positive. Seven migrants, including a six-year-old girl and a year old boy who recently returned from Mumbai, were tested positive on Sunday. Kheri CMO Dr Manoj Agarwal told TOI, “We had kept all the migrant labourers from Mumbai at quarantine centres outside their villages and rigorously sending samples from here for testing. Every suspected case is quarantined and his or her swab sample is being sent. The total number of cases in the district has increased to 32 with 27 active ones. All the positive cases have not come in contact with local residents.” In Shahjahanpur, four migrants who returned from Mumbai have been tested positive. Two of them belong to Khudaganj while two are from Powayan area of the district. District immunization officer Dr Laxman Singh said, “The district tally is seven with six active cases. We are sending over 50 samples every day for testing.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/doc-among-15-test-ve-for-covid-in-bareilly-kheri-shahjahanpur/articleshow/75794103.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
May 18, 2020||Delhi||299 new cases, Delhi tops 10,000 mark||NEW DELHI: With 299 more persons testing positive for the disease on Monday, Delhi became the fourth state in the country after Maharashtra (35,086), Gujarat (11,760) and Tamil Nadu (11,746) to have more than 10,000 Covid-19 cases. The total number of cases in the state has now reached 10,054. The death toll due to Covid-19 in Delhi has mounted to 160, with 12 more persons confirmed dead due to the viral infection. As many as 4,485 patients, 45% of all positive cases, have recovered and been discharged already, officials said. They added that at present there are 5,409 active cases. According to the Delhi health department bulletin, out of the total 10,054 cases recorded so far, at least 1,772 are admitted at various hospitals, including Lok Nayak Hospital, Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital, Safdarjung Hospital, Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital and AIIMS, Jhajjhar. As many as 160 of them are in ICU and 22 on ventilators. The total number of Covid-19 positive patients under home isolation stands at 2,250, said officials. The state health department said cumulative death figures refer to fatalities where primary cause of death was found to be Covid-19, as per the report of the Death Audit Committee on the basis of case sheets received from various hospitals. The government data shows of the total 160 deceased patients, 82 were aged 60 and above, accounting for over 52% of the fatalities; 45 of them were aged between 50 and 59 years and 33 were less than 50 years. The state government has issued an order regarding standard operating procedures for handling of dead bodies of Covid-19 patients and suspected cases. It is based on the guidelines issued by the health ministry. Health officials said the recent spike in number of deaths is mainly because several old cases that were under review have been listed under Covid-19 deaths. State health minister Satyendar Jain took a meeting of top health officials to assess the Covid-19 situation on Monday. The cabinet secretary, government of India also held a meeting with all states, including Delhi, through videoconferencing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/299-new-cases-city-tops-10k-mark/articleshow/75815150.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Pune||New virus may have triggered inflammatory syndrome in some children, say paediatricians||PUNE: A multi-system inflammatory syndrome that resembles Kawasaki disease and reported among children in the United States and Europe could have been triggered by the new coronavirus, said experts in India who have been studying the disease. Recently, a four-month-old baby in Kolkata was detected with symptoms of the disease. The child had also tested positive for Covid-19. Kawasaki disease, which often starts with fever, causes skin rashes, inflammation of blood vessels and coronary arteries and mainly impacts children under five. Reports of a possible link between Covid-19 and the pediatric disease started circulating after nearly 100 children in New York fell ill with symptoms that involved inflammation in the skin, eyes, blood vessels and heart. Three of the children died. At least 50 similar cases have been reported from Europe, including in France, Switzerland, Spain and Britain. Doctors in those countries have described the illness as a pediatric multisystem inflammatory syndrome. “But any kind of virus or infection can generate an autoimmune response in those who are genetically predisposed. SARS-CoV-2 may have activated the symptoms mimicking Kawasaki disease, but we can't say if it is the causative agent,” said Saji Philip, president of the Indian Society of Kawasaki disease. “It is still not known what causes the disease... even 53 years after the disorder was first described by Japanese pediatrician Tomisaku Kawasaki in 1967,” said Philip, a pediatric cardiologist. Surjit Singh, professor of pediatrics at the Advanced Pediatric Centre, Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education & Research, Chandigarh, who has studied the disease for over 30 years, said: “There was an emergence of Kawasaki disease during the SARS outbreak too. But we don’t know the reason why it occurs or when it occurs. Often a pre-existing viral infection plays a role in its pathogenesis.” In India, there is no data on children affected by the disease. “In the past eight weeks, I have come across only two children with Kawasaki disease in Mumbai, which does not represent a change from the usual frequency of cases I see. None of them have reported any symptoms of Covid-19,” said Raju P Khubchandani, founder-convener of the Paediatric Rheumatology Society of India, who has come across 150-160 such cases of Kawasaki disease from Mumbai and elsewhere in the past 14 to 15 years. “There could be cases we might not know of since Kawasaki disease is very difficult to diagnose. Often, its symptoms are confused with those of measles, hand, foot and mouth disease, scarlet fever, drug reactions etc,” Khubchandani said. Initial treatment consists of high doses of aspirin and immunoglobulin. According to Philip, the disease affects every five to 10 per 1,00,000 children in India. “As of now there is no cause for alarm. Not all children in the the US and the UK with multi-system inflammatory syndrome have tested positive for Covid-19. Some have tested negative, while others have tested positive for antibodies. Strangely, no spike in the number of cases has been reported in Japan, which is known as the hotbed of Kawasaki disease. This shows that some environment and genetic factors are also at play,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/new-virus-may-have-triggered-inflammatory-syndrome-in-some-children-say-paediatricians/articleshow/75795445.cms||Avijit Chatterjee
May 18, 2020||Pune||Doctors and nutritionists encounter rise in consultations for weight gain||PUNE: City-based bariatric surgeon Shashank Shah receives no less than 10 calls every day from patients seeking help to reduce their weight gained over the period of lockdown. Even a normal healthy person has put on an average of 2-3 kg during the lockdown, he said. "Patients said hunger and cravings are increasing, so is their weight. Many are not exercising due to various reasons or have constraints in exercising at home. Hedonic-driven hunger is on the rise as people do not have anything else to do or options to go out. I have noticed increased consumption of carbohydrate-rich food and packaged or readymade food. Automatically when one is away from all other work, one may start consuming more or the frequency of meals may increase. It is unfortunate as those with obesity and diabetes, which are now on the rise, are at risk for Covid-19 in the future," Shah said. Avinash Bhondwe, president, Indian Medical Association, Maharashtra, said unchecked increase in diet coupled with lack of exercise has led to increase in sugar levels, cholesterol and weight gain among people. "Those who were out of home all day are now working from home and eating all meals or more. The daily food requirement of a person is 1,400 calories. However, since people are not going out of home for work and are not exercising enough, only about 1,100 or 1,200 calorie intake is required. People are eating sweets, mangoes and readymade foods with abandon. This has led to about 2kg weight increase in people. My clinic has received several cases of patients complaining about weight and increase in sugar levels," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/doctors-and-nutritionists-encounter-rise-in-consultations-for-weight-gain/articleshow/75795446.cms||Rujuta Parekh
May 18, 2020||Coimbatore||Tamil Nadu: Denied entry to forest, drunk man stabs forest guard||COIMBATORE: A 22-year-old drunk man stabbed a 57-year-old forest guard, who denied him permission to enter the reserve forest at Chadivayal check post on Sunday evening. The forest guard, who is attached to Boluvampatti forest range, is admitted to the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital (CMCH), where his condition is said to be stable. The Karunya Nagar police have arrested C Nandakumar, of Kalkothi near Chadivayal, in connection with the incident. According to a forest officer, the incident took place when Nandakumar was on his way to his wife’s house in a tribal hamlet inside the reserve forest. “When he attempted to cross Chadivayal check post, forest guard R Nataraj, who was on duty there, stopped him as he was drunk. Nandakumar pulled out a knife and threatened the forest guard. At one stage, he stabbed the forest guard on his abdomen, forehead and hands, and fled.” Passers-by took Nataraj, a native of Kunnathur near Annur, to CMCH, where he is undergoing treatment. Based on his complaint, the Karunya Nagar police registered a case and arrested Nandakumar on Sunday night. Further investigation is on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/denied-entry-to-forest-drunk-man-stabs-forest-guard/articleshow/75795441.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Bareilly||Moradabad reports 7 new Covid-19 cases, Rampur 8||Bareilly: Seven people tested positive for novel coronavirus (Covid-19) in Moradabad on Sunday, taking the tally to 154. District magistrate RK Singh said as many as 10 more patients were discharged from three quarantine centres, following which the total active cases in Moradabad now stand at 36. On the other hand, in the neighbouring Rampur district, as many as eight new positive cases were reported. Health officials said all had come from Ahmadabad. Covid-19 positive tally in Rampur has reached 67, in which 22 have been cured and discharged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/moradabad-reports-7-new-covid-19-cases-rampur-8/articleshow/75794113.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Bareilly||Eight test positive case for Covid-19 in Pilibhit||Pilibhit: With test reports confirming eight people as COVID-19 positive on Sunday, the tally of coronavirus cases has gone up to 14 in Pilibhit district since March 22. Officials said 12 migrant labourers had arrived from Mumbai on May 8 and 9, respectively. Among them, eight tested positive on Sunday. While one of the patients belongs to Raniganj village, under Madhotanda police station, the remaining seven, three of them brothers, hail from Prasadpur village, under Puranpur tehsil circle. All the patients have been shifted to an isolation ward at Bareilly. Vaibhav Shrivastav, DM, said Raniganj village had been declared as containment zone while Prasadpur continues to be a hotspot. Of the total 14 cases, four have recovered. The. remaining 10 are still active cases. Among those who returned from Mumbai, 10 of them had been quarantined, one was housed in a shelter home while one fled home to Raniganj village.. A senior officer told TOI that one migrant labourer went straight home to Prasadpur village on arriving in Pilibhit from Mumbai. He had come in contact with more than 100 villagers. The district administration and health department have begun a drive to identify all those he came in contact with to collect their samples and quarantine them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/eight-test-positive-case-for-covid-19-in-pilibhit/articleshow/75794108.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Hubballi||Yadgir gets facility to ramp up Covid-19 testing||Hubballi: Yadgir district, which has reported five Covid-19 cases as on Saturday evening, is yet to send 734 test reports. To scale up the testing of suspected cases, TrueNat testing facility has been set up at the government-run laboratory in the old building of the district hospital. TrueNat will reduce the burden on the virology lab at Gulbarga Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS) here. Due to the scarcity of testing kits and the flooding of suspected patients, GIMS was finding it difficult to carry out large number of testings. “TrueNat is a preliminary test conducted before RT-PCR test,” said officials of the district health and family welfare department. TrueNat lab will deliver reports of suspected patients in 60 to 90 minutes. The samples of those testing positive will be sent for RT-PCR tests, said DC Kurma Rao. Additional deputy commissioner Prakash G Rajput said 6,112 people are under institutional quarantine. The district has 85 institutional quarantine facilities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/yadgir-gets-facility-to-ramp-up-covid-19-testing/articleshow/75794110.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Pune||Pune: Noticeable rise in natural pregnancies during lockdown baffles IVF experts||PUNE: A woman in her late 30s — undergoing treatment for unexplained infertility — was set to receive some injections when the entire country went into lockdown on March 24. She could not complete the treatment, but by the final week of April, doctors noticed the woman had conceived naturally — without any help from modern medicine. Another case that has stunned doctors involves a 30-year-old resident of Warje who was diagnosed with low sperm count. His wife conceived naturally, a few weeks into the lockdown. “Nine of our patients, who could not complete IVF treatments, have conceived naturally during the lockdown months,” said gynaecologist and IVF expert Amit Patankar. Doctors across Pune have been recording cases of previously 'thought-to-be infertile' couples who have conceived naturally during the lockdown. The Warje resident and his wife were planning to opt for an advanced assisted reproductive technique (ART) called intracytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI), but were unable to start treatment. In ICSI, a single healthy sperm is injected directly into the egg. The couple are now pregnant after seven years of marriage. Doctors believe a drop in stress levels, mainly due to the work-from-home option, and simply more time spent with each other could be causing the uptick. One of Patankar's patients is a 30-year-old man with extremely low sperm count and poor sperm motility. "The normal range of sperm count in 1 ml of semen starts from 15 million sperms. This man had a sperm count of two million. Again, his sperm motility was considered very poor for natural conception. But his wife conceived naturally during the lockdown. I am baffled," said the senior doctor. Sunita Tandulwadkar, a gynaecologist and IVF expert, told TOI she's had three such cases. "Three women in the past two months, who were planning to start IVF treatment, have conceived naturally during the lockdown." Sadhana and Sanjeev Khurd, both IVF experts, said: "The reason for such spontaneous pregnancy is that during pre-IVF treatment, both husband and wife are given antioxidant drugs to enhance the performance of sperm and egg and improve endometrial lining for embryo-implantation. The effect of these antioxidant drugs continue even after the IVF cycle has been halted. That is why 10-20% of women conceive spontaneously even after failed a IVF cycle within one to six months." Endometriosis is a disorder in which tissue that normally lines the uterus grows outside the uterus. This hampers conception. Senior gynaecologist Girija Wagh said: “The lockdown has given these couples an opportunity to connect better. It has given them an opportunity to breathe healthy air, eat healthy food and live a stress-free life. Stressors are known endocrine (hormonal) disruptors.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pune-noticeable-rise-in-natural-pregnancies-during-lockdown-baffles-ivf-experts/articleshow/75795453.cms||Umesh Isalkar
May 18, 2020||Pune||Pune traders seek deferring of property tax||PUNE: The Federation of Traders' Association of Pune (FTAP) has sought waiver of property tax for four months in light of the heavy losses incurred by traders due to the lockdown. It has written to chief minister Uddhav Thackaray, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar, commissioner of Pune Municipal Corporation Shekhar Gaikwad and mayor Murlidhar Mohol in this regard. The letter said, “Even after the lockdown is lifted, it will take 5-6 months for business to normalize. Due to heavy losses, we request waiver of property tax for April, May, June and July.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/traders-seek-deferring-of-property-tax/articleshow/75795459.cms||Rujuta Parekh
May 18, 2020||Pune||Cops send 700 stranded MPSC aspirants studying in Pune back home||PUNE: Over the last five days, the Pune police have sent nearly 700 stranded students back to their homes in the other districts of the state. Most of them were studying for the Maharashtra Public Service Commission (MPSC) examination in the city and were stuck here since the lockdown started. Many wanted to go home as they had no place to eat nor the money to pay room rents. Deputy commissioner of police (zone 2) Bacchan Singh, who is coordinating the efforts, made the arrangements. Lists were drawn up and vehicles were arranged for the students to reach Swargate bus stand from their rented accommodations. “We got their medical tests done with help from the Swargate police and sent them home by MSRTC buses,” inspector of the crime branch Rajendra Mohite said. They were given masks, water bottles and food. “Since May 11, about 700 students from Nanded, Latur, Beed, Osmanabad, Buldhana, Chandrapur and Nagpur districts have returned home,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cops-send-700-stranded-mpsc-aspirants-studying-in-pune-back-home/articleshow/75795462.cms||Mihir Tanksale
May 18, 2020||Bareilly||SHO, four cops ‘punished’ over rise in cases of cow slaughter||Bareilly: Five policemen, including Kundarki station house officer, have been sent to police lines for failing to stop the rise in cow slaughtering cases in Moradabad, and the direct threat it poses to law and order. Senior superintendent of police (SSP) Amit Pathak on Saturday decided to "punish" the five cops for their inefficiency and ordered an inquiry against them. At least 10 complaints of cow slaughter were reported in Kundarki over the past week, according to police, but no suspect has been detained so far. In one such complaint, police claimed on Friday night, a cow was stolen from Raonagala village under Kundarki police station limits and slaughtered at a mango orchard in neighbouring Mohammad Jamapur. Hariom Saini, a farmer whose cow went missing, stated in the police complaint that after a brief search, he found a carcass lying in the next village. “By slaughtering my cow, they not only hurt my sentiments, but also directly affected my livelihood, as the cow was a major source of income for my family,” Saini said. SSP Pathak claimed that Kundarki's SHO and his team had not taken enough action. He added that along with SHO inspector Prempal Singh, two sub-inspectors Amarpal Singh and Raj Singh, and two constables Kashish Kumar and Abdul Mutaliv, have been sent to police lines. Inspector Ajaypal Singh has been given charge of the police station now. Area circle officer Mahendra Singh said that four teams were tasked to conduct raids and arrest those "actively" involved in cow slaughtering in the area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/sho-four-cops-punished-over-rise-in-cases-of-cow-slaughter/articleshow/75794118.cms||Pankul Sharma
May 18, 2020||Hubballi||Four more test positive for Covid-19 in Hubballi||DHARWAD: Four more persons, including a 16-year-old boy, tested positive for Covid-19 in Dharwad district on Sunday. With this, the total number of those infected in the district has risen to 26. Of them, seven have been cured and discharged, leaving 19 active cases which are being treated at KIMS Hospital in Hubballi. The fresh cases pertain to P-1123 (39-year-old man), P-1124 (boy), P-1142 (28-year-old woman) and P-1143 (25-year-old man), who are the residents of Shantinagar, Ayodhya Nagar and Navanagar in Hubballi. According to an official release, P-1123 had returned from Mumbai, P-1124 was the contact of P-589, and P-1142 and P-1143 had returned from Kolhapur in Maharashtra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/four-more-test-positive-in-hubballi/articleshow/75794121.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Pune||Pune: Civic body awaits order on domestic help joining work||PUNE: The civic administration has said that any decision on resuming the services of domestic helps will be taken only after the state government comes up with directives on the fourth phase of the lockdown. PMC commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad told TOI that different agencies had different opinions about the issue of domestic helps resuming work. “The police is against allowing house helps to start visiting households anytime soon. The senior citizens are a troubled lot and want them to resume work. And the different housing societies have different views about them. We will take a decision in this regard only after the government issues directives for the next phase of the lockdown,” a senior official said. Sources said that with lockdown regulations expected to be eased in the fourth phase, there could be certain regulations for the house helps too. “While things are yet to be decided, resuming the work of maids will be a challenge. Many housing societies are still not ready for the move,” a PMC source said. Kondhwa’s corporator Nanda Lonkar said the housing societies were ready to welcome back the domestic helps after medical check-ups for Covid-19. “However, the fact remains that the societies are still in two minds about resumption of services of house helps,” Kondhwa corporator Nanda Lonkar said. Anita, who works as a domestic help in many societies, was distressed. “While some have paid us our salaries, a majority have not. Things for us are hard and many of us have started other works like selling vegetables to sustain. We will abide by all regulations. The societies should allow us now,” she told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/civic-body-awaits-order-on-domestic-help-joining-work/articleshow/75795467.cms||Joy Sengupta
May 18, 2020||Ahmedabad||Third schoolteacher dies of Covid in 17 days||Ahmedabad: Another teacher, who was deployed in survey work, died of coronavirus on Sunday. This is the third death of teacher in last a 17 days. Earlier, two primary teachers had succumbed to Covid-19 on April 30 and May 15 respectively. Anil Patel, 54, a teacher in Dharamnagar secondary school in the Sabarmati area, died in newly set up Covid hospital in Civil hospital campus, on Sunday. Office bearers of a secondary school teachers’ association said that he was given survey work related to Covid-19 in the Dariapur area of city. The association — Gujarat Rajya Shaikshanik Sangh Sankalan Samiti wrote a letter to the commissioner of school, Gandhinagar seeking an ex-gratia of Rs 25 lakh for the teacher’s family considering the deceased as a corona warrior. Earlier on Friday, a teacher working for the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) school board, Vishwanath Sripati, who worked with Thakkarbapanagar Hindi School number- 2, died of coronavirus at GCS hospital on Naroda road. Shripati, 55, a resident of Bapunagar, was also deployed in survey work and in food distribution by the government for two weeks, and he was found corona-positive on May 12. After being hospitalised for three days, he died. Earlier on April 30, principal of Shahpur Urdu school number-5, Mohammed Yasin Shaikh, died of the Covid-19||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/third-schoolteacher-dies-of-covid-in-17-days/articleshow/75795473.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Bareilly||Uttar Pradesh: Two women booked for running beauty parlour beyond prescribed time||BAREILLY: Two women, running a beauty parlour, were booked on Sunday for running the store beyond the prescribed timing, defying lockdown norms. The police of Lakhimpur Kheri district booked both the women, residents of Mituali, under sections IPC 188, 269 and 270 of the Indian Penal Code. Mitauli is a small town in Kheri with limited beauty parlours. SHO Mitauli Police station Anil Kumar told TOI, “Two women, Supriya and Soumya, were booked for opening their beauty parlour in the town beyond the permitted timing. We also found several women gathered inside the parlours without maintaining social distancing.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/two-women-booked-for-running-beauty-parlour-beyond-prescribed-time/articleshow/75794126.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Pune||1,240km bike ride takes carpenters home to Raj||PUNE: With no work since the lockdown was announced and a crammed living space making it difficult for them to maintain social distancing, four carpenters between 25 and 27 years of age decided to deal with the situation in their own way. On the midnight of April 29, they set out on two motorcycles from their furniture-making site at Vadgaon Sheri on an arduous 1,240km journey by road to their native place Nagaur near Jodhpur in Rajasthan. It took them 45 hours to reach Nagaur and another 14 days in a quarantine facility, before they could resume normal life at home. “We took little breaks to have food or tea, but kept driving,” Vinod Khati, who took turns with his partner Laxman Singh to drive one of the bikes, told TOI over the phone after exiting the quarantine facility. The other two, Jitendra Chavad and Kumar Pandit, rode another bike. All four are now hoping the situation normalises and they can come back to Pune. “From Vadgaon Sheri, we proceeded to Dhule via Ahmednagar and Aurangabad to move into Ratlam in Madhya Pradesh and further drove towards Mandsaur to cross into Rajasthan. We reached Nagaur via Chittorgarh, Bhilwara and Beawar. There were many motorcycle riders along with us,” Khati said. They spent about an hour on the Maharashtra–MP border as the police questioned them about their travel plan. “They allowed us to pass through the border check point. Some distance ahead, another MP police van drove behind us, constantly announcing on the speaker that we should not halt along the highway,” Khati added. They were again questioned by the Rajasthan police when they crossed the Rajasthan–MP border, but were allowed to move ahead. “We kept riding our bikes and took short breaks for food or water,” he said, adding that the food was available at roadside eateries and many offered them food free of cost. The four carpenters were working in Pune on an assignment basis. “We shifted to Pune six years ago for making furniture for houses and commercial shops and establishments.” “My parents and other relatives stay in a small house at Nagaur. Soon after we reached, we informed our gram panchayat and the officials quarantined us for 14 days in the kindergarten of the village,” he said. “Our quarantine is over now and we are happy to be with our family,” Khati added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/1240km-bike-ride-takes-carpenters-home-to-raj/articleshow/75795479.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Goa||Nine new cases take Goa’s Covid-19 count to 22||PANAJI: The state’s Covid-19 count shot up to 22 on Sunday as nine new cases — all with travel history — were detected. While eight of them arrived in the state by train from Maharashtra, one, a pharma employee from Karnataka, entered Goa by road. “They all are under treatment at the Covid hospital, and their condition is fine,” said health director Jose D’Sa. However, late on Sunday night, four more rail passengers tested positive on the TrueNat test, and their samples are now awaiting confirmation. Over the past 48 hours, Goa has received over 500 train passengers, with 368 arriving on Sunday on a Rajdhani Express train. Passengers who alight at Goa are tested using TrueNat. Those passengers who test positive are re-tested for confirmation at the Goa Medical College’s (GMC) virology lab. Sunday’s ninth case, the pharma employee, entered Goa through the Mollem check post on May 14, and was in quarantine till his confirmatory test on Sunday came positive. A total of 997 samples were tested on Sunday, 527 of which were negative. Over 450 results were still awaited. “We expect an increase in the number of Covid cases,” said chief minister Pramod Sawant. “The test results of some rail passengers are awaited.” He said that confirmatory tests of some who tested positive on TrueNat are also awaited. Earlier in the day, Sawant said that around 15 rail travellers have been placed in facility quarantine after their co-passenger tested positive. Meanhile, since the spike in cases in Goa is largely thanks to rail passengers, the CM expressed the need to control arrivals. He said the “biggest worry” for the state is people coming from beyond its borders, and called for the state to be alert. There already seems to have been some success on their front. Sawant said that around 700 passengers were expected to arrive in Goa by rail. However, after the state government issued forms to passengers to collect data, and informed them that they would all be charged Rs 2,000 for the Covid-19 test, many people dropped out. “The number of arrivals reduced by 250,” he said. Some rail passengers on Saturday were put up at Fatorda stadium, but after facing some problems, they were shifted to a hotel on Sunday. “It is a new protocol,” Sawant said. “Proper care will be taken of them.” A state official confirmed that facilities at the stadium were inadequate to handle so many people, and children and senior citizens suffered as a result. The rail passengers were made to stay at the stadium till their test results were known. Only those who tested negative were allowed to leave. Some suspects were transferred to facility quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/nine-new-cases-take-goas-covid-count-to-22/articleshow/75795820.cms||Bindiya Chari
May 18, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: ‘Horror videos’ expose neglect in hospital||AHMEDABAD: A video purportedly showing a woman dead on the commode of a toilet of kidney ward of the newly set up Covid-19 hospital in IKDRC hospital on Civil hospital campus in the Asarwa area has surfaced on Sunday with local groups alleging callousness on part of the hospital authority. Apart from this video of an unknown middle-aged woman, a video showing another elderly woman suffering from diarrhoea lying in a pool of blood on her bed also surfaced. This woman succumbed to Covid-19 on Sunday afternoon and her family was still struggling to get her dead body. Khadia-Jamalpur MLA, Imran Khedawala, who sent the video which he got from another patient in the hospital, said, “The woman had gone to toilet and she did not come out even after four hours. One of my friends, whose relative was admitted in the Corona hospital, called me up and informed about this apprehending that the woman might have died.” He added, “I called up office bearers of the hospital who went there and found her body on the commode. This is horrific death occurred just because of callousness of the Civil Hospital authorities. A patient went to toilet and she did not come out for four hours, and they didn’t even care about what happened to her.” Apart from this, an elderly woman Shakri Patni, 58, was seen bleeding in another video. Her son Naresh Patni, a railway employee, and her husband Shankar Patni, 63, along with two other family members were diagnosed Corona positive and admitted to Civil Hospital on April 24. Shankar died on April 25. Naresh and two other family members were discharged after recovery from Covid-19, but Naresh’s mother was still admitted due to her worsening condition. “We were taking care of her and we found on Saturday night that she had been lying in blood for around three hours. On Sunday, we came to know that she died at around 1pm but we did not get her body even after eight hours,” Naresh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/horror-videos-expose-neglect-in-hospital/articleshow/75795468.cms||Ashish Chauhan
May 18, 2020||Goa||To ease congestion, Sindhudurg, north Goa to share data at Patradevi||PANAJI: A day after TOI highlighted how inadequate deployment at the Patradevi check post could put a spoke in the state’s fight against Covid-19, a team of senior government officials, including principal secretary Puneet Goel, visited the site to streamline the movement of vehicles and the medical screening of people entering Goa. Following instructions from the chief minister, Goel met collectors of Sidhudurg and North Goa districts, and it was decided to do away with separate entry and exit records. The two sides of the check post will now share data. “This way, Goa’s entry data acts as exit data for Sindhudurg, and vice-versa. This significantly helps in reducing congestion at the checkpost and also helps in mitigating inconveniences to people entering or exiting through this checkpost,” an official said. A senior official said that police, home guard and other state personnel who were sitting in pandals have been shifted to enclosures built by the PWD. The check post is Goa’s busiest, and over 300 goods carriers enter through it daily. “We have already constructed permanent sheds,” said PWD principal chief engineer Uttam Parsekar. “The staff were earlier sitting in a temporary pandal. They will now shift to the newly-constructed sheds, which we constructed to provide them better protection during the monsoon.” A source informed TOI that the new sheds erected by PWD have been in the works over the past month and a half. “We had pleaded with them several times, but the PWD took its own sweet time,” said a check post staffer. On Saturday, the day TOI published its report, chief secretary Parimal Rai visited Patradevi. Following official instructions, some facilities such as drinking water and sanitisers were immediately provided. A senior state government official said that they have now started separate windows for thermal scanning and data entry for drivers. “One window will be for thermal scanning, and two separate ones will be used for data entry,” he said. The official added that in due course, the tent will be removed and replaced with temporary roofings of tin sheets, keeping in mind the monsoon. “This is for Goans returning home or people entering the state for work.” Inspector general of police (IGP) Jaspal Singh and PWD chief engineer Umesh Kulkarni also were part of the team. A senior official said that during the interaction, staff working at the checkpost were instructed to maintain social distancing and to follow safety precautions while interacting with all those entering Goa.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/to-ease-congestion-sindhudurg-n-goa-to-share-data-at-patradevi/articleshow/75795824.cms||Murari Shetye
May 18, 2020||Nagpur||In congested Mominpura homes, revised discharge norms go for a toss||Nagpur: The conditions laid down under the ‘Revised Discharge Policy for Covid-19’ seem to be far from being fulfilled at some of the homes of Covid-19 positive patients in congested lanes of Satranjipura and Mominpura. On Saturday, a day after the first batch of patients was discharged in 10 days without a test, TOI toured some of the areas where they live. The narrow lanes led to entrances of several homes resembling pigeon coops, with just enough space for one person to move at a time. Living in such conditions, having a well-ventilated, separate room for one family member, or maintaining the prescribed personal hygiene is a luxury. The central government’s revised guidelines said Covid-19 positive patients discharged in 10 days without a test have to follow self-isolation for seven days, need a care giver, and must have a separate room, among other long list of conditions for patients, close contacts and caregivers. In Satranjipura, a family of six shares a small home having three rooms. “We were only asked to stay indoors for the next seven days,” said one of the persons discharged 10 days after testing positive. They claimed the hospital staff didn’t counsel them anything other than staying indoors. “How can we have a caregiver when all of us were positive,” asked the person. The locality where the city’s 1st Covid-19 victim’s family lives has around 20 families cramped in two concrete buildings. In the next lane, hardly a couple of metres away, another family discharged under the new policy lives. “By the grace of Allah, nothing has happened to us. There was another over 80-year-old man from Mominpura with us. He is doing well. This is the reason we had been insisting on home quarantine rather than taking entire locality away. At last, a wise decision was taken to send us home in 10 days,” said a family member. In contrast to this, local authorities and doctors in Akola decided to shift patients to Corona Care Centers (CCC) realizing they may not have the means to follow the guidelines. In Nagpur, NMC has readied 500 beds at its CCC near Kalmeshwar. GMCH Covid hospital nodal officer Dr Mohammad Faizal said the patients were properly counselled about the norms to be followed after 10-day discharge. Dr Faizal cautioned that it may be difficult to ensure all patients discharged in 10 days are following the guidelines. “The onus is on the patients to adhere to the norms. We have taken an undertaking and informed them of the consequences of breaching the compulsory seven-day self-isolation guidelines. Violations will attract penal action and an FIR will be filed if they are found leaving their homes,” Dr Faizal said. IGGMCH officials said they had specifically asked patients of they have adequate facilities at home. “We asked specific questions like ‘How big is your home?’ and ‘Do you have a separate room?’ Some claimed to have four-storeyed buildings,” they said. MoHFW’s revised discharge policy * Person should have the requisite facility at their residence for self-isolation and also for quarantining the family contacts *A care giver should be available to provide care on 24 x7 basis. A communication link between the caregiver and hospital is a prerequisite for the entire duration of home isolation * The care giver and all close contacts of such cases should take Hydroxychloroquine prophylaxis as per protocol and as prescribed by the treating medical officer. *Patient shall agree to monitor his health and regularly inform his health status to the District Surveillance Officer for further follow up by the surveillance teams. *Patient should at all times use triple layer medical mask. Discard mask after 8 hours of use or· earlier if they become wet or visibly soiled. * Patient must stay in the identified room and away from other people in home, especially elderlies· and those with co-morbid conditions like hypertension, cardiovascular disease, renal disease etc||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/in-congested-mominpura-homes-revised-discharge-norms-go-for-a-toss/articleshow/75795823.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
May 18, 2020||Pune||Two ordnance factories in Khadki to open today||PUNE: The Ammunition Factory Khadki (AFK) and the High Explosives (HE) factory will start its production with 33% employees attendance from Monday. The AFK manufactures small arms ammunitions, while HE produces explosives’ powders required for production of artillery and small ammunitions. They supply ammunitions to Indian Armed forces, the paramilitary and police forces of the country. Both factories have issued orders to this effect on May 15. The factories had got permission from the state government to start production on April 28. However, the Khadki Cantonment Board (KCB), under which the factories come, had declared its entire area a containment zone because of the rising Covid-19 cases. As a result, the factories remained shut from May 4 till May 17. Now, KCB in its new order declared that few areas including AFK and HE would be outside the micro-containment zones. Pramod Kumar Singh, the chief executive officer and incident commander of KCB, said, “We have declared civil and bazaar areas as micro-containment zones in our limit. These factories and the Range Hills areas, where their employees stay in quarters, are not included in the containment zone. Hence, these establishments can operate with 33% staff.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/2-ordnance-factories-in-khadki-to-open-today/articleshow/75795474.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Pune||Clinics on wheels test 17k||Pune: Mobile clinics started in city by the Congress for testing of coronavirus infection has carried out 17,000 tests. These units have been functioning since April 17 in association with the Indian Medical Association (IMA). Conducting tests had become difficult in some parts of the city, especially in the Peth areas and slums. “Doctors and medicines were unable to reach these areas. The mobile clinics have helped resolve these problems,” Congress leader Mohan Joshi said. As many as 41 suspected patients were found in these drives in different parts of the city. Even those with flu-like symptoms were treated. PMPML staff members, slum dwellers, commercial sex workers and the deprived visited these clinics.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/clinics-on-wheels-test-17k/articleshow/75795486.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Goa||Soon, more testing machines at three centres, says Rane||Panaji: As Covid-19 cases rose on Sunday, health minister Vishwajit Rane said more Molbio machines — TrueNat testing facility — will be installed at both the district hospitals and sub-district hospital, Ponda. “The whole idea is to have a strong and robust system in place for testing. Additional machines have been planned to reduce the waiting period for people arriving either by train or air,” Rane said. Both the district hospitals and the Ponda sub-district hospital started TrueNat testing after Molbio machines were introduced around a month ago. But since May 1, there has been an urgent need for the state to ramp up testing facility as there has been an increase in the number of people coming to the state. The health minister said the decision was also taken to test all frontline workers posted at borders and keep them safe. Testing facility is being scaled up and chief minister Pramod Sawant has supported the move, he said. To further facilitate this, the government will hire additional staff on contract basis — MD/MS in microbiology and technicians — advertisements for which will be released soon, the minister said. An Abbott M2000 RTPCR machine will be bought following a recent cabinet approval. The machine will be able to test 400 to 500 samples a day, officials said. Rane said that Rajdhani Express passengers that tested positive have been placed in institutional quarantine and they will remain there for 14 days. They will be tested again after completion of 14 days, he said. Rajdhani Express carrying 368 passengers reached Goa on Sunday afternoon. “This has been done to rule out the risk of community transmission. We have taken strict measures to keep citizens safe,” the minister said. The state conducts 600 to 700 tests a day, including tests done at GMC’s virology laboratory.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/soon-more-testing-machines-at-three-centres-says-rane/articleshow/75795826.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Pune||223 people test positive as case tally breaches 4k-mark||Pune: As many as 223 people tested positive for Covid-19 in the Pune Metropolitan Region on Sunday, taking the case tally to 4,018. The fresh patients included 209 from the Pune municipal limits. Further, nine Covid-19 positive patients, including a 20-year-old woman, succumbed to the contagion in the region on Sunday, taking the toll to 206. They were all from Pune civic limits. In Pimpri Chinchwad municipal limits, eight patients returned positive results, taking the tally to 199. All nine patients who died on Sunday had underlying comorbidity conditions. The 20-year-old girl, a Hadapsar resident, was suffering with the elements like multiple-organ dysfunction syndrome, acute respiratory disorder syndrome, pneumonitis and myocarditis. She died at Sassoon General Hospital. The other deceased include a 72-year-old man from Kasba Peth, a 70-year-old woman from Yerawada, a 68-year-old man from Padmavati, a 75-year-old woman — a resident of Shivajinagar, a 72-year-old man who lived in Dhankawdi, an 84-year-old man from Guruwar Peth, a 70-year-old woman from Ganeshnagar and 60-year-old woman from Kondhwa. Six of the nine breathed their last on Sunday, while two people died on Saturday and one on Friday; their reports came back positive on Sunday. Civic health officials said the deceased were suffering from issues related to pneumonia and respiratory trouble. According to the district health officials, the three cantonments — Pune, Khadki and Dehu Road — together have 162 cases, while the district health office of the zilla parishad has recorded 100 cases. This takes the total cases in the Pune Metropolitan Region to over 4,000. The tally in Pimpri Chinchwad had breached the 100-mark on April 28. Those found positive on Sunday included four men and four women, from Pimple Gurav, Sambhajinagar in Chinchwad, Anandnagar near Chinchwad station, Dighi, Vikasnagar in Kiwale and Morevasti in Chikhali. Five Covid-19 positive patients were discharged from civic hospitals on Sunday. This took the total number of people discharged so far in PCMC limits to 118. Sixty-four patients, including 10 non-residents, are undergoing treatment in various civic hospitals as on Sunday. (With inputs from Siddharth Gaikwad)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/223-people-test-positive-as-case-tally-breaches-4k-mark/articleshow/75795484.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Nagpur||Maharashtra: 11 liquor shop owners booked for violating norms||NAGPUR: The state excise department has registered offence against 11 shop owners, including nine wine retailers and one country liquor outlet, on Sunday for allegedly violating the order of no counter or direct sales. Meanwhile on Sunday government earned Rs 49.95 lakh through liquor sale and another Rs 5.70 lakh for issuing of 567 lifetime liquor permits and also 35 one-day licences. A day ago TOI had reported rampant violations by the wine shop owners by selling liquor directly to customers instead of making home deliveries. Owners of three wine shops under Jaripatka police station and two under Sadar police were among the ones found clandestinely selling liquor directly to customers. Another two shops under Imambada police station and one each under Rana Pratap Nagar police station and Hudkeshwar police stations were also found violating the norms. One case was registered in the rural area. According to a senior excise department officer, the cases would be put up before the district collector. Since March 18, the state excise department of Nagpur division under SP Pramod Sonone has registered 425 offences against 309 persons seizing material worth more than Rs 1.79 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/11-liquor-shop-owners-booked-for-violating-norms/articleshow/75795825.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Metro resumes work on Noapara-airport link||KOLKATA: Metro Railway has resumed work on the stretch between Noapara and the city airport that is scheduled to be commissioned sometime in 2021. This project is being handled by Metro Railway while Rail Vikas Nigam Ltd (RVNL) is in charge of all other ongoing projects in the city. The Noapara- Airport link is crucial as it will not only have the largest underground railway yard in the country (at the airport) to handle the trains from three directions but also connect to Barasat in the city’s northeastern suburbs. “During the lockdown, we provided all assistance to the labourers living at the project site for the Noapara-Airport link. Not only did they receive rations, cooking gas and clean drinking water, medical assistance was also provided with regular screening. Quarantine units were set up and the labourers were provided with masks, sanitizers and trained in maintaining social distancing. Even now, when work has resumed, all social distancing norms are being maintained,” said Metro Railway CPRO, Indrani Banerjee. This stretch, though not too long, had several challenges. One of these challenges was the removal of encroachers from railway land and demolition of structures along the way. Permission also had to be obtained from the civil aviation ministry to set up the yard at the airport. For this, Airports Authority of India (AAI) had to shift certain utilities, holding up the project for nearly a year. Two flyovers used by Circular Railway trains to connect to the airport in the past are also being brought down now. Over the last couple of days, PSC box girders of these flyovers were brought down. “We have successfully lowered box girders along a 20-metre stretch. The girders of the abandoned flyovers, weighing 400-450 tonnes, were brought down using a road crane of 600 tonne capacity. The speed will pick up in the coming days. We shall have no trouble regarding workforce as many have started returning to their jobs. Metro Railway is also holding meetings with RVNL and other agencies regarding the resumption of construction work at other sites. Apart from the projects in the North-South corridor, work is also underway for Phase-II of the East-West one,” said another Metro official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/metro-resumes-work-on-noapara-airport-link/articleshow/75795477.cms||Jayanta Gupta
May 18, 2020||Mumbai||Nanded officer pulls WFH hoax sitting in Thane||Mumbai: An officer from the Nanded regional transport office (RTO) attended six videoconference sessions over the past two months, informing his superiors in Maharashtra about “his work during the pandemic” when he was actually sitting in the comfort of his Thane home. The officer, Shailesh Kamat, has been issued a showcause notice to explain why he was not present in his Nanded office for 54 days when he was required to perform his lockdown duties, reports Somit Sen. “He misled us into believing he was working from Nanded whenever we spoke over the phone,” said state transport commissioner Shekhar Channe, who will submit a report to the government seeking action against the officer. Sources said a fellow officer from the department got wind of Kamat’s location in Thane and tipped off the superiors. When TOI contacted Kamat, he said he had to rush to Thane for a medical emergency at home. “My father’s health condition is serious. He had a fall and injured himself. I came to Thane to look after him during the lockdown.”Channe pointed out that it is mandatory for all government officials to remain posted at their jurisdictions during Covid-19 crisis. “The last time I called Kamat was to check on a massive traffic jam at the state border checkpost in Nanded. He informed me that the Nanded collector and local superintendent of police had visited the checkpost thrice. I was given the impression that he too had visited the spot and resolved the issue,” said Channe. “This is serious. If the office was shut due to lockdown, he should have been at his residence in Nanded, and not in Thane.” Asked why he did not inform his seniors about his father’s condition, Kamat claimed that he had informed the commissioner, but it was “too late”. “I should be pardoned on sympathetic grounds and there should be no inquiry,” Kamat said. Channe, however, disagrees. “Kamat spoke to me several times and he could have said that his father was serious. We would have asked him to proceed on leave and deputed somebody else in his place, but he always reported to me as if he was working out of Nanded.” Channe has now appointed a deputy RTO officer at Nanded.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/nanded-officer-pulls-wfh-hoax-sitting-in-thane/articleshow/75795832.cms||Somit Sen
May 18, 2020||Ranchi||PLFI cadre killed in Simdega encounter||GUMLA: A joint team of Simdega district police and Jharkhand Jaguar on Sunday gunned down a PLFI cadre and injured an area commander of the outlawed group, besides capturing five others, including two women cadres, in an encounter at a forested area bordering Odisha. Arms and ammunition, including one AK-47 rifle, four .314 rifles and a pistol, were found from the encounter site at Junadih forest under Jaldega police station of the district. Talking to TOI, Simdega SP Sanjiv Kumar said, “Acting on a tip-off about the movement of PLFI cadres, we launched an operation on Saturday night. As the forces reached the forest early this morning, rebels fired at us. We also retaliated and a rebel named Pandit, who was the bodyguard of PLFI zonal commander Sachit Singh, was killed. Bano area commander Praveen Kandulna alias Natwar was injured and is undergoing treatment a the sadar hospital in Simdega.” Those arrested are identified as Johnson Barla (25), an area commander of Kolebira, Moylen Bading (21), Birsa Kongari (19) and two women cadres — Sanika Kandulna (20) and Hemanti Topno. Kumar said, “Three other PLFI leaders, including Sachit Singh, Shamu and Tilkeshwar managed to escape.” During the gunfight, over 250 rounds were exchanged. The security forces were led by Jharkhand Jaguar assault group deputy commandants R S Pande, Shashi Bhushan Singh and assistant commandant Vibhaj Turkey. “Around four to five days ago, the same group had carried out an attack in Sundargarh district of Odisha,” the SP added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/plfi-cadre-killed-in-simdega-encounter/articleshow/75794961.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Ranchi||Three men held for harassing female passenger on Rajdhani||Ranchi: The government railway police (GRP) station here on Sunday lodged an FIR against three men from Sahibganj for harassing their fellow passenger — a 22-year-old woman from Bokaro – onboard the Ranchi-bound Rajdhani Covid Special Express from New Delhi in the early hours of Sunday. GRP Ranchi SP Anand Prakash said the FIR was lodged against Mohammad Bahrauddin, Ghulam Makhtum Ashraf and Bahrauddin based on the woman’s complaint after the train arrived at Ranchi railway station a little after 10 am. All accused are in the age group of 24 to 25 years. In her complaint, the woman said she boarded B9 coach of the train from Kanpur Central railway station around 8:30 pm on Saturday. The three accused boarded the same coach from Pt Deendayal Upadhyaya junction station (formerly known as Mughalsarai) a little after 12:45am. While the woman was allotted berth number 47, the trio were booked on berth numbers 49, 52 and 55. “In her complaint, the woman said the trio misbehaved, passed lewd comments and tried to touch her inappropriately. They also tried to click her photograph, to which she resisted. The incident happened around 3:30 am when the train was crossing Garhwa Road station,” Ramesh Kumar, officer-in-charge of Ranchi GRP station, told TOI. The woman registered her complaint with the ‘Rail Madad’ portal, following which the Ranchi GRP swung into action. “Having spoken to her over the phone at 5:30am, I asked her fellow passengers to move her to an adjoining coach and ensure her safety. Upon disembarking at Ranchi, the trio was apprehended and handed over to the GRP,” divisional security commissioner Prashant Yadav said. Ranchi GRP OC Ramesh Kumar said the case is being transferred to Garhwa Road GRP. “The accused will be sent to Garhwa for further legal proceedings,” he added. Other passengers of the train said there were no RPF jawans escorted them on board during the entire 18-hour journey. Sources in the Ranchi rail division of SER said no escort parties are being provided as the RPF jawans are yet to get PPE kits. Recently, a guideline issued by the office of the RPF DG said jawans wearing PPE kits will only be deployed onboard trains for escort duty. The Ranchi-bound Rajdhani Express arrived with 1,076 passengers. The New Delhi-bound train, which left at 5:40 pm, also had 1,076 passengers. Meanwhile, a Shramik Special train from Nagpur arrived at Hatia railway station with 732 passengers at 9:30am.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/three-men-held-for-harassing-female-passenger-on-rajdhani/articleshow/75794665.cms||Dhritiman Ray
May 18, 2020||Ranchi||Psychological aid to kids at observation homes||Ranchi: In order to help children in several observation homes and child care institutions of the state to overcome anxiety, restlessness and a spurt of other emotions during the nearly two-month long lockdown, around 30 sessions, 26 for boys and four for girls, were organised through zoom app by a team of psychiatrists. The initiative to give psychological support was jointly undertaken by the state department of women and child development, Unicef and the Central Institute of Psychiatry (CIP). Special Secreatry at the department of women and child development and in-charge of the integrated child protection society, Dr D K Saxena said, “In all of the 102 child care institutions and 10 observation homes in the state, it was necessary to aid the children and their trainers with psychosocial support as most of them are living under stress. In normal days, parents of the children come and meet them, but currently, they are not able to do so, hence it is pushing many of the children to depression. Although we have counsellors, we needed a team of experts to handle this and contacted CIP.” During the session, the children were asked to use the time more constructively and together so that chances of depression and pessimism could be averted. Talking about the sessions, head of adolescents’ mental health unit at CIP and a part of the team, Dr Nishant Goel said, “We found that the children are facing issues like anxiety, restlessness, desperation and irritability. A few among them are also indulging in unruly activities. During the sessions, we advised both the children and their trainers on how to cope with the situation.” Priti Srivastava, child protection specialist with Unicef in Jharkhand said, “The objective was to inform the children about Cocid-19, teach them about the safe behaviours to protect themselves, taking care of their emotions and develop and find strength to better cope with the situation at hand. The sessions have covered around 607 children living in government-run homes child care institutions which is about 94% of the total strength.” A total of 30 sessions were concluded in the past 15 days for children and their trainers while there are plans for a few more sessions for the trainers in the coming days to enhance their psychosocial health and give them mental support.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/psychological-aid-to-kids-at-observation-homes/articleshow/75794620.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Ranchi||Hemant Soren to spell out Jharkhand-specific lockdown guidelines today||RANCHI: Chief minister Hemant Soren is expected to announce Jharkhand-specific guidelines for Lockdown 4.0 only on Monday, officials in chief minister’s office said on Sunday. CM’s press adviser Abhishek Pintu said, “The chief minister will hold a meeting with all key departments and the Covid-19 task force on Monday morning to make a state-specific announcement. But by and large, the state government continues to be on same page with the Centre on the issue of lockdown.” Pintu’s statement came soon after the Union government announced extension of the ongoing lockdown with a host of relaxations on Sunday. The state disaster management department has already submitted its recommendations to government in this regard and is awaiting the CM’s nod. “We will broadly go with the national advisories. But since classification of red, green and orange zones lies with the state, we are evaluating the situation afresh to fine tune certain norms. Expect a detailed state-specific advisory by Monday,” an official of the department said. State finance minister Rameshwar Oraon also said since the outbreak of the pandemic, the Jharkhand government has supported the Centre’s decisions on the lockdown. “Even in the last video-conferencing of CMs with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, our chief minister Hemant Soren clearly said the state will be with the Centre on any decision regarding the lockdown.” Notably, despite central advisory for reopening of standalone shops during Lockdown 3.0, the state government preferred to continue with the curbs, citing the return of migrants. Oraon, however, indicated that the state government may offer a host of relaxations in Lockdown 4.0 in order to reboot the economy and the livelihood of the state’s residents. So far, around 60,000 migrants out of over six lakh stranded in different states have returned to Jharkhand through 50 special trains. The state is also seeing a spike in Covid-19 cases with the tally climbing to 223 and 17 out of the 24 total districts in currently have active cases. Oraon said the government is working on a balancing plan to contain the virus and prevent hunger as well. He said, “It is high time that we also take care of people who are suffering by rebooting economic activities in areas that aren’t risky and safe zones, but of course, with lots of precautions. We are considering the avenues which can be reopened to help people earn their livelihood and generate revenue for the state. The CM will soon announce at an appropriate time.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/cm-to-spell-out-state-specific-lockdown-guidelines-today/articleshow/75794992.cms||ASRP Mukesh
May 18, 2020||Ranchi||Woman delivers baby after alighting from Shramik special in Daltonganj||Daltonganj: A migrant lady identified as Rupa Kumari (21) delivered a baby boy soon after deboarding a shramik special train which arrived at Daltonganj from Panvel in Maharashtra in the early hours of Sunday. Rupa went into labour pain at 2.30am as the train chugged into Daltonganj railway station. Soon after getting information, authorities rushed her to a nearby government hospital, 2km away from the railway station. Two hours later, she delivered a male child. Officials said Rupa and her husband Rahul Thakur hail from Kander village in Bokaro district and were a part of the 1,550 migrants who returned to Jharkhand from Maharashtra in the special train. Sadar SDPO Sandip Kumar Gupta, who was present at platform number 3 when the train arrived here, said, “The lady was in a great pain. We realised her pregnancy was in an advanced stage and rushed her to the hospital.” He added, “A medical staff present at the railway station called up civil surgeon John F Kennedy and sought help in getting her admitted to Palamu Medical College And Hospital.” Kennedy said he got a call around 2.45am when he rushed an ambulance to Daltonganj railway station. He said, “Her delivery was normal. This is her first delivery and both the mother and child are healthy.” He added the couple has to stay in a quarantine centre as they returned from a red zone. “The couple and the infant will be in an institutional quarantine in our hospital building.” A senior doctor of Palamu Medical College And Hospital, Anil Kumar Singh said, “The infant has been administered birth dose which is also called zero dose which consists of immunization for hepatitis B, polio and BCG.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/woman-delivers-baby-after-alighting-from-shramik-special-in-daltonganj/articleshow/75794726.cms||M F AHMED
May 18, 2020||Ranchi||Covid-19 mgmt in Ranchi dist role model for country: Hemant Soren||Ranchi: Chief minister Hemant Soren on Sunday dubbed the Ranchi district administration’s Covid-19 management as a ‘role model’ for the country. In his official Twitter handle, Hemant posted a newspaper clipping of a Hindi daily’s report which claimed that Ranchi’s recovery rate stood at 80%. “The credit goes to Ranchi district administration, health workers, policemen, sanitation workers and volunteers for this feat,” he tweeted. Ranchi, which emerged as the biggest Covid-19 hotspot in Jharkhand, reported 104 cases since March 31, including one from Tupudana in Namkum on Sunday. The district administration claimed that out of the total, two patients died and 85 were discharged from Covid-19 facilities after being declared cured. As on Sunday, there were 19 active cases in the district, the administration added. Besides Hindpiri, fresh containment zones emerged over the weeks. The district’s epidemiology wing said there are at least 13 containment zones across the district. Hemant’s words of appreciation for the district officials came at a time when BJP, the state’s biggest opposition party in the Jharkhand assembly, attacked the administration and the JMM-led Mahagatbandhan government for failing to act on the stone-pelters of Hindpiri. Condemning the attack on CRPF jawans on Saturday, BJP’s Jharkhand president Deepak Prakash said, “The government has failed to maintain law and order in one particular locality. Under whose pressure is the district administration letting the morale of CRPF jawans dip?” The district administration was also in a tight corner last month after several people slipped out of the containment zone in Hindpiri and reached Lohardaga.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/covid-19-mgmt-in-ranchi-dist-role-model-for-country-hemant-soren/articleshow/75794769.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Ranchi||Pragya kendras to be roped-in for e-Sanjeevani||Ranchi: The state health secretary, Nitin Madan Kulkarni, wrote a letter to the IT department on Saturday requesting the latter to facilitate e-OPD services through its Pragya Kendras spread all over the state. The request comes in the wake of lukewarm response to e-Sanjeevani online OPD service, which was launched on May 1 in Jharkhand to provide online medical consultations to patients amid the nationwide lockdown. Talking to TOI, the nodal officer for e-Sanjeevani in Jharkhand, L R Pathak, said: “In order to extend the reach of our online medical consultations to patients in rural pockets, we have decided to rope-in Pragya Kendras. We will continue the service even after the lockdown is lifted, so that people from far-flung areas can avail consultation from doctors while following social-distancing norms.” “A total of 438 patients have been attended to through e-Sanjeevani by our medical officers since May 1. We have also started offering psychiatric and specialist consultation through our portal from Saturday. A team of psychiatrists will be available for consultation between 1 to 2pm on a daily basis and specialist doctors will also be available for consultation every day between 2 to 3pm,” Pathak added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/pragya-kendras-to-be-roped-in-for-e-sanjeevani/articleshow/75794636.cms||Gaurav Pandey
May 18, 2020||Ranchi||Hindpiri sees mob violence for second consecutive day||Ranchi: Hours after CRPF personnel deployed in Hindpiri area were attacked by a large group of people on Saturday night, a mob attacked a police party, comprising CRPF personnel and a DSP rank official, near Moti Masjid on Sunday morning. Police sources said that soon after a CRPF unit of 218 D battalion — comprising 11 personnel, led by inspector Baldev Raj — reached Hindpiri after change of shift and were planning to conduct a flag march near Moti Masjid, around 500 persons came onto streets, hurling stones at them. As CRPF personnel were outnumbered, they cancelled the flag march and tried to escape through another route but they were surrounded by a crowd which continued to hurl stones at them. A DSP rank official rushed to the spot and tried to ease the tension but the crowd attacked him as well, causing minor injuries on his shoulder and back. The mob also vandalised the police vehicle and thrashed the state police personnel, who had accompanied the DSP to the spot. It took more than half an hour for CRPF personnel to come out of the area after which they reached near Mangal Chowk in front of Bada Talaab. “Stones were pelted upon us from all sides even from terraces and we were left high and dry. The mob vandalised the state police vehicle and continued pelting stones even when a senior police official requested them to stop,” said a CRPF constable who was part of the contingent and was attacked by the mob. “Four of our men suffered minor injuries and one escaped after a large stone landed on the anti-riot gear, damaging it,” said another CRPF constable. Meanwhile, Ranchi police are collecting evidence, including video footage, to take legal action against the people involved in the mob violence at Hindpiri on Saturday night. Armed with lathis and swords, the mob had attacked police and CRPF unit at the Hindpiri third street around 8pm on Saturday. Police had to resort to bursting tear gas shells and use mild force to disperse the mob. Several CRPF and police personnel sustained injuries in the incident. The mob anger sparked off after a former ward councillor, Mohammad Aslam, was allegedly beaten up by the CRPF. The central force has, however, denied the allegations. South Chhotanagpur Inspector General Navin Singh said that after the incident, presence of senior police officers belonging to the ranks of SPs, DSPs and inspectors has been increased in the area. The IG said, “Police have also been asked to be empathetic in dealing with the people and resort to persuasion in implementing the lockdown. In case of violation, police should make a video footage and register a case against the guilty. The personnel have been sensitised in this regard. ” During the interaction with the police, local leaders had said that there was also resentment among residents of Hindpiri on the way they were portrayed as main the culprits behind spreading the virus in Ranchi. Meanwhile, Ranchi SSP said, “We are carrying out a detailed inquiry into the incident. Police have secured several videos and CCTV footage for taking legal action against the guilty.” Police have also appealed to people to provide footage in this regard assuring their identity would not be disclosed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/hindpiri-sees-mob-violence-for-second-consecutive-day/articleshow/75794796.cms||Gaurav Pandey
May 18, 2020||India||FASTag norm breach to draw double toll fee||NEW DELHI: Vehicles which enter “FASTag lanes” on NH toll plazas with defunct tags or the ones without enough balance will attract double toll fee. Till now the users of vehicles had to pay double fee at toll plaza only if the vehicle didn't have the FASTag and entered in dedicated lane. However, every toll plaza on NH network will continue to have only one lane on each carriageway for making cash payment. “We want all transactions through FASTag so there is no cash transaction. More use of FASTag is crucial to prevent spread of coronavirus. This is a win-win proposition for commuters and toll operators as well,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/fastag-norm-breach-to-draw-double-toll-fee/articleshow/75796054.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Vijayawada||Education department sets ball rolling for Class X exams in Andhra Pradesh||VIJAYAWADA: With the state government recently announcing that Class X examinations will be conducted from July 10, education officials in the districts have started identifying suitable centres. Initially, they had identified 2,900 examination centres, but the number may almost double to ensure social distancing norms and other coronavirus (Covid-19) related precautions. The education department has decided to allow only one student per bench in a zigzag pattern and have 12 students in one room, which was originally meant for 24 students. The halls and the premises will also be thoroughly sanitised and disinfected before and after every examination. Moreover, instead of the usual 11 papers, there will be six. The department wants to conclude the centre identification process in the next few days so as to make other arrangements. The examinations, which were supposed to begin on March 23 have already been postponed twice — once due to the proposed local body elections and again because of the lockdown. State education minister Adimulapu Suresh had earlier said that all Covid-19 related protocol will be followed, including the use of face masks and hand sanitisers, disinfection of premises, and four feet distance between each student. “The number of examination centres will be increased accordingly,” said Suresh. Deputy district education officer of Visakhapatnam, Prem Kumar said that they are in the process of identifying additional examination centres as per government guidelines. “Students per each room will be limited to 12 and only one student will sit on each bench. This has necessitated the identification of more centres to ensure that social distancing norms and other Covid-19 related precautions are followed,” he said. Stressing on measures to be taken by the government to prevent the spread of Covid-19 at the exam halls, steering committee member of RTE Forum Narava Prakasa Rao said, “This is an unprecedented situation as all schools in the state remained closed since March 16. The government should deploy medical personnel and ambulances for a certain cluster of exam centres.” Meanwhile, textbooks for Classes VII to X have reached the districts and subsequently to mandal headquarters. Visakhapatnam district alone received around nine lakh textbooks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/education-dept-sets-ball-rolling-for-class-x-exams/articleshow/75794443.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
May 18, 2020||India||Combination of virtual, physical courts will be way forward: CJI||NEW DELHI: India's three-tier justice delivery system, groaning under the weight of bulky files of three crore cases, is on the verge of a new dawn — from trial courts to the Supreme Court, filing of cases will be done electronically and judges will adopt a judicious mix of hearing advocates either through video-conferencing or physically. Referring to the changes in working environment in courts caused by Covid-19, CJI S A Bobde said, "Eventually, it must settle down to a system which is a combination of the two, the new and the old. There are cases which have to be heard in congregation. One thing is for sure that there is no looking back. We will have to first of all accept the present situation and change our mindset towards the way we look at court proceedings." No one would need to go to courts to file a case, the CJI said while unveiling the e-filing module for the judiciary. "This system has in a sense virtually brought the court registry into the chambers of advocates. Starting with constitutional courts, the new system will allow lawyers to file cases 24x7, even on holidays, with e-payment facility to pay court fees," he said. Lawyers and litigants with IT-handicap will get assistance for a small fee. A date entry operator will help them file the case and pay fees. CJI Bobde said, "In January, one lakh cases comprising 27 lakh pages were sent by district courts to various high courts hearing appeals. All this paper and staff necessary to transport the bulky case files could have been used for some better purpose had we universalised the e-filing system. With the introduction of e-filing system, trial court records can be transmitted to appellate courts instantaneously." Though the 70-year-old Ayodhya case, which involved thousands of pages of documents and numerous intervention petitions along with four main suits, were decided at breakneck speed, CJI Bobde said had Artificial Intelligence (AI) been employed, the 40 days that the SC's five-judge bench took to go through the case files and render a decision could have been even shorter. "E-filing is undoubtedly very significant since it is the basis of a system of AI. We do not have to deal with it immediately, but in times to come we will have to as AI can play a great role in smoothening the functioning of courts, including categorisation of cases and process automation which is a term covering a wide range of activities," he said. Justice D Y Chandrachud, chairman of the e-committee and who supervised creation of the new system, said the SC and 19,000 courts in India had successfully experimented with virtual courts and e-filing system, in which technology's use was driven by the motto — efficiency, transparency and access to every user of justice delivery services. "Not everyone has access to technology. Our solutions must be inclusive and reach out to those who do not have access. Opening of e-seva kendras in all courts in the country for making e-services available is a step in that direction. We must seek to provide sustainable digitisation and bring about a transformational change in re-conceptualising interactions between citizens, lawyers, the judiciary and the environment with emphasis on trust, empathy, sustainability and transparency (TEST) principles," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/combination-of-virtual-physical-courts-will-be-way-forward-cji/articleshow/75796059.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
May 18, 2020||Vijayawada||Parents, teachers don’t want SSC this year||Amaravati: Parents’ of students set to take the SSC examinations, as well as some teachers are unhappy with the state government’s decision to go ahead with the exams under the circumstances. Meanwhile, the state government is seemingly in no mood to give in to the demand of cancelling the annual exams. While states like Punjab and Madhya Pradesh have summarily cancelled SSC exams in view of the pandemic, the Andhra Pradesh government seems adamant about conducting the exams, say a section of parents. “SSC exams are neither qualifying marks for job recruitments nor eligibility scores for Intermediate admissions. I don’t understand why the government is so keen on conducting these examinations,” said MC Kesava Reddy, a schoolteacher. He said he doesn’t see the rationale behind conducting these exams as nearly 97% students clear the exams anyway. Narayana Sarma, a headmaster at a school in Ananthapuram said that children may be exhausted owing to the lockdown and underprepared. “Exams might help private and corporate institutes lure in some bright chaps. But automatically upgrading students to class XI will save them from falling prey to Covid-19,” said Peera Saheb, a parent. S Ramakrishna, president of municipal teachers’ federation said that the government should rethink on the issue as SSC marks won’t influence students’ careers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/parents-teachers-dont-want-ssc-this-year/articleshow/75794450.cms||Samdani MN
May 18, 2020||Vijayawada||Cyclone Amphan: Mercury levels to rise by 2°C in AP||Visakhapatnam: Maximum temperatures in Andhra Pradesh and Telangana are likely to go up this week on account of Cyclone Amphan, which is currently active and moving towards the coast between West Bengal and Bangladesh at a speed between three to five kilometres per hour (kmph). Temperatures may rise after weakening of the cyclone after it makes landfall between Sagar Islands in West Bengal and Hatiya Islands in Bangladesh on May 20. Amphan, which is the first cyclonic storm over the Bay of Bengal this pre-monsoon season, may cause a rise in temperatures by one or two degrees Celsius across the two Telugu-speaking states, said K Naga Ratna, director, India Meteorological Department (IMD), Hyderabad centre. In the last 24 hours since Sunday, Andhra Pradesh registered a maximum temperature of over 40°Celsius at six places. Kamalapuram in Kadapa district registered a maximum temperature of 42°Celsius. Similarly, Adilabad, Mancherial, Nirmal, Jagtial, Peddapalli, Karimnagar, Jayashankar, Bhadradri Kothagudem, Khammam, Suryapet and Nalgonda districts in Telangana reported temperatures of over 41°C while Chelpur in Jayashankar district registered a maximum temperature of 43°C on Sunday. Naga Ratna attributed the rise in temperature to evaporation of moisture in the atmosphere due to formation of the cyclone. Cyclones gather moisture content from their surroundings and grow in intensity. “With the evaporation of moisture content, atmosphere over the land becomes dry, resulting in increasing temperature levels. Most parts of the two states will become hotter in the days ahead,” Naga Ratna said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/cyclone-amphan-mercury-levels-to-rise-by-2c-in-ap/articleshow/75794498.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
May 18, 2020||Vijayawada||Visakhapatnam: Rains projected in north-coastal parts||VISAKHAPATNAM: Heavy rainfall with squally winds is likely at a few places in north-coastal AP on Monday due to the influence of Cyclone Amphan. V Vijaya Bhaskar, director of Cyclone Warning Centre (CWC) in Visakhapatnam said that while the cyclone won’t have a major impact in AP, some areas in north-coastal AP may see light to heavy rains over the next 24 hours. Srikakulam district collector J Nivas has directed officials to keep an eye on the movement of the cyclone. Fishermen have been advised to not venture into the sea from concerned departments. The sea is expected to be rough with strong winds blowing till the cyclone makes a landfall, projected to be on May 20.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/rains-projected-in-north-coastal-parts/articleshow/75794512.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
May 18, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Humble umbrella may soon make it to ‘essentials’ list in Andhra Pradesh||VISAKHAPATNAM: The trusted umbrella may soon be considered an ‘essential commodity’ in Andhra Pradesh if umbrella manufacturers and wholesalers can persuade the state government to follow in the footsteps of the Maharashtra government and include the item in the essentials list. The Maharshtra government recently categorised umbrellas, raincoats and plastic sheets as essential goods till September 30 in view of the ensuing monsoon season. “Umbrellas can be a good solution to maintain social distance in the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak. The Andhra and Kerala governments have also admitted it and even our Prime Minister has mentioned it in his speeches. Monsoon is also knocking at the door and this is an ideal time for our business. We should ensure that there is no problem with supply and sale of the products,” Jayesh Chopra, executive body member of All India Umbrella Manufacturers Federation told TOI. The sale of umbrellas in the state is controlled mainly by manufacturers from Maharashtra and West Bengal who supply to AP through wholesalers in Bangalore and Chennai. “Although there’s a demand for umbrellas following the outbreak of Covid-19 and with monsoon round the corner, our business is in bad shape because supply is not steady and retail stores are not open because of the lockdown,” said R Ramesh, a wholesaler in Chennai. V Raju, who runs a general store in Madhurawada and has been opening his shop in the mornings since May 4, claimed that umbrella sales picked up this month, ahead of when sales usually pick up. “Normally we don’t get customers for umbrellas in early May. But this year I managed to sell a few umbrellas even during mid-May. However, by this time of the year the supply for fresh lots reaches us. This year we are yet receive fresh supplies,” said Raju. Manufacturers said the industry is a labour-intensive one with almost all tasks done manually. The industry is seasonal and those involved in it earn profit through bulk sales.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/humble-umbrella-may-soon-make-it-to-essentials-list/articleshow/75794602.cms||Arpit Basu
May 18, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur out of red zone, Akola & Amravati continue||Nagpur: Fewer deaths and positive cases of Covid-19, and new guidelines of the central government has helped Nagpur district come out of red zone category after a long time. In Vidarbha, only Akola and Amravati continue to remain in red zone while the others have been categorized under the new non-red zone. Like some other states in the country, Maharashtra has tweaked the guidelines of categories. Earlier, there were three categories — red, orange and green. In the notification issued by chief secretary Ajoy Mehta on Tuesday, the state will have only red and non-red zones. With only seven deaths and 374 positive cases, of which only 95 remain active, in last 59 days, Nagpur district has received non-red zone category. This has resulted in more types of relaxations. Over 86% of total cases are from Mominpura and Satranjipura due to aggressive containment model of the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC). The relaxed rules, which will be implemented from May 22 and will remain in place till May 31, various types of non-essential shops like saloon, spa, private offices, government offices with 100% attendance, RTO registration etc can resume work. Wine shops, which were now giving home delivery, are also likely to open. Referring to state’s new guidelines, municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe and collector Ravindra Thakre will issue guidelines for city and Nagpur rural, respectively. The centre’s Rapid Response Team (RRT) had credited the NMC’s aggressive containment zone model, various measures for fewer deaths and cases. ICMR’s new guidelines for discharging positive patients saw number of discharged persons swell to 272 with 132 in last four days. Apart from mortality, total cases, active cases are also taken into consideration for category. As per NMC officials and experts, chances of rise in cases with non-red category, major relaxation in lockdown and new discharge policy cannot be ruled out. The NMC had prepared beds with large number of capacity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nagpur-out-of-red-zone-akola-amravati-continue/articleshow/75826053.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
May 18, 2020||Amaravati||Andhra Pradesh to explain its lift irrigation project to KRMB in Hyderabad today||AMARAVATI: The Andhra Pradesh irrigation department officials will appear before the Krishna River Management Board (KRMB) in Hyderabad on Monday to place its arguments about the proposed lift irrigation project near Srisailam and widening of Pothireddypadu head regulator capacity. A team of senior officials headed by special chief secretary (irrigation) Adityanath Das has readied a detailed presentation to submit to the KRMB. The state government will strongly defend the proposed schemes contending that it was within its right to take its quota of water from Srisailam. Two days ago, KRMB had directed the AP government not to go ahead with the proposed project work and explain the reasons for taking up such controversial projects following the Telangana government’s objections. Telangana irrigation principal secretary Rajath Kumar met the KRMB chairman and lodged a complaint about the AP government’s attempts to lift water from Srisailam illegally. Subsequently, Union Jal Shakti minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawath directed the KRMB to keenly examine the AP’s new projects whether they were being taken up in violation of the AP Reorganization Act. The central minister asked the KRMB to seek explanation from the AP government following a complaint lodged by Telangana BJP president and MP Bandi Sanjay. Similarly, Congress and other political parties in Telangana met KRMB officials and raised their objections about AP’s plans saying that they would make many areas in Telangana go dry. However, Andhra Pradesh is contending that it was taking up the lift irrigation project on its soil for which it required no one’s permission. With regard to pumping of water, the AP government is likely to assure the KRMB that it would abide by any instructions to be issued by the board from time to time. “KRMB itself will monitor the water releases to both the states as per the allocations made by the Brajesh Kumar tribunal. We will take our quota of water to feed the severely drought-hit areas of Rayalaseema. Since we are not going take even a drop of water out of our quota and without the KRMB permission, there is no need for anyone to worry about the new projects and facilities created in AP to provide little relief to the extremely drought hit areas,” AP is likely to explain the KRMB.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/ap-to-explain-its-lift-irrigation-project-to-krmb-in-hyd-today/articleshow/75794664.cms||Samdani MN
May 18, 2020||Vijayawada||MSMEs in Andhra Pradesh to soon get IoT upgrade||VIJAYAWADA: The Andhra Pradesh energy department is contemplating the introduction of Internet of Things (IoT) enabled power control devices in micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) after the lockdown. The IoT-based devices will reportedly improve the performance of MSMEs by reducing energy consumption that will make such units both profitable and sustainable. Andhra Pradesh State Energy Conservation Mission (APSECM) recently entered into a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with the Union ministry of commerce and industry-led National Productivity Council (NPC) to introduce IoT-based devices in MSME units. The NPC has developed these IoT-based devices in association with the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Hyderabad and demonstrated the functioning of these devices in real time. The devices were deployed in two MSME units in Rajahmundry as part of a pilot project. The results have been beyond satisfactory, say officials. The IoT-enabled device supports real-time monitoring of various electrical parameters and sends information to the cloud. The cloud then generates useful alerts to consumers via mobile or e-mail. The information allows consumers to conduct reactive and proactive maintenance of electric supply within the plant thereby allowing them to avoid excessive energy consumption, protect industrial machinery from voltage fluctuations and save on money. Energy minister Balineni Srinivas Reddy, while speaking to energy department officials in a teleconference on Sunday, discussed the benefits of IoT-enabled devices.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/msmes-in-andhra-to-soon-get-iot-upgrade/articleshow/75794682.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Nagpur||Only home delivery of liquor in city outskirts; Amt wet from Monday||Nagpur/Amravati: Just a day after opening, district collector Ravindra Thakare ordered shut the liquor shops in areas adjoining the city including Koradi, Kamptee, Wadi, Hingna, Besa, etc as owners and customers failed to observe Covid distancing. The shops can, however, home deliver in these areas. Country liquor shops will remain open here and its home delivery will not be permitted.Meanwhile, liquor shops within the city continued to do roaring business on Saturday too. Shiraz Gimi of Bapuna Group said one of their partners had received 2,000 orders on WhatsApp. Vinod Johri of Johri Wines said his stock had almost finished and he had placed order with wholesalers.Tipplers in Amravati also have a reason to cheer. Collector Shailesh Naval has allowed home delivery of liquor here from Monday. However, those wanting country liquor will have to wait this can’t be sold through home delivery.Nagpur’s adjoining areas fall under the jurisdiction of Nagpur police commissionerate. Liquor shops outside of this area will remain open. Home delivery will also be permitted there except for country liquor.Sources in excise department said city police had informed Thakre that Covid distancing was not being followed in liquor shops in the area under their jurisdiction. The collector therefore modified his order late Friday evening.Amravati collector Naval told TOI, "Liquor shop owners have been allowed to give home delivery of foreign liquor from Monday. Only permit holders will be able to get this facility after booking their order by various social media means with the seller, who will have to sell the stuff on MRP only." If a customer does not have a permit, the shopkeeper will provide him FLXC permit or a person can obtain it from the official website of the state excise department.Liquor shops in the containment zones and it's 200 metre radius will not be delivering at home too, Naval added. The shop owners have been allowed to engage services of up to 10 persons each for home delivery. "They will deliver liquor between 10 am and 4 pm only and will have to take endorsement of delivery from customer. Keeping note of every home delivery is mandatory for the owner," Naval said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/only-home-delivery-of-liquor-in-city-outskirts-amt-wet-from-monday/articleshow/75782771.cms||Ashish Roy
May 18, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu removes transport curbs in 25 districts, no relief for Chennai||CHENNAI: A few hours before the Centre extended the lockdown till May 31 across the country, chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami extended the lockdown in the state till end of the month with easing of transport restrictions in 25 districts where new Covid-19 cases are nil or have come down significantly. While intra-district private transportation in these districts can be operated without permission after nearly two months, all existing restrictions will continue in containment zones across the state. In Chennai and 11 other districts - Kancheepuram, Tiruvallur, Chengalpet, Villupuram, Cuddalore, Ranipet, Tirupattur, Kallakurichi, Tiruvannamalai, Ariyalur and Perambalur - restrictions will remain unchanged. Taxis and autorickshaws can operate in the these 12 districts, where intra-district movement is otherwise prohibited, for emergency medical needs by getting e-passes. Public transport remains suspendedIndustries with less than 100 workers can operate in citiesThe CM said, “Interstate rail services and trains to and from Chennai to other parts of Tamil Nadu will be prohibited, except air, rail and public transport with special permission from Central/state governments.” Palaniswami, however, said the restrictions will not be applicable for those involved in evaluation of Class XII exam answer sheets. Industries in urban areas like corporations, municipalities and town panchayats, excluding those in Greater Chennai Police limits, with less than 100 workers can operate with 100% strength, while companies with more than 100 workers can work with 50% strength or a maximum of 100 workers. Private and business establishments can use minimum staff for maintenance. Movement of tourists to hill stations such as the Nilgiris, Kodaikanal and Yercaud will not be allowed. Inter-state public transport, operation of airconditioned showrooms, jewellery, textile and department stores, too, will not be permitted. “The government is continuously monitoring the virus spread. It will announce further relaxations when infection rate comes down,” the CM said. Palaniswami said the state will take efforts to get permission from the Centre to operate special express train twice a week from New Delhi. Ten special flights and two ships under Vande Bharat mission have brought 1,665 and 264 stranded passengers to Tamil Nadu. “I have told officials to coordinate with the Centre to bring back Tamils who want to return. I’ve also directed officials to expedite rescue of Tamils from other states through special trains in a phased manner,” the CM said. Palaniswami said the lockdown extension was based on review meetings, video conference with district collectors, meeting of health expert committee, and inputs from ministers. The government has decided to prohibit opening of educational institutions, religious places, and religious congregations. Cinema halls, shopping malls, gymnasiums, sports complexes, swimming pools, entertainment parks, theatres, bars, auditoriums, assembly halls, political, sports, entertainment, academic, cultural and religious functions, too, will be prohibited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tamil-nadu-removes-transport-curbs-in-25-districts-no-relief-for-chennai/articleshow/75796085.cms||Julie Mariappan
May 18, 2020||Chennai||Covid-19: Cases top 11,000, Tamil Nadu may tweak testing policy; 4 deaths take toll to 78||CHENNAI: As Tamil Nadu's Covid-19 count continues to rise, touching 11,224 with 639 fresh cases on Sunday, the health department has sent a comprehensive testing policy to the government for approval. Four people died taking the toll to 78. Chennai, the most affected district, reported 482 cases to take its tally to 6,750. The testing policy expected to be announced on Monday will advise district officials to continue testing all passengers from other states. While those positive for the infection will be send for isolation, others will be advised home quarantine instead of government facility quarantine. Over the weekend, 170 people who arrived from Maharashtra, Gujarat, Rajasthan, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and Telangana tested positive. On Sunday, nearly 12% of the patients who tested positive were from other states. They included 73 people from Maharashtra, three from Telangana, two each from Rajasthan and Karnataka and one from Andhra Pradesh. Health minister C Vijayabaskar said the influx of people returning from other states is now a challenge for TN. For instance, Karur, which did not have any case for the last three days, had 16 passengers from Maharashtra testing positive. Salem, which did not report any local case, had three patients from Telangana, four from Maharashtra and two from Rajasthan. Similar was the case in Sivaganga and Virudhunagar. But the state is equipped with testing kits, quarantine facilities and isolation beds, the minister said. The state has decided to test people coming from other states and countries through air, ships, rail or road. So far 1,961 air passenger (they came in 10 flights) and 1,696 train passengers have been tested using RT-PCR. "Thirteen people who came by three flights were sick. All other passengers on those flights tested negative but they have been told they are high risk contacts. They are all being monitored on a daily basis. So far, two people who came by train were positive. All others are in facility quarantine under our surveillance too," he said. The state control room at the directorate of public health was still collecting numbers from districts on the number of people who came by road. No. of those tested rises by 4,000 on SundayA senior health department official, “People coming by private cars, trucks, and bikes are being stopped at the district check posts and tested. Those who test positive are sent to hospitals and those who test negative are sent either to facility quarantine or are advised home quarantine for two weeks,” Meanwhile, epidemiologists said the number of people tested for the viral infection has gone up from 8,000 people on Saturday to 12,445on Sunday. Chennai’s neighbouring district continued to register more cases. While Chengalpet reported 28 cases, Tiruvallur had 18 and Kancheepuram recorded five. At Chennai’s borders, one passenger coming from Andhra Pradesh and another from Karnataka tested positive. On Sunday, there were 6,971 active cases in the state and 634 people were discharged from hospitals across the state, taking the total number to 4,172. “We have managed to keep recovery rates high and mortality low. In some cases we don’t know why people deteriorate rapidly,” the minister said. On Saturday, a 63-yearold man admitted to Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital died within a day of admission after he developed respiratory failure due to fluid in the lungs. Hours later, at the Government Stanley Medical College Hospital a 44-yearold woman, who had rheumatoid Arthritis died within 40 minutes of admission due to septic shock. A 45-year-old-woman died on Saturday and a 40-year-old man died on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/covid-19-cases-top-1-1000-tamil-nadu-may-tweak-testing-policy-4-deaths-take-toll-to-78/articleshow/75796101.cms||Pushpa Narayan
May 18, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Easy-to-assemble cardboard beds at quarantine hubs||MUMBAI: The urgency to create multiple quarantine spaces in the city has prompted innovative ideas to furnish these halls. Recognising the need to make beds that can be easily assembled at quarantine centres, a city-based corrugated boards and boxes manufacturer, Aryan Paper Group, spent a week to develop a prototype for a cardboard bed. The company has since donated over 1,200 beds and sold nearly 10,000 at cost price for use in the state and Gujarat. A partner at the company, Rhea Shah, figured that quick-assembly beds would be needed. “We had [prepared] a prototype in a week and began manufacturing at our Vapi unit. The beds are easy to assemble and can be used for up to six months, and can be recycled thereafter,” said Param Gandhi, executive director of the company. In Mumbai, the beds have been used at quarantine or isolation centres at Police Gymkhana, Catholic Gymkhana, Mumbai University’s Kalina Campus, a school and college in Dharavi. “We wanted to help in this crisis, and so we are not making any profit from sale of beds. While a traditional metal bed costs up to Rs 3,800, the cardboard ones cost less than half. The idea has also kept our company working which means we can continue to pay our staffers as well,” said Gandhi. Another company Nilkamal has been manufacturing plastic chairs for 35 years and recently diversified into metal furniture. Ajay Agarwal, assistant vice president, operations, said, “On March 25, the first day of the lockdown, we decided to manufacture metal beds for use in isolation and quarantine centres. On March 30 we were ready, and donated the first 50 beds to Tamil Nadu. We are now supplying 1,000 beds to the MMRDA facility in BKC. These beds are stackable — 10-12 can be kept atop one another for later use. We are also providing mattresses and storage cabinets that double up as dining surfaces. As infection can spread in large quarantine halls, our isolation beds have foldable plastic covers that envelop all four sides.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-easy-to-assemble-cardboard-beds-at-quarantine-hubs/articleshow/75796102.cms||Vinamrata Borwankar
May 18, 2020||Delhi||Stressed out? Help for Delhi cops over the phone||NEW DELHI: Police officers suffering from stress and mental health issues can now consult doctors over the phone. In a step to reduce stress among cops deployed on the ground, Delhi Police — along with Atal Bihari Vajpayee Institute of Medical Science and RML Hospital — have launched an on-call counselling system for men on the ground. Cops usually undergo counselling on a one-to-one basis, which had to be stopped due to the lockdown. The programme was launched last year after several cases of cops committing suicide had been reported. The policemen who are stressed out due to the job-related issues or family problems were identified and asked to attend counselling sessions by prominent mental health experts. Now, instead of visiting experts personally, cops can call on the helpline number and speak with a counsellor. Sources said the ones posted on security duty or at pickets are more vulnerable to depression due to the nature of their work. The helpline would be operational 24-hours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/stressed-out-help-for-delhi-cops-over-the-phone/articleshow/75796110.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Navi-mumbai||Navi Mumbai: Dead man goes missing from morgue, hospital and cops pass buck||NAVI MUMBAI: The body of a man from Ulwe has gone missing from the morgue of a civic hospital in Navi Mumbai. Amid their grief, the bereaved family members are clueless as the hospital and police authorities are passing the buck to one another. The Ulwe resident, Mohammad Umar Farooq Shaikh (29), died at his home in Wahal village on May 9 due to prolonged illness. As he had been running a temperature at that time, the police sent the corpse to NMMC Hospital in Vashi to ascertain if Shaikh had had Covid-19. Shaikh’s brother, Nasuddin, said that the hospital stated the cause of death as ‘cardio respiratory arrest’, but also stated ‘pneumonia in a suspected case of Covid-19’. Doctors told the family the body would be handed over three or four days later after receiving the Covid-19 report. Last Thursday, the report came in and it was negative. “When I went to claim the body for the final rites, doctors told me that it was missing from the morgue,” Nasuddin told TOI. “The hospital staff were clueless about what had happened.” The family then lodged a complaint at Vashi police station. Nasuddin said the family has been in the dark for the last three days as the hospital has not got back to them. The hospital’s medical superintendent Dr Prashant Jawade said, “Since the police had brought the body here, it was their responsibility to tag it with an identity label. That was not done.” Senior inspector of NRI Coastal police station, Tanvir Shaikh, said, “As the body went missing from the hospital, it is not our responsibility. It was for the hospital to maintain proper records.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/navi-mumbai-dead-man-goes-missing-from-morgue-hospital-and-cops-pass-buck/articleshow/75796112.cms||George Mendonca
May 18, 2020||Ranchi||5-year-old dies of ‘hunger’ Latehar, admin on denial||Ranchi: A five-year-old girl, Nimani, reportedly died of hunger in Latehar district on Saturday. On Sunday, a three-member team of activists, including noted economist Jean Dreze, visited Donki village under Manika block of the district and quoted the villagers saying that the girl died of starvation. The district administration has, however, denied any link to the child’s death with hunger. State convener of the Right to Food campaign, Asharfi Nand Prasad, quoting the findings of the team, said, “Nimani, about five years old, was the daughter of Jaglal Bhuiyan and Kalawati Devi. This Dalit family of ten members comprising husband, wife and eight children aged between four months and 13 years, has no land and no ration card. The family members are visibly undernourished.” In a press statement, Dreze said during the last few months, Jaglal was working in a brick kiln in Sukulkhut with two of his children. “He came home with some money for Holi, but went back to the kiln and has been away ever since. Meanwhile, Kalawati was struggling to feed her children. She received no support from the government except for an instalment of Rs 500 in her Jan Dhan Yojana account and small amounts of food or cash from the local school and the anganwadi. She and her children survived mainly by borrowing,” the statement read. The activists’ team mentioned that Kalawati and her neighbours claimed that Nimani was not suffering from any illness. “On Saturday evening, she fell unconscious and died after some time,” the report said. Confirming the death, Latehar deputy commissioner Zeeshan Quamar said a team of medical officers have been rushed to the village to find out the exact cause of death. He said, “Though I can’t say anything unless the administrative team submits its report, the death is apparently not linked to hunger.” Denying hunger death, officials of the district said a ‘Didi Kitchen’ is operational within two-and-half kilometres of the child’s village and ration has also been given to the family. Quamar added, “I inquired from the BDO and was told that 10-20 kg foodgrains were given to the family. Apart from government agencies, these days several NGOs also supply ration to the needy and it is tough to believe that one family was left out by all,” he said. However, the activists claimed that Gopal Oraon, mukhiya pati (Parvati Devi being the mukhiya) said the contingency fund of Rs10,000 had exhausted and he had formally written a letter to the BDO for release of the second instalment. The DC contradicted and said, “I inquired from the BDO if such an application is pending with him, but he denied having received any letter for funds.” He said the local administrative team comprising senior doctors from the district hospital have been asked to find out the reason behind the death and also file a report on the health condition of the other family members. “We are expecting a detailed report by Monday evening,” the DC added. Latehar is also in the list of Covid-19-affected districts with one single case being detected on May 12. Quamar said the patient is asymptomatic and is being treated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/5-year-old-dies-of-hunger-latehar-admin-on-denial/articleshow/75794771.cms||Jaideep Deogharia
May 18, 2020||Ranchi||Two new districts in Covid-19 map, state tally 223||Ramgarh/Gumla/Hazaribag: Six new cases of Covid-19 were detected on Sunday, of which three are from two districts untouched by the virus so far, taking the state’s total cases to 223. Of the 24 total districts, 17 are now on the coronavirus map with Ramgarh and Lohardaga being the new ones added. Among the six new cases, two are from Ramgarh and one each from Lohardaga, Deoghar, Hazaribag and Ranchi. Five of them are migrants who have returned from different red zones of the country and the last one is a pregnant woman, who was found positive detected during random testing. The state has now 107 active cases while 114 have recovered. Two persons had died of the infection. Talking to TOI, Ramgarh DC Sandeep Singh said, “Two migrants who had returned from Mumbai on Sunday tested positive and it is the first case of Covid-19 in the district. The duo are residents of Patratu and Mandu blocks. We have shifted them to our Covid-19 hospital in Ramgarh for treatment.” In Lohardaga, an 18-year-old migrant, a resident of Lohardaga sadar area who had returned from Kolkata in West Bengal, tested positive. Lohardaga DC Akanchha Ranjan said, “One sample has tested positive. The person had come from Kolkata and was lodged in institutional quarantine centre here after his samples were sent for testing.” In Ranchi, a pregnant woman was found positive during the government’s random screening program of pregnant women. Ranchi SDM Lokesh Mishra said, “A 26-year old pregnant woman whose sample was collected during the screening programme tested positive on Sunday. The woman has been shifted to the Covid ward in Rims for further treatment.” In Hazaribag, a 50-year-old resident of Gurhait village under Hazaribag sadar block, tested positive. “The man who tested positive on Sunday came from Mumbai a week ago in his own vehicle and was at the Barkagaon quarantine centre since then. He is now being shifted to the Covid hospital in Hazaribag,” Hazaribag DC Bhuvnesh Prasad Singh said. (With inputs from Gaurav Pandey in Ranchi)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/two-new-districts-in-covid-19-map-state-tally-223/articleshow/75794706.cms||NK Agarwal
May 18, 2020||Bengaluru||No claimants for 2,052 seized vehicles in Bengaluru||BENGALURU: The owners of 2,052 vehicles that were seized during the lockdown and were also involved in previous traffic violations have not come forward to claim them, officials said. Police seized about 35,000 vehicles for lockdown breach in Bengaluru, according to the state government’s submission in the high court. Of these, 10,537 vehicles were found to be involved in 39,002 previous traffic violations, the fines for which had not been paid. These vehicles were handed over to the traffic police. Barring 2,052, the owners of the rest have applied to get the rides released, traffic police officers said. Car and two-wheeler owners, booked for moving around during the lockdown, must deposit Rs 1,000 and Rs 500, respectively, and settle unpaid fines for traffic violations, if any. A traffic police officer said that the department had collected nearly Rs 95 lakh in fines while releasing 8,485 vehicles. There is some curiosity in the department over the unclaimed 2,052 rides, whose owners were booked for 5,677 traffic offences. These vehicles are gathering dust in front of police stations. “One theory is that some vehicles were stolen and their users don’t want to come forward as they will be arrested. Many genuine owners may be staying away as they don’t have the money to pay fines,” a senior officer said. Joint commissioner of police (traffic) BR Ravikanthe Gowda said the department would contact police for a review of records. “It is not clear why the owners of 2,052 vehicles have not turned up. We will coordinate with police and find out if any rides figure in the records of stolen vehicles, and take an appropriate decision soon,” Gowda said. Only those identified as owners in official documents are allowed to apply for release of vehicles. “Some people are perhaps not applying as they don’t have proper paperwork to prove their ownership,” he said. Authorities began releasing impounded vehicles on May 1.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/no-claimants-for-2052-seized-vehicles-in-bengaluru/articleshow/75795917.cms||Kiran Parashar
May 18, 2020||Bengaluru||Scouts, guides in Karnataka making 17 lakh masks for SSLC examinees||KOLAR: Over 7 lakh young and energetic volunteers from the Scouts and Guides unit in Karnataka are preparing masks that will be used by students during the SSLC exams. It will be mandatory for all candidates to wear a mask while writing their papers. Staff deployed at exam centres must also take the same precaution. The exam dates have not been announced yet, but the state government has started making arrangements to keep students safe. Nearly 8.5 lakh students are expected to appear for the exams. The plan is to provide each two sets of face coverings. The Karnataka Secondary Education Examination Board (KSEEB) will need at least 17 lakh masks, and the Scouts and Guides unit in the state has decided to provide them free of cost, said V Babu, the unit’s district organising commissioner, Kolar. He said the unit intended to make over 20 lakh masks. After supplying the required numbers to KSEEB, the rest will be distributed among ASHA workers, labourers and other needy persons. According to Babu, KSEEB director V Sumangala wrote to the state Scouts and Guides unit, enquiring if it will be possible to make free masks for the board. PGR Sindhia, the state unit’s chief commissioner, agreed immediately and asked all district teams to take up the task on a war footing. A preparatory workshop was held for Rovers and Rangers. In Kolar district, 18,000 Scouts and Guides volunteers are now engaged in the work, and about 25,000 masks are ready. The district team has set a target of making 1 lakh in another fortnight, according to KV Shankarappa, the organisation’s district commissioner. Shankarappa added that the volunteers were enjoying the work as it was helping them beat lockdown boredom. The volunteers are also involved in some other activities such as recycling of waste and conservation of nature during the lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/scouts-guides-making-17-lakh-masks-for-sslc-examinees/articleshow/75795947.cms||Ranganath Krishnaswamy
May 18, 2020||Bengaluru||High ticket prices rile Kuala Lumpur-Bengaluru fliers||BENGALURU: After days of anxiety and worry over being stuck in another country, Bengalureans trying to return home are forced to pay for expensive flight tickets, which most thought would have reasonable fares considering the extraordinary circumstances. A ticket for an Air India repatriation flight from Kuala Lumpur to Bengaluru on May 19 is priced at Rs 33,000, more than double the cost of a ticket on recent flights from Malaysia to India, according to those trying to book a seat. The would-be passengers pointed out that the one-way fare for recent flights from Kuala Lumpur to Chennai, Trichy and Kochi was over Rs 15,000. For the May 19 flight, an external agency is reportedly handling the booking process. Around 60 people are expected to return to Bengaluru from Kuala Lumpur on the said date. According to an email sent by Air India to passengers shortlisted for the flight, ‘Oscar Holidays Sdn Bhd’ has been appointed as the ticket sales agency for this journey. “Kindly buy the ticket from the address given,” the communication states. A pregnant woman, who will travel on this flight, said it was an expensive trip. “I booked two tickets, which cost me over Rs 66,000. There was no other option for me. I am in the ninth month of pregnancy and my expected date of delivery is in the first week of June,” she said. “As details of a third-party bank account were sent to us for the payment, we were a little apprehensive initially and did not pay for a day.” She added that the fare for previous flights to Chennai, Trichy and Kochi was only Rs 15,000. Naveen, whose mother and pregnant wife will take the May 19 flight to Bengaluru, said the fares were revised. “The Indian high commission called us on March 15 and said the ticket price was around 900 Malaysian ringgits, which is a little over Rs 15,000. Later, an email from Air India’s Singapore office asked us to make the payment to a third-party travel agency; the one-way ticket price had jumped to 1,890 ringgits, which is nearly Rs 33,000.” Jipson George, a stranded Indian who has been coordinating repatriation aid for others, said it was odd that an outside travel agency had been appointed. “Only for the Malaysia-Mumbai flight, the ticket price was slightly higher, around Rs 20,000. For all other flights, the ticket price was fixed at Rs 15,000. The strangest part is that a third party has been appointed this time, unlike in previous flights where passengers were given the option to pay at the airport or pay through a link the airline sends,” George said. "Most of the flights are operating with one-way load due to visa restriction in the destination countries. During structuring of fares in phase 1 of the repatriation flights, it was expected that Malyasian nationals stranded in India will fly back in large numbers in the flights from India to Kuala Lumpur. However, that did not happen," an Air India spokesperson said. "Saleable capacity of aircraft has been further reduced as being quick return flights, seats are blocked for both Cockpit and Cabin crew. The capacity is further reduced due to mandatory guideline to keep 9 or more seats vacant, for isolation of on-board symptomatic passengers. Majority of the destinations in Phase 2 are not AI online stations, as such Air India does not have any long-term regular agreements with the Ground Handling agencies of these airports and other support services needed for operation of our flights. Being short term contracts, rates are exorbitantly high. Most of the inbound flights to DEL and BOM are destined onwards to an interior point, thus increasing the flying hours. The flights then have to return as ferry/empty as no passenger loads are allowed on the Domestic Sectors. Flight handling during COVID situations have new costs added to the cost of operations towards PPE kits, new guidelines for ground handling etc leading to overall escalation in expenditure incurred for the larger number of flights being operated in Phase 2 of the repatriation flights," the spokesperson added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/high-ticket-prices-upset-indians-flying-back-from-kuala-lumpur/articleshow/75795937.cms||Swathy R Iyer
May 18, 2020||Ranchi||UP govt didn’t treat victims with dignity: Hemant||Bokaro: The total number of victims from Bokaro district who died in Saturday’s road accident in Uttar Pradesh’s Auraiya district increased to 11. Chief minister Hemant Soren, while announcing Rs 4 lakh compensation each to the kin of the deceased, expressed concern over the undignified manner meted out to the deceased and the injured by UP police. Soren also announced Rs 50,000 to five of the injured from the district. A total of 26 migrant workers were killed and 36 injured when the trailer they were travelling in hit a truck that had stopped near an eatery along the highway in Auraiya district at about 3.15am on Saturday. Majority of the victims belonged to Jharkhand, Bihar and West Bengal. The stranded workers from Bokaro were returning home from Rajasthan, where they worked in marble mines. In his tweet to his UP counterpart Yogi Adityanath, Soren said it was “shameful” that the state could not even arrange an ambulance for the deceased. Retweeting the video of a survivor, Vikas, who cited how the bodies were dumped on a truck to send them home along with the injured in the same vehicle, the CM wrote, “This inhumane treatment of our migrant workers could possibly be avoided. I request @UPGovt & Office of @NitishKumar ji to arrange suitable transportation of the deceased bodies till Jharkhand border & we will ensure adequate dignified arrangements to their homes in Bokaro.” Soren then directed DGP MV Rao and Bokaro DC Mukesh Kumar to make necessary arrangements for treatment of the injured and transportation of bodies till their homes in a dignified manner. The deceased migrants, all below 30 years from Bokaro, were from three villages — Kheera Beda, Gopalpur and Babudih. The bodies were expected to reach here by late evening. A team of state Congress party functionaries led by its co-working president Rajesh Thakur visited the villages on Sunday to express condolences to family members of the deceased. Thakur assured the family members of the government compensation soon. Talking to media, he said, “As an interim relief, the district administration is giving Rs 20,000 per family and ration. The state government will soon make a formal announcement of compensation.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/up-govt-didnt-treat-victims-with-dignity-hemant/articleshow/75794738.cms||Divy Khare
May 18, 2020||Kolkata||Fiscal limit move against autonomy of states: Mitra||Kolkata: Bengal finance minister Amit Mitra on Sunday again hit out at the economic package unveiled by Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman, saying it undermined federal principles and was against the autonomy of states. Sitharaman announced enhancement of FRBM (Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management Act) limit, a long-standing demand of states following the outbreak of Covid and a dip in revenues. Mitra pointed out that the enhancement of FRBM limit was attached with many conditions. “None of the conditions has anything to do with Covid-19, sufferings of the unemployed, huge unemployment or any collateral damage due to coronavirus,” he said. The Bengal finance minister added that only for enhancement of 0.5% FRBM limit there was no condition. Mitra had earlier urged the Centre to increase the FRBM limit from the current level of 3% of GSDP to 5%, as proposed by chief minister Mamata Banerjee for financial year 2020-21. However, Mitra added that only up to 3.5% there was no strings attached. According to him, some of these conditions include ease of doing business, reforms of discom (state power distribution utilities) and revenue of urban local bodies. “This is nothing but dictating to states, violating the federal structure,” he added. Mitra had earlier tweeted that the Centre was blind to collapsing finances of states and strategically undermining the federalist polity. “No payment of past dues, no grant to states to fight Covid-19, no headroom to borrow more, no payment of GST compensation. People are crying & states are hearing only hollow words,” he said. On Wednesday, Mitra had criticized the package saying that it was actually of Rs 4.2 lakh crore and 2% of the country’s GDP. The CM had earlier said that the Centre was not paying over Rs 52,000 crore dues of the state, which, Mitra added, was mainly on 3-4 heads. This includes Rs 36,000 crore on the account of central schemes and central-sponsored schemes, Rs 11,000 crore on central devolution of taxes and the rest on account of GST compensation. “We have not got compensation from December last year,” Mitra added. As per GST law, the Centre is supposed to compensate states for five years if the revenue growth falls below 14%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/fiscal-limit-move-against-autonomy-of-states-mitra/articleshow/75795833.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Kolkata||Bengal appoints 12 nodal officers for migrant movement||Kolkata: The Bengal government has set up a team of 12 nodal officers who will be coordinating with states to facilitate the movement of the stranded population. The Centre has set up a database of the migrant population in different states and their home districts for their transportation and quarantine facilities. An official at Nabanna said senior IAS officers had been appointed as nodal officers, and they would be interacting with their state counterparts for both outbound and inbound movement of people. Santanu Basu, MD of WBSEDCL, is the nodal officer for Jharkhand while transport secretary P K Mishra is the nodal officer for Bihar and UP. Both Jharkhand and Bihar have a large number of migrant labourers from Bengal, the official said. Ajit Bardhan, divisional commissioner of Jalpaiguri, is the nodal officer for all the northeastern states and Sikkim, and will facilitate movement from north Bengal. While additional chief secretary M V Rao has been made the nodal officer for Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and Karnakata, S K Thade will be coordinating with Maharashtra. Another additional chief secretary, Sunil Gupta, will be facilitating movement of labourers from Delhi and Haryana, as well as tourists. Higher education secretary Manish Jain has already got in touch with officials of Gujarat and Kerala. Arnab Roy, secretary of the PAR department, is the nodal officer for Tamil Nadu, MP and J&K. He will also be looking into the movement of patients who went to Tamil Nadu. Rajesh Sinha had been made nodal officer for Odisha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bengal-appoints-12-nodal-officers-for-migrant-movement/articleshow/75795845.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Theatre needs to reinvent itself post the #CoronaCrisis: Experts||The Covid-19 pandemic has knocked the living daylights out of Hyderabad’s theatre fraternity. With all shows cancelled indefinitely, the fraternity is preparing for what could possibly be a year devoid of live drama. In a webinar with Hyderabad Times, some of the city’s most renowned theatre artistes, mulled over the challenges that lie ahead and the need for theatre to reinvent itself. The panelists believe that those doing theatre part-time will move away and only the ones truly passionate about the craft will remain. But theatre will not die, they say. Vinay Varma, founder of Sutradhar, sums it up, “Theatre as a medium faces its biggest challenge since World War II but we have no choice but to find a way to survive. Theatre is our life and we will find a way.” Coronavirus has made the theatre community helplessTheatre is a medium where it’s essential for the performer and spectator to both be there. The impact of coronavirus has been such that we have now become helpless. If there is no live audience, theatre cannot function. Some people are attempting virtual plays but they don’t have the same effect that a live play has on the audience. An artiste can never get the same satisfaction they experience in front of a live audience. This pandemic has made us all suspicious of each other. We cannot go out to rehearse, enact or even talk to people. And without dialogue, there can be no theatre. - Prof. Bhaskar Shewalkar Founder, Rangadhara  Theatre will have to reinvent itself and find a way to surviveI don’t foresee any live theatre activities taking place for the rest of this year. So right now, we have no choice but to reinvent ourselves. Maybe we have to enact plays with lesser actors, or do as many solo performances as possible. But the question is, how do we bring in the audience? Virtual shows are not the same. There could be network issues, and the audience might not relate to it. Having said that, not all is lost. Maybe playwrights will write shows with just one or two members. Maybe directors will come up with new techniques. We cannot live without theatre so we will find a way to survive. Maybe theatre will give us a new ray of hope. - Vinay Varma, Founder, Sutradhar We’re trying different ways to keep theatre alive virtuallyThere have been instances where we’ve seen virtual plays take place in Europe but I don’t think that’s possible here. We don’t have the professional setup here to make it happen. Performances will not happen for quite sometime. But we are doing the other things that can happen. We are doing virtual readings with our actors. We are working on an adaptation of a play. So once or twice a week, we meet virtually and discuss about the play and try to adapt it scene by scene. Maybe we can soon start auditions online for different characters. We are doing introductory workshops for theatre and acting and there are people who are enquiring about it. So we are still trying to keep ourselves occupied, in whatever way we can. - Rathna Shekar Reddy, Founder, Samahaara The state of our economy will also affect theatrePeople have been saying that theatre is going to die or it’s dying, for nearly thousand years now. But I don’t think it can die as an art form. We will find our way, one way or the other. Having said that, it is a long road ahead for us. A hit to the economy will affect theatre as well. So it will be difficult for people to spend on paid entertainment. But theatre has constantly evolved over the years and I think it’s time for us to do that again. - Rahul Reddy, Founder, Octopus Group  Covid-19 might help theatre grow in a different directionIt is tough, there’s no question about it. But theatre has given life to thousands of people. Many have come up through theatre and have lived through theatre. When we started out, there were not many platforms to perform in Hyderabad but in the recent years, many new spaces have opened up and that is solely because of the interest among people. And I think that will remain even after Covid-19. In fact the digitalisation of theatre can help the medium grow in a new way. It can help kids understand theatre better and help reinvent it. This phase can help theatre grow further. - Dr Ram Holagundi, Founder, Nishumbita QR code: To watch the full webinar on the way forward for theatre in Hyderabad post Covid-19, scan this QR code||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/theatre-needs-to-reinvent-itself-post-the-coronacrisis-experts/articleshow/75798714.cms||Suhas Yellapantula
May 18, 2020||Ranchi||Seth, JPA demand increase in stoppages of special Rajdhani||Ranchi: BJP’s Ranchi MP Sanjay Seth on Sunday supported the demand for creating a stoppage for the New Delhi-Ranchi Rajdhani Covid special express at Daltonganj railway station. Seth took to Twitter and claimed a large chunk of stranded people arriving in Ranchi in the train are residents of Palamu and its adjoining districts. The bi-weekly Rajdhani special express, which began operating from May 13 onwards, has been allotted stoppages at Kanpur Central station in Uttar Pradesh and Mughalsarai railway station in Bihar along its route. “Many of the migrants returning in the train are from Palamu and its adjoining districts and have to travel another 150 km from Ranchi to reach their homes. If Daltonganj is designated as a stoppage, they will have respite from mental and physical stress and save money,” Seth tweeted. Jharkhand Passengers Association (JPA) has also been demanding the train’s stoppage in Daltonganj soon after the train was introduced. In an open letter written to chief minister Hemant Soren and chief secretary Sukhdev Singh, JPA secretary Prem Kataruka advocated that the train must have stoppages in Daltonganj, Tori and Barkakana railway stations as well. “Most of the passengers arriving in these trains have run out of money. Upon embarking at Ranchi railway station, they have to pay hefty amounts to arrange for their transport back to their homes,” Kataruka told TOI. The Ranchi-bound Rajdhani Express arrived with 1,076 passengers on Sunday morning. The New Delhi-bound train, which left at 5.40pm, also had 1,076 passengers. A Shramik special train from Nagpur in Maharashtra arrived at Hatia railway station with 732 passengers at 9.30am on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/seth-jpa-demand-increase-in-stoppages-of-special-rajdhani/articleshow/75794752.cms||B Sridhar
May 18, 2020||Kolkata||In locked-down Kolkata, ‘non-serious’ complaints take an emergency turn||Kolkata: Scores of Kolkatans with ‘non-serious’ ailments, who were forced to defer treatment and elective surgeries because of curtailed services at hospitals and clinics brought about by Covid-19, are now suddenly faced with emergency situations, making them rush for urgent treatment, often life-saving. With city hospitals gradually resuming inpatient services and surgeries, many patients discovered they have been plain lucky to even survive the delay, doctors told TOI. There could be hundreds more who are still ignoring conditions or putting off surgeries that may not have been urgent at the start of the lockdown, but have now become emergency, they pointed out. Alipore resident Santosh Jajodia had chest pain a few days after lockdown began in late-March. With hospitals going into a shell because of the Covid-19 scare, she and her family decided to wait. For the next five weeks, she survived on emergency medicines, until she suffered a heart attack in early May. When she was finally wheeled into a south Kolkata private hospital, doctors found out that Santosh needed immediate surgery. She was operated upon within hours of her admission, and is now recovering. But the delay could have proved costly, according to Anjan Siotia, interventional cardiologist, BMB Heart Research Centre, where Jajodia had the surgery. “She had been trying to suppress her symptoms because of the Covid-19 scare that’s keeping patients away from hospitals,” Siotia said. “But deferring cardiac treatment could be fatal. The chance of Covid-19 transmission in hospitals is now almost nil, with safety measures stepped up. Procedures are being carried out after ensuring that patients are completely insulated.” Many Kolkatans suffering from lung ailments — including asthma patients — have been deferring treatment as well, leading to complications. Most of them could have been treated in wards but are now ending up in ICUs, said Raja Dhar, a pulmonologist at Fortis Hospital. “Many of these patients are coming in late with aggravated symptoms, forcing us to treat them in ICUs. Without the Covid-19 scare and lockdown, they wouldn’t have gone through this ordeal,” Dhar added. Even relatively less serious dental complaints are flaring up. A former 68-year-old executive from Uttarpara had been trying to consult his dentist in Kolkata since early April. With the latter’s chamber shut, the patient sent him x-ray images of his tooth — which had chipped and was hurting him — on WhatsApp. The final image left the doctor alarmed. He called the patient up and advised him to get his chipped tooth smoothened out with — in the absence of anything better — the file attached with a household nail clipper. “I had to sanitize the clipper and asked my wife to do it. The problem has been solved for the time being, but I must get it done properly as soon as I am able,” he said. Delayed treatments are also making regular complaints like chronic backache and slipped discs serious, pointed out doctors. “Some of my patients have been desperately seeking advice over phone. Without the benefit of a test or physical examination, I could only prescribe a few painkillers. They would have recovered earlier had they been able to seek physiotherapy,” said Rahul Jain, consultant, Belle Vue Clinic. Fifty-eight-year-old S K Das had deferred his liver surgery, planning to get it done in Hyderabad. Just as he was getting ready to travel, Covid-19 struck and the nation went into lockdown. Das decided to wait till he could not bear the pain any longer. Last week, he got a tumour extracted from his liver through an emergency surgery at CMRI. Another private hospital consultant cited the instance of an elderly patient, who had contracted bacterial pneumonia but his family refused to move him to hospital. “They were scared of the Covid stigma and refused to get him into an isolation ward. He was later admitted to hospital after his condition worsened,” said the medic. According to Sumit Gulati and Supriyo Ghatak, consultant gastrointestinal surgeons at CMRI, Das’ tumour increased in size because of lack of medical attention at the earliest stage. “There was a strong element of risk in the surgery that could have been avoided had it been conducted on time,” said Ghatak.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/in-locked-down-kolkata-non-serious-complaints-take-an-emergency-turn/articleshow/75795873.cms||Prithvijit Mitra
May 18, 2020||Kolkata||Bengal sends off Raj workers, 394 of 1,608 applicants turn up||Howrah: The first Shramik Special train from Bengal for Rajasthan left Shalimar station on Sunday afternoon with 394 migrant workers instead of 1,608 who had applied to return home. A peeved South Eastern Railway (SER), which has been working overtime after receiving the list of passengers from the Bengal government on Friday, has decided to send a detailed report on it to the state. The state is also examining why more than 75% migrant workers failed to turn up, but it largely believes that many opted to stay back as factories are reopening in lockdown 4.0. The train was scheduled to leave Shalimar in Howrah at 2pm but was kept waiting for more than half an hour to see if more people would turn up as they might have found it difficult to reach because of lack of transport. The necessary requisition was given by the Bengal government to the railways on Friday evening, said Manoranjan Pradhan, DRM Kharagpur, SER. “Within this short span of time, we arranged for rakes, sanitised them and made arrangements for 1,608 passengers, according to the details we got from the state. So much of resources could have been saved. We are preparing a report and sending it to the state government. This should not be repeated,” he said. Howrah additional district magistrate Prabhas Ukil, who represented the state at Shalimar, said: “A large number of migrant workers left in buses that came in with students from Kota. Another sizeable number might have decided to stay back because some factories are opening up. In Howrah, we had a list of 160 migrant workers from Rajasthan; we contacted each of them but only 55 turned up.” The train will travel 1,900km in slightly over 29 hours with limited stops for official reasons. No one will be allowed to disembark before the Rajasthan government takes over once the train enters its territory. A detailed list of passengers has also been provided to Rajasthan by Bengal. The train will stop in Jaipur and finally in Bikaner. Before departure, the district administration arranged food and water for the workers. They were also subjected to a health screening, most — since they were from the city — being checked at Netaji Indoor Stadium by Kolkata Municipal Corporation’s health workers. The Bengal transport department brought in labourers from other districts after health screening. Buses were also provided to ferry migrant workers to Shalimar Station. Sharan Singh Chauhan, a worker in a factory at Hind Motor, was returning to Nagor for good. “I will do some odd job in my hometown. I literally starved during the lockdown as my employer’s factory was shut and he refused to pay. I am going back empty handed,” he said. Nasim Akhter, who along with his friends worked in an orchestra in the city, said: “We will contact our employer when things normalise or else look for something in Rajasthan.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bengal-sends-off-raj-workers-394-of-1608-applicants-turn-up/articleshow/75795866.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
May 18, 2020||Kolkata||13 returning from Bihar injured as bus overturns||Jalpaiguri: Thirteen migrant workers returning from Bihar to Cooch Behar and Assam were injured when the bus they were travelling in overturned at Dhupguri in Jalpaiguri district early on Sunday. The bus, which had set out on Saturday with 30 migrant workers, overturned while approaching Moranga Choupathi on National Highway 27. The 13 injured were taken to Dhupguri block hospital. Four of them were later referred to Jalpaiguri super-speciality hospital. Ranjit Mahali, an injured worker from Cooch Behar, said: “We were working in a brick factory in Bihar and had arranged the bus on our own to return home.” The driver of the bus was drunk, he said. Jalpaiguri ASP (rural) Dendup Shepra said: “None of the 30 suffered major injuries.” The Jalpaiguri district administration later arranged to send the workers home.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/13-returning-from-bihar-injured-as-bus-overturns/articleshow/75795848.cms||Pinak Priya Bhattacharya
May 18, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Lockdown loneliness hits elderly hard||BENGALURU: With Lockdown 4.0 extended till May-end, loneliness has started taking a toll on senior citizens. With their children unable to travel back home, retirement homes not allowing children to meet their aged parents, walks to parks cancelled and constant fear of being more susceptible to the virus, the elderly are noticeably more anxious, and it’s beginning to show. “My father stays in a retirement home just 1km from my residence. But, the place doesn’t allow any visitors for fear of the virus spreading. While that is understandable, it’s been over two months since we visited him. He misses his family and home-cooked food which were part of his routine. Many elderly persons are slowly sinking into depression,” says a resident of Koramangala. Geriatric psychologists and psychiatrists say it’s time measures are taken up for the general well-being of the elderly. “One problem is the morbid fear the elderly live with due to an information overload. With the constant reminder that elderly are very susceptible to the virus, they’re constantly worry. We should remind them of several patients in this age group who have recovered,” said Dr Debanjan Banerjee, geriatric psychiatrist, Nimhans. Dr Banerjee suggests an elderly person should speak to at least two people every day and engage in some physical activity. “Many are not tech savvy, others have hearing, vision or memory issues. Social connections are important for all,” he said. His colleague Dr Sojan Anthony advocates a buddy system where a young volunteer can make friends with an older person, have conversations once or twice a day and develop companionship. “While young people can learn and adapt faster to change, ageing brains cannot,” he said Some old age homes say they have seen an increase in restlessness among their guests. “In order to increase socialisation, our daycare centre has been conducting online programmes with physical, cognitive and group exercises so that the elderly see their peers and bond better,” said Radha S Murthy, managing trustee, Nightingales Medical Trust. The helplines are also seeing an increase in elderly abuse cases. “With families spending so much time at home, the elderly have lost some amount of their space and time, and their autonomy is affected. This leads to frustration and aggressive behaviour,” said Dr Anthony. The Nimhans helpline has received 16 calls in the past month as against six it used to get on an average every month. The 1090 helpline received 6-7 calls recently.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/lockdown-loneliness-hits-elderly-hard/articleshow/75795920.cms||Sruthy Susan Ullas
May 18, 2020||Kolkata||Cyclone Amphan intensifies, likely to hit West Bengal coast||KOLKATA: Cyclone Amphan, now brewing over south Bay of Bengal, intensified into a very severe cyclonic storm and is likely to develop into an extremely severe one on Monday generating a wind speed of 170-180 kmph. It is likely to hit land between Digha in West Bengal and Hatiya Islands in Bangladesh on Wednesday afternoon. It is going to be the strongest cyclone to hit the Bengal-Odisha coast since Phailin in 2013. Amphan could trigger moderate to heavy rain across south Bengal and Kolkata from Tuesday. The rain will intensify as the cyclone hits land on Wednesday afternoon. It will hit the coast as a ‘very severe cyclonic storm’, though, losing some of its intensity just before landfall. But the impact could still be severe, especially along the coasts, according to weathermen. East Midnapore, North and South 24 Paragans are set to receive heavy rainfall as the cyclone approaches its coasts. Howrah, Hoogly and West Midnapore will also be lashed by heavy showers. “Maximum impact will be felt across South and North 24 Parganas and East Midnapore. We expect a wind speed of 120-130 kmph at the coastal areas. In Kolkata, it could be around 70-80 kmph with heavy rainfall on Wednesday,” said Regional Meteorlogical Centre (RMC) director G K Das. While Phailin had a maximum wind speed of 260 kmph, cyclone Aila — that struck Sunderbans in 2009 and caused extensive damage — was relatively mild with a wind speed of 120 kmph. Cyclone Bulbul, the last one to strike the east coast in November 2019, had a wind speed 155 kmph. Amphan is set to move northwards till Monday afternoon and then move north-northeastwards and travel rapidly across northwest Bay of Bengal and cross the Bengal-Bangladesh coast. Meanwhile, monsoon advanced into some parts of south Bay of Bengal, Nicobar Islands and Andaman sea, according to a weather department statement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cyclone-amphan-intensifies-likely-to-hit-bengal-coast/articleshow/75795509.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Pathanamthitta killer tiger likely to be shot dead||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The government has decided to shoot down a killer tiger that has been spreading panic at Thannithode and neighbouring areas in Pathanamthitta district. The decision is to kill the animal if it cannot be captured alive. “I have directed the plantation corporation and private landowners to clear the undergrowth, besides strengthening the rapid response team. If it becomes difficult to capture the animal using tranquiliser darts, the decision is to kill it,” forest minister K Raju said. The decision came after 10 days of joint efforts to capture the tiger—estimated to be aged between six and eight—alive. Forest department officials have been trying to trap or tranquilize the animal, and even a kumki elephant has been pressed into service. As many as four teams, comprising around 10 members each, have been deployed. The forest department has also installed 25 camera traps, besides setting up four cages with live bait. “We have two sharpshooters from the police department, besides forest officials, including veterinary doctors, in the team. If needed, the teams will be strengthened further,” Raju said. The tiger had killed a 37-year-old plantation worker, Bineesh Mathew, on May 7. Visuals captured by a drone camera confirmed the presence of the animal, now suspected to be a man-eater. “A tiger had killed a person in the area more than a year ago, and it could be the same beast. The animal is suffering from some physical ailment, as assumed from the visuals. The animal’s continued presence in the human settlement poses a big danger,” the forest minister said. District collector P B Nooh has imposed prohibitory orders in the area. Local MLAs including Raju Abraham and K U Jenish Kumar have been visiting the area to ensure necessary action and to allay people’s apprehensions. “With the stoppage of rubber tapping due to lockdown, the area is full of thick undergrowth, which has affected the search,” Abraham said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/pathanamthitta-killer-tiger-likely-to-be-shot-dead/articleshow/75796133.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Resident doctors for 6 days off, Rs 25,000 more||MUMBAI: The Maharashtra Association of Resident Doctors (MARD), in a letter to the chief minister, has sought a quarantine period of six days after Covid-19 duty of eight days for resident doctors in the city. The request comes a day after a BMC directive on Saturday allowed only two days off after a five-day tour of duty. Previously, most junior doctors were allowed a quarantine period of seven days after seven days’ duty, in accordance with the Centre’s policy. The resident doctors said the if the BMC was short of manpower, it could use AYUSH doctors, private practitioners and resident from peripheral hospitals. They said suspected cases among them were treated in general wards and demanded a better deal. They sought health insurance and a Rs 25,000 hike, besides a tax refund.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-resident-doctors-for-6-days-off-rs-25000-more/articleshow/75796131.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Thane||Nanded officer pulls WFH hoax sitting in Thane||MUMBAI: An officer from the Nanded regional transport office (RTO) attended six video conference sessions over the past two months, informing his superiors in Maharashtra about “his work during the pandemic” when he was actually sitting in the comfort of his Thane home. The officer, Shailesh Kamat, has been issued a show cause notice to explain why he was not present in his Nanded office for 54 days when he was required to perform his lockdown duties, reports Somit Sen. “He misled us into believing he was working from Nanded whenever we spoke over the phone,” said state transport commissioner Shekhar Channe, who will submit a report to the government seeking action against the officer. RTO officer: Had to look after my dad, should be pardonedSources said a fellow officer from the department got wind of Kamat’s location in Thane and tipped off the superiors. When TOI contacted Kamat, he said he had to rush to Thane for a medical emergency at home. “My father’s health condition is serious. He had a fall and injured himself. I came to Thane to look after him during the lockdown.” Channe pointed out that it is mandatory for all government officials to remain posted at their jurisdictions during Covid-19 crisis. “The last time I called Kamat was to check on a massive traffic jam at the state border checkpost in Nanded. He informed me that the Nanded collector and local superintendent of police had visited the checkpost thrice. I was given the impression that he too had visited the spot and resolved the issue,” said Channe. “This is serious. If the office was shut due to lockdown, he should have been at his residence in Nanded, and not in Thane.” Asked why he did not inform his seniors about his father’s condition, Kamat claimed that he had informed the commissioner, but it was “too late”. “I should be pardoned on sympathetic grounds and there should be no inquiry,” Kamat said. Channe, however, disagrees. “Kamat spoke to me several times; he could have said that his father was serious. We would have asked him to proceed on leave and deputed somebody else in his place, but he always reported to me as if he was working out of Nanded.” Channe has appointed a deputy RTO officer at Nanded.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/nanded-officer-pulls-wfh-hoax-sitting-in-thane/articleshow/75796078.cms||---
May 18, 2020||India||Covid-19: New cases top 5,000; deaths up by 154||NEW DELHI: Covid-19 infections continued to surge in the country on the last day of lockdown 3.0, with the number of new cases topping 5,000 in a single day for the first time on Sunday on the back of another explosion of cases in Maharashtra, which reported a record 2,347 fresh infections. As many as 154 deaths from the virus were reported on Sunday, the highest single-day toll so far if one discounts the 70-odd “back-dated” deaths added on May 5 which took that day’s total to 199. India’s overall Covid-19 death toll crossed the 3,000 mark and stood at 3,023 — a mortality rate of 3.2%. Maharashtra reported 63 deaths, 38 of these in Mumbai alone, followed by 34 in Gujarat (31 in Ahmedabad) and 19 in Delhi, which has been facing flak for “under-reporting” Covid deaths. While these numbers (cases and deaths) are based on data directly sourced from state governments, health ministry too showed a record single-day jump of around 5,000 cases on Sunday. The ministry, however, said the doubling time of coronavirus infection had improved to 13.6 days in the last three days from 11.5 in the past 14 days. Health minister Harsh Vardhan said India had reached the 80,000 mark in 106 days while developed nations such as the UK, Italy, Spain, Germany and the US took 44-66 days to reach that mark. Of the 2,347 new cases reported from Maharashtra — the first time over 2,000 cases were added in a day by any state — Mumbai alone accounted for 1,595. Of these, the state government said 590 Mumbai cases were from May 10 to 14. The number of new cases remained high in Delhi (422) and Gujarat (391) while Tamil Nadu again saw a surge with 639 cases during the last 24-hours after recording numbers below 500 for the past two days. Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh had their highest single-day spike in cases, with 242 and 208 cases being reported, respectively. A senior UP health officer said, “About 70% of the cases reported in the state over the past two weeks are linked to returning migrants.” As Tamil Nadu’s Covid-19 count continued to rise, touching 11,224 on Sunday, the health department sent a comprehensive testing policy to the government for approval. Four people died taking the toll to 78. Chennai, the most affected district, reported 482 cases to take its tally to 6,750. The testing policy expected to be announced on Monday will advise district officials to continue testing all passengers from other states. Meanwhile, with 11 new cases, Gurgaon’s Covid-19 tally went past 200. The district accounted for nearly half of all new cases (23) in Haryana on Sunday. Bihar reported its eighth death due to Covid-19 and 106 fresh cases, including the highest 57 in Patna district in a single day. So far, 560 Bihar returnees have tested positive out of the state’s total tally of 1,284. Of these, 24% had returning from Delhi. In 24 hours ending 5 pm on Sunday, Gujarat recorded 34 deaths, or one death every 42 minutes. The figure was second highest for the state after 49 deaths recorded on May 5. Total death toll in state due to Covid-19 is now 659. With 31 deaths recorded in Ahmedabad alone, the district crossed 500 deaths mark with total toll of 524. The district is second in India in total death toll only after Mumbai which has recorded 696 deaths as on Sunday night. In Karnataka, more than 38% of all Covid-19 positive cases have been recorded between May 10 and 17, with multiple daily records set in the past eight days. Sixty-two people, including 14 policemen, tested positive for coronavirus in Jammu and Kashmir on Sunday, taking the total number of infected persons to 1,183 in the union territory, officials said. Meanwhile, authorities in Andhra Pradesh heaved a sigh of relief after the state reported 25 Covid-19 cases on Sunday, the lowest one-day figure since April 16.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-19-for-first-time-new-cases-top-5000-deaths-up-by-154/articleshow/75795850.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Mumbai||BMC to get MMRDA 1,000-bed hospital today||MUMBAI: The Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) will hand over a 1,008-bed facility to the BMC for treatment of semi-critical Covid-19 patients on Monday. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray had requested the MMRDA to assist with a modular quarantine and isolation facility. MMRDA began work on this setup about a fortnight ago. Cabinet minister Aaditya Thackeray inspected the BKC facility on Sunday, and tweeted that phase 2, with 100 ICU beds and 900 isolation beds would start soon. Work on this faciliy, which will also have 1000 beds, will start on Monday. Of the 1,008 beds, 504 beds will have oxygen supply. MMRDA commissioner R A Rajeev said, “BMC started taking inventory from today (Sunday)only. Formal handover will happen tomorrow [Monday] in presence of chief minister Uddhav Thackeray.” A lab to examine the patients is provided as a part of the facility. X-ray and ECG facilities will also be available there.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bmc-to-get-mmrda-1000-bed-hospital-today/articleshow/75796151.cms||Manthan K Mehta
May 18, 2020||Business||Public sector companies to play important role in defined areas: Finance minister||NEW DELHI: The Centre on Sunday unveiled the contours of a new public sector enterprise (PSE) policy, saying all segments are open to the private sector, while PSEs will play an important role in defined areas, a radical shift in policies that have been pursued over the years linked to state-run companies. “We would like to announce a PSE policy as a selfreliant India needs a coherent policy. All sectors will be opened to private sectors also,” finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said, while unveiling the fifth and final tranche of the Atmanirbhar Bharat package, aimed at nursing the economy back to health from the debilitating impact of the Covid-19 pandemic. She said India and the world had changed in the last few decades and that is why the need for a coherent new policy. She said the government will soon announce a list of strategic sectors requiring presence of PSEs. In the strategic sectors, at least one enterprise will remain in the public sector but private sector will also be allowed. In other sectors, PSEs will be privatised and the timing would be based on feasibility. Sitharaman also said that to minimise wasteful administrative costs, the number of enterprises in strategic sectors will ordinarily be only one to four, others will be privatised, merged or brought under holding companies. “PSEs will continue to play an important role in defined areas. We need a coherent policy because sometimes you open up some sectors in piecemeal... Now we shall define the areas... where their presence will be impactfully felt,” Sitharaman said. “So the government will announce a new policy which will broadly categorise strategic sectors and others. The strategic sector, in which PSEs will be present, will be notified and in those notified sectors, at least one PSE will be present, while the private sector will also be allowed to play their role in it.” “Private sector can get into PSE territory, which should open up sectors like railways, atomic energy, etc,” said Madan Sabnavis, chief economist at CARE ratings. The new policy lays the foundation for faster privatisation of some of the PSEs and will help the government generate much-needed cash in the years ahead. The government had talked about privatisation of state-run companies since it swept to power in May 2014 but so far, the progress has been limited. The Centre has set a target of raising Rs 2.1 lakh crore from stake sales in state-run firms in the current fiscal year that ends in March 2021, but the drive has been stalled due to the lockdown and choppy financial markets at home and abroad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/public-sector-companies-to-play-important-role-in-defined-areas-says-fm/articleshow/75796162.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Business||General Atlantic picks 1.3% in Reliance Jio for Rs 6,598 crore||MUMBAI: New York’s General Atlantic will pump Rs 6,598 crore ($868 million) into Jio Platforms, marking its largest investment in India. The infusion, which requires regulatory approvals, will give the private equity firm a 1.34% stake in Jio, a subsidiary of Reliance Industries (RIL) and a major provider of cellular and digital services in the country. General Atlantic will be the fourth American investor in Jio after Vista Equity Partners, Silver Lake Partners and Facebook. With the latest deal, RIL has raised Rs 67,195 crore (around $9 billion) from external parties in less than four weeks. General Atlantic’s investment assigns Jio an equity value of Rs 4.9 lakh crore, which is similar to the valuation given by the other two private equity firms, Vista and Silver Lake Partners. However, the Rs 4.9-lakh-crore equity valuation represents a 12.5% premium to Facebook’s investment in Jio. The money from General Atlantic will help reduce RIL’s debt, which stood at Rs 3.36 lakh crore as on March 31. “I have known General Atlantic for several decades and greatly admired it for its belief in India’s huge growth potential,” said RIL chairman Mukesh Ambani. The 1980-established General Atlantic, which manages assets worth $34 billion, has placed its bets on disruptive companies like Airbnb, Snapchat, Uber, Box, ByteDance. “General Atlantic has a long track record working alongside founders to scale disruptive businesses, as Jio is doing at the forefront of the digital revolution in India,” said the fund’s CEO Bill Ford. There are reports that Saudi Arabia’s $320-billion Public Investment Fund too may purchase a stake in Jio. While RIL has not commented on this, it had said earlier that it received strong interest from various investors to acquire a stake in Jio. The four foreign firms together own 14.8% of Jio with RIL holding the balance 85.2%. RIL launched Jio in 2016 by offering free voice calls and ultra cheap 4G data plans. Since then, it has transformed India’s telecom sector, emerging as the largest player with 388 million subscribers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/general-atlantic-picks-1-3-in-jio-for-rs-6598-crore/articleshow/75796185.cms||Reeba Zachariah
May 18, 2020||India||Centre lists parameters for states to mark zones||NEW DELHI: The Union health ministry on Sunday listed parameters such as active Covid-19 cases, doubling and fatality rates and cases per lakh population, for states and union territories to follow while categorising areas into red, orange or green zones. It also issued guidelines for delineation of containment and buffer zones and outlined actions that have to be implemented in those areas to break the chain of transmission of the disease. In a letter to the states and union territories, Union Health Secretary Preeti Sudan said states may categorise districts or municipal corporations into hotspots, red, orange and green zones. They, however, may also choose to categorise sub-division, ward or any other appropriate administrative unit into the colour-coded zones after detailed analysis at their end, duly taking into consideration the geographical spread of cases, contacts and their zone of influence in terms of the disease spread, the letter said. This comes after the ministry of home affairs issued guidelines for the fourth phase of the nationwide lockdown, giving power to states and union territories to delineate red, green and orange zones as per the Covid-19 situation taking into consideration the parameters shared by the union health ministry. In her letter, Sudan elaborated that demarcation of the zones would be based on total active cases, cases per lakh population, doubling rate calculated over a seven-day period, case fatality rate, testing ratio (number of tests per lakh population) and sample positivity rate. The benchmarks or thresholds for critical and desirable levels for total active cases would be more than 200 and zero or no reported case in the last 21 days, respectively. For active cases per lakh population, the critical threshold would be when more than 15, while for doubling rate calculated over a seven-day period, the critical level would be less than 14 days and desirable when more than 28 days. As for case fatality rate, more than six per cent would be considered critical and less than one per cent desirable. The critical threshold for testing ratio (number of tests per lakh population) would be less than 65 while the desirable level would be more than 200, according to the letter. Sample positivity rate would be considered critical if it's more than six per cent while less than two per cent is desirable. The health ministry, however, underlined that the benchmarks or thresholds for critical and desirable levels are dynamic and may be revised by the Centre as per the evolving situation at the field level. The letter mentions that the guidelines are issued following the video conference of Prime Minister Narendra Modi with chief ministers on May 11, and taking into consideration the feedback received from them. "The most important task once the zones are identified is field action in terms of implementation of containment plan of action. This entails identification of containment and buffer zones inside the red, orange and green zones from where cases have been primarily reported. "A containment operation (large outbreak or cluster) is deemed successful when no case is reported in last 28 days from containment zone," the letter stated. According to the guidelines, containment zones are delineated based on mapping of cases and contacts, geographical dispersion of cases and contacts, area having a well-demarcated perimeter and enforceability of perimeter control. "It is reiterated that this is the primary area where intensive action is to carried out with the aim of breaking the chain of transmission. This area should, therefore, be appropriately defined by the district administration/local urban bodies with technical inputs at local level." "The effective containment, it is advisable to err on the side of caution," the letter said. The guidelines stated that once the containment zone is delineated the perimeter will be defined and there would be strict perimeter control with establishment of clear entry and exit points. No movement should be allowed except for medical emergencies and essential goods and services, no unchecked influx of population to be allowed and people transiting to be recorded and followed through integrated disease surveillance programme (IDSP). Stringent action needs to be initiated within these containment zones in terms of an active search for cases through physical house-to-house surveillance by special teams formed for the purpose, testing of all cases as per sampling guidelines and contact tracing, identification of local community volunteers to help in surveillance, contact tracing and risk communication and strict enforcement of social distancing, among others, it said. Sudan said a buffer zone also has to be delineated around each containment zone. "Buffer zone will be primarily the area wherein additional and focused attention is needed so as to ensure that infection does not spread to adjoining areas. For effective containment, it is of paramount importance that the buffer is sufficiently large," the letter stated. The focus areas of action in the buffer zone include extensive surveillance for cases through monitoring of ILI/SARI cases in health facilities, among others, the guidelines stated. "All states are accordingly requested to initiate necessary action in terms of categorisation of red/orange/green zones, delineation of containment and buffer zones and their notification," she said in her letter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/lockdown-4-0-centre-lists-parameters-for-states-to-delineate-red-orange-green-zones/articleshow/75795011.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Business||‘Need 3-5% extra spending to return to modest growth’||NEW DELHI: A policy simulation by noted economic think tank NCAER has shown that something like 3%-5% of additional public expenditure will be needed to return to modest but positive GDP growth in financial year 2020-21. Building on this no-stimulus, hypothetical base case, the quarterly review of the economy research done jointly with the National Institute of Public Finance and Policy (NIPFP) provides four, policy-based growth scenarios for government fiscal expenditures of 0%, 1%, 3%, and 5% over the FY2020-21 Budget presented in February this year. In the first scenario, it is assumed that the government’s expenditure is maintained as proposed in the Union Budget 2020-2021. In this scenario, the GDP declines by 4.1%. The fiscal deficit still increases to 7.4% of GDP, while inflation goes up to 6.6%. The 1% policy scenario incorporates the recovery measures taken by the government and the RBI prior to May 12. Public expenditure is increased by 1% of GDP, while the assumed policy interest rate is reduced. In this case, the decline in GDP is limited to 1.9%, while the fiscal deficit at 7.7% of GDP is similar to that in scenario 1. The inflation rate now rises to 7.4%. In the 3% scenario, public expenditure is increased by 3% of GDP. In this case, GDP growth for FY2020-21 is positive at 1.2%. But the fiscal deficit now goes up to 8.8% and inflation rises to nearly 9%. In the 5% scenario, the fiscal stimulus is raised to 5% of GDP, as suggested by several analysts. In this case, GDP grows by 3.6% for 2020-21, but the fiscal deficit goes up further to 9.4% of GDP and inflation hits double digits at over 10%. The current account deficit also rises to an unsustainable 3.6% of GDP. The outlook for agriculture looks positive, the only sector showing positive growth. The availability of the main inputs is reportedly comfortable, the monsoon as forecast on April 15 is expected to be normal, and the incidence of pests and diseases is expected to remain below the economic threshold level at which the value of the crop destroyed exceeds the cost of controlling the pests, a statement from NCAER said. The team believes that the recession in industrial growth will deepen, expecting a basecase, no-stimulation decline of 54% in GDP growth in Q1-2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/need-3-5-extra-spending-to-return-to-modest-growth/articleshow/75796192.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana to raise additional Rs 20,000 crore after borrowing limit relaxation||HYDERABAD: Telangana will be able to raise Rs 20,000 crore additional funds after the central government raised borrowing limit of states to 5% from the earlier 3% of the Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP). Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman announced on Sunday, “In view of the unprecedented situation, the Centre has decided to accede to the (states) request and increase borrowing limits of states from 3% to 5% for 2020-21 only,” adding that this will make available an extra of Rs 4.28 lakh crore for the states. As the GSDP of Telangana for 2020-21 (at current price) is estimated to be over to Rs 11 lakh crore — 14% higher than the revised estimate for 2019-20 — the state will have surplus borrowing capacity of Rs 20,000 crore, in addition to the Rs 30,000 crore limit. However, Centre has laid down certain criteria to avail the additional borrowing. Out of the 2% additional borrowing space, only 0.5% is unconditional. The remaining 1.5% is conditional, out of which 1% additional borrowing will be allowed in four installments of 0.25 percent each. The four criteria are - universalisation of One Nation One Ration card, ease of doing business, power distribution and ramping up revenues of urban local bodies. Reacting to the development, state planning board vice-chairman B Vinod Kumar said, “It is not correct to link increased borrowing limits to these reforms when States are reeling under the coronavirus crisis. Reforms are always welcome, but they also bring in a lot of pain in the initial stages of implementation.” According to him, states would be severely constrained while undertaking such reforms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/telangana-to-raise-additional-rs-20000-crore-after-borrowing-limit-relaxation/articleshow/75796173.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
May 18, 2020||Coimbatore||Four districts from west Tamil Nadu have no active Covid-19 cases||Western Tamil Nadu appeared to continue the good show it was putting up in effectively containing the spread of Covid-19. Four out of eight western districts – Coimbatore, Tirupur, Erode and Namakkal - do not have even a single active case of Covid-19 as of Sunday. Incidentally, these are the only four districts in the whole of Tamil Nadu without any active cases. Salem, again in the west did not report any fresh case for the past 11 days and was among the districts with zero active cases till Saturday. But on Sunday, Salem had nine new cases. They were people who returned to the district from Telangana, Maharashtra and Rajasthan. “They were stopped and tested at check posts and immediately quarantined,’’ said a health official, noting that isolating them at the entry point would prevent further spread of the virus in the district. If four of the districts in west have zero active cases, other districts are not far behind. There is a sharp fall in number of cases in the remaining districts of western region too. Of the 6,900-odd Covid-19 positive cases in the state, only 35 are in the western zone now – 20 in Krishnagiri, nine in Salem, three each in Dharmapuri and Nilgiris. Lesser links with Koyambedu market and fewer people returning from other states, which contributed to rise in number of cases in other districts, are the primary factors behind dropping of Covid-19 incidence in western TN. Nevertheless, the official machinery has not let its guard and has been maintaining robust mechanism for shielding of borders, testing of people and isolating those with symptoms. On Saturday, state health minister C VIjayabaskar lauded the officials for the containment efforts. “Districts like Erode, Coimbatore, Tirupur and Salem have managed the situation well by putting in place effective containment measures,’’ he said. Erode district has no new case for 32 days, Coimbatore and Tirupur for 14 and 16 days respectively while Namakkal has not reported any fresh case for nine days. “We are continuing to test people. Around 150 to 300 people are tested every day,’’ said Tirupur collector C Vijayakarthikeyan. In Erode and Coimbatore too about 350 to 400 people are tested every day, mostly those entering the districts from other districts or states. Erode collector C Kathiravan said they are strictly guarding the district border. “Each and every one entering the district is sent to a quarantine centre and tested. The results come in a day and only after confirming they are negative we send them home,’’ he said. Even after going home, health staff keep track of them to check once a week if they have developed any symptoms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/four-districts-from-west-tamil-nadu-have-no-active-covid-19-cases/articleshow/75796190.cms||Mayilvaganan
May 18, 2020||Erode||Four districts from west Tamil Nadu have no active Covid-19 cases||Western Tamil Nadu appeared to continue the good show it was putting up in effectively containing the spread of Covid-19. Four out of eight western districts – Coimbatore, Tirupur, Erode and Namakkal - do not have even a single active case of Covid-19 as of Sunday. Incidentally, these are the only four districts in the whole of Tamil Nadu without any active cases. Salem, again in the west did not report any fresh case for the past 11 days and was among the districts with zero active cases till Saturday. But on Sunday, Salem had nine new cases. They were people who returned to the district from Telangana, Maharashtra and Rajasthan. “They were stopped and tested at check posts and immediately quarantined,’’ said a health official, noting that isolating them at the entry point would prevent further spread of the virus in the district. If four of the districts in west have zero active cases, other districts are not far behind. There is a sharp fall in number of cases in the remaining districts of western region too. Of the 6,900-odd Covid-19 positive cases in the state, only 35 are in the western zone now – 20 in Krishnagiri, nine in Salem, three each in Dharmapuri and Nilgiris. Lesser links with Koyambedu market and fewer people returning from other states, which contributed to rise in number of cases in other districts, are the primary factors behind dropping of Covid-19 incidence in western TN. Nevertheless, the official machinery has not let its guard and has been maintaining robust mechanism for shielding of borders, testing of people and isolating those with symptoms. On Saturday, state health minister C VIjayabaskar lauded the officials for the containment efforts. “Districts like Erode, Coimbatore, Tirupur and Salem have managed the situation well by putting in place effective containment measures,’’ he said. Erode district has no new case for 32 days, Coimbatore and Tirupur for 14 and 16 days respectively while Namakkal has not reported any fresh case for nine days. “We are continuing to test people. Around 150 to 300 people are tested every day,’’ said Tirupur collector C Vijayakarthikeyan. In Erode and Coimbatore too about 350 to 400 people are tested every day, mostly those entering the districts from other districts or states. Erode collector C Kathiravan said they are strictly guarding the district border. “Each and every one entering the district is sent to a quarantine centre and tested. The results come in a day and only after confirming they are negative we send them home,’’ he said. Even after going home, health staff keep track of them to check once a week if they have developed any symptoms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/four-districts-from-west-tamil-nadu-have-no-active-covid-19-cases/articleshow/75796211.cms||Mayilvaganan
May 18, 2020||Salem||Four districts from west Tamil Nadu have no active Covid-19 cases||Western Tamil Nadu appeared to continue the good show it was putting up in effectively containing the spread of Covid-19. Four out of eight western districts – Coimbatore, Tirupur, Erode and Namakkal - do not have even a single active case of Covid-19 as of Sunday. Incidentally, these are the only four districts in the whole of Tamil Nadu without any active cases. Salem, again in the west did not report any fresh case for the past 11 days and was among the districts with zero active cases till Saturday. But on Sunday, Salem had nine new cases. They were people who returned to the district from Telangana, Maharashtra and Rajasthan. “They were stopped and tested at check posts and immediately quarantined,’’ said a health official, noting that isolating them at the entry point would prevent further spread of the virus in the district. If four of the districts in west have zero active cases, other districts are not far behind. There is a sharp fall in number of cases in the remaining districts of western region too. Of the 6,900-odd Covid-19 positive cases in the state, only 35 are in the western zone now – 20 in Krishnagiri, nine in Salem, three each in Dharmapuri and Nilgiris. Lesser links with Koyambedu market and fewer people returning from other states, which contributed to rise in number of cases in other districts, are the primary factors behind dropping of Covid-19 incidence in western TN. Nevertheless, the official machinery has not let its guard and has been maintaining robust mechanism for shielding of borders, testing of people and isolating those with symptoms. On Saturday, state health minister C VIjayabaskar lauded the officials for the containment efforts. “Districts like Erode, Coimbatore, Tirupur and Salem have managed the situation well by putting in place effective containment measures,’’ he said. Erode district has no new case for 32 days, Coimbatore and Tirupur for 14 and 16 days respectively while Namakkal has not reported any fresh case for nine days. “We are continuing to test people. Around 150 to 300 people are tested every day,’’ said Tirupur collector C Vijayakarthikeyan. In Erode and Coimbatore too about 350 to 400 people are tested every day, mostly those entering the districts from other districts or states. Erode collector C Kathiravan said they are strictly guarding the district border. “Each and every one entering the district is sent to a quarantine centre and tested. The results come in a day and only after confirming they are negative we send them home,’’ he said. Even after going home, health staff keep track of them to check once a week if they have developed any symptoms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/four-districts-from-west-tamil-nadu-have-no-active-covid-19-cases/articleshow/75803973.cms||Mayilvaganan
May 18, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Containment zones will be smaller in size, grades to decide restrictions||KOLKATA: Under Lockdown 4.0 Kolkata containment zones will be much smaller in size but at the same time they will see more specific and stringent actions aimed at checking the spread of novel coronavirus without compromising on economic activities. Top administrative sources said the strategy is in line with the new grading system being introduced in the red zones, as was recently announced by chief minister Mamata Banerjee. According to the revised Central guidelines to the state, local authorities can now decide on the size and extent of containment zones and buffer zones. It says within the red (which shows multiple cases) and orange zones (which shows few cases), police and local authorities must demarcate containment and buffer areas. It also say that strict perimeter control should be maintained in containment zones with extreme restrictions on movement. The first step, the Kolkata Municipal Corporation and Kolkata Police announced, will be to restrict the size of the individual containment zones. While at certain places, like apartments and stand-alone houses, this will include only the immediate neighbours of the patients. Other issues — like density of the population, its use by outsiders and easy access — will determine if a larger containment zone is required. While merely 50 metres of road space was turned into a containment zone at Lake Gardens and Bhowanipore, in the Khagen Chatterjee Road area in the north, it was an entire slum. According to sources, those residing in these zones will come under Grade A and will be allowed to buy essentials from only designated shops of the neighbourhood by 11 am in the morning. Those wishing to attend office and business will be allowed to do so after producing doctor’s certificate. But they cannot operate from home and hence need to shift to a safer or non-containment zone. For example, at Garia, six families recently shifted their base and went to rented properties to attend office as was asked by cops as they were barred from attending offices from a red zone. “We are clamping down on these zones. These are areas where cops will be on alert and no outsider will be allowed entry. Vehicular movement too will not be allowed ,”said an IPS officer. Santanu Banerjee, a resident of Garia Kalachandpara, a neighbourhood which was included in the containment zone a couple of days ago after a pathologist was tested positive for Covid-19, said cops were efficiently handling the movement of outsiders. Even the residents of apartment buildings located near the house where the pathologist lived were asked not to move out after 11am. Containment zones which have not reported any fresh case for at least two weeks but are yet to complete the mandatory three-week timeframe to be deemed a safer zone or ones, which have only recently turned into a non-containment zone but have immediate neighbourhoods still in the red zones, will be categorized in Level B or the orange zone. “There are several containment zones at Palm Avenue and Bondel Road which have fallen in this category. This zone can see greater economic freedom but the local police will be fixing up a time and the areas where business will be allowed, “said a senior officer. Even as Kolkata managed to reduce its containment zones to 267 from as high as 339 about 10 days ago, for the first time, south and its added areas have shared almost an equal number of containment zones as in north and central Kolkata. If Belgachhia slum brought the best news by turning in to a safer zone (Ward 3), adjoining Ward 5 covering Tallah too turned in to a safer zone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/containment-zones-will-be-smaller-in-size-grades-to-decide-restrictions/articleshow/75795330.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
May 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Revamp irrigation department, says CM K Chandrasekhar Rao||HYDERABAD: Taking a serious view of land sharks encroaching upon land being acquired for irrigation projects, chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao on Sunday directed officials to launch a special drive to evict squatters and mutate the parcels of land in the name of the irrigation department. The chief minister held a review meeting on utilisation of Godavari water through Kaleshwaram and other projects in the Godavari basin for irrigation purposes during the ensuing monsoon and thereafter. He also instructed the officials to complete works by month end to draw additional three TMC water from the Kaleshwaram project so that all tanks and water bodies downstream of irrigation projects would be filled to the brim, enabling farmers to draw water. “The parcels of land acquired for irrigation purposes have been encroached upon by others. Take a serious view on this. At several places in the state, especially urban areas, illegal constructions have come up on canal embankments and periphery of water bodies. This is not only a crime, but dangerous too. Since water will flow into canals and water bodies in the state, there is danger of untoward incidents. Hence, vacate all those living on the encroached canal land. Officers should deal with this strictly. Remove the illegal structures,” he said. In case, land acquisition was pending for any project, complete it at the earliest. The government would release funds, he said. The CM also directed the officials to bring major, medium, micro, irrigation development corporation and wings related to irrigation under a comprehensive irrigation department. Construction of pumps under Kaleswaram should be completed by May-end and water should be pumped till Kondapochamma Sagar, he said. “In monsoon, when water is released from the projects, fill up all tanks and water bodies. For this, construct channels and distributor canals immediately. Implement a plan by which all water bodies in the state are filled with water all through the year,” he added. The CM said river gauges should be set up at all projects and, utilising latest technology, real time data operating system should be created.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/telangana-revamp-irrigation-department-says-cm-k-chandrasekhar-rao/articleshow/75796216.cms||Roushan Ali
May 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Road in neglect for years, officials cite problems over jurisdiction||HYDERABAD: A stretch of road, almost two two-kilometres-long,between Hanuman mandir junction and Jawaharnagar kaman in Yapral, has been left neglected since several years. Municipal authorities from different areas have shrugged off the problem citing jurisdiction while the road, now dotted with pot holes, has become a nightmare for motorists. Gated residential societies have been constructed on either side of this stretch. In some pot holes, granite stones have been filled which increases the risk to motorists. With many facing such difficulties over the years, locals have been pursuing the matter with authorities, the local MLA and corporator, however, no solutions have been forthcoming. On a normal day, several TSRTC buses, cars and other vehicles ply on this stretch which connects several defence establishments such as the Army Dental College and populated locales such as Balajinagar and Jawaharnagar. “The condition of the road has been very bad for a very long time. Before the lockdown, we approached the local GHMC authorities and concerned public representatives but it has been of no use,’’ Prakruthik Vihar Residents Welfare Association, Treasurer Rajender Singh told TOI. Some in the area claim that the road was last laid before a visit by former President APJ Abdul Kalam several years ago. When contacted, GHMC executive engineer (Malkajgiri) Anil Raj said the stretch falls under the jurisdiction of defence authorities.“We have been getting several complaints about this stretch for a long time but since the road does not come under GHMC, we are helpless. Otherwise, we would have laid the road long time back,’’ Raj said. When TOI contacted the Defence Public Relations Office, officials redirected the matter to the Secunderabad Cantonment Board (SCB) who instead claimed the area falls under the GHMC. However, some officials claimed it may even fall under the Military Engineering Services (MES).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/telangana-road-in-neglect-for-years-officials-cite-problems-over-jurisdiction/articleshow/75796256.cms||Srinath Vudali
May 18, 2020||Bengaluru||Buses, autos, cabs set to hit roads in Karnataka after two months||BENGALURU: With the Centre clearing the path for resumption of public transport services and passenger vehicles within and between states, the Karnataka government is set to operate its fleet of KSRTC and BMTC buses, besides allowing cabs and autorickshaws to ply, from Monday after a two-month break. Soon after the ministry of home affairs issued guidelines for Lockdown 4.0 starting on the morrow, CM BS Yediyurappa called a meeting of cabinet ministers and high-ranking officials to decide on any additional measures to be taken by the state government. However, Metro Rail will not run until further notice. “All decisions pertaining to new measures will be issued after the meeting on Monday,” said deputy CM Laxman Savadi. Before the MHA announced the guidelines, the state government issued an order extending the existing lockdown norms for the next 48 hours. Savadi, who holds the transport portfolio, said, “We need clarity on certain issues before letting buses and other passenger vehicles operate. I’ll meet the CM on Monday and then the state advisory for public transport will be issued.” Limiting seats in buses unviable: MinIf social-distancing norm of limiting the seat capacity on a passenger vehicle is strictly implemented, then it won’t be viable for any operator. We understand that it is left to states to decide on the modalities of opening up of public transport,” said Savadi. The MHA guidelines have relaxed norms for working from offices, adding a clause that said, “As far as possible, (the) practice of work from home should be followed.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/buses-autos-cabs-set-to-hit-roads-in-karnataka-after-two-months/articleshow/75796265.cms||B V Shiva Shankar
May 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: 52-day-old among group travelling to UP on scooters||HYDERABAD: Shivani was born on March 25, a day after Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced a nationwide lockdown. The little girl, who is 52 days old, is now on a 2,000 km journey from Chennai to her place in Uttar Pradesh. So far, the family of the girl has covered nearly 800 km on their way to Hyderabad and need to cover another 1,200 km to reach Lucknow. “We had no choice. Life became difficult after lockdown,” Manish, the father of the girl, told TOI at Medchal on the city outskirts where they stopped to have food which was being served by NGOs. Along with Manish, his wife and their infant, are another dozen people, who have undertaken the journey with them. All of them have been travelling on two-wheelers and the fact that they would have to cover 2,000 km did not deter them. Why did he take the risk with a small baby? “We quite literally were starving. The decision was to go home. It was not so easy leaving Chennai on our bikes but we managed to,” he said. It’s been five days since they started and the journey has been demanding and the experience has not been good. “People would not allow us to rest for the night in their villages if we stopped by,” one of the workers in the group said. “When we asked people for salt or even a match box, they did not give,” another worker said. But they do not hold any grudge against the villagers. At Medchal, on NH-44, the police, administration and NGOs told the workers, especially Manish, that it is not advisable to continue with their journey to UP on their scooter. They said that their stay could be arranged at a function hall where they would also be given food. They said as trains were also being organised, they could travel when that materialises. They were also told that their vehicles could be kept safe with the police and could be collected later. The workers, however, were not inclined. “Nothing is for sure. We waited in Chennai for some arrangements but we have been neglected. We are now on our own and we will continue with our journey,” they said. Watch Family with infant girl on 2,000 km journey to reach UP amidst lockdown||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hyderabad-52-day-old-among-group-travelling-to-up-on-scooters/articleshow/75796307.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
May 18, 2020||Delhi||Delhi lockdown news: Today's updates from your city||Amid prevalent chaos and uncertainty over access to the essential services and commodities during the lockdown, we bring you the latest updates from Delhi and the national capital region (NCR). *Update at 11.15pm: An employee of the Delhi Jal Board has been found coronavirus positive, prompting the water utility to place 10 of its staff members in the Tagore Garden area under quarantine. According to an order issued by the Executive Engineer (West), DJB, the utility''s Tagore Garden store will remain closed for 14 days. *Update at 10.15pm: As the country stepped into the fourth phase of the lockdown, the national capital, which for two months saw azure blue skies and breathable air, witnessed a sudden spike in the air pollution on Monday. *Update at 9.15pm: Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday announced opening of shops in markets on an odd-even basis and running of buses with 20 passengers but said Metro services, schools, colleges, cinema halls and salons will remain closed till May 31. *Update at 8.15pm: Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday announced opening of shops in markets on an odd-even basis and running of buses with 20 passengers but said Metro services, schools, colleges, cinema halls and saloons will remain closed till May 31. *Update at 7.45pm: Personnel of the Delhi Police on Monday helped a senior citizen in performing the last rites of his 62-year-old wife by lending shoulder to the bier and carrying the body to the cremation ground amid the ongoing COVID-19-induced lockdown, officials said. *Update at 7.15pm: The Delhi high court on Monday agreed to lawyers body DHCBA's request to reopen the advocates chambers so that they can get their files and books, but with certain conditions and safeguards, including the number of persons who can access the rooms and the timings. *Update at 6.35pm: The death toll due to coronavirus in Delhi has mounted to 160 as the total number of Covid-19 cases reported in the national capital crossed the 10,000-mark on Monday, authorities said. A total of 299 fresh cases were recorded while the total number of active cases stood at 5,409. *Update at 6pm: 10,054 cases have been reported in Delhi till date. 4,485 persons have been cured/discharged and 160 people have died due to Covid-19 till now, says CM Arvind Kejriwal *Update at 5.49pm: Private offices in Delhi can open at full strength but they should try that most of the staff works from home. Markets can open but shops will open on odd-even basis. Sports complexes and stadiums can open but without spectators, says CM Arvind Kejriwal *Update at 5.47pm: Barber shops, spas and salons to remain closed for now. Stepping out of homes between 7pm to 7am, except for essential services will be prohibited. Taxis & cabs will be allowed but only 2 passengers at a time in a car, says Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal *Update at 5.45pm: Schools and other educational institutions, cinema halls, shopping malls, gyms, amusement parks, and bars won't open in Delhi till May 31, says chief minister Arvind Kejriwal * Update at 4.15pm: Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal will address a press conference at 5.30pm on the Covid-19 situation. * Update at 3.45pm: A part of Krishi Bhawan building in Central Delhi has been sealed after an official in the Ministry of Fisheries, Animal Husbandry and Dairying has been tested positive for Covid-19. The official works as a personal secretary in the Department of Animal Husbandry and Dairying. *New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) chairman has been appointed as the chief nodal officer to help the migrant workers stuck at Delhi-UP border. * Update at 1.49pm: CBSE announces date sheet for pending class 10 and class 12 board exams, reports PTI * Update at 1.35pm: Visuals: Heavy traffic jam seen at Yamuna Bridge on Vikas Marg Visuals: Heavy traffic jam at Yamuna Bridge on Vikas Marg#Lockdown4#DelhiLockdown https://t.co/L58zYTyeDG— TOI Delhi (@TOIDelhi) 1589789150000* Update at 1.03pm: Thousands of migrant workers gather at Ghaziabad's Ramlila Ground to register themselves for 3 Shramik Special trains to Uttar Pradesh Watch: Thousands of migrant workers gather at Ghaziabad's Ramlila Ground to register themselves for 3 Shramik Speci… https://t.co/Nzxz6sA0Xm— TOI Noida (@TOINoida) 1589787130000* Update at 12.56pm: Six employees of OPPO factory in Greater Noida test positive for Covid-19. All operations at the factory have been suspended. * Update at 12.31pm: Delhi auto drivers struggling to make ends meet amid coronavirus lockdown Delhi auto drivers struggling to make ends meet amid #CoronaLockdown#Lockdown4#DelhiLockdown https://t.co/O19p9eH03m— TOI Delhi (@TOIDelhi) 1589785300000* Update at 11.58am: Heavy traffic congestion at toll booth on Delhi-Noida Direct (DND) Flyway Heavy traffic congestion seen at toll booth on Delhi-Noida Direct (DND) Flyway#NoidaLockdown#Delhilockdown… https://t.co/PVitAPQDtN— TOI Noida (@TOINoida) 1589783308000* Update at 11.53am: Chicken and meat shops, stationery shops, dairy, bakeries, sweet shops and photostat shops open at Delhi's Khan Market (ANI) Chicken and meat shops, stationery shops, dairy, bakeries, sweet shops and photostat shops open at Delhi's Khan Mar… https://t.co/ipcrLpOcaY— TOI Delhi (@TOIDelhi) 1589783088000* Update at 11.18am: Twelve new Covid-19 deaths reported in Delhi, toll climbs to 160 * Update at 10.24am: Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) starts bus shuttle services for passengers arriving at New Delhi Railway Station (ANI) #Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) starts bus shuttle services for passengers arriving at #NewDelhiRailwayStation… https://t.co/UUKImMmd0p— TOI Delhi (@TOIDelhi) 1589777675000* Update at 9.46am: Vehicular traffic increases in Delhi on Monday morning (ANI) Vehicular traffic increases in #Delhi(Visuals from ITO area)#Lockdown4#DelhiLockdown https://t.co/KWYjgjlzeY— TOI Delhi (@TOIDelhi) 1589775554000* Update at 9.30am: Death toll due to Covid-19 rises to 3,029; number of cases climb to 96,169, reports PTI quoting Union health ministry * Update at 9.11am: A special train reaches New Delhi Railway Station from Rajendra Nagar Railway Station in Patna (ANI) A special train reaches New Delhi Railway Station from Rajendra Nagar Railway Station in Patna#Lockdown4… https://t.co/8xk80vD7AS— TOI Delhi (@TOIDelhi) 1589773364000* Update at 8.08am: Large number of migrant labourers reach Delhi-Ghazipur (UP) border (ANI) Large number of migrant labourers reach Delhi-Ghazipur (UP) border#Lockdown4#DelhiLockdown https://t.co/EiJaggg2uD— TOI Delhi (@TOIDelhi) 1589769447000* Update at 7.54am: Heavy vehicular movement witnessed at Delhi-Gurugram border (ANI) Heavy vehicular movement at Delhi-Gurugram (Haryana) border amid #CoronaLockdown#Lockdown4 https://t.co/wI7WqEhYfl— TOI Delhi (@TOIDelhi) 1589769253000* Update at 7.20am: People commute through Delhi-Ghazipur border amid checking by police personnel (ANI) People commute through Delhi-Ghazipur border amid checking by police personnel#Lockdown4 #DelhiLockdown https://t.co/F9ROzmqhRY— TOI Delhi (@TOIDelhi) 1589768921000* Update at 7.10am: People arrive at wholesale fruit and vegetable market in Ghazipur to make purchases (ANI) * Update at 6.50am: A special train carrying passengers from Jammu Tawi Railway Station (Jammu and Kashmir) arrives at New Delhi Railway Station. (ANI) * Helplines for workers must always be functional: High courtDelhi high court has directed the AAP government to ensure uninterrupted working of its helpline numbers for migrant workers so that they can easily approach nodal officers. A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice C Hari Shankar, hearing a PIL through videoconferencing, noted that Delhi government was ready and willing to accept the registration of workers who wanted to migrate. Whenever these workers approach the nodal officer concerned, all care will be taken by Delhi government for their migration as per the standard operating procedure (SOP) issued by the Centre on April 29, the bench said on Friday while hearing the PIL seeking a directive to the authorities to register and repatriate migrant workers to their home states and appoint a nodal officer in each district to facilitate the process. * We won’t leave migrants alone in crisis: Delhi CM Arvind KejriwalFollowing reports of a large number of migrant workers gathering at the Delhi borders to return to their home states on foot, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday said the government would arrange trains for them. As photographs and videos of migrant workers walking along the national highways with their families emerged on social media in the past few days, Kejriwal said it was the responsibility of Delhi government to take care of those who wanted to stay back. * Traders divided over opening of marketsSome traders’ associations have given a thumbs up to the idea of opening shops on alternate days, while others expressed fear that congested markets may trigger a spurt in Covid-19 cases. Chandni Chowk Sarv Vyapar Mandal has decided to keep the shops’ shutters down at least till May 31. “Looking at the number of the novel coronavirus cases reported in Old Delhi, Chandni Chowk and Karol Bagh markets are likely to be put under the buffer zone. Even if a decision is taken to open the market fully, it won’t be possible for the association to contain infection. It is a congested market and dug up at several places for the redevelopment plan. Implementing social distancing is impossible here,” said Sanjay Bhargava, president, Chandni Chowk Sarv Vyapar Mandal. * No grand opening, but Delhi set to ease normsKickstarting economy may lead to slight rise in cases, but ready for challenge, says CM The ministry of home affairs has given states and UTs the flexibility to delineate red, orange and green zones on the basis of the parameters defined by the health and family welfare ministry and demarcate containment and buffer zones within them. “Within the red and orange zones, the containment and buffer zones will be demarcated by the district authorities after taking into consideration the guidelines of the ministry of health and family welfare,” the Centre’s guidelines read, giving Delhi the flexibility to allow all economic activities outside the sealed areas. In zone-wise classification of the districts, the Union health ministry has defined all 11revenue districts in the capital as red zones. Kejriwal had earlier this month written to the Centre demanding the classification to red zones on the basis of municipal wards. * Delhi government to unveil rules todayThe Delhi government on Sunday welcomed the Centre’s guidelines for phase 4 of the national lockdown that allows resumption of economic activities in all three zones, with CM Arvind Kejriwal saying that a detailed plan for the national capital will be announced on Monday. “Centre’s guidelines are largely in line with the proposal sent by Delhi govt based on suggestions of lakhs of Delhiites. We have used the lockdown period to prepare our healthcare system if corona cases increase, but it is now time to relax the restrictions to some extent. Delhi govt will prepare the detailed plan for Delhi based on the Centre’s guidelines and announce them tomorrow,” Kejriwal tweeted on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/coronavirus-in-delhi-latest-news-updates-on-delhi-corona-cases-deaths-18-may-2020/articleshow/75796230.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Transport system gears up for Monday test as offices reopen||KOLKATA: With workplaces gradually opening their doors, there is a rising need of transportation. Non-operation of private buses and autos may turn into a commuters’ nightmare, even though state transport undertakings are stepping up the services. Monday will be an acid test for the skeletal bus service on 15 routes by West Bengal Transport Corporation’s (WBTC) and 1,000 app cabs that are currently operational. On a normal weekday, 58.4 lakh passengers travel by bus in Kolkata Metropolitan Area. Even if one-fifth of them go out to catch a bus on Monday, the passenger count will be more than 10 lakh and there will be day-long chaos with hundreds being stranded for a long time. Many may have to walk to office. “We are aware of the problem. This is why we are trying hard to slowly open up the private transport sector. They are important stake holders in the city’s public transport system. For the last mile connectivity, autos also play an unmatched role. But unfortunately, both the transport means fall under stringent social-distancing norm,” said a transport department officer. According to transport department’s last modal split study, private buses alone ferry 42.8 lakh passengers on a weekday. Auto emerged as the second largest carrier with 31.5 lakh passengers. “It will be a very difficult proposition to meet the travel need of even one-third of workplace-bound commuters without private buses and autos ,” said Ajay Das, former chief of traffic and transportation planning directorate, transport department. The MHA May-17 order says Lockdown 4 will be enforced on Metro railways as well. On Monday, West Bengal Transport Corporation (WBTC) buses will be plying in 15 routes at every half an hour from 7am to 7pm. The 15 routes were designed to have touched upon all nodal points in the city. Each bus can carry 20 passengers at a time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/transport-system-gears-up-for-monday-test-as-offices-reopen/articleshow/75795456.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
May 18, 2020||India||Maharashtra extends lockdown till May-end||MUMBAI: Maharashtra on Sunday extended the Covid-19 lockdown for the fourth consecutive period till the month-end. Chief secretary Ajoy Mehta issued the order, directing all state departments to keep strictly implementing the Covid-induced lockdown rules issued so far. The order clarified that calibrated, phase-wise relaxation or lifting of the lockdown order would be “notified in due course”. There were no new relaxations or restrictions as the Centre gave no specific instructions, said an official. The official said the Centre may issues guidelines on the basis of demands made by several chief ministers during the video-conference held with PM Modi last week. The Centre had asked for suggestions from states on easing curbs. The official said restrictions might be relaxed in green and orange zones by restarting public services and industries, but the city was unlikely to be part of it as it fell under the red zone. Sunday was the last day of the third phase of the lockdown. The national lockdown began on March 25 and was extended on April 15 and again on May 4.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/maharashtra-extends-lockdown-till-may-end/articleshow/75796306.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Belgachhia slums role models in coronavirus fight||KOLKATA: The slums of Lal Maidan and Zarina Maidan in Belgachhia are all set to become a role model about how Kolkata Police and Kolkata Municipal Corporation plan to handle the Covid outbreak in the slums. This zone, which was one of the oldest slum containment areas in the city, was taken off the KMC containment list on Saturday after it did not report a fresh case in the past 22 days. While it is no longer a containment zone, police and KMC will continue to mount medical surveillance for the next two months. This will include KMC taking random samples for testing and police ensuring that residents visit local fever clinic. In addition, cops will ask everyone to continue social distancing and police officers in the beat will be held responsible. Locals had approached the IPS officers in charge of this zone and appealed movement restriction be partially revoked instead of opening up the area all at once. “For now, grocery and sweet shops will remain open for a bit longer. But locals have asked me to ensure outsiders do not spread the disease,” said coordinator of the ward, Tarun Saha. Cops said all general rules of Lockdown 4.0 will be implemented and night movement will be totally halted after 7pm. “The area’s containment zones have reduced from four to just one,” said an officer from the Ultadanga police station “The overall lockdown implemented at Belgachhia became a model since the residents sincerely joined the effort. We blocked all entries to the slum. Initially when violations got reported, we decided to penetrate all the bylanes ,” said DC (ESD) Ajoy Prasad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/belgachhia-slums-role-models-in-virus-fight/articleshow/75795471.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
May 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: American out mountain biking, trips and dies||HYDERABAD: An American passionate about mountain biking died in Gandipet area after he lost control on a hillock on Sunday afternoon. Narsingi police said that Paul Robert alias Little John, 42, was staying in Hyderabad for the last one-and-half-years with his wife, who is an employee in an IT company in the city. On Sunday morning, Paul left his residence at Gachibowli and cycled his way to the Gandipet reservoir area. Since Robert was inaccessible on his phone, his worried wife reached out to Gachibowli police late evening. Cops eventually pinpointed the tower location to Gandipet. Paul’s friend, who generally accompanies him on cycling trips, did not accompany him on Sunday. But after hearing about the accident, he took cops to the hilly terrain near the lake where they generally go for mountain biking. After reaching the spot, Paul was found dead with a cracked helmet bleeding injuries. Cyclist may have lost control: CopsHe was wearing a helmet which had cracked and he died following the impact. Such was the fall,” said a senior Cyberabad police official. “It looks like he lost control and fell down and sustained injuries on his head. Post-mortem is yet to be done,’’ he added. Police suspect that he might have had a 10 meters fall, resulting in his death. Paul, a mechanical engineer by profession, has two children. A case has been registered under section 174 (suspicious death) of the Criminal Procedure Code.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/telangana-american-out-mountain-biking-trips-and-dies/articleshow/75796331.cms||Srinath Vudali
May 18, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Missing office feel while working away? Go for ‘neighbourhood cocoons’ in New Town||KOLKATA: With work from home and online office presentations becoming the new normal in the present Covid-19 scenario, the Housing Infrastructure Development Corporation (Hidco), in collaboration with architectural consultancy firm Abin Design Studio that had earlier set up Nazrul Tirtha, is planning to set up neighbourhood work cocoons in residential areas across New Town. The cocoons — just a few steps from one’s house — will have small workstations where residents can work in a convenient working environment for a few hours. Hidco officials said such neighbourhood workplaces are going to be new norm given the fact that more and more companies are encouraging employees to work from home. “We are hearing from many people that with continuous hours of working from home, a mental partition is happening between home and work. The idea is to have an air conditioned workplace at the locality and near residential areas that will have a small café corner, work tables, a library and comfortable seating arrangements with WiFi facility. One can access them by walking a few steps from his/her house,” said Hidco and NKDA chairman Debashis Sen, adding that the same concept can be followed in other areas of the city as well. Sen added that each of these work cocoons can be set up on about one cottah of land and it can cost only a few lakhs. Architect Abin Chaudhuri, founder of Abin Design Studio, said that his team of architects were working in collaboration with Hidco to build this community work module. “It will be a kind of place where one can rejuvenate his or her mental set up to work in a convenient environment,” Chaudhuri said. As per plans, each cocoon can accommodate about 10 to 12 people, officials said. “This will indeed be very useful. Often it is much challenging to maintain focus working from home with several distractions. Having a working environment close to home will be of great help,” said Kaustav Dey, a senior IT executive and resident of New Town who has been working from home since the lockdown was enforced. Hidco is also working on the concept of converting New Town into a “15-minute town” where home-to-work travel and vis-a-vis could be done within 15 minutes by either walking or cycling for those whose residence and office are both located in New Town.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/missing-office-feel-while-working-away-go-for-neighbourhood-cocoons-in-new-town/articleshow/75795497.cms||---
May 18, 2020||Gurgaon||Dundahera emerges as hotspot, over 5k screened||Gurgaon: With 28 positive cases so far, Dundahera, located right next to the Delhi-Gurgaon border near Kapashera, is fast emerging as a hotspot. The first case was reported on April 29 in Dundahera, where more than 1 lakh people live in tiny rooms and social distancing norms are difficult to maintain. So far, 200 samples have been collected in the area and more tests are being done.  A number of Covid cases that have been added to the Gurgaon tally recently are from Dundahera. Between May 1 and 16, Gurgaon has seen around 140 positive cases. Officials said the new cases in Dundahera are mostly contacts of patients who had tested positive earlier. Among them is a person whose son was admitted to RML Hospital in Delhi and is believed to have got infected there. He had visited Dundahera village, where he stays in a rented accommodation, and is likely to have infected many more. Residents of Dundahera mainly work as daily wage labourers and domestic staff and security guards in high-rises. Some also work in construction sites in various areas of the city. “Our teams have been collecting random samples of people in the area to curb the spread of the virus,” Gurgaon chief medical officer J S Punia said. “The area is being disinfected every day by the health department. Currently, 2,000 high-risk contacts of Covid patients are being identified in the area and they would be monitored,” he added. According to the health department, people with underlying health issues and those above the age of 60 are considered “high-risk” if they are in the contact chain of a person who has tested positive.  “We have screened more than 5,000 people in Dundahera and are continuing with the process. We are also planning to increase the collection of samples in other clusters,” said Punia.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/dundahera-emerges-as-hotspot-over-5k-screened/articleshow/75795518.cms||Ipsita Pati
