May 19, 2020||Bengaluru||Lockdown Effect: Bangalore Times webinar on the challenges faced by the beauty industry and the way ahead||Since the Coronavirus pandemic broke out and the subsequent nationwide lockdown, which threw life as we knew it out of gear, one of the services that both women and men regularly used and learnt to do without was that of the beauty industry. There were no trips to the salon to get perfectly-arched eyebrows, glowing skin or mani-pedis, etc., while the hygiene of the neighbourhood barber was a widely discussed topic for men, who then invested in personal grooming tools.  With lockdown 4.0 here and salons and spas across the country poised to open in all-new avatars, we spoke to four experts from the industry, about the issues the pandemic threw up and how they are looking at overcoming them. On the panel were Dr Rekha Chaudhari, MD of Oneline Wellness Pvt. Ltd, which focuses on providing world-class quality products and support needed to set up salons or spas, Mukund Kulashekaran, SVP of Business at Urban Company, where he heads the beauty and wellness business, Sahil Gupta, the CEO and chief architect of Bodycraft salons and spas and Zorain Khaleeli, celebrity makeup artist and founder of Zorains Studio. How bad has the lockdown been for the industry?  Dr Rekha: Although hygiene is paramount in the beauty industry, we are, for some reason, considered luxury and not essential service. Throughout the lockdown, every time relaxations were announced, we were pushed to the background, which is why I have been leading a delegation to take it up with the government and ensure that we can open businesses again soon.  So far, we have, no doubt, been affected badly. About 60% of the 80 lakh-odd professionals and entrepreneurs are women, most of whom are sole breadwinners for their families. Imagine the effect a complete stoppage of income has on a family like that?  Sahil: From an operational standpoint, the lockdown has been a pain, because to sustain the workforce with zero income is increasingly tough. What we also understand is that there has been reverse migration, possibly due to insecurity and lack of income, with many heading back home. So, even when we are to come back and mobilise operations, it might be difficult, because we may not have the same workforce with us. Also, the new norms that we have to establish, in terms of physical distancing, is going to cut down our capacities,  We might not anticipate the same client footfall because of fear psychosis. So, the business plan for the year and sustenance for a lot of companies is going to a be a concern area. We are reeling under this with lack of cognizance of how salons have been allowed to operate in other countries. Yes, we are a close contact service, but at the same time, our environments are probably the safest in comparison to everything else outside. Every industry has an organised and unorganised sector. In the organised sector, the customer is going to be relatively safer. The industry should also take the onus of educating the unorganised sector, roll out modules across languages, states and strata, to play safe in the time to come. How are you getting rid of the fear psychosis and getting your customers to come back? Sahil: I think the way ahead is for everyone to understand that a certain cost will have to be absorbed with regard to safety, health and hygiene. Everyone will have to factor it in their pricing and the customer will also have to be ready for it.  Customer awareness and industry learning will have to work side-by-side. At the end of the day, it is an essential service that you can't do away with it. A lot of people may have started grooming themselves at home, but I don't see that becoming the new normal.  Zorain: There are challenges for the segment dealing more with makeup and related services. Most of our employees come from below poverty line segments and their livelihoods have been affected, because it is difficult for us to pay salaries without a steady income.  Also, the big fat Indian wedding is no more. We are going to have a lot of new artists who have just learnt the craft or started a business, who will suffer a lot because they won't have enough work. Customers will be more careful and will opt for more known names, leaving newbies in the lurch. But how feasible is it going to be for most people in the industry to adapt to the new normal - wear masks, gloves, maybe even PPEs? Mukund: We have close to 10,000 professionals working closely with us, a majority of who are women. The last 2-3 months have been difficult and we have been trying to help with loans, etc., but they will only last so long. We have to now proactively work for safety. I don't think normalcy is anywhere around the corner. This virus is going to be around for a while. It is very important that we clarify to customers what safety protocols we adopt and that their safety is our top priority. As an industry we have always been responsive. I think we will get used to the new normal. It will mean fair bit of training, including getting used to PPEs, but I think that should be the focus. We have retrained all our professionals to change certain protocols. For instance, threading has always been done using your teeth. We have reimagined it and taught them to do it differently. We have been fixing all potential risk areas and ensuring people can wear masks, gloves and have temperature checks done frequently. If your standard operating procedure (SOP) does not involve bodily fluids, it can be done in an extremely safe environment.  Sahil: There is a large industry outside of India that is already working on international best practices, which is going to drill down through every service SOP. People are working with medical professionals to see how the services are going to be safe. Obviously, all SOPs are going to be modified accordingly.  Dr Rekha: We have always been focusing on hygiene, but we are talking to experts in different areas, skin, hair, etc., to figure out precautions to be taken when handling a client. We have created protocols on SOPs and everyone will follow only that. Professionals who adopt these will be given special certification. One thing everyone mentioned is that most professionals are from poorer sections of society. Won't that be an issue for clients, because they do not know where the technician hails from, what kind of personal hygiene he/she maintains? Zorain: We understand that they come from crowded areas, but to prevent anything in our environments, we will, of course have temperature checks. We also have spray disinfectants and don't allow them to come in to the work space in their own clothes and get them to change into their uniforms, which we maintain. We make sure that they don't bring in anything. Besides, we will ensure sanitation and that they wear PPE kits. Some of this might be a problem for Mukund, because his technicians go to homes... Mukund: Our strong belief is that home is much safer in the current environment and users are happy not stepping out. So, what we need to make sure is that the technician who is coming into your home is fully safe. For this, we have leveraged tech and government infrastructure. We are getting everyone to be on Aarogya Setu, which looks at the location of the person, etc. We have linked our activation to that. If a person is living in a containment zone, we automatically ensure they are in quarantine and don't service customers. After that, every day we do rigorous temperature checks. They have to do a live temperature check on a camera. Before every job start, we ensure they are wearing gloves and masks. We have seven steps to be followed before a job and make sure it is done by capturing it on camera. There is training over and above that to ensure safety measures are followed. Sahil, do you think home services will be a probability? Sahil: Mukund and I can agree to disagree on this one. My understanding is that the client who wants to come to the salon vs the one who wants services at home is very unique. If you stratify these segments, you will notice that the overlap is only up to 15%. There is clear demarcation of people who want to come to salon. Do we intend to start home services? I don't think that is going to happen, because as a business model, we have evaluated that in the past and that is not something we are looking at. What does the future of the industry look like? Will a trip to the salon look like a sci-fi movie? Sahil: I don't think so. I think we are exaggerating the extent of what needs to be done. My understanding is that a mask, face shield and sanitisation and sterilisation are basic principles we need to abide by.  We are not an environment that is carrying this contagion all the time. Some of the stuff is a little over and beyond. Sure, there will be aesthetic changes in salons; a lot of the clutter will go away and you will see enhanced focus on hygiene aspects and PPEs, but in reasonable measure. What is happening right now seems exaggerated, but it will settle down once the industry resumes regular motions.  Zorain: We are going to have a transition into normalcy. 50% of clients are still going to be scared to come out. But there is a 50% that is waiting for salons to reopen. They are a little more sorted in their heads about the virus. Once this 50% triggers that they are going back to normalcy and we give them a great environment, there will be herd mentality and the rest will follow.  Dr Rekha: The focus will be on wellness. Everyone has understood that the body has to be strong to fight a virus as this. Wellness centres have alternative therapies that boost immunity and are not just about massages or aesthetic beauty.  Mukund: I am the least optimistic. Next year, the overall economy is not going to do well and we are headed to a recession. Beauty is generally recession-proof, but I do think people will downgrade to some extent. Frequencies may come down and some discretionary services, like facials, may see more downgrades than necessary services like waxing or haircuts. I do think in the short run it is important for the industry to be ready to face the fact that we may be looking at a lower spend from our users. Long-term should, hopefully, bounce back. It is better for us to be aware and prepared. I do think our average billing prices will drop. Bangalore Times webinar on the challenges for the beauty industry in the post-Covid era||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/lockdown-effect-bangalore-times-webinar-on-the-challenges-faced-by-the-beauty-industry-and-the-way-ahead/articleshow/75809899.cms||Prathibha Joy
May 19, 2020||India||ACB arrests housing society chairman in Rs 233cr land scam||JAMMU: Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) arrested Hilal Ahmed Mir, the chairman of Jhelum Cooperative House Building Society, in a Rs 233 crore land scam on May 14. The agency has unearthed the siphoned off funds and an amount to the tune of Rs 187 crore has been frozen, an official spokesperson said. “ACB-Jammu conducted a preliminary probe into allegations that the chairman of J&K Co-operative Bank Limited, Mohammad Shafi Dar, in connivance with officials and a beneficiary of a non-existent co-operative house building society, had sanctioned an amount of Rs 223 crore fraudulently under the name and style of ‘River Jhelum Co-operative House Colony at Shivpora, Srinagar,’ run by Hilal Ahmad Mir, a resident of the Magarmal Bagh locality in Srinagar,” the spokesperson said. Further investigation revealed that Mir, the so-called chairman of the society, had moved an application to the secretary, Cooperatives, Administration Department of Co-operative Societies, in which he sought directions to the J&K Co-operative Bank Limited for grant of financial assistance to the tune of Rs 300 crores for taking over possession of 300 kanals of land located in the outskirts of Srinagar for construction of a satellite township, the spokesman said. “The application was endorsed to Registrar Cooperative Societies J&K for taking up the matter with Jammu and Kashmir State Cooperative Bank,” the spokesperson added. Accordingly, the J&K Co-operative Bank, Srinagar, sanctioned a loan worth Rs 223 crore without adhering to any codal formalities like obtaining the details of the society such as its balance sheet, profit and loss account business, activities being done by it, PAN data, income tax returns and details of construction of the board resolutions, etc. During inquiry, the spokesperson said, it also surfaced that the River Jhelum Co-operative House Building Society has not even been registered with the Co-operative Societies, J&K. “Mir, the chairman of the so-called society, conspired with Dar and others in preparing a fake registration certificate in the name of the society and managed to get the loan sanctioned,” the spokesperson added. He said the omission and commission on the part of Dar, in connivance with Mir, constitute offences under various sections of the Prevention of Corruption Act and the Indian Penal Code and resulted in a loss of Rs 223 crore to the bank. Mir was arrested on May 14 to effect the recovery of documents required in the case which are purportedly lying in his possession and also to unearth the modus operandi, and the end-use of funds and quid pro quo, if any obtained, the spokesman said. Accordingly, a case has been registered and investigation taken up, officials said. Mir is being interrogated to ascertain further leads in the matter, the spokesperson said, adding that more arrests are likely.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/acb-arrests-housing-society-chairman-in-rs-233cr-land-scam/articleshow/75814239.cms||Sanjay Khajuria
May 19, 2020||India||Cities need to ramp up bus availability to maintain social distancing norm among passengers||NEW DELHI: Soon after the Centre allowed states to decide on inter-state and intra-state bus service, some of the online bus ticketing platforms have started pre-registration to help users keep track of operation resuming on their desired bus routes. While this is being seen as a step towards normalizing comfortable inter-state bus service, public transport experts have said cities will need to increase the number of buses dramatically to meet the demand to complying with social distancing norms within buses. Sources said a normal bus may end up carrying only 30-50% of their seating capacity. In a statement RedBus said, “Demand for inter-city bus travel has been building up steadily since nationwide lockdown began, with millions of travellers seeking to reach their desired destination.” It said a survey conducted by the online ticketing platform had shown that 59% of travelers had indicated their plan for outstation travel within one month after travel restrictions are lifted. Participating in a recent webinar addressed by Union transport minister Nitin Gadkari, CEO of World Resource Institute, O P Agarwal had said, “To allow for social distancing, the number of buses in a city must increase. State transport corporations cannot suddenly increase the numbers due to financial constraints.” The former IAS, who had also drafted the first National Urban Transport Policy, was of the view that there are other buses with different permit conditions which are standing idle. These need to be contracted, by temporarily ignoring their permit conditions, or giving special permits for a few months, he had said. “The state governments and city administrations should immediately go for this. We have a large number of buses standing idle. Even during normal time hundreds of buses attached to schools operate only 190 days during a full academic year and the rest of days these remain unused. Even when schools are open, on an average these buses run for 60 kms. Why can’t this idle asset be utilized to meet the demand?” asked Gurmit Singh, chairman of Delhi state unit of Bus and Car Operators Confederation of India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/cities-need-to-ramp-up-bus-availability-to-maintain-social-distancing-norm-among-passengers/articleshow/75814341.cms||Dipak K Dash
May 19, 2020||India||J&K notifies major changes in domicile rules||JAMMU: Jammu & Kashmir government on Monday issued a notification specifying the conditions for obtaining domicile certificates necessary for applying for government jobs and other privileges in the union territory, with some amendments in the Jammu and Kashmir Civil Services (Decentralization and Recruitment) Act, 2010. As a result of the new rules, West Pakistan refugees (WPRs), children of women married outside J&K and ‘safai karamcharis’ will now be eligible for domicile certificate. Addressing a press conference late on Sunday, government spokesperson Rohit Kansal said, according to the new rules all those holding permanent resident certificates of the erstwhile J&K state will be eligible to get domicile certificates from the designated authority. “Permanent residents of the erstwhile state of J&K in whose favour permanent resident certificates (PRC) have been issued by the competent authority before 31.10.2019 shall be eligible for receiving their domicile certificates on the basis of PRCs alone and no other additional document shall be required for such residents,” Kansal said. He added, “Kashmiri migrants can get the domicile certificate on production of either a PRC or certificate of registration of migrant. Further, there may be bonafide migrants and bonafide displaced persons who have migrated but have not registered with the relief department. In order to facilitate such persons, the relief department shall be making a special limited provision to apply before the Relief & Rehabilitation Commissioner (Migrant) for registration for the purpose of issuance of a domicile certificate only, with any one of the many documents such as 1951/1988 electoral roll, proof of employment, ownership of property, proof of registration in other states/UTs as a migrant or a displaced person or any other documentation which would have made him/her eligible for grant of PRC before 06-08-2019.” “West Pakistani Refugees were part of the Parliamentary electoral roll, but not in the erstwhile state electoral roll. They will now be covered under the 15-year residence rule or their children under the 7 year/class 10/12 rule,” he elaborated. Similarly, a simple procedure has been defined in the rules for other categories of people who are eligible for grant of domicile certificate as per Jammu and Kashmir Civil Services (Decentralization and Recruitment) Act. These include persons who have resided for a period of 15 years in the union territory of Jammu & Kashmir or have studied for a period of seven years and appeared in class 10/ 12 examination in an educational institution located in the UT of J&K or children of such persons. These also include children of central government officials, all-India service officers, officials of public sector undertaking and autonomous body of central government, public sector banks, officials of statutory bodies, officials of central universities and recognized research institutes of the central government who have served in the Union territory of Jammu of Kashmir for a total period of ten years. “To make the entire process of issuance of domicile certificate transparent, the designated authority will have to issue the certificate within 15 days of receiving the application,” he added. “There is also an appellate authority that will dispose of appeals against the decision of the designated authority within a period of seven days,” the spokesperson said. “A designated officer shall be bound by the decision of the appellate authority, failing which a penalty of Rs 50,000 will be imposed on the official and this will be recovered from his/her salary,” Kansal added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/jk-notifies-major-changes-in-domicile-rules/articleshow/75814378.cms||Sanjay Khajuria
May 19, 2020||Goa||FC Goa will be competitive in Champions League, says coach Juan||Panaji: There is uncertainty surrounding football for next season but when normalcy returns, FC Goa head coach Juan Ferrando has promised fans that it will be as exciting as ever. FC Goa’s new coach will have lots to do. He must secure the first Indian Super League (ISL) trophy for the club and also build a strong team that will compete in the AFC Champions League for the first time. “Right now, I’m just watching the games and these are moments to learn. For 100 percent it is ideal to travel to Goa and see the players directly, but it is not possible in the current situation. There are few things I would want to change to improve the players and club, that is my job. Champions League is not only important for club but also for India football,” Ferrando told TOI in a digital round table organised by the club on Monday. Since inception, first under Brazilian great Zico and most recently Sergio Lobera, FC Goa have been the most attacking side in Indian football and have many admirers for their style of play. The Goan side created history by becoming the first from India to qualify for the AFC Champions League when they finished top of the ISL league stage this season. “We play in the Champions League, and at the end our mentality will be competitive. It will be an added motivation. Everybody wants to help the club and country, so it is necessary to prepare a good squad,” said the Spaniard. Midfielder Ahmed Jahouh and captain Mandar Rao Dessai have followed in Lobera’s footsteps at Mumbai City FC, while Jackichand Singh has moved to Jamshedpur FC. Goa, on the otherhand, have maintained low key in the transfer market. The club has Hugo Boumous under contract for two more years, while Edu Bedia will return for another stint. While everyone else’s future is up in the air. Coach Ferrando is now looking at three key players who can influence the entire squad. “Now I’m only thinking of the future of FC Goa and to prepare the season in normal times. Focus is only to prepare the team. It is not necessary to change the style. The most important is for players to enjoy on the pitch,” said the 39-year-old. Ferrando has already interacted with the players and helped them stay positive at home during the lockdown. He and his coaching staff have prepared individual plans to keep them fit. Players have played their last competitive match in March and Ferrando has stressed on the importance of pre-season to make up for lost time. “I want Goa to play different ways, depending on the situation, not just one model. All players have different solution to problems,” said Ferrando. The final of the ISL between ATK and Chennaiyin FC was played behind closed doors in Goa, while German football returned last weekend with empty stands. For Ferrando, the feeling is not the same. “I’m so sad about this situation, but when there are lot of supporters it is wonderful for players and the atmosphere. It is not so strange though to play without fans as you see in junior leagues, but I hope in two or three months, the situation will improve. There is always an extra motivation when there are fans,” said Ferrando.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/fc-goa-will-be-competitive-in-champions-league-says-coach-juan/articleshow/75814448.cms||FLAVIO LOPES
May 19, 2020||Mumbai||Three months after girl's 'accident', cops arrest youth for kidnapping, drugging her||MUMBAI: Has the COVID-19 outbreak and the increased burden on the police force affected the investigation of criminal offences? On February 26, a college-going girl had been found critically injured at Aarey Colony and the young man accompanying her told the police they had had a road accident. Three months later, on May 14, police arrested the man, Ajay Bajpai, for having kidnapped the girl and offering her a spiked beverage. The girl's family, who come from modest means, said the police had been apprised of the facts way back in March but no arrest was made then. "We were told officers were busy handling the COVID crisis. But we are desperate to know what exactly transpired on the day our daughter was found injured," her father told TOI. The 16-year-old victim studies in a junior college at Andheri. Bajpai, 24, was known to the victim's friend. In early February, the victim said that Bajpai grabbed her hand, after which she slapped him. "We did not speak to each other since. Then on February 26, he started to apologise and offered a soft drink as a truce," the victim said. Shortly, she started feeling giddy and decided to go home. Bajpai offered to drop her on his two-wheeler and wouldnt take no for an answer. "I passed out sometime after sitting pillion on his motorcycle. When I opened my eyes, I was in a hospital ICCU," she said. The victim had suffered fractures to both eye sockets, jaw, nasal bone and roof of her mouth. Her teeth were broken. For 24 hours since the incident, she remained unconscious. "The police had brought my daughter to the hospital at Jogeshwari. They told me another motorcyclist had rammed into Bajpai's two-wheeler and fled. Bajpai had suffered a minor leg injury," the victim's father said. In a statement recorded with the Aarey police, Bajpai said that he and the girl planned to watch a film at a Goregaon mall and had stopped to buy snacks at Aarey just before the accident occurred. "My daughter was swinging between life and death. Doctors were doubtful if they could save her vision," her father said. While in the ICCU, she told hospital staff what had happened outside college. In mid March, the police, who had initially recorded a case of rash driving, now booked Bajpai for kidnapping and drugging her. "Her hospital documents wrongly recorded her age as 18. Being a minor, far stringent sections under POCSO are applicable against the accused," said the victim's lawyer, Sunil Lalla. After eight days in the Jogeshwari hospital, she was moved to Sion Hospital where she underwent procedures. A month after the incident, she returned home but her appearance had changed drastically. "Her treatment is far from complete. The police must check the accused's phone records and CCTV footage from the accident spot to find out if our daughter was assaulted. How could Bajpai procure the sedative with such ease? There are several unanswered questions," her father said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/three-months-after-girls-accident-cops-arrest-youth-for-kidnapping-drugging-her/articleshow/75814498.cms||Nitasha Natu
May 19, 2020||World||Pakistan's Supreme Court orders reopening of shopping malls, markets||ISLAMABAD: Amid a sharp nationwide spike in Covid-19 cases, Pakistan’s Supreme Court on Monday ordered authorities to reopen all shopping malls and markets across the country days after crowded marketplaces in Punjab and Sindh were sealed by provincial governments for violating social distancing guidelines to curb the spread of the disease. Hearing a suo motu case, a five-member larger bench of the top court headed by Chief Justice (CJ) Gulzar Ahmed said that if shops weren’t reopened, shopkeepers would "die of hunger rather than corona", a statement echoed by Prime Minister Imran Khan a number of times since the emergence of the corona crisis. The CJ also directed authorities to allow markets to remain open seven days a week, as opposed to the current practice of four days to slow the spread of the novel coronavirus. "Keeping markets closed two days a week violates Articles 4, 18 and 25 of the Constitution, which deal with rights of individuals to be dealt with under law, freedom of impartial trade, and equality of all citizens under law, respectively," the CJ said. "Coronavirus does not go anywhere on Saturday and Sunday," he remarked. The bench said that it would be the government’s responsibility to ensure that standard operating procedures (SOPs) were being followed in all aspects of business. The apex court also slammed a performance report submitted by the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA), a body mandated to deal with the whole spectrum of disasters and their management in the country, on its Covid-19 response, saying the organisation was utilising the country’s resources in "a wrong manner". Despite being a civilian body, NDMA has always been headed by army generals. On Monday, Pakistan crossed 43,000 confirmed cases of Covid-19 with 910 deaths and 11,922 recoveries. Meanwhile, the country’s railways minister, Sheikh Rasheed Ahmed, announced that train operations across Pakistan will resume from Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/pakistan/pakistans-supreme-court-orders-reopening-of-shopping-malls-markets/articleshow/75814408.cms||Omer Farooq Khan
May 19, 2020||Kolkata||If I can help even one person recover from Covid-19, I will be very very happy: Bengal's first plasma donor||At 22, she not only defeated Covid-19, but Monami Biswas – a management student from University of Edinburgh – has now become West Bengal’s first plasma donor for the clinical trial on convalescent plasma therapy. On Monday, she went through a series of tests before donating her plasma at the Medical College and Hospital. Monami, who is yet to go through a few more tests, will finally be done with the process on Wednesday. According to many, plasma therapy could be a possible treatment for Covid-19 infection. “A couple of days ago, I got a call from Dr Yogiraj Ray – who tended me when I was infected -- asking me to come for the screening on Monday,” said Monami, who, in an earlier interview with us, had expressed her eagerness to donate plasma. “If my health parameters permit, I’ll surely come forward for the plasma therapy treatment,” she had told us. It took her roughly an hour before she was released. “The entire hospital looks different now. From basic thermal screening to everything else, it felt like I was going through some sanitised tunnel. There were many doctors — seniors and juniors. Within an hour, all my tests were done and I am told that my plasma has also been collected,” she told us. In March, Monami was admitted to Beleghata ID hospital when she tested positive for Covid-19 after returning to Kolkata from her university  in Scotland. After a battle of 10-odd days, she finally defeated the infection and got back home. The gritty woman that she is, Monami prepared for her third semester and took the tests in May. “I completed my test on May 11. In the first and second semester, I scored around 80%. I hope to score 90% this time,” she told us. On her way back home on Monday, she was flooded with congratulatory messages. While talking to us, a happy Monami said, “If I can help even one person in recovering from Covid-19, I will be very very happy.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/if-i-can-help-even-one-person-recover-from-covid-19-i-will-be-very-very-happy-bengals-first-plasma-donor/articleshow/75814801.cms||Shamayita.Chakraborty
May 19, 2020||India||Priyanka Gandhi thanks UP CM for permission to run 1,000 buses for migrants||NEW DELHI: Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Monday thanked Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath for permission to run 1000 buses to take migrant workers to their native places. "We thank you for giving permission to run 1000 buses, whose cost is being borne by Congress, to help thousands of brothers and sisters walking in Uttar Pradesh. I want to assure you on behalf of UP Congress that we will stand with the brothers and sisters suffering due to coronavirus and lockdown. We will stand with them in difficulty," she said in a tweet. Earlier, Sandeep Singh, personal secretary of Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, responded to Additional Chief Secretary (Home) Avnish Awasthi's letter and provided him a list of 1,000 buses arranged by the party to help migrants stranded due to lockdown reach their native places. Singh thanked chief minister Yogi Adityanath for accepting Gandhi's proposal. The Congress leader had requested the Uttar Pradesh chief minister to allow the buses arranged by Congress to take migrant labourers to their homes. Gandhi had earlier posted a video featuring buses queued up in a row.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/priyanka-gandhi-thanks-up-cm-for-permission-to-run-1000-buses-for-migrants/articleshow/75814910.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Goa||Social distancing takes a back seat on resumption of bus services in Goa||Recently a picture of a crowded Kadamba Transport Corporation bus went viral which showed people not following social distancing. The post read: ‘This picture is of KTC bus from Bambolim to Panjim, today at 4.30pm. Is this allowed? Will this continue? Are we taling thing for granted? Is Goa govt serious about Covid-19?’ The post which went viral as people did not maintain social distancing Goa Times decided to drop in at Mapusa Bus stand to catch a glimpse of the protocols passengers had to follow . People waiting to hop into the bus at Mapusa bus stand In a few snapshots it was clear that the KTC buses which were plying to Panaji and other cities were not enforcing any guidelines for boarding the buses. Passengers were noted crowding at the entrance of the buses and jostling for place. It was also observed that while the KTC authorities had no operating procedures for people to follow at the time of our visit, the passengers also showed a lack of responsibility when it comes to social distancing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/social-distancing-takes-a-back-seat-on-resumption-of-bus-services-in-goa/articleshow/75815161.cms||Kimberly Colaco
May 19, 2020||Mangaluru||Covid-19 lockdown: Youths dig well for residents||MANGALURU: In a commendable act, six members of a Muslim family made use of their unpaid holidays during the lockdown to quench the thirst of residents of their colony at a village in Belthangady taluk. They dug a well in the colony, which will prove to be a permanent solution to the water crisis residents face during summer. About 75 families live in Janata Colony at Karambaru in Banthadka village. The only source of water in the locality was a public well, dug by the government years ago, which would go dry during summer. When Covid-19 lockdown rendered many youths in the village jobless, 24-year-old Aboobakker Siddiq, who is a plasterer by occupation, thought of utilising the free time usefully by digging a well in the family. When he shared his thoughts with his family, his father Hassainar, brothers Ashraf, Sadiq, Shamsuddin and Sirajuddin too agreed to shoulder the responsibility. Siddiq told TOI that the new well dug by the family will be a permanent solution to the drinking water problem in the locality in the summer. “All of us in the colony have been depending on the public open well for the past several years. We have been facing drinking water crisis every year during peak summer. We made several requests to the local authorities to sanction a well for the colony. However, our demand was not fulfilled. Meanwhile, when the lockdown made all of us jobless, the idea of digging a well in our property was mooted. Initially, six of us from our family started work. Later, neighbours too joined hands to pull ropes and remove debris. At 40 feet, we found water and now it is being used by us and others in the locality,” Siddiq said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/lockdown-pastime-youths-dig-well-for-residents/articleshow/75826979.cms||Vinobha K T
May 19, 2020||Delhi||Odd-even opening for shops in Delhi, public transport back||NEW DELHI: In a bid to revive economic activities in the fourth extended phase of the lockdown, the Delhi government on Monday decided to follow the national guidelines and allow opening of markets, private offices and industrial estates besides permitting public transport to operate in the capital with some restrictions. Though the lockdown has been extended till May 31, the new set of relaxations announced on Monday has lifted curbs from most economic activities except the ones related to the hospitality and entertainment sectors. Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said operation of Delhi Metro and functioning of educational institutions, shopping malls, cinema halls, swimming pools, bars, hotels and hospitality services will remain prohibited till May 31. Social, religious and academic gatherings too won’t be allowed. This has been spelt out in the guidelines issued by the Union ministry of home affairs (MHA). Reiterating that the spread of novel coronavirus was not going to end anytime soon, Kejriwal said people will have to learn to live with it till a vaccine was developed. Observing that Delhi has so far registered 10,054 Covid-19 positive cases, including 160 deaths, the chief minister claimed the death toll was quite low in comparison to other states and countries. While the Centre has recommended opening of barber shops, spas and salons, the chief minister said these services will remain prohibited in the Capital. States and union territories are allowed to prohibit activities or impose more restrictions according to their own assessment. Read AlsoCovid lockdown 4.0: What's open and what's shut in DelhiNEW DELHI: The Delhi government on Tuesday announced new regulations for resumption of essential and non-essential services in the city as the fourth phase of lockdown came into effect from May 18. The Delhi government has allowed opening of markets, private offices and industrial estates apart fromRestricting the number of passengers allowed to travel in buses (20); taxis and Gramin Sewa (2); auto-rickshaws, e-rickshaws and cycle rickshaws (1); RTV (11); and maxi cabs (5), the government has made the driver responsible for disinfecting the passenger sitting area every time a passenger disembarks. Private cars will be allowed two passengers besides the driver and no pillion rider will be allowed on two-wheelers. Opening of markets has been allowed on an odd-even basis and staggered working hours have been recommended for private offices, factories and other commercial establishments to ensure social distancing is maintained. Shops dealing in essential goods, including books, stationery and fans, will continue to open on all days. All neighbourhood and standalone shops will also be allowed to open. Market associations, Delhi Disaster Management Authority (district level) and the labour commissioner have been made responsible for ensuring implementation. Of the 860-odd liquor shops in Delhi, more than 700 would be allowed to open on alternate days – wherever applicable — under the odd-even system. About 150 shops located in shopping malls will remain closed till May 31. All shop owners will be responsible for ensuring social distancing and violations will lead to the shop being closed. The CM said it was mandatory for people to wear masks all the time and maintain social distancing, the two essentials to curb the spread of coronavirus. Industrial establishments with registered names starting with letter A to L will operate from 7.30 am to 5.30am while those with names starting from letter M to Z will function from 8.30am to 6.30pm. Private offices can function with their full strength but have been advised to follow work-from-home as much as possible. More on Covid-19 Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage Lockdown 4.0: What's allowed and what's not in the three zones It's time to mask up and stay safe: Join TOI's #MaskIndia campaign MHA's guidelines for home isolation Trust the newspaper for your daily verified news The Delhi government has also allowed all construction activities in the capital to resume but barred movement of labourers from other states. E-commerce activities are permitted in the entire city except the containment zones. No passes will be required by anyone to move around in the city, said the chief minister. In keeping with the Centre’s guidelines, healthcare staff such as doctors, nurses, paramedical staff and sanitation workers will be allowed to cross the inter-state borders along with goods and cargo trucks. However, the movement of people, unless there is an emergency, will be restricted from 7pm to 7am. Also, people above 65 years of age, those with co-morbidities, pregnant women and children below the age of 10 have been asked to stay at home, except for essential and health purposes. No relaxation has been given in the 73 containment zones in the capital where the national guidelines allow only essential activities till May 31. Many containment zones, however, are likely to be de-sealed this week. Read AlsoDelhi moves in first gear, metro to stay shutAfter nearly two months, the capital will be on the move again from Tuesday with chief minister Arvind Kejriwal announcing plying of public transport during lockdown 4.0. Although the capital’s lifeline, Delhi Metro, will remain shut, all other modes of public and private transport will be allowedThe Delhi government had earlier this month given partial relaxation in the lockdown by allowing neighbourhood and standalone shops to operate, private offices to function with 33% staff strength and industrial estates to resume operations with access control. It has also allowed self-employed service providers, such as domestic workers, electricians, plumbers, mechanics and others, to resume work. After the MHA released its revised guidelines on Sunday, Kejriwal had welcomed the move, saying they were in line with the proposals sent by his government, based on suggestions of lakhs of Delhiites. “I am sure that we will defeat corona together,” he said on Monday. “Delhi has had 10,054 cases until now, out of which 4485 people have recovered, which means 45% of the people have recovered,” Kejriwal said. “Delhi government has used the lockdown time to prepare for corona… In the past two months, we have prepared dedicated Covid hospitals, arranged beds, ventilators, testing and PPE kits,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/odd-even-opening-for-shops-in-delhi-public-transport-back/articleshow/75815465.cms||Atul Mathur
May 19, 2020||India||124 recoveries for every Covid death in Kerala, just 4 in Bengal||NEW DELHI: Looking at the number of Covid-19 cases in different states would suggest Maharashtra is doing the worst, followed by Tamil Nadu, Gujarat and Delhi in that order. However, if we also look at the proportion of deaths and recoveries in each state as of Monday morning, a completely different picture emerges. Unsurprisingly, Kerala, with just four deaths so far, looks the best among the major states with 124 recovered cases for every death. At the other end of the spectrum is West Bengal, with just four cases that recovered for every death. The national average is 12 recoveries per death. Tamil Nadu is among the best performers by this yardstick with 53 recoveries per death and Delhi’s 28 recoveries per death puts it well above the national average but in the middling category. West Bengal, with just 2,677 confirmed cases, also happens to have among the lowest testing rates of about 86 tests per lakh population, only Bihar and Uttar Pradesh having lower rates. When considering the ratio of recoveries to deaths, Maharashtra still shows up very poorly, better only than West Bengal. Maharashtra recorded just six recoveries for every death, followed by Gujarat, which recorded about seven recovered cases for every death. Both states are testing in the region of 200 for every lakh population. More recoveries and fewer deaths could indicate better medical care for those testing positive but it could also indicate that through more testing cases are being detected at an earlier stage when effective intervention is possible. Other than Kerala, Bihar (59) and Odisha (55) among the major states have the highest number of recovered cases for every death. But their ratios are rapidly falling, having been 65 in both cases just a day earlier. There is a difference between the two, however. Odisha has a testing rate of 219 per lakh population while Bihar has the lowest testing rate in India of 37 tests per lakh population. With an increase in the numbers of cases testing positive in Bihar recently as migrants return, it remains to be seen how these numbers change. For the most populous state, UP has relatively few cases, but given the fact that its testing rate is the second lowest, just 77 per lakh, the same caveats apply as in Bihar. Again, with lakhs of migrants returning to these states, it remains to be seen how well their health systems will cope with testing and treating. Delhi recorded the highest testing rate of 669 per lakh population. But its 28 recovered cases for every death is a middling performance despite the advantages of being the capital with a large number of tertiary care hospitals in the public sector involved in the treatment of Covid-19 cases right from the start. Tamil Nadu's testing rate of 432 per lakh population might be less than Delhi and Andhra Pradesh, but it records 53 recovered cases for every death, much higher than the other two.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/124-recoveries-for-every-covid-death-in-kerala-just-4-in-bengal/articleshow/75815855.cms||Atul Thakur
May 19, 2020||World||Trump says he's taking malaria drug in case he gets coronavirus||WASHINGTON: President Donald Trump said Monday that he is taking a malaria drug to lessen symptoms should he get the new coronavirus, even though the drug is unproven for fighting Covid-19. Trump told reporters he has been taking the drug, hydroxychloroquine, and a zinc supplement daily “for about a week and a half now.” Trump spent weeks pushing the drug as a potential cure for Covid-19 against the cautionary advice of many of his administration's top medical professionals. The drug has the potential to cause significant side effects in some patients and has not been shown to combat the new coronavirus. Lockdown 4.0: Live updatesTrump said his doctor did not recommend the drug to him, but he requested it from the White House physician. "I started taking it, because I think it's good," Trump said. "I've heard a lot of good stories.” He dismissed reports of side effects, saying, “All I can tell you is, so far I seem to be OK.” More on Covid-19 Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage Lockdown 4.0: What's allowed and what's not in the three zones It's time to mask up and stay safe: Join TOI's #MaskIndia campaign MHA's guidelines for home isolation Trust the newspaper for your daily verified news Trump repeatedly has pushed the malaria drug hydroxychloroquine with or without the antibiotic azithromycin, but no large, rigorous studies have found them safe or effective for preventing or treating Covid-19. They can cause heart rhythm problems and other side effects. The Food and Drug Administration has warned against the drug combo and said hydroxychloroquine should only be used for coronavirus in formal studies. Two large observational studies, each involving around 1,400 patients in New York, recently found no benefit from hydroxychloroquine. Two new ones published Thursday in the medical journal BMJ reached the same conclusion. One, by French researchers, gave 84 hospitalised patients the drug and 97 others the usual care. There were no differences in the odds of death, need for intensive care or developing severe illness. The other study from China was a stricter test: 150 adults hospitalised with mild or moderate illness were randomly assigned to get hydroxychloroquine or usual care. The drug made no difference in rates of clearing the virus or time to relief of symptoms, and they brought more side effects. In April, the National Institutes of Health launched a study testing hydroxychloroquine versus a placebo drug in 500 hospitalised COVID-19 patients. Last week, NIH announced another study to see if hydroxychloroquine plus azithromycin can prevent hospitalisation or death in people with mild to moderate illness. About 2,000 US adults with confirmed coronavirus infections and symptoms such as fever, cough or shortness of breath will get the drugs or placebo pills.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/trump-says-hes-taking-malaria-drug-in-case-he-gets-coronavirus/articleshow/75816003.cms||---
May 19, 2020||India||China accuses India of building “illegal” facilities at Galwan valley in Aksai Chin area||NEW DELHI: Amid heightened confrontation in east Ladakh, Chinese state media claimed that India has built illegal defence facilities at Galwan Valley in the Aksai China region quoting anonymous military sources. India had not officially responded to the allegation until late Monday evening. This follows a face-off in the area earlier this month which saw Indian and Chinese forces clashing along the northern bank of the Pangong Tso Lake and even resorting to stone-pelting. Global Times reported on Monday that Chinese forces had bolstered border control measures in response to India's "recent, illegal" construction of facilities "across the border into Chinese territory". Though the immediate provocation for tensions is not clear, the area has been the site of confrontations in the past as well. New Delhi has accused Chinese troops of pitching tents in areas that India has said are part of its regular patrol activity. In the wake of the Covid crisis, India has imposed higher levels of scrutiny on Chinese investments which was disapproved by China. There have also been other pin pricks like Nepal's objection to a road inaugurated at Lipulekh pass, with Army chief Gen M M Naravane hinting that the Left alliance government may have acted at the instance of China. The Chinese media further quoted analysts to say that the Chinese troops' new move was seen as their strongest military response to India's "illegal trespassing incident" along the border since the Doklam stand-off and demonstrated the "strong determination of the PLA to defend its sovereign territory". While the report further claimed the Indian army wasn't likely to escalate the situation as the Chinese held military advantage, it also said that another Doklam-like stand-off is unlikely as India is merely looking to divert attention from its economy which had been affected by the coronavirus pandemic. The Chinese state media report follows attempts by India to downplay the recent border flare-up. The government said in a statement last week that the India-China border had remained largely peaceful in keeping with the spirit of the recent Modi-Xi informal summits and that the situations that had arisen "occasionally" on the ground could have been avoided if the two sides had a common perception of the LAC. The MEA had said the two sides had established mechanisms to resolve such situations as and when they arise and that India remained committed to the objective of maintaining peace and tranquility in the India-China border areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/china-accuses-india-of-building-illegal-facilities-at-galwan-valley-in-aksai-chin-area/articleshow/75816189.cms||---
May 19, 2020||India||Top B schools not to insist on GMAT, some will even waive application fees||MUMBAI: No GMAT score? No problem. Student applicants who have no GMAT scores to show are now being considered by elite world institutes such as Oxford, Imperial, Insead, London Business School, Wharton, Kellogg and Carnegie Mellon, among others. The Covid-19 pandemic has forced several universities around the world to suspend their standardised testing requirements for the 2020 and spring 2021 entry. While most universities don’t expect students to take the GMAT, some such as Oxford and LBS have said admission would be contingent on submission of the missing test score at a later date. Universities have also extended their deadlines for receiving applications in round four; some have even introduced a fifth round to fill class capacity. Many have announced acceptance of applications on a rolling basis and quite a few have decided to waive off application fees. “Universities abroad are making all possible concessions to get quality students to join their courses for the August and January term this year. The Covid-19 pandemic has affected enrolment numbers of all universities and they are now making an active effort to bring in qualified students,” said education counsellor Karan Gupta. A statement from the Carey Business School read: “Johns Hopkins Carey Business School has made changes to its MBA admissions process to reflect the impact of Covid-19. Carey will accept incomplete applications for our Round 3 deadline and will work with applicants individually to complete their applications. Carey has added a Round 4 with a deadline of June 1. Following Round 4, applications will be accepted on a rolling basis through July 15. Carey is offering GMAT/GRE waivers moving forward.” UC-Berkeley is now admitting last year’s undergraduate students from its own university into MBA programmes without GMAT or GRE or work experience — an unprecedented move by a major top league university. Harvard Business School has been holding discussions about increasing the size for the 2021 incoming class, given that many students will defer their acceptance and seek admissions for next year. Penn State Smeal College of Business is waiving off the exam requirement for candidates with strong quantitative educational backgrounds, regardless of work experience. Those with active GME or GMAT scores are eligible for an application fee waiver.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/top-b-schools-not-to-insist-on-gmat-some-will-even-waive-application-fees/articleshow/75816289.cms||Hemali Chhapia
May 19, 2020||India||Amid fatwa, Muslims to embrace unusual Eid||NEW DELHI: India’s most influential Islamic seminary, Darul Uloom Deoband, on Monday issued a fatwa asking all Muslims to offer prayers and celebrate Eid at home this year in keeping with the extended national lockdown. Delhi-based author and historian Rana Safvi sees this Eid as a “humanitarian event” rather than a festival. Qari Fazlur Rahman, who leads Eid prayers on Kolkata’s Red Road every year, believes adapting to a new normal doesn’t mean the sanctity of the festival will be lost. Heading into the last week of Ramzan amid the Covid-19 pandemic, India’s 172 million Muslim population is preparing for — and reconciling itself to — a most unusual Eid bereft of all the usual trappings like huge prayer congregations, ceaseless shopping, social visits and the inviting warmth of an Eid Milan embrace. Lockdown 4.0: Live updatesOn social media groups, messages like “no new clothes, just wear your best clothes” are being circulated among family and friends, urging people to fill the festive void with the spirit of giving. The suggestions range from paying a needy child’s school fee or someone’s rent to helping a lockdown-hit trader revive his business. In homemaker Suboohi Alvi’s Lucknow home, the special Eid sewaiyan whose aroma fills her kitchen at this time of the year won’t be just for friends and family. “We will make sewaiyan for distribution among those who have gone through much distress in the past two months and can’t afford a decent Eid feast,” she said. In Srinagar, Muzaffar Shah has but one request — the administration should allow mutton shops to open ahead of Eid. “If not anything, a good Eid feast will make up for all that we will miss out on this time,” he said. In the Valley alone, traders usually do Rs 1,200 crore worth of business in the run-up to Eid. “As it is, things have been bad since mid-2019. The pandemic-induced lockdown has blown away the Eid business as well,” said Srinagar trader Ashiq Sheikh. More on Covid-19 Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage Lockdown 4.0: What's allowed and what's not in the three zones It's time to mask up and stay safe: Join TOI's #MaskIndia campaign MHA's guidelines for home isolation Trust the newspaper for your daily verified news According to the Lucknow Trade Association, the volume of Eid business lost in the city this Eid would be around Rs 500 crore. In Telengana and AP combined, it is around Rs 2,000 crore, sources said. In the lanes of old Delhi, there is no sign that Eid is less than a week away. No sweets are being sold on the streets and there are no decorations around Jama Masjid. In Telangana, community leaders and clerics have asked everyone to temper the festive spirit not only because of the lockdown but also out of respect for those whose lives and livelihood have been affected the most.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/amid-fatwa-muslims-to-embrace-unusual-eid/articleshow/75816334.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata Police’s singing acts inspire Puja club to approach cops for theme song||From Pete Seeger’s We Shall Overcome and Goopy Gyne Bagha Byne’s Halla Rajar Sena to Anjan Dutt’s Bela Bose, the lockdown has seen many a musical performance by Kolkata Police personnel, as they went all out to create awareness about the pandemic, motivate citizens and cheer them up. And now, two city cops — Dipankar Raptan, a sergeant at New Market Police Station and Apurba Majumder, police officer of DIG (AP) Cell, Barrackpore, West Bengal Police — are collaborating for a Kestopur club’s Durga Puja theme song. “We always knew that police are brave enough to work in dangerous situations and even fire guns. But the fact that they can also sing was unknown till the lockdown. Their recent performances have inspired us to make them a part of our Puja. It is a way to pay tribute to our police force,” said Kestopur Prafullakana Paschim Adhibashi Brindo’s secretary, Ranjit Chakraborty. For Dipankar, who has been passionate about singing since childhood, the offer came as a surprise. “Even after joining the police force, I’ve kept my passion for music alive,” said the cop, who runs a folk band and has performed in several live shows, including Jai Ho 2017 by Kolkata Police. “I didn’t think twice before saying yes to the club,” Dipankar said. With informal music training by his father, Apurba started singing regularly after joining the police force. “This year’s Puja celebrations won’t be grand. So, I’ll try to capture that melancholy in the song,” he said. Though the exact theme of the Puja is still under wraps, it will revolve around the ongoing pandemic. According to Dipankar, the theme song will have a folk style with modern music arrangements. The last few months have been especially hectic for policemen, leaving them with little time for a breather. “We can write and compose after returning home or during work breaks. Rest assured, we’ll do it,” added Dipankar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kolkata-polices-singing-acts-inspire-puja-club-to-approach-cops-for-theme-song/articleshow/75812984.cms||Bishwabijoy Mitra
May 19, 2020||India||Bengal’s low positivity & high fatality at odds with other states||NEW DELHI: Is there a correlation between Covid-19 tests conducted to positive cases reported by states? Delhi and Gujarat have carried out around 1.25 lakh Covid-19 tests each so far and found more than seven positive cases per 100 tests. Maharashtra with twice as many tests has reported 12% positive cases. But West Bengal, unlike Delhi, Gujarat and Maharashtra, has carried out far less tests adding up to just 69,500 as of May 15, revealing 2,461 confirmed cases. West Bengal, which has the highest fatality rate of 9% among all states, has reported a lower rate of 3.5% positive cases (for every 100 tests done). West Bengal’s outlier status suggests it needs to conduct more tests and contact tracing. West Bengal along with Gujarat, MP, Maharashtra and Karnataka are among the top five states with high case-fatality rate. But, unlike Bengal, each of the other four states has a fatality rate less than 5% of total confirmed cases, except Gujarat with 6%, having screened a larger population. Delhi has far lower case-fatality rate of 1.35%, though its recording of deaths has been questioned. There are some states like Karnataka, UP, Andhra, Rajasthan and Tamil Nadu — each having screened anywhere between 1.30 lakh and 3 lakh cases — which have reported around 3% or less positive cases. These states also have far less fatality rate than the top five. Kerala has managed to keep its fatality rate around 1% of 577 confirmed cases. The answer seems to be in screening asymptomatic people and collecting random samples.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/bengals-low-positivity-high-fatality-at-odds-with-other-states/articleshow/75816380.cms||Pradeep Thakur
May 19, 2020||Dehradun||Doctor in home quarantine demands to be let out, burns belongings||ROORKEE: An ayurvedic doctor at a government clinic in Tehri on Monday allegedly burnt some of his belongings, including a motorcycle, out of frustration from being in home quarantine. According to his family members, he was inebriated at the time of the outburst. The man has been detained at Civil Lines police station. The doctor identified as Sushil Kumar had returned to his home in Adarsh Nagar locality, Roorkee on May 12 after being in Tehri and was subsequently home quarantined. On Monday, Kumar started shouting at his family members and demanded that he be let out of the house and allowed to go to Tehri. His family members called police for help, who managed to bundle him into a car and confine him in a cell at the police station. “He (Kumar) continued the brawl at the police station for hours. We somehow managed to put him in a cell and are waiting for his condition to go back to normal. As soon as he comes back to his senses, we will hand him over to his family,” said inspector Amarjeet Singh, in-charge of Civil Lines police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/doctor-in-home-quarantine-demands-to-be-let-out-burns-belongings/articleshow/75813060.cms||Tapan Susheel
May 19, 2020||Delhi||In line for more pain, they are not any closer to home||New Delhi: For the third day on Tuesday, hundreds of migrant workers queued up outside two government schools in east Delhi waiting to be screened for train journeys home. At the school in West Vinod Nagar, migrants, many of them standing there since 6am, to submit their details to go to Bihar were finally allowed in at 2pm. At East Vinod Nagar, however, there was disappointment for the hundreds hoping to return to Uttar Pradesh when they were turned away because the trains were full.“Ideally, only the people receiving text messages should come to the screening centres. But crowds of other migrants also come and disturb the process,” explained a government official. “Even after telling them to go away, they linger on hoping to have their names registered.”On Tuesday, Dharmendra, who is from Samastipur in Bihar, heaved a sigh of relief on being allowed into the school in West Vinod Nagar. He had submitted the form online. In his hand was a gift for his mother — a gas burner. “I bought it for my mother and wife so they no longer have to cook on the clay chulha,” Dharmendra said. “I had decided to take it home in the summer break, but got this chance.” But after standing in the queue for hours with little happening, he was worried. The family knew he was getting the burner and had arranged for the cylinder supply. They will have to wait a bit for the new addition to the kitchen. Hundreds of migrants have been present at the school these past two days, some even sleeping there to be the first in line when screening resumed. Sometime past noon, they were asked to enter in an orderly fashion, but in the melee, social distancing was the first casualty. Unlike Sunday and Monday, the public address system was not functioning till 3pm. Civil defence volunteers claimed that the school gates had to be closed because there were more people than warranted. “The process takes times because there are so many people. The details of each person are noted down and they are sent to the railway station as per the train schedule after screening,” a volunteer said. Out of work daily-wage earners squatting everywhere within 3km of the other government school in East Vinod Nagar. They were all aspirants for a seat in a train to UP. Some were taking shelter from the sun at the Delhi Metro station nearby. They had mostly received phone message to come to the school. A large number of workers had slept in the area overnight and were at the school in the wee hours, and they were the ones who managed to get in and fill the trains before the gates were closed. Balram Dubey of Deoria district had paid the last paisa of his savings to take an autorickshaw from Sonia Vihar to the school. “The auto asked for Rs 500, and we had to pay because we had luggage also,” Dubey said. “I received the text message last night, so I was very happy. We vacated my room and reached here, but they are asking us to come tomorrow. Where will we go now? There is no clarity and we are waiting in this heat for directions.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/in-line-for-more-pain-they-are-not-any-closer-to-home/articleshow/75837583.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Kolkata||Two potential plasma donors screened at MCH||Kolkata: The state moved a step closer towards clinical trials on convalescent plasma therapy on Monday when the first two potential donors were screened. A doctor and a management student were the voluntary donors who reported for screening at the immunohaematology and blood tra-nsfusion unit of Medical College and Hospital, Kolkata (MCH). According to sources, the doctor, attached with MCH, was among the healthcare workers who got infected during duty in April. He agreed to the donation after his treatment was over. Monami Biswas, a 23-year-old who returned from Scotland, had tested positive in March, when the state had recorded positive cases only in single digits. “I gave my plasma on Monday, which the doctors will screen to see if I am eligible for the donation. The entire screening process took only about 40 minutes. I am optimist and hope I will be among the first donors for this clinical trial,” she said. The management student from Habra said she expects to get a call in a couple of days for the donation. “I had been briefed about the process and doctors have been keeping me motivated. So there is no room for nervousness,” she added. The screening procedure was a combination of signing the consent form, taking blood samples and checking physical and medical parameters. The plasma extracted from the blood of the donors will be analyzed for specifics, like presence of adequate protein and calcium. “One set of samples was also taken to get a sense of their current immune status,” said Dipyaman Ganguly, principal scientist and associate professor at the Translational Research Unit of Excellence of Indian Institute of Chemical Biology, Kolkata, who is also the principal investigator. More donors were to be screened this week, but the plan has been shelved keeping in mind the impact of super cyclone Amphan, which could make it difficult for donors to reach the hospital. A collaborative project by Council of Scientific & Industrial Research and the Bengal government, the clinical trial will take place on patients being treated at Beliaghata ID Hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/two-potential-plasma-donors-screened-at-mch/articleshow/75814079.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
May 19, 2020||Business||Sensex tanks 1k pts as D-St turns cautious on stimulus||Mumbai: The rising number of Covid-19 cases in India and continuous foreign fund outflows weighed on the sensex on Monday, which closed 1,069 points — or 3.4% — lower at just above the 30k mark at 30,029. Critical brokerage house reports on the government’s stimulus package also made investors cautious about how much and how fast the boosters could help the economy bounce back from the current state. The day’s slide was led by financial stocks with HDFC Bank, HDFC, ICICI Bank, Kotak Bank and Axis Bank accounting most of the index’s fall, BSE data showed. The session also left investors poorer by nearly Rs 3.6 lakh crore, with the BSE’s market capitalisation now at Rs 119 lakh crore. One of the reasons for the sharp fall in the sensex is the continuous selling by foreign funds, market players said. In five sessions since Prime Minister Narendra Modi launched the government’s Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan on May 12 night, FPIs have net sold stocks worth about Rs 9,100 crore, or around $1.1 billion, official data showed. Prior to that in this month, the market had recorded net inflows of about $2.8 billion till May 12. One of the reasons for the wave of FPI outflows is that foreign brokerages have been critical of the government’s economic and fiscal stimulus packages worth about Rs 20 lakh crore, detailed over five days ending Sunday noon. Bernstein, one of the leading foreign brokerages, questioned the finance minister’s approach to the stimulus, saying it was not clear if the FM’s aim was to boost the economy or reach the Rs 20-lakh-crore milestone during the announcements. “While the package started on important aspects, the need to announce measures that add up to this top-down number made the entire package aimless, with several generic announcements, which should ideally have been a part of a normal economic agenda. Overall, we see it as a lost opportunity,” the Bernstein report said. “The plan, in our view, was a general economic agenda and lacked substantive decisions to support consumption, promote manufacturing …while urban and corporates (irrespective of impacts) were ignored. We believe that equity markets are likely to be less enthused with the package as it is less likely to support the economy in the near/medium term,” it said. According to Religare Broking VP (research) Ajit Mishra, the economic package largely focused on providing credit support and guarantees and somewhere failed to touch upon the immediate need to boost consumption. “Further, the rising number of cases is another factor that is constantly haunting the investors.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sensex-tanks-1k-pts-as-d-st-turns-cautious-on-stimulus/articleshow/75814085.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Kolkata||KMC bio-med waste collection twice a week||Kolkata: The KMC solid waste management department workers, along with specialized personnel from private agencies, will collect bio-medical waste from quarantined households every Tuesday and Friday. The drive will start later this week. TOI had reported that after the Centre’s revised home-isolation policy for mild and asymptomatic patients was accepted by the state, bio-medical waste disposal from these homes posed a challenge. A notice was sent to the KMC commissioner from the State Urban Development Agency on Monday requesting him to arrange for household collection of bio-medical waste. Six other municipal corporations — Bidhannagar, Asansol, Chandernagore, Durgapur, Howrah and Siliguri — will also start such collection soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kmc-bio-med-waste-collection-twice-a-week/articleshow/75814109.cms||Saikat Ray
May 19, 2020||Allahabad||Flight brings back locals stranded in UK||Varanasi: An Air India flight brought 82 citizens of Varanasi, including women and children, back to their city on Monday after remaining stranded in UK for months due to COVID-19 lockdown. They were sent to 14-day quarantine in different hotels. The LBS International Airport witnessed landing of first commercial flight since March 23 at 2.01 pm, when AI-112 flight carrying 123 passengers landed. While 82 passengers deboarded in Varanasi, 41 proceeded to Gaya in the same flight, which departed at 3.15 pm. ADM (protocol) Atul Kumar, director airport Akashdeep Mathur, regional tourism officer Kirtiman Srivastava, CISF commandant Subrat Jha and chief medical officer Dr V B Singh were present to ensure that all Covid-19 protocols are followed and passengers sent to quarantine. ADM (protocol) said hotels in four categories had been selected by officials to quarantine the passengers arriving from UK. Eagerly waiting for the flight, a local medical practitioner Dr P K Jindal said, “I am here to see my son, who is arriving from London. It was difficult time for us as he was stranded in UK for months. We are not allowed to go close, so we came to have a glimpse from far. We will remain in touch with him over phone till quarantine is over.” The families of other passengers were there and waved at their loves ones, when they were boarding buses to go to hotels. Meanwhile, the highways, especially, national highway-2 remained choked with buses and other vehicles carrying migrant labourers. Migrant labourers continued to arrive in trucks and officials ensured they travel to their native places in buses. As per records of movement of labourers maintained at Rohania and Badagaon dispatch centres, 3,453 migrants were sent to Mau, Azamgarh, Ballia, Deoria, Chandauli, Jaunpur, Ghazipur and other districts in 102 buses, said district magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma. Migrants from Bihar and Jharkhand were also sent to border by buses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/flight-brings-back-locals-stranded-in-uk/articleshow/75812982.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Udaipur||Udaipur hotel staff at risk as nurse tests +ve for Covid-19||UDAIPUR: The RTDC staff working at the Kajri Hotel is at high risk of getting infected as a male nurse, who had been staying in one of its rooms, was found positive on Sunday morning. More than 30 hours after the report came, neither the district administration nor the medical department collected their samples or conducted any screening. The worrying aspect is that the hotel staff has no accommodation on the premises and all employees live in rented accommodations in and around the city. The staff has been reporting for work and returning home without being tested for Covid-19. When approached for a comment, incharge for quarantine facilities Dr Rahul Jain said, “The medical staff housed in two separate quarantine facilities, hotels Kajri and Alka, are being shifted to other places. A cook from Alka hotel was found positive on Monday. Hence, we are taking samples of the staff at both these hotels. Some have been taken while the remaining would be taken soon.” The medical staff, however, was at the hotel till Monday evening. Manager of Kajri Hotel Sunil Mathur declined to give details about the occupants and said that he was out on tour to Dungarpur. Hotel Kajri is situated on Shastri Circle and was acquired by the district administration as an institutional quarantine facility for the medical staff of MB Government Hospital. Of the 63 rooms here, 55 were acquired on March 29. For the past 50 days, around 15 hotel staff and three casual workers have been attending the guests here. They have been cleaning the rooms and common area, changing linen frequently and extending hospitality. Three others from the medical staff staying at the hotels had tested positive in the past. On Sunday, a 30-year-old male nurse was found positive who was then admitted to the corona ward. Had it been in some residential colony, the entire area would have been sealed and close contacts of the positive case would have been quarantined too, but surprisingly, the Kajri staff continued to work like ordinary times. Even curfew was not imposed in the area. “The only protocol followed was that the room, which was occupied by the positive nurse on Sunday, was sanitised and locked, while around 38 people continue to occupy other rooms. Also, most of the hotel staff are above 50 years who are given no weekly offs and even their salaries are not being paid regularly,” a source said. Dr Ashok Aditya, incharge of the containment zone, said the guidelines were different for quarantine facilities and for public places.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/udaipur-hotel-staff-at-risk-as-nurse-tests-ve/articleshow/75815685.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Business||SoftBank Vision Fund loses $17.3 billion||BENGALURU: SoftBank Vision Fund, the biggest backer of startups in India, has reported a loss of $17.3 billion on its investments for the financial year ending March 31, 2020 as it took into account the impact of coronavirus. It said the pandemic may bankrupt 15 of its portfolio companies. SoftBank had already booked losses earlier in the year because of troubles at portfolio companies like WeWork and Uber. In the final quarter of the financial year, close to $9 billion of losses were driven by its broader consumer internet, ride-sharing and real estate portfolio as business took a Covid-19 hit. “Our unicorns (startups valued at over $1 billion) are facing serious challenges against the background of coronavirus,” said SoftBank founder Masayoshi Son. He added that out of 88 portfolio companies of Vision Fund, 15 can go bankrupt, a similar number can do well, while the remaining bulk will do “so and so”. Like Alibaba and Yahoo after the dotcom crash did well, he expects a few companies to account for 90% of the investment value. SoftBank also said that Alibaba founder Jack Ma, who has been cutting back his corporate commitments to focus on philanthropy, is leaving the board after 13 years. SoftBank’s $20-million investment in 2000 in Alibaba, which is still worth over $100 billion after several share sales, had catapulted Son into the world’s top investors. SoftBank did not specify the specific companies on which it has booked losses, but TOI had reported last month that it is writing down the value of its hospitality sector company Oyo, one of the sectors worst impacted by the slowdown. SoftBank has over a dozen portfolio companies in India and has invested more than $10 billion in the country, including in most valued startups like mobile payments major Paytm and ride-sharing major Ola. Vision Fund portfolio is now underwater as its $75-billion investment in 88 startups is currently worth $69.6 billion. Son also said that the firm has stopped its efforts to raise a Vision Fund 2 from external investors as the performance of the first fund is “not that great”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/softbank-vision-fund-loses-17-3bn/articleshow/75814218.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Patna||Patna: CBSE dates leave some happy, others anxious||PATNA: Students in the city gave mixed reactions on the CBSE’s decision to conduct the remaining Class X and XII board examinations, which was deferred due to the lockdown. “We have got ample time to prepare for the examinations. I am hopeful of doing extremely good in my geography paper,” said Class XII (Humanity) student Nilanjan. The pending exams would be conducted between July 1 and July 15. For Class XII, Home Science has been scheduled for July 1, Hindi Elective and Core for July 2, Computer Science for July 7, Business Studies for July 9 and Biotechnology for July 10. Geography and sociology papers will be held on July 11 and July 13 respectively. For Class X, Social Science paper will be held on July 1 and Science on July 2. Hindi and English papers will be held on July 10 and July 15 respectively. Nousheen Rahman, another Class XII student, said the lockdown certainly gave the students more than enough time for preparations. Few students, on the other hand, said the announcement of dates has made them anxious. Class XII student Priyanka Kumari said she will again have to study for the exams. “It’s like a mental pressure for me to study in such a situation. Besides, I have forgotten most of the things that I had learnt. However, I am happy that I will finally get over the exams and pressure,” she said. Vartika Bijay of Class X said her flow of taking the exams got ruined due to the lockdown. Vishesh Ranjan, a Class XII student, said: “Even though CBSE has issued guidelines, I am not sure whether the examination centres would abide by the same,” he said. Parents, however, are concerned about the safety of their wards. Anandpuri resident Anup Chatterjee said: “The first thing that hit my mind was the safety of my son. The current situation is very critical and I don’t want to take any risk regarding his health.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/cbse-dates-leave-some-happy-others-anxious/articleshow/75812850.cms||Archi Rani
May 19, 2020||Patna||‘E-Vidya’ evokes mixed response in Bihar||PATNA: The Centre’s decision to allow 100 top universities of the country to start online courses by month-end has evoked mixed response among the academics of the state. While some have welcomed the move, others have expressed their concern over the neglect of the state universities. Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Sunday launched the Prime Minister e-Vidya programme and announced that the top 100 universities based on the National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) would be permitted to launch online courses for students pursuing higher education. Welcoming the move, Federation of University Teachers’ Associations of Bihar working president Kanhaiya Bahadur Sinha observed that e-Vidya would compensate for the academic loss suffered by students during the lockdown period. He, however, pleaded for strengthening digital education facilities available in state’s colleges and universities in the larger interest of students belonging to remote areas. Patna University (PU) geology teacher and JD (U) MLC Ranbir Nandan expressed surprise over the fact that only 100 universities had been allowed to start online courses in the country. He regretted that not even one of the 17 conventional universities in Bihar had been selected under the scheme. “At least 103-year-old PU, which has infrastructure and competent faculty members, should have been allowed to launch online courses for the benefit of the local students,” Nandan told this newspaper on Monday. He added, “Bihar happens to be the second largest state in terms of population and, hence, the Centre should have awarded it some special package for betterment of its higher education institutions and introduction of online education.” State’s former higher education director Nageshwar Prasad Sharma opined that the financial package announced by the Union government would hardly do any good to the students of Bihar, most of whom were neither well-versed with the information technology tools nor could they afford to have the basic infrastructure required for the purpose at home. “Any short-term measure taken by the government to ensure uninterrupted education will not cut much ice,” he claimed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/e-vidya-evokes-mixed-response/articleshow/75812816.cms||B K Mishra
May 19, 2020||Patna||AIIMS-Patna doctors develop device to check aerosol transmission||PATNA: A team of doctors from the All India Institute of Medical Sciences-Patna (AIIMS-P) has developed a device to prevent aerosol transmission during transportation of Covid-19 patients who are on ventilation support. It is a modified ventilatory circuit designed and developed mainly to protect doctors, paramedical staff and drivers of ambulances transporting corona patients. The research work on this innovation was published in the journal of ‘Clinical Anaesthesia’, by Elsevier last week. AIIMS-P director Dr PK Singh said the new device is now also being used in the hospital. “If this modified circuit is manufactured in a large number, it would be of great use in all other hospitals engaged in testing and treatment of the Covid-19 pandemic,” Dr Singh said. Dr Amarjeet Kumar of the department of anaesthesia and a member of the research team said, “Critically ill patients with respiratory problems need ventilatory support. These patients are often moved from one place to another within the hospital like taking from ICU to operation theatres and wards or shifted to dedicated Covid hospitals by ambulance. During transportation, there are chances of aerosol release with expiration spread as patients are mostly intubated to help breathe easily. It is a low cost device that may be assembled from the accessories already available in hospitals. We have made, used and disposed at least five of this new device in a week.” “The accessories used for developing it includes Bain circuit, gloves, suction tube and a single chamber with underwater seal system containing 1% sodium hypochlorite solution which destroys the virus coming out with expired air and then released it to the atmosphere,” added Dr Amarjeet. Another member of the research team Dr Abhyuday Kumar said it was the fear of getting themselves infected in course of offering treatment that led to the development of this low cost device. “ Very often we hear of health workers getting infected in hospitals and then we discussed and developed this device. The research team included Dr Chandani Sinha, Dr Ajeet Kumar and Dr Neeraj Kumar,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/aiims-doctors-develop-device-to-check-aerosol-transmission/articleshow/75812763.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Business||E-tailers resume operations in all 3 zones||BENGALURU: E-commerce platforms like Amazon and Flipkart have started taking orders of both essential and non-essential items across the country, except in containment zones (hotspots within red zones). TOI had reported in its Monday edition that e-tailers were ready to finally start full operations in all three zones — red, orange and green. Amazon India started taking all orders from Monday morning across the country. Flipkart was live in Punjab and Andhra Pradesh, and later it was in the process of rolling out its services fully across other states like UP, Haryana and Rajasthan. Over the last two weeks, e-tailers have been selling non-essential orders like smartphones and electronics only in green and orange zones. An Amazon India spokesperson welcomed the government guidelines issued on Sunday evening, saying this will enable e-commerce to deliver a wider selection of products, while maintaining social distancing. “This will give a fillip to the 6 lakh retailers and MSMEs on our marketplace and help revive economic activity more broadly,” the spokesperson added. More on Covid-19 Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage Lockdown 3.0: What's allowed and what's not in the three zones It's time to mask up and stay safe: Join TOI's #MaskIndia campaign MHA's guidelines for home isolation Trust the newspaper for your daily verified news A Flipkart spokesperson said its team is providing on-ground support to sellers to help them resume operations swiftly and make products available for consumers. “In accordance with the latest government guidelines and directives, we will continue to work with local authorities, while serving customers, sellers through our safe supply chain,” it added. Snapdeal said around 65% of the total orders placed on its platform in the last 24 hours were from cities currently marked as red zones. Consumer demand may, however, continue to remain muted as customers continue to spend mostly for essential needs. E-commerce firms have been pushing the government to allow sale of non-essentials, like smartphones and electronics, in all zones since these contribute 85-90% of gross sales.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/e-tailers-resume-ops-in-all-3-zones/articleshow/75814282.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Business||RBI’s Rs 30,000 crore switch gets low response||MUMBAI: There were not many takers for RBI’s move on Monday to switch gilts having shorter residual maturity with the ones with medium and longer tenors. Compared to the Rs 30,000 crore that was on offer, gilts only worth about Rs 9,200 crore were offered and about Rs 7,550 crore, that’s about 25% of the total amount on offer, was accepted by the RBI for switch, the central bank’s data showed. Bond market players also pointed out that with the RBI offering gilts maturing on June 9, that is within less than a month from the date of switch, it meant the exercise was actually a government borrowing by another name. On Monday, the government, through the RBI had offered to take back gilts maturing on June 9 and at the same time offered the holders gilts worth Rs 26,000 crore, equally divided between the ones maturing in 2024 and 2030 and another Rs 4,000-crore worth of gilts maturing in 2060. In the two earlier switches in late 2019, the RBI had offered to take back gilts maturing over several years and not only during the same year. RBI’s database showed that on June 9, gilts worth about Rs 52,868 crore is up for maturity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/rbis-rs-30k-cr-switch-gets-low-response/articleshow/75813937.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Business||Swiggy to lay off 1,100 employees||BENGALURU: Online food and grocery delivery player Swiggy said it will let go of about 1,100 employees across functions and cities as its “core food delivery business has been severely impacted” due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The layoffs are among Swiggy’s 8,000 full-time employees. Swiggy’s delivery fleet comprised over 2 lakh contracted staff at the end of 2019. “We will have to reduce our expenses such that we can achieve profitability with a smaller order volume than hitherto planned,” Swiggy co-founder and CEO Sriharsha Majety told employees in an email on Monday, adding it will scale or shut down “adjacent businesses” like cloud kitchens and cut costs, including office infrastructure, to build a leaner organisation. Swiggy is offering laid-off employees “at least” 3 months of salary and additional months of pay depending on the years spent at the company. It is offering medical, accident, and term insurance till the end of 2020, while also relaxing terms of exercising equity options. While Swiggy has raised $156 million this year and has “sufficient runway”, online food delivery volumes are down 70-80%. Swiggy’s rival Zomato also cut its workforce by 13% or 520 employees last week. Both Zomato and Swiggy have been aggressively expanding their grocery delivery operations as they look to utilise their reach among millions of customers and fleet of delivery executives. “While this crisis has impacted our core business negatively, there is no doubt that we are now at an inflection point for the penetration of digital commerce and home delivery in India,” Majety added in his email.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/swiggy-to-lay-off-1100-employees/articleshow/75814249.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Business||Goldman sees -45% Q2 GDP growth, jump of 20% in Q3||MUMBAI: India’s GDP growth during the July-September quarter could slump to a dismal -45% on a quarter-on-quarter basis thanks to Covid-19-related economic disruptions. However, the rate is expected to jump sharply by 20% in the following quarter, a report by global financial major Goldman Sachs said. Economists at Goldman Sachs are predicting a 5% negative growth for India’s GDP. Most global banks have also retained a negative growth for the current year despite the government’s recent fiscal package. “We are making further significant adjustments to our GDP forecasts for India,” the Goldman Sachs report noted. “We now forecast GDP growth of -45% (q-o-q, annualised) in Q2, compared to -20% previously. However, we have upgraded our expectations of a rebound in Q3, with a 20% (quarter-on-quarter, annualised) GDP gain. For Q4 and Q1 of the next year, we keep our projections unchanged at 14% and 6.5%, respectively. Our estimates now imply that real GDP falls by 5% in FY21,” it said. “The deeper trough in our Q2 forecasts reflects the extremely poor economic data we have received so far for March and April, and the continued lockdown measures, which are among the most stringent across the world.” For calendar year 2020, Goldman Sachs estimates a negative GDP growth of 3.6%. Japan-based global financial services major Nomura expects India’s GDP growth rate to fall by 5% in 2020. “The government has aimed for maximum bang for minimum buck, with most of the relief either regulatory in nature or reflecting in its contingent liabilities rather than explicit budgetary support,” a note by Nomura said. “Meanwhile, it has used the cover of the Covid-19 crisis to plough through long pending, politically sensitive structural reforms. As a result, the package may fall short of mitigating the near-term existential crisis for businesses and workers, but is better designed to improve India’s medium-term growth potential and attract long-term risk capital.” UBS, another leading global financial services house, expects downside risks to its -0.4% fall in GDP growth rate in FY21 and a reversal to a 7% jump in FY22, its economists said “faster implementation of structural reforms discussed in the (government’s) support package will likely help support India’s potential growth”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/goldman-sees-45-q2-gdp-growth-jump-of-20-in-q3/articleshow/75814164.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Surat||Dahej police’s gesture wins hearts of migrants at Jolva village||SURAT: Things have returned to normal at Jolva village in Bharuch’s industrial belt of Dahej which was scene of unrest for a couple of days when irate migrant workers blocked Bharuch-Dahej highway and pelted stones at police vehicles. A humanitarian approach by police to feed about 7,000 migrant workers of Uttar Pradesh and Bihar stranded in the village twice a day has calmed them down, who until now were on the warpath with the demand that trains be arranged for them to go their hometowns. The migrant unrest in Jolva village started on May 14 and continued for two more days, forcing police to burst several teargas. Dahej police have been visiting Jolva village for the last three days to feed the migrants. AP Gohil, police inspector of Dahej, told TOI, “Work and wages of these migrant workers have dried up due to extended lockdown and they now want to return home as early as possible. When we apprehended a few migrant workers, they complained they were not getting food to eat. We approached owners of industrial units in Dahej and with their financial aid are feeding 7,000 migrants in Jolva twice a day. Also, we have distributed about 700 grocery kits.” “We have developed a bond with the migrants now. We are sure they won’t indulge in violence and wait patiently for their turn to board the shramik special trains,” Gohil said. Rajendrasinh Chudasama, superintendent of police, Bharuch, said, “We tried to understand the problem of migrants. We learnt that they don’t have money to eat and all they wanted was to go home. We immediately decided to start giving meals twice a day to them until the time they board the trains to their hometowns in different states.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/dahej-polices-gesture-wins-hearts-of-migrants-at-jolva-village/articleshow/75813964.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Surat||Special trains for stuck Gujarati migrants sought||SURAT: At a time when the migrants from other states are being transported to their home towns in Shramik special trains, the railway board members have urged the Ministry of Railways for operating special trains for the Gujarati migrants stranded in different cities in Gujarat and Maharashtra. Railway board members stated that scores of people from Gujarat and Maharashtra are stranded in different cities and they want to return to their home cities and towns in Gujarat. Member of Zonal Railway Users Consultative Committee (ZRUCC), Rakesh Shah told TOI, “It is the need of the hour to facilitate the transportation of the Gujarati migrants stranded in various cities in Gujarat and Maharashtra. Special trains must be operated from Surat to Okha, Rajkot, Jamnagar, Mahuva, Gandhidham, Mumbai etc. for the safe transportation of the people.” Shah added, “There is a limitation of 30 passengers in the each of the buses operated by GSRTC. A special train can accommodate 1,700 passengers and it will be easier for the transportation of thousands of people stranded in different cities within the state.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/special-trains-for-stuck-gujarati-migrants-sought/articleshow/75811473.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Rajkot||Amreli gets unseasonal rain for third day||RAJKOT: Heavy rain lashed villages of Savarkundla and Khambha talukas of Amreli district late Monday evening. The showers were accompanied by strong winds which blew away roofs of some of the houses. A canopy erected at the check-post near Bhoringda village of Savarkundla, to screen people coming from other districts, collapsed due to heavy wind. People going to Rajula, Jafrabad, Savarkundla and Liliya were screened at this checkpost. The canopy sheltered the cops and paramedical staff from the scorching sun while they performed their duties. It was also used as temporary kitchen to provide food to the people. As the canopy blew away in the wind, the people had to take shelter in a nearby temple. Sudden downpour accompanied by wind and hail stones also lashed Kantala, Borala, Pipalva villages of Khambha taluka, where large number of mango orchards are located. Rainfall was also reported from Lathi and Babra. This was the third consecutive day when Amreli has been receiving unseasonal rain.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/amreli-gets-unseasonal-rain-for-third-day/articleshow/75813928.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Rajkot||Iranian drug smuggler dies of heart attack||RAJKOT: One of the nine Iranian drug traffickers who were arrested in March last year with 100kg heroin worth Rs 500 crore died of cardiac arrest on Monday morning. Police said Dor Mohmmed Naqib Raees (58) developed chest pain, following which he was taken to Rajkot Civil Hospital where doctors declared him dead on arrival. “The Gujarat Anti-Terrorist Squad and the Indian Coast Guard had arrested Raees and eight other Iranian drug smugglers on March 26, 2019 along with a huge caché of contraband in a boat off Porbandar coast,” said V S Vanzara, inspector with Pradyumannagar police station. Raees was first lodged in Porbandar Central Jail from where he was transferred to Rajkot Central Jail on June 22, 2019. The police have sent Raees’ body for postmortem. He was earlier taken to a hospital in Ahmedabad for a health check-up before the lockdown was imposed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/iranian-drug-smuggler-dies-of-heart-attack/articleshow/75811801.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Patna||SC/ST MLAs form steering committee||PATNA: The Scheduled Caste (SC) and Scheduled Tribe (ST) MLAs in the state, cutting across political parties, formed a steering committee on Monday to carry forward their struggle for protecting the constitutionally guaranteed quota benefits. “Of the 40 SC/ST MLAs in the state, 32 of them held a meeting on the state assembly premises to decide the future course of action, which was presided over by former CM and HAM (S) chief Jitan Ram Manjhi,” state industries minister Shyam Rajak said. The last time they met was on May 8 under the chairmanship of Rajak himself, when they decided to pursue their four demands, i.e. appeal to the Centre to put all the SC/ST-related quota benefits guaranteed by the Constitution in the 9th schedule, plea for formation of All India Judicial Service Commission, filling up the backlogs of reserved posts and quota benefits in private sector. Rajak said that separate letters were sent to the President and PM spelling out their demands. “After the lifting of lockdown, concrete steps will be taken involving SC/ST MLAs of all political parties spread across the state. In the first step, separate letters will be sent to all the 1,082 SC/ST MLAs in the country, requesting them to take the demands to the larger SC/ ST communities,” Rajak added. “Accordingly, a state-level steering committee was formed on Monday. It has been christened as Bihar Legislature SC/ST Reservation Protection Struggle Forum. In due course, it will be made a registered body,” Rajak added. “There is no president or convener of the committee. All the SC/ST MLAs are members of the committee,” Rajak said adding that the meeting held on Monday has authorised him to prepare the by-laws. The next meeting will be held on May 28, to discuss the by-laws framed and also the amendments needed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/sc/st-mlas-form-steering-committee/articleshow/75812909.cms||Abhay Singh
May 19, 2020||Patna||Maximize makhana, litchi production: Bihar CM||PATNA: CM Nitish Kumar on Monday asked the officials to maximize the production and marketing of makhana (fox nuts), Shahi litchi and honey in state to increase income of farmers and get the maximum possible advantage from the economic stimulus package announced by Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman recently. “Makhana, Shahi litchi and honey have unlimited scopes in Bihar. Give special focus on maximizing their production. Also make a strategy for proper branding of these items,” Nitish told the officials at review meeting as to how Bihar could be benefited from the announcements made by the Centre under the economic stimulus package. Nitish said the Union government is now going to make certain reforms in agriculture marketing sector. “In Bihar, we abolished the State Agriculture Produce Marketing Act in 2006 and gave freedom to our farmers for choosing market for their produce. The Centre is now adopting the Bihar model. It is matter of happiness for us,” he said. Deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi and chief secretary Deepak Kumar besides ministers and officials attended the meeting through videoconferencing from their offices. “Our main aim is to have at least one Bihari cuisine in every Indian’s plate every day. Makhana and its byproducts can fulfil this aim. It will also help in meeting the targets fixed under the state’s agriculture road map,” Nitish said. The CM asked the agriculture department officials to increase the area of makhana farming and also take necessary steps for proper processing of the product in the state. Nitish also asked the officials to make an elaborate plan to ensure that makhana trade was done from Bihar itself. “This will improve the state’s economy,” he said. The CM said the agriculture officials should also focus on increasing production of Shahi litchi, honey, chiniya banana, mango, katarni rice and methe oil to increase the income of farmers and improve the state’s economy. He asked the rural development department officials to request the Centre for doubling the limit of maximum mandays from 100 to 200 days in a year under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/maximize-makhana-litchi-production-cm/articleshow/75812728.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Delhi||Have an idea to sell? DU will take it up for research work||NEW DELHI: Whether you are a jobless youth, a student or a professional, Delhi University will welcome you with open arms if you have an idea to sell irrespective of your education and geographical background. DU’s first-of-its-kind initiative, Research Without Barriers, is likely to change the way research activities are looked at in Indian institutions and also take it to everyone’s doorstep. To ensure that research isn’t confined to the traditional domain of knowledge, the varsity is going to sponsor all kinds of projects from anyone for four years under the “Institution of Eminence” scheme. The research could be a fresh project with a promising outcome culminating in high-quality papers, patents, prototypes, etc. The proposals should have a well-defined expected outcome to be achieved within a specific period. Professor Yogesh Tyagi, DU vice-chancellor, said, “This is a unique experiment to tap talent. DU has a huge responsibility towards the nation and its resources and expertise shouldn’t be restricted to just its students and faculty. This initiative will widen the catchment area, change the way research is perceived and carried out and democratise the arena.” Under this initiative, DU has invited worldwide participation and partnership of academicians, researchers, practitioners and others from any genre of knowledge. “There is no dearth of talent. But our institutional research is straitjacketed, which we need to open. A large number of individuals are endowed with the finest ideas that can be transformed into quality products,” added Tyagi. For science, interdisciplinary and applied sciences and medical sciences domains, the projects can have a maximum duration of four years, while for mathematical sciences, arts, social sciences, applied social sciences, humanities, commerce, management, education and law, the projects may be awarded for a maximum duration of three years. The Union ministry of human resource development will be providing financial assistance to the tune of Rs 1,000 crore to each public educational institution accorded the Institution of Eminence status. DU is one of the 15 institutions on the list.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/have-an-idea-to-sell-du-will-take-it-up-for-research-work/articleshow/75815179.cms||Manash Pratim Gohain
May 19, 2020||Patna||Lockdown 4.0 in Bihar: Some welcome relaxations, others seek curbs||PATNA: The fourth phase of the Covid-19 lockdown has begun with certain relaxations in terms of economic activities in the state. Utensil shops, sports complexes and educational institutes will be allowed to open with social distancing norms and other restrictions in place. While no spectator will be allowed in sports complexes, coaching centres and schools will only be opened for the faculty members. Majority of the restrictions, including night curfew, curb on movement of public transport and opening of shopping complexes and cinema halls, will, however, continue to remain in force. Patna district magistrate (DM) Kumar Ravi told this newspaper on Monday afternoon that fresh Covid-19 cases were restricted to certain areas of the city. “A number of economic activities, which were not permitted during the first two phases of the lockdown, will start again,” he said. Asked about the relaxations in use of public transport, the DM replied that Patna was in the ‘red zone’ with around 19 containment areas. “Allowing movement of public transport can worsen the situation. Therefore, we cannot allow autos or buses to ply on roads for the time being. Only those with private vehicles can move across the city,” Ravi said. Meanwhile, several sectors hailed the decision of restarting economic activities. Bihar Players’ Association president Mrityunjay Tiwari said, “Many sportsmen have not been able to practise on ground and train themselves for the last two months. Now that sports complexes have been allowed to open, we will ensure that everyone maintains distance and follows all the guidelines.” Manish Kumar Singh, who reopened his utensil shop at Bandar Bagicha after a long time, asked only four of his employees to rejoin on Monday and took “all precautionary measures”. Since the hospitality sector continues to remain non-functional during lockdown 4.0, many hotels have planned to start home delivery services. Brajesh Kumar, an executive at a city hotel, said, “Keeping the current situation in mind, we have decided to begin doorstep delivery of food soon.” Other sectors, which have still not been allowed to function in the fourth phase of the lockdown, are disappointed with the government’s decision. “If the government is allowing certain economic activities despite the Covid-19 crisis, they should restart public transport too. We are ready to follow the necessary guidelines,” claimed Bihar State Autorickshaw Drivers’ Association general secretary Rajkumar Jha. Residents, on the other hand, are scared that the relaxations might lead to an increase in Covid-19 cases. Kadamkuan resident Sanjay Kumar pointed out that lifting certain restrictions was fine, but “the condition may deteriorate in the coming days”. Similar was the reaction of Tanushree, a resident of Nala Road, who urged the government to impose complete lockdown again.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/lockdown-4-0-some-welcome-relaxations-others-seek-curbs/articleshow/75812741.cms||Archi Rani
May 19, 2020||Patna||Call teachers to schools, colleges thrice a week: Patna DM||PATNA: The decision of the Patna district administration to allow schools and coaching institutes to function three times a week so that teachers can create online content has evoked mixed response. District magistrate (DM) Kumar Ravi told this newspaper on Monday, “Schools, colleges and coaching centres have been allowed to call a limited number of teachers thrice a week on Monday, Wednesday and Friday for preparing PowerPoint presentations, videos and study materials.” St Michael’s High School principal Fr Armstrong Edison appreciated his teachers’ efforts in preparing online study materials for the students. He said, “We are, however, planning to call our teachers to school so that they can improve the quality of the materials they are using.” Teachers, on the other hand, are not keen on rejoining their respective institutes at the moment. Piyush Sahay, BBA department coordinator at St Xavier’s Institute of Management and Technology, pointed out, “Keeping in mind the rise in number of corona cases, I am not comfortable going to college right now.” The owner of a coaching centre on Frazer Road said, “Calling teachers and students to the institute may increase the risk of getting infected by the virus.” Even if some institutes want their teachers to rejoin, they are helpless. Litera Valley School principal Sharat Kumar said, “Most of our teachers use buses, which are restricted during the lockdown.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/call-teachers-to-schools-colleges-thrice-a-week-dm/articleshow/75812762.cms||Archi Rani
May 19, 2020||Patna||Cyclone Amphan likely to impact Bihar||PATNA: Cyclone Amphan, now brewing over south Bay of Bengal, has intensified into a very severe cyclonic storm and is likely to develop into an extremely severe one on Tuesday generating high wind speed. It is likely to trigger moderate to heavy rain across Bihar in the next four days. According to daily weather bulletin issued by the India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Monday evening, the state is expected to witness thunderstorm accompanied by lightning and gusty winds (30-60kmph) at isolated places from Tuesday till Friday. The intensity of thunderstorm activity is likely to increase on Wednesday. As per another bulletin issued by the Patna meteorological centre on Monday, rainfall accompanied by thunderstorm is likely at many places in eastern parts of the state, north-eastern and south-eastern districts on May 20 and 21. Central parts of Bihar, which include Patna, are also likely to witness rainfall with thunderstorm on Wednesday and Thursday. Private weather agency Skymet weather has termed the cyclone Amphan (pronounced Um-Pun) as the first super cyclone of this century. IMD in its special bulletin issued on Monday evening stated that super cyclonic storm Amphan was situated over west-central and adjoining central parts of south Bay of Bengal. “It is very likely to move nearly northwards for some more time and then north- north-eastwards across north-west Bay of Bengal and cross West Bengal- Bangladesh coasts between Digha in West Bengal and Hatiya in Bangladesh close to Sunderbans during the afternoon or evening of May 20 as an extremely severe cyclonic storm with maximum sustained speed of 165- 75kmph, gusting to 185kmph,” he said. Officials at the Patna meteorological centre said that as extremely severe cyclonic storm is expected to make landfall near Digha coast in West Bengal, it is likely to have substantial influence over Bihar. “As Amphan is likely to make a landfall on the evening of May 19, most parts of Bihar are also likely to witness cloud cover from the same night,” an official at Patna meteorological centre said. Deliberating on the expected weather conditions in Bihar, the official said, “North-eastern districts, particularly Araria, Kishanganj, Katihar and Purnia are likely to witness thunderstorm activities along with gusty winds on May 20 and 21. Several places in north Bihar are likely to witness thunderstorm activities with medium to heavy rainfall, while southern parts of the state are likely to witness cloudy weather and light showers at isolated places,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/amphan-likely-to-impact-bihar/articleshow/75812925.cms||Piyush Tripathi
May 19, 2020||Mysuru||Homecoming migrants sneak into villages, foil containment plans||Mysuru: Across districts, officials are struggling to keep track of residents returning from other states, and the fear of the homecoming migrants being carriers of Covid-19 has been weighing on their minds. In Alur in Hassan, the district administration’s worst fears came true, much to their chagrin, when it emerged that three members of a family had sneaked into the village slipping under the officials’ radar. The trio subsequently tested positive for Covid-19 infection. The authorities received information about the family having entered Alur from the residents of the village. They immediately collected throat swab samples of the trio, which were dispatched for examination. When the results confirmed that they were infected, all three of them were shifted to the government’s quarantine facility. This is the first instance of migrants gaining illegal entry and testing positive for the fatal infection being reported in the Old Mysore region. A 33-year-old man drove the truck the family used to travel from Mumbai, while his wife and three-year-old daughter lay hidden in the vehicle. Hassan superintendent of police R Srinivasa Gowda said that cops at checkposts were subjecting all vehicles to a thorough inspection. “The man’s wife and daughter were concealed beneath a tarpaulin sheet, which is how they escaped detection. Once they entered the district, the man drove the truck directly to the village,” Gowda said. The trio is among the six Covid-19 cases reported in Hassan district on Monday. On the other hand, Mysuru’s 18-day-long clean streak came to an end on Monday with a 46-year-old man, who had returned to the Heritage City from Mumbai last week, testing positive. The patient, a resident of KR Nagar taluk, in question had been quarantined at a government facility after returning from Mumbai. Kodagu, the last ‘Green Zone’ district in the region, too has not been spared. The hilly district reported its first case in 60 days with a 45-year-old woman, who returned to Madikeri, her hometown in Kodagu from Mumbai, being confirmed infected. She had returned to Madikeri on May 16, and had been shifted to the quarantine facility without delay, said Kodagu deputy commissioner Annies Kanmani Joy. Mysuru’s immediate neighbour, Mandya, meanwhile, reported 17 cases on Monday. However, all the individuals confirmed infected are already in quarantine, said Mandya DC MV Venkatesh. “All the individuals were labourers working in various cities across Maharashtra, and had returned to Mandya recently. Of the 17, 13 are residents of KR Pet taluk and four are from Keelara village in Mandya taluk,” Venkatesh added. Vigilant villagers in Mandya have been reporting those entering the district at porous borders to the officials. This has helped the district administration place those sneaking into Mandya illegally in quarantine. Some of those who entered illegally have tested positive. “There is no reason for residents to panic. We are stringently enforcing isolation,” Venkatesh added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/homecoming-migrants-sneak-into-villages-foil-containment-plans/articleshow/75812858.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Mysuru||Helpline to help kids cope with lockdown trauma||Mysuru: The biggest victims of the pandemic are children with several side-effects on their physical and psychological well-being, say experts. Fearing that children may need more counselling due to increased cases of child abuse, anxiety, trafficking and lockdown trauma, the Karnataka State Commission for Protection of Child Rights (KCPCR) has launched a dedicated helpline. Under the new arrangement, the state has been divided into 7 divisions which will be taken care of by the commission members, coordinators and district child protection officers. The first lockdown saw Child Helpline 1098 flooded with complaints on child marriages in villages. KCPCR chairman Antony Sebastian, says the commission is expecting to see a spike in cases of violation of child rights in the post lockdown scenario. "From child trafficking, to child marriages, child labourers, school drop out, children are likely to face a lot of emotional issues. The financial setback to parents is sure to affect children too. To ensure that children will not face any problems due to Covid-19 related challenges, we launched this helpline. Once the complaint is registered our members, coordinators and officials from various government departmenst will extend necessary help to the children," he explained. Children who need help and public can contact 080 47181177 which operates with IVR support from 10 am to 5pm. According to child rights activist G Nagasihma Rao, the lockdown period saw the helpline flooded with complaints. "This helpline has been launched in convergence with various government departments and so is bound to be effective," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/helpline-to-help-kids-cope-with-lockdown-trauma/articleshow/75812071.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Kolkata||Reunion with kin, across plexiglass||Kolkata: Emotional scenes played out at the Kolkata airport foyer on Monday afternoon with the passengers from Dhaka reuniting with their families, albeit with a plexiglass shield in between. Families gathered at the glass barricade beside Gate 5A to see their kin and spoke to them over the phone. “I saw my daughter after seven months. What if we were separated by glass? At least I could see her. I even took a photograph of her from outside,” said Arshia Amolia who waited at the airport for more than three hours to catch a glimpse of her daughter. Amolia and her husband even reached the Broad Street hotel, where their daughter was to stay, ahead of the special bus that ferried her there. But everyone was not as lucky. Sishir Ghosh, a doctor, was busy at a Ranaghat hospital and couldn’t come to see his son Sounak, a medical student who returned on Monday. Sounak has opted to stay at a government quarantine centre in Rajarhat. “We are eagerly waiting to meet Sounak after a fortnight. There is no scope to meet him now, otherwise, I would have come down,” said Ghosh. Behala resident Pradyut Saha was among the firsts to reach the airport even though he knew there was no scope to see his sons — Prithviit and Promit — who were returning home after almost six months. “Even if we can’t bring them home now, at least I know they are in the city and are safe. That’s enough for us,” the businessman said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/reunion-with-kin-across-plexiglass/articleshow/75814067.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
May 19, 2020||Patna||Govt bid to ease pain of migrants||PATNA: The influx of migrant workers from different states continued on Monday even as the state government initiated strict measures to restrict their movement on national highways and other important roads on foot. Those found walking were intercepted by cops and traffic personnel and subsequently send to their destinations in vehicles. Akhilesh Kumar, a deputy collector, deployed at Patna Zero Mile turning said on Monday, “We have been on duty since morning. A little over 300 people have been sent to their home towns in buses and trucks from this point since morning.” The official said that food packets, fruits and water bottles were provided to returning migrant workers. “While majority of the migrants are sent to Danapur from where they are sent to their respective districts, some are allowed to board the vehicles at this traffic post,” he added. Mukul Singh, Dhananjay Kumar and Subodh Kumar, who were waiting for a vehicle for Siwan, were allowed to board a bus for Gopalganj. “They will be sent to Siwan from Gopalganj as we have no direct bus for Siwan right now,” a police officer said. The police officer said returning migrant workers were escorted to nearby bus stops and sent to their respective destinations soon after they alighted from trains. However, a few of them complained that they were dropped by the drivers of the buses or trucks midway and they have to walk on foot to reach homes. A number of migrant workers were waiting for vehicles for Sitamarhi, Muzaffarpur, East Champaran and Darbhanga near the Zero Mile turning in Patna on Monday afternoon. “The new system has been put in place for the last three days. Now you will not find any migrant worker walking on the road on foot,” the police officer said. Surveillance on inter-state check posts has also been stepped up. Kaimur district magistrate Nawal Kishore Choudhary said that patrolling has been intensified on NH-2 to ensure that no migrant workers are seen walking on foot. Notably, chief minister Nitish Kumar at a review meeting had recently asked the officials to prevent migrant workers from walking on national highways and railway tracks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/govt-bid-to-ease-pain-of-migrants/articleshow/75812800.cms||Ramashankar
May 19, 2020||Rajkot||Time stands still for Morbi’s clock units||Rajkot: The place that popularized the concept of time with its low-cost wall clocks is now itself bidding time. Staring at a bleak future, Morbi’s famous wall clock industry fears that around 30% units may stop ticking altogether if demands do not come their way before Diwali. Along with the world, time came to standstill under the lockdown for the nearly 100 clock manufacturing units since March 21. Despite the district being in the green zone, its units here could not start work from lack of desired quantity of work orders. The industry employing more then 15,000 women enjoys 75 percent share of India’s wall clock manufacturing industry. It had a turnover of Rs 1000 crore and manufacture nearly 1.5 lakh units per day. President of Morbi Clock and Parts Manufacturing Association, Shashank Dangi said, “We have women workers coming from nearby villages. They commute in local chakkda rickshaws. However, now under the lockdown restrictions, these are allowed to transport only 2-3 persons instead of the earlier 8-10 people, making the higher rates unaffordable for these women.” “The major use of wall clocks is for gifts in marriages. Till the marriage season doesn’t start again we don’t expect to get orders. We believe that we will not start getting orders before Diwali and by that time 30 percent units will declare bankruptcy,” Dangi added. While a few units started work with 25-30 percent manufacturing capacity, industrialists claim that some of the units are located in congested place where social distancing norms cannot be followed. Owner of Rikon clock manufacturing company, Deepak Mehta said, “The major problem is commuting from one district to other. Many factory owners and even some employees live in Rajkot who are not being allowed to travel to Morbi now.” Box: Hope hinges high on exports Amid the bleak scenario, the only silver lining is that Morbi’s clock manufactures are expecting boost in exports. While only five percent clocks worth around Rs 5 crore per month is exported by Morbi now, unit owners hope to bite a bigger chunk of business from China’s pie. Director of Ajanta-Orpat group, Nevil Patel, said, “The countries traditionally importing clocks and calculators from China now looking towards India. We are getting huge inquiries from European and other countries. We expect that the export will be increased by 30 to 40 percent by the end of current financial year.” Ajanta-Orpat exports clocks, calculators and home appliances in 45 countries across the globe. Managing director of Sonam clocks, Jayesh Shah too echoed the same sentiment and said that they are expecting to get good export orders in next couple of months.GFX points Morbi’s time tellers80: Number of clock units 1.50 lakh piece: Wall clock production per day Rs 1,000 crore: Annual turnover 18,000: Total employment capacity16,000: Total number of women employees 75 %: Morbi's share in India's clock industry||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/time-stands-still-for-morbis-clock-units/articleshow/75811391.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
May 19, 2020||Business||BSE, NSE cut SME listing fee by 25%||MUMBAI: Stock exchanges have come forward to help the SME segment, the business group affected the most because of the Covid-19 pandemic. BSE and NSE have both announced a 25% cut in annual listing fees for all SMEs in fiscal year 2021. Currently, there are about 530 SMEs listed on the two bourses together. At present, the BSE charges an annual listing fee of Rs 25,000 or 0.1% of the market capitalisation of the SME, whichever is lower. In the NSE, the fee ranges from Rs 10,000 to Rs 45,000, depending on the company’s market capitalisation. An NSE release said SMEs have been hit hard by the stoppage of economic activity due to the Covid-19 pandemic. “Some SMEs are under enormous financial stress to meet their obligations. During this difficult time, the NSE is committed to supporting the government in the battle against the pandemic and in providing assistance to alleviate the difficulties faced by the ecosystem,” the release said. Calling SMEs as the backbone of the economy, Ajay Thakur, head, BSE SME & Startups, said that its decision to slash listing fee, along with the stimulus package announced by the government for SMEs, is expected to help in reviving these companies and “also encourage thousands of SMEs to go for listing”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/bse-nse-cut-sme-listing-fee-by-25/articleshow/75814115.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Two more weeks of isolation but happy to be home||KOLKATA: As the Vande Bharat flight from Bangladesh landed in Kolkata at 12.23pm on Monday, the 169 passengers on board heaved a sigh of relief, elated to be back home from a foreign land, where they had been stranded for over two months. Walking out of the terminal, some even broke down on seeing their families after so many weeks. However, there were some for whom, the prospect of staying at a government quarantine centre for the next couple of weeks overshadowed the joy of homecoming. Among those who returned by the Airbus A321 flight, 64 people chose to pay and check into hotels to stay in isolation, while 105 others opted for the government quarantine facilities; not all seemed happy with the arrangements at the free isolation centres. After their mandatory tests and sanitization protocol got over, the flyers headed for buses, organized by the government, to travel to hotels and quarantine centres. Some hotels also sent their own vehicles to bring the guests. Even though the returnees will not be able to meet their families at the hotel for the next two weeks, they feel happy to be at least back in their city. “It is a relief to be finally back home. Once the lockdown was announced, almost everyone in our hostel left. I was the only Indian girl stranded. I kept writing to the Indian embassy and Bengal as well as the central governments, and our prayers were finally answered last week. The arrangements at the Kolkata airport have been top-notch,” said Madiha Amolia (21), a third-year student at Pioneer Dental College in Dhaka and a resident of Park Circus. Behala residents and medical students Prithvijit (23) Promit Saha (21) had even written to home minister Amit Shah for their return. “Evacuation flights had started heading to Delhi and Mumbai from Dhaka but no flight was announced for Kolkata. But thanks to the Indian high commission and the Indian government, we have been rescued. We received a VIP treatment here and we are thankful to the government,” said Promit, a third-year medical student. He and his brother will be at a Broad Street hotel. Sk Azhar, a fourth-year student at Delta Medical College, will be at the Dankuni quarantine centre before heading for his home in Burdwan. Happy, he said, “There are 70 beds though we are only 23 of us here. The food is good and there are air coolers, besides fans.” Azhar said they were even given fruits and other dishes for iftar. But not all were satisfied. Beliaghata resident Atanu Chatterjee, who works as a product development officer at a major garments retailer in Dhaka, said the quarantine facility near Science City made him wonder whether he was better off in Bangladesh. “Sixty of us have been put in a room with one washroom. It’s extremely hot but there’s no AC,” Chatterjee said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/2-more-weeks-of-isolation-but-happy-to-be-home/articleshow/75814143.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
May 19, 2020||Surat||Two dupe migrants by charging four times the ticket fares to UP||SURAT: Pandesara police detained two persons on Monday for allegedly selling tickets for the shramik special trains for migrant workers at much higher rates. Cops’ action follows after a video of the accused went viral on social media. The miscreant duo was taking advantage of the migrants’ desperation to reach their native states. Cops registered an offence against Dinanth Maurya and Vinay Maurya for selling each ticket to Uttar Pradesh for more than Rs 2,000. “The accused are not authorised persons for selling tickets and were demanding almost four times the actual price of the ticket. Police have detained the two accused and investigation is continue to find out if more people are involved in the racket,” said a police officer at Pandesara police station. In the video a number of migrant workers are seen standing in queue since Sunday evening and at around 2 am on Monday night in Gujarat Housing Board in Pandesara. The migrant workers, who claim in the video that they paid Rs 2,200 to Rs 2,800 for tickets but did not get any, fought with the accused demanding tickets to be given to them immediately since the accused continued to collect money. A complaint was lodged by Ajay Maurya, one of the persons who was charged Rs 5,600 for two tickets to Sultanpur in UP. The accused allegedly collected Rs 16,800 for six tickets to UP from another worker Vishal Saroj. The accused are booked under various sections of Indian Penal Code including for cheating, criminal breach of trust, provocation that can breach public peace and negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous. The accused were booked under sections of Epidemic Diseases Act as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/two-dupe-migrants-by-charging-four-times-the-ticket-fares-to-up/articleshow/75811550.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Rajkot||Rajkot: Spotted deer, three rabbits shot dead near Wild Ass Sanctuary||PALANPUR: Carcasses of a spotted deer and three rabbits were found outside the Wild Ass Sanctuary near Dhokavada village in Santalpur taluka of Patan district on Sunday late night. The deer being a scheduled I species and rabbits falling under schedule IV of the Wildlife Protection Act, the forest department has registered a case of poaching against unidentified persons. Range forest officer Z P Vaghela said, “We have completed the postmortem by a panel of veterinarians. The animals were killed using pellet gun. We have recovered iron pellet from each animal’s body.” The carcasses were found late on Sunday’s night near the Wild Ass Sanctuary survey No 456, during patrolling. “We have also recovered a abandoned motorcycle, which is believed to be of the poachers. They abandoned the vehicle before fleeing,” said Vaghela. He said the poachers will soon be traced using the registration number of the abandoned motorcycle. Vaghela said that there were about 25 spotted deers in the sanctuary area under his jurisdiction.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/spotted-deer-three-rabbits-shot-dead-near-wild-ass-sanctuary/articleshow/75811742.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Rajkot||Unseasonal rain lash Amreli villages||RAJKOT: Heavy rain lashed villages of Savarkundla and Khambha talukas of Amreli district late Monday evening. The showers were accompanied by strong winds which blew away roofs of some of the houses. A canopy erected at the check-post near Bhroingda village of Savrkundla to screen people coming from other districts collapsed due to heavy wind. The canopy sheltered the cops and paramedical staff from the scorching sun while they performed their duties. It was also used as temporary kitchen to provide food to the people. As the canopy blew away in the wind, the people had to take shelter in a nearby temple.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/unseasonal-rain-lash-amreli-villages/articleshow/75811843.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Patna||Lockdown effect: Eid celebrations to be different this time in Bihar||PATNA: As Covid-19 has changed lifestyle, even Eid celebrations will be different this time. There will neither be namaz in congregation nor embracing one another to wish ‘Eid Mubarak’. People, especially youngsters, have been asking others to donate money to poor instead of spending on clothes and other valuables this Eid, which will be either on Sunday or Monday, depending on the sighting of moon. The youngsters are sharing this message on social media to reach larger audience. For instance, a group of IITians came up with Twitter thread “Eid at home” recently. IIT Kharagpur alumnus Imbesat Ahmed, who is from Patna native and a part of this group, said, “Social distancing is very important and what we have achieved so far is because of this. So, we requested people to continue with social distancing even on Eid. We are coming up with another thread, Eidi for migrants. Basically, Eidi is given by elderly to youngsters and children on Eid as a token of gift. But today, our migrants need money and we are asking people to give Eidi to those in distress.” Kankarbagh resident Bashshar Habibullah said they have come up with different posters with messages on social media, like “This Eid be different, pay rent for one family for a month or provide food to one family for a month.” Bashshar said though religious bodies have also urged people to donate to poor and help migrants this Eid and maintain social distancing, “our idea is to reach young generation active on social media”. Dr Mahjabeen Naaz, who is Muslim Personal Law Bard state coordinator, said she has been holding live sessions with different groups and making them take pledge not to go out shopping and stay at home this Eid. All India Tahreeh-e-Insaaf council secretary Maulana Shakeel Ahmad Hashmi said Covid-19 has troubled the entire world and people should help needy ones now. “There is no need for extravagant shopping or new clothes. It is better to spend money on the poor and migrants who are suffering at the moment. In fact, zakat distributed among poor during Ramzan, should also be given to the poor migrants,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/lockdown-effect-eid-celebrations-to-be-different-this-time/articleshow/75812888.cms||Sheezan Nezami
May 19, 2020||Business||70% startups have cash for less than 3 months||BENGALURU: About 70% of startups have cash to last for just about three months, and another 22% have money in the bank for three-six months, according to a survey of over 250 entrepreneurs across stages by Nasscom. The study conducted last month showed about 92% of startups have seen revenues decline, with a majority three-fifths seeing a fall of over 40%. As many as 60% of consumer-facing startups are facing business closure, it added. Among those uncertain about their runway (defined as the duration for which they have cash), 75% of consumer-focused startups have zero to three months. This comes at a time when most investors are advising startups to have cash for 24-36 months as the impact of the coronavirus pandemic is expected to last through several quarters. The fall in revenues has impacted cash flows of startups, further reducing their runway expectations. Most well-funded startups in the country — like hospitality major Oyo, food delivery companies Swiggy & Zomato and healthcare startup Curefit — have already laid off thousands of employees as they shut business lines and trim costs. About 54% are also looking to change their business models to adapt to changes due to coronavirus. For example, Bengaluru-based smart apparel startup Turmswear quickly moved to sell hand sanitisers and face masks as the lockdown started. More on Covid-19 Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage Lockdown 3.0: What's allowed and what's not in the three zones It's time to mask up and stay safe: Join TOI's #MaskIndia campaign MHA's guidelines for home isolation Trust the newspaper for your daily verified news “There is volume, but margins are less in this space. So, it did not increase my runway significantly, but helped me pay salaries to the staff in April,” said Rameswar Misra, co-founder and CEO at the 3-year-old startup. Misra is now selling these products through select vendors, while he kicked off a discounted sale of his core products, for which shipping will start after the lockdown lifts. Turmswear has a runway of four-five months and had to undertake a pay cut of over 50% across the team, while over a dozen were sent on furloughs. “As a startup you have to survive. What would you do if you don’t survive?” he added. Up to 53% of the startups have had to announce pay cuts, the Nasscom report added. As many as 65% of startups feel there has been a significant impact on funding. Up to 80% of those into agriculture and financial technology, as well as the majority of early-stage startups, are facing funding crunch currently when economic activities have been paused. About half of the startups are seeking government support and a third wish for loans and more capital from existing investors. Many are reading the fine prints of recent government announcements for the micro, small and medium enterprises (MSME) sector — which includes a Rs 50,000-crore equity fund — to see if they can avail of them. But startups in travel and mobility sectors, one of the worst-hit businesses, are hoping for clear guidelines from the government on re-starting operations. “The biggest help startups like us would need is a clear and transparent framework on how we can operate,” said Gautam Patil, co-founder of Loca, a neighbourhood ride-sharing platform. The startup has given up its office space completely — WeWork and 91 Springboard — which was less than 10% of its cost. While over $10 billion was mobilised by startups in 2019, making it a record year, investors expect startups to raise a fraction of the amount in 2020. What is expected to complicate matters further is the recent rule that requires investments from China — a major source of funding for startups — requiring government approval, further weakening the sentiment. Venture capital investors are also focusing on their existing portfolio companies which are doing well, rather than making new investments. For instance, venture firm Iron Pillar has raised $45 million in addition to its existing fund of $90 million. “Taking care of what we had in hand was more important. We realised at the end of January that market was getting into a choppy territory,” said managing partner Anand Prasanna, adding that the extent of carnage related to the pandemic was not expected.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/70-startups-have-cash-for-less-than-3-months/articleshow/75814118.cms||Digbijay Mishra
May 19, 2020||Surat||SMC focuses on other illnesses, starts vaccines||SURAT: “In the wake of Covid-19 outbreak various vaccinations were suspended in the city but now we have started vaccinations to children and pregnant woman in the city from Monday,” said Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) commissioner, Banchhanidhi Pani.He also appealed to the private medical professionals to treat non-coronavirus patients and ailments and start vaccinating children and pregnant women. Altogether 147 children and 19 pregnant women were given vaccinations on Monday,” he said. This despite the city continuing to fight its battle against the spread of Covid-19. On Monday, 35 new cases were reported taking the tally to 1,090 in the city. Limbayat zone continues to be in the red with 15 new cases being reported from the zone, taking its own tally of positives to 414 alone. Meanwhile, Mehboob Khan, 49, a resident of Umarvada area in Surat succumbed to coronavirus on Monday. SMC officials said that Khan also have co-morbities as he was fighting throat cancer. Total 52 people have succumbed to Covid-19 in the city till date. On the other hand, 21 patients were discharged from the hospitals. Total 724 have been discharged so far in the city. According to SMC officials, 3,044 people have entered Surat city from outside and have been asked to be stay in home quarantine compulsorily.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/smc-focuses-on-other-illnesses-starts-vaccines/articleshow/75811515.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Rajkot||Drummers enforce home quarantine strictly||RAJKOT: If anybody placed under home quarantine steps out of their houses in Piyava village of Savarkundala taluka in Amreli district, they are greeted drum beats, which also send out warnings of stern legal action against them. “Beating drums to warn people about royal orders has an ancient culture of this village. So in our fight against Covid-19, we have resorted to this age old practice,” says Bharat Geeda, member of Amreli district panchayat. “About one lakh people from Surat have entered into Amreli district since the lockdown period was imposed. Of them 1,000 people have come to Piyava village from Surat and Ahmedabad. All of them have been put under 14-day home quarantine,” says Geeda. “They are warned twice in a day against stepping out of their houses with drum beaters in their courtyards,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/drummers-enforce-home-quarantine-strictly/articleshow/75811827.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Nashik||Containment zone drawn up near Nashik railway station||NASHIK: A containment zone has been drawn up near Nashik road railway station after an employee of the railways tested positive for Covid-19. Officials from Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) said that the area around the man’s residence in Nashik Road area of the city has been sealed. “We have sanitized the area and started door-to-door survey to trace high-risk contacts. So far, we have traced 11 high-risk contacts who have been put in isolation at the civic hospital. The throat swab samples of the high-risk contacts have been sent to the lab for Covid-19 analysis”, said officials. Menwhile, the containment zone drawn up in the General Vaidya Nagar was lifted on Monday. The Covid-19 patient reported from the area has recovered and been discharged from the hospital. Moreover, no more suspects were identified in the containment area in the last 14 days. With the addition of the new case, the tally of Covid-19 patients in the city stands at 47. Of this, 32 people have recovered and been discharged while two have succumbed to the infection. Currently, 13 patients are taking treatment at the hospital. Of the 34 containment zones drawn up in the city so far, 11 have been lifted as patients from these containment zones have recovered and no new suspects have been found. Now, there are 23 containment zones in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/containment-zone-drawn-up-near-nashik-rly-station/articleshow/75813063.cms||Tushar Pawar
May 19, 2020||Bengaluru||99 in Karnataka, 24 in Bengaluru: Record single-day spike||BENGALURU: Karnataka on Monday reported 99 Covid-19 cases-its highest in 24 hours-taking the total number of the infected in the state to 1,246. The virus trail is now seen in 27 of Karnataka's 30 districts, with Ramanagara, Chikkamagaluru and Chamarajnagar districts free of cases so far. Raichur and Koppal, the green districts, reported six and three cases. Bengaluru reported its sharpest rise of 24 cases in a day, and the count included 16 from Shivajinagar, all contacts of a Covid-19-positive hotel employee. Five persons from Bengaluru's Mangammana Palya containment zone tested positive in a random sample testing drive. A 43-year-old Chennai man who had come for heart surgery to a city hospital, a 20-year-old youth who returned from Nelamangala and a 43-year-old KR Puram man who had recently returned from Vellore in Tamil Nadu are the other Bengaluru patients.  The KR Puram man voluntarily underwent the test at a private hospital near Mahadevapura. Four doctors of the hospital have been quarantined. "Though they say that they were wearing PPEs while testing him, we have taken precautionary measures," said Dr Srinivasa GA, district health officer, Bengaluru Urban. Mandya reported 17 cases and all of them were Mumbai returnees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/99-in-karnataka-24-in-bengaluru-record-single-day-spike/articleshow/75827248.cms||Sunitha Rao R
May 19, 2020||Patna||Rahul Gandhi helps Rohtas woman reach home||PATNA: Thirty-year-old Sunita Devi, who was prevented by cops from crossing the Delhi-Uttar Pradesh border at Ghazipur on Sunday to board a bus for Rohtas, got help from unexpected quarters. Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi arranged a vehicle for Sunita and her relatives to return to Rohtas on Monday. Sunita’s story caught the Congress leader’s attention after a video showing her sobbing and pleading to let her go as her husband had died at their village, went viral on social media. Before leaving for Rohtas in an SUV arranged by Rahul on Monday, she also got a call from his sister Priyanka Gandhi Vadra. “You are like my sister,” Sunita quoted Priyanka as saying over phone. Priyanka assured Sunita, who lost her 38-year-old husband Ravindra Choudhary while she was stuck in New Delhi, of providing all financial assistance. “You are free to call me whenever you need my help. I will also ensure that your three kids get good education,” Priyanka reportedly told Sunita. Earlier in the day, Srinivas B V, Youth Congress president, wrote on his twitter handle in Hindi, “Rahul Ji Aur Priyanka Ji ki badaulat aaj Sunita Ji apne ghar ja rahi hain. Unke pati ki 3 din pahle mrityu huiy thi”. Srinivas revealed that the party workers started tracing Sunita on the directive of the two senior leaders of the Congress. Sunita’s repeated pleas to allow her to cross the Delhi-UP border to reach home even on foot fell on deaf ears on Sunday. “I want to go back home. My husband has died there, and I need to see him one last time,” Sunita was heard telling the traffic personnel deployed at the inter-state border at Ghazipur. A police man told Sunita that he was there to ensure that no one crossed the border without valid travel pass. “Mein koi bada officer nahi hun. Isliye koi madad nahi kar sakta hun (I am not a senior officer. So I can’t help you),” the cop is heard saying. Sunita’s elder son Bittu Patel said his mother had gone to New Delhi on March 14 to see her sister. “But she got stuck there due to the nationwide lockdown. On Thursday, my father who was sick for one and a half years, breathed his last in her absence.” “Ishwar unka bhi kalyan karen jo aise wakt par jarurat mand logo logo ki madad karte hain,” Bittu said expressing gratitude for the help his mother got from the two Congress leaders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/rahul-help-rohtas-woman-reach-home/articleshow/75812811.cms||Ramashankar
May 19, 2020||Business||RIL rights offer: Pay 25% upfront||MUMBAI: Shareholders of Reliance Industries (RIL) will have to pay 25% upfront to subscribe to the company’s rights offering opening on Wednesday, with the remaining amount to be paid in two instalments next year. RIL will issue one share at Rs 1,257 to existing shareholders for every 15 shares held by them in the company. Shareholders will have to pay Rs 314.25 per share at the time of application and the balance Rs 942.75 will have to be paid at a later stage. Of the Rs 942.75, another 25% (Rs 314.25) will have to be paid by next May and 50% (Rs 628.50) by November. The Rs 53,124-crore rights issue by RIL, corporate India’s largest such offering, closes on June 3. If an applicant holds less than 15 shares or does not have multiples of 15 shares, then the company has decided to allot him one additional rights equity share, provided a surplus stock is available. So, if a shareholder holds 25 RIL shares and he applies for two additional shares, he will get only one additional share as per his entitlement. But he could get another one if the company is left with excess shares because of renunciation or non-participation by certain shareholders in the rights offering. The last date to renounce the rights is May 29. RIL promoters, which hold 50% in the company, will be subscribing to their entire rights entitlement and, if at all they renounce it, it would be in favour of another promoter entity. They would also pick up any left over stock in the rights offering. The rights issue, RIL’s first in nearly three decades, is to support its plan of reducing debt, which stood at Rs 3.36 lakh crore as on March 31.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/ril-rights-offer-pay-25-upfront/articleshow/75814062.cms||Reeba Zachariah
May 19, 2020||Rajkot||Councillor’s brother abuses cop, booked||RAJKOT: Brother of a woman councillor with Jamnagar Municipal Corporation (JMC) was booked for allegedly obstructing a policeman on duty on Sunday night. Police said Hussein Khafi, brother of councillor of ward number-12, Jainab Khafi, allegedly abused the cop when his vehicle was stopped for checking. “Hussein, who was driving his bike with a pillion rider who is yet unidentified, was stopped by constable with Jamnagar-A division police station, Vipul Budhasi. This angered Hussein, who allegedly hurled abuses at Budhasi,” said officials. Hussein is yet to be arrested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/councillors-brother-abuses-cop-booked/articleshow/75811772.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Surat||After 2-month ban, cadaver transplants get Gujarat govt nod||SURAT: There is good news for patients who are in dire need of organ transplant. The state government has decided to allow cadaver transplants with enhanced precautions and guidelines, after the process was suspended due the coronavirus pandemic. This, according to doctors, will help patients who are suffering from organ failures and other acute conditions requiring an organ transplant. According to an estimate, on an average 60-70 cadaver transplants are done every year in Gujarat. “All organ transplantation, including cadaver transplants, were suspended in the wake of the coronavirus crisis. But after careful consideration, the state government has allowed cadaver transplants as it saves lives of patients in urgent need of organ transplants. So, we will now be able to carry out cadaver transplants in Gujarat,” Dr Pranjal Modi, head of transplant and surgery department, Institute of Kidney Diseases and Research Centre (IKDRC), told TOI. Modi is also convener of the State Organ and Tissue Transplant Organization (Sotto) set up by the Gujarat government in 2019 to ensure transparency in organ donation and transplantation process. IKDRC (Ahmedabad) is designated as Center for Sotto. “In order to ensure that Covid-19 infection is not transmitted into patients during transplants, it is mandatory to conduct Covid-19 tests of both — the brain-dead person from whom organs is to be harvested and the recipient. Both should test negative to go ahead with transplant,” added Modi. Following the lockdown, cadaver donations and organ transplants were suspended, even when kin of brain-dead persons were ready to donate vital organs. Nilesh Mandlewala, founder of DonateLife, a Surat-based NGO that facilitates cadaver donations said that he has come across three instances — one in Surat and two in Anand — where kin of a brain-dead person were ready to donated organs, but it could not be harvested due to government’s suspension order. “Government’s decision to allow cadaver transplants will help save many lives,” said Mandlewala.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/after-2-month-ban-cadaver-transplantsget-state-govt-nod/articleshow/75813843.cms||Vijaysinh Parmar
May 19, 2020||Rajkot||Six-year-old homeless girl raped in Rajkot||RAJKOT: An unidentified man allegedly raped a six-year-old girl in Navagadh locality of Jetpur in Rajkot district on early Monday morning. Police said the image of the accused had been caught on the footage of the CCTV installed in the area. According to the police, the survivor was asleep with her parents on footpath. Her parents eke out their existence by begging. The accused picked up the survivor and took her to a dark corner where he raped her. When the survivor started screaming, three passers-by rushed to her rescue, following which the accused dropped the survivor and vanished into the cover of darkness. “We have launched a manhunt for the accused on the basis of the CCTV footage. The accused has been booked under sections 363, 366, 376 (B) (1) and the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act,” said V K Patel, inspector with Jetpur city police station. Meanwhile, the survivor was sent for medical examination at Jetpur Civil Hospital. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/six-year-old-homeless-girl-raped-in-jetpur/articleshow/75811700.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Patna||42,000 people reach Bihar||PATNA: Altogether 35 Shramik special trains, carrying nearly 42,000 migrant workers, students and other stranded persons reached different places in Bihar from 11 states, including Delhi, on Monday. The East Central Railway (ECR) has received 305 Shramik special trains in Bihar alone since May 2 and brought back about 3.66 lakh migrant workers and others stranded to the state so far. ECR chief public relations officer (CPRO) Rajesh Kumar said, “Four special trains from Dadri, two each from Jalalpur and Karamnasa and one from Ghaziabad in Uttar Pradesh reached Jamui, Araria, Samastipur, Khagaria, Supaul and Purnea, carrying about 11,000 migrant workers and others. Besides, three Shramik special trains from Delhi carrying nearly 3,700 migrant workers, students and others stranded reached Darbhanga , Bhagalpur and Muzaffarpur.” Shramik special train from Jirania in Tripura, Lingampalli and Ghatkesar in Telangana reached Sitamarhi and Darbhanga with migrant workers on Monday, while two other special trains from Malur and Bellari in Karnataka carrying about 2,470 migrant workers and other stranded people reached Araria and Saharsa. Two special trains from Pune and one from Ratnagiri in Maharashtra reached Katihar, Bettiah and Barauni with about 3,700 migrant workers and others. Three shramik special trains, carrying about 3,600 migrant workers from Tuticorin, Villupuram and Tiruppur in Tamil Nadu reached Muzaffarpur and Barauni, while one special train from Alwar in Rajasthan reached Chhapra with mostly migrant workers. Similarly, two special trains from Viramgam and Surat in Gujarat reached Danapur carrying about 2,500 migrant workers and other stranded people. Two other special trains from Surat and one from Anjar in Gujarat reached Katihar, Siwan and Gaya with about 3,760 migrant workers and others, while two special trains from Ludhiana and one from Chandigarh in Punjab reached Katihar, Gaya and Barauni carrying about 3,700 migrant workers. Two special trains from Gurgaon and one from Panipat in Haryana reached Madhubani, Muzaffarpur and Araria with migrant workers. Railways also ran a special train from Danapur to Madhubani to facilitate about 1400 migrant workers, who had come from Jamnagar in Gujarat late Sunday evening by Shramik special train on Sunday night. Besides, railways has also granted permission for stoppage of special New Delhi–Dibrugarh Express (02423/02424) at Patliputra Junction instead of Danapur from May 19 onwards.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/42000-people-reach-bihar/articleshow/75812879.cms||Kumod Verma
May 19, 2020||Patna||41 stranded in UK back by special flight||GAYA: Altogether 28 natives of Bihar and 13 from Jharkhand stranded in United Kingdom (UK) due to lockdown landed at the Gaya International airport by a special flight of Air India on Monday The special flight landed at the Gaya airport around 4pm. Gaya district magistrate Abhishek Singh presented the returnees with a welcome kit. All the returnees were subjected to screening at the airport itself. “None of them showed any Covid symptoms,” said an official statement issued by the Gaya district administration. While Jharkhand residents left for Ranchi by a special bus, Bihar natives were taken to a hotel located on NH-83 in Gaya. Altogether 51 Bodh Gaya-based hotels with 2,166 rooms including 1,702 super deluxe rooms have been notified as quarantine centres for foreign returnees who are mandated to undergo paid quarantine for 14 days. Besides the 51 hotels, 54 guest houses have also been notified as quarantine centres. There remains some ambiguity about the status of the monasteries as 56 Bodh Gaya-based foreign monasteries were notified as quarantine centres. A woman returnee, who had gone to London to see her daughter told newsmen that she was very happy to be back. She was scheduled to come back on April 21 but was stranded after the lockdown. Five more special flights are scheduled to land between May 24 and June 3.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/41-stranded-in-uk-back-by-special-flight/articleshow/75812841.cms||Abdul Qadir
May 19, 2020||Patna||3 migrants pedal over 1150km to reach home from Rajasthan||PATNA: It is an uphill task to cover a distance of over 1150km on a bicycle. But the three migrant workers bought bicycles and pedalled their way to native places in Muzaffarpur district from Bhiwadi in Rajasthan. The three said they did not have any money left to fend for themselves as they lost jobs soon after the announcement of lockdown due to coronavirus pandemic. “Humne jindagi ki ladaee jeet lee hai (We have won this battle of life),” said an elated Ranjeet Kumar (28) on reaching Zero Mile in Patna and only 80km away from his village Piar under the same block in Muzaffarpur on Monday. Ranjeet said he and two others — Dharmendra (25) and Indrajeet (27) — covered the distance in eight day without having proper sleep. While Ranjeet bought a new one for Rs4650, Indrajeet and Dharmendra purchased second-hand bicycles from local residents for Rs2,000 each. The plastic factory in which the three were employed was shut on March 25 following the lockdown. “It has been more than one and a half months when we were rendered jobless. We kept waiting for the administration to arrange for our transportation, but nothing happened. We couldn’t stay there due to shortage of money and food. So, we decided to travel back to our native places,” Ranjeet said. Indrajeet, a resident of Pikhi village under Sakra block in Muzaffarpur district, said, “Had we not left for home, we would have died of hunger. We had to stay in the room without food for three days. Then we asked our families back home to transfer money in our bank accounts. We purchased bicycles with that money and kept some for the expenses for the long journey.” The trio took the help of Google map to find short routes to reach Bihar, although their mobile phones got discharged midway. “At some places local residents allowed us to charge our mobile phones,” they said. The three, however, got some reprieve when a truck driver gave them lift near Agra and dropped them near Gorakhpur. From there they reached the UP-Bihar border checkpost at Karamnasa in Kaimur district and arrived at Patna through Aurangabad. They mostly survived on biscuits and water during the journey. Though they were paid monthly salary of Rs15,000 for being skilled labourers, the three vowed not to go outside the state anymore. “Ab naukri ke liye kabhi baahar nahi jana hai. Kuchh yahi karenge (We will never go outside the state for job. We will do something here for livelihood),” said Ranjeet, who worked in a factory at Bhiwadi for almost a decade. The trio said hundreds of other migrant workers, mostly daily wagers, were still stranded in Rajasthan. Several of them have virtually been pushed to the brink of starvation. “Kuchh log to jewellery or mobile phone bechkar ration kharid kar jinda hain (Some people have sold off their jewellery and mobile phones to purchase ration for survival),” they said. The migrant workers, especially the daily wagers, were the worst hit due to the lockdown. Many have been walking 1500 to 1800km on foot, indicating that they no longer want to stay away from their families.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/3-migrants-pedal-over-1150km-to-reach-home-from-rajasthan/articleshow/75812782.cms||Ramashankar
May 19, 2020||Rajkot||Left with just 20% workforce, Alang ship breakers hit hard||Rajkot: Alang in Bhavnagar, that houses one of world’s largest ship breaking and recycling industry, looks like a deserted place despite majority of the units resuming work from April 30 after relaxation from the government. Industry player say that on one hand they are facing a loss of over Rs 350 crore because of the lockdown across the globe, and on the the other hand they left with 20-25% labour force to work in the ship breaking yards. Of the 10,000-odd workers trained in ship breaking, 80% are migrants and most of they have left for their natives or will be leaving soon over the next one week. The ship breaking yard had shut down on March 24, a day before the central government ordered lockdown. However, around 70 out of the 100 units, started operation on April 30 after government industrial units to function outside municipal corporation areas. Vishnu Gupta, president of Ship Recycling Industrial Association (SRIA) said, “We will soon be left with only 20-25% of labour force as most of the migrant labourers have left or will be leaving soon. The work in all the plots is likely stop in the next 5-7 days.” He said that since this was specialized sector, they can’t hire untrained labourers. “We have also requested the Gujarat Maritime Board (GMB) to start it’s training centre so that the unemployed diamond workers who have returned to Bhavnagar from Surat can get employment at Alang,” he added. One ship used to come to Alang every day, but since last 60 days not a signal ship has docked here, said Gupta. SRIA secretary Haresh Parmar said, “The government should have allowed migrant labourers to return to their native when lockdown started. They could have come back by the time the factories resumed the operation. The government should also arrange trains for those labourers who want to come to Gujarat for work.” “We are staring at loss of Rs 300-400 crore. We get ship for breaking at the credit of six to nine months. The depreciation of rupee has also hurt the business,” Parmar added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/left-with-just-20-workforce-alang-ship-breakers-hit-hard/articleshow/75811444.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
May 19, 2020||Hubballi||Labourer stuck in the mud rescued in hour-long op||Hubballi: A 40-year-old construction labourer was rescued after a heap of mud collapsed on him on Monday at Bailappanavar Nagar. The incident happened while Sridhar Morbad was erecting bricks in a pit dug for an underground drainage chamber. The fire department staff jointly with police rescued the man after a one-and- a-half hour long operation. Speaking to TOI, HDMC zonal commissioner Anand Kumar Zalaki said the mud may have collapsed due to the rainfall on Sunday evening loosening the soil. Zalaki added that the work was being carried out with all precautionary measures and the contractor could not be held accountable for the incident. “Since an earthmover and other equipment were at the spot, he was rescued in a short span of time. Luckily the labour was not injured in the incident. He was immediately shifted to KIMS in an ambulance and he is fine,” he said. The suburban police said that no case was registered by the HDMC staff till Monday evening.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/labourer-stuck-in-the-mud-rescued-in-hour-long-op/articleshow/75812410.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Hubballi||Man escapes from isolation ward at Koppal hosp||Hubballi: A 42-year old suspected Covid-19 patient triggered a scare after he escaped from an isolation facility at the district hospital in Koppal on Sunday. According to a complaint lodged by Dr Prakash, the patient identified as Sagar Bika hails from Nimbeshwar village in Nashik district, Maharashtra. He was admitted to the isolation ward of the hospital on May 11. He was referred to the hospital by Gunnal Primary Health Centre after he displayed symptoms of Covid-19. According to sources, the patient was not accompanied by family members or friends to the hospital. According to Dr Prakash, Sagar’s throat and nasal swab samples were collected on May 11 and his samples tested negative for the the novel coronavirus infection. However, the patient was under constant observation at the isolation ward till May 16. The doctors found him missing on Sunday morning. The hospital administration has lodged a complaint against the patient at the Town Police station in Koppal. The police have registered a case against him under IPC sections 188, 269 and 270.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/man-escapes-from-isolation-ward-at-koppal-hosp/articleshow/75813114.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Mangaluru||Pvt buses not to ply in Dakshina Kannada till May 31||Mangaluru: Though chief minister B S Yediyurappa has allowed conditional resuming of KSRTC and private buses across the state barring Covid-19 containment areas, private bus owners in Dakshina Kannada district have decided not to operate till the end of May. Dakshina Kannada Bus Owners Association president Dilraj Alva told TOI that they have decided not to operate buses till the end of May for three major reasons. “The chief minister has said that we can operate buses in the state. However, technically we are not able to resume services since all of us have surrendered our permits. We will have to pay the tax for the month of May if we resume service immediately. Hence, we have decided that bus services can resume from June 1,” Alva said. In addition, bus owners also have two more demands which the state government needs to consider on priority, he said. “We have requested the government to exempt private buses from paying tax for the next six months. We were not plying buses during lockdown and it will be tough for us in the next three months to operate as per new conditions. The government has allowed only 30 persons in each bus to maintain social distancing. In addition, we have been urging the state government for bus fare revision since 2013. The government has revised the bus fares of KSRTC twice after that,” Alva said adding that bus owners will be meeting Mangaluru RTO on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/pvt-buses-not-to-ply-in-dakshina-kannada-till-may-31/articleshow/75812970.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Mangaluru||Second Vande Bharat Mission flight lands at MIA; 178 arrive from Dubai||Mangaluru: As many as 178 passengers arrived in the coastal city from Dubai as the second flight under the Vande Bharat Mission landed at the Mangaluru International Airport (MIA) at 7.55am on Monday. Dakshina Kannada deputy commissioner Sindhu B Rupesh said that all the necessary arrangements had been made to ensure that the passengers were not inconvenienced in any way. “All of them have been provided with health kits, sufficient food, sim cards, etc. We have also set up facilities at the airport where they can exchange foreign currency. The emigration process was conducted only after each passenger was subjected to screening by health department personnel at the airport. We will have their throat swabs tested for Covid-19 on Tuesday,” Sindhu said. Personnel attired in personal protective equipment gear shifted the passengers’ luggage, while buses had been arranged for transporting them to quarantine facilities, Sindhu added. Probationary IAS officer Rahul Shinde, additional deputy commissioner MJ Roopa, district health officer Dr Ramachandra Bairy and MIA director VV Rao were among those who received the returning Indians along with the DC at the airport. Public, including friends and relatives of the passengers, were barred entry to the airport. Rooms in as many as 10 hotels have been reserved to quarantine passengers flying in to Mangaluru from the Gulf. The rooms are priced between Rs 1,000 and Rs 5,400. Meanwhile, those unable to afford rent will be accommodated at government hostels.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/second-vande-bharat-mission-flight-lands-at-mia-178-arrive-from-dubai/articleshow/75813667.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Hubballi||Karnataka govt goes ahead with hike in property tax for 2020-21; citizens cry foul||Hubballi: Notwithstanding proposals sent by various urban local bodies (ULBs) across the state, the Karnataka urban development department (UDD) has decided to increase the existing property tax rates by 20 to 30%. Since income of a wide section of the urban populace had been hit by the lockdown, senior officials in ULBs had urged the government against increasing the cess for 2020-21 financial year. Moreover, UDD had issued oral instructions to ULBs to collect the old tariff from property owners. Barring the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP), the elections to the council of which is slated this September, all other ULBs across Karnataka have increased the property tax for 2020-21. All 10 municipal corporations, 58 city municipal councils and various town councils and panchayats across Karnataka had extended the deadline for payment of property tax to May 31 and offered a 5% rebate in view of the present crisis. Keen on availing the rebate, most residents paid the property tax much before the deadline. However, in view of the decision to increase the cess, many ULBs have reportedly asked owners to pay the amount saved in rebate. Property owners and activists are understandably upset with the government’s decision, which they feel is an insensitive one. “The government can say that the hike in property tax is in accordance with the Karnataka Municipalities Act, but on many occasions, ULBs have deferred hiking cess. Considering the impact that the lockdown has had on household income of the middle and lower classes, the government must have taken note of their suffering. If the government was firm on the hike, it should have been announced in March-April,” said activist Santosh Nargund. Convener of Yuva Abhivruddhi Vedike Vikas Soppin charged the government with trying to extort money from citizens through inflated electricity bills and increase in property tax. Soppin said that deferral of elections to ULB councils had resulted in bureaucrats calling the shots. “This is the reason why the government, which issued an ordinance to amend the APMC Act has not been able to pass an ordinance to change the KMC Act,” he added. Defending the hike in property cess, urban development minister BA Basavaraju said that, although the government was sensitive to the plight of the people, funds were needed for developmental projects. “We request citizens to cooperate with us,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/karnataka-govt-goes-ahead-with-hike-in-property-tax-for-2020-21-citizens-cry-foul/articleshow/75814223.cms||Sangamesh Menasinakai
May 19, 2020||Nagpur||‘Can you help me reach Kolkata, my grandmother is in the hospital’||Nagpur: A few migrant workers can be seen on the Nagpur-Chhindwara road, unlike the other exit points of the city where scores are spotted. The road further leads to Bhopal and then Delhi. Majority of the workers who are heading towards Jabalpur in Madhya Pradesh and eastern states like Bihar, Bengal, Jharkhand or eastern districts of Uttar Pradesh take other roads. A lone traveller, Moidul Islam, walked in the direction of Nagpur. It took two days for him to walk down from Betul (170km) in Madhya Pradesh, he said. He wanted to reach Kolkata to meet his ailing grandmother. A carpenter, Moidul, who worked at Ooty in Tamil Nadu, had shifted to Betul three months ago and was left stranded. “I had been working in Ooty for all these years. On a trip to my home village in Howrah this year, I realized that my family needed money for my sister’s marriage. My friend arranged a job for me in Betul which I took up thinking that it is closer to home than Ooty in the south. I worked there for a month after that, the lockdown came into effect. Two days ago, I got a message that my grandmother has been admitted to a hospital in Kolkata for a kidney ailment and I set off,” he said. “My grandmother is seriously ill. Can you help me reach home?,” pleaded Moidul, before hoping on to a pick-up van that took him 2kms towards the city. The family had borrowed Rs20,000 for the daughter’s marriage. Moidul hoped that working hard in Betul may get him another Rs50,000. He was left with just Rs200. Coming from Gulbarga in Karnataka, Phoolchand and three others were dropped a little distance away as they walked till the toll gate on the highway. Door-to-door ice-cream vendors in the Sedam taluka of Gulbarga, the foursome said they survived on Jakat — charity by Muslims during the month of Ramazan. “Once in a while they would give us food that helped us to carry on. That was not every day. As it got tougher, we set off,” they said. The group is heading towards Unnao in Uttar Pradesh. “Every season, we go to Karnataka and sell ice-cream made by local manufacturers on a commission basis. This year, there was no business as the entire summer has gone due to the lockdown,” said Phoolchand. Babloo, Vinod and one more friend of theirs rode triples on a 100cc bike from Pune and were going to Gorakhpur. They had taken the wrong route and should have been on the Nagpur-Jabalpur highway instead. “Not many are seen on this road. Only those going to Rajasthan or Bhopal take this road,” said Dhiraj Tiwari, a shopkeeper helping passers-by. Brothers Anil and Babloo Sharma had taken off from Coimbatore and were going to Karauli district in Rajasthan. Over 30 kms away, on Bhandara road, a young boy carried his sister on his back. They were going to Balaghat in Madhya Pradesh from Wardha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/can-you-help-me-reach-kolkata-my-grandmother-is-in-the-hospital/articleshow/75815209.cms||Shishir Arya
May 19, 2020||Surat||Migrant’s death: Surat cops face FIR in Odisha||SURAT: An offence has been registered in Odisha against Surat police in connection with the death of 36-year-old migrant Satyawan Swain from Baruda village of Ganjam district who died in Amroli area on May 14. The complaint was lodged by Swain’s elder brother Santosh Kumar in Bhanjanagar police station of Ganjam district on Sunday against unspecified number of cops serving in Amroli police station. The cops were booked under section 304 (culpable homicide not amounting to murder) and the Odisha police will transfer the case to Surat police for further investigation. In his complaint, Santosh alleged that he had received information from eyewitnesses that "Satyawan suffered injuries in police lathicharge and he died before getting treatment”. Brijesh Kumar Rai, superintendent of police, Ganjam said, “As per the Supreme Court guidelines, police should register the offence of any part of the country if some complainant approaches. The zero FIR was registered in Bhanjanagar police station and it will be transferred to Surat police for further investigation." Zero FIR can be registered in any police station of the country on receiving information about the cognizable offence, irrespective of the place of incident or jurisdiction. "My brother fainted after being thrashed and never woke up. Before he could receive treatment he died," Santosh told TOI over phone from Odisha. A P Chaudhary, police inspector, Amroli police station, said, "Till now, we have not received any complaint report against Amroli police. I am not aware about any such FIR," said An employee of a textile weaving unit in Anjani Industrial Estate in the limits of Amroli police station, Swain he was allegedly beaten up by police following a ruckus by Odiya migrant workers who were demanding train tickets to return to their natives. Swain was working in Surat for the past three years. Surat police commissioner RB Brahmbhatt had dismissed allegations of Swain dying due to police lathicharge and had cited the postmortem report which showed heart attack as the reason for death. "If police are not involved, how did Satyawan’s colleagues who witnessed the thrashing, get tickets for Odisha suddenly a day after his death?," he questioned. Santosh further alleged that, "Amroli police had threatened the eyewitnesses and forced them to leave Surat at the earliest and hence these people did not speak anything there."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/migrants-death-surat-cops-face-fir-in-odisha/articleshow/75813862.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
May 19, 2020||Jaipur||Govt teachers found availing free ration in Jhalawar||Kota: At least 84 government school lecturers, teachers, physical education teachers and Prabhodhaks of various districts, posted in government schools of Gangdhar sub-division, Jhalawar were found to be availing free ration under food security scheme of National Food Security Act since 2016. Gangdhar sub-divisional magistrate (SDM), now has written to the collectors of concerned districts for recovery of Rs 20,69,559 from these government employees for having availed free ration since 2016. As per the government rules, the government employees are not eligible to avail free ration under National Food Security Act's (NFSA) Food Security Scheme. A probe into Aadhaar/Bhamashah cards and ration cards of the government employees posted as lecturers, teachers, physical education teachers and Prabhodhaks in Gangdhar sub-division was carried out in two phases recently. According to SDM of Gangdhar, Rahul Malhotra the first probe on Friday last week revealed as many as 47 teachers, lecturers and other employees availing free ration since 2016. The report of second phase on Monday revealed 37 employees of the government schools availing the same since 2016, he added. The government employees posted in these schools hail from various districts and hold the ration cards of their respective districts but they had been availing the ration under the NFSA.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/govt-teachers-found-availing-free-ration-in-jhalawar/articleshow/75815689.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Varanasi||Uttar Pradesh: Cops arrest one for threatening ex-minister||VARANASI: Taking swift action on an FIR lodged by former UP minister and SBSP chief On Prakash Rajbhar, the Ghazipur police arrested one person on Monday for issuing him life threats over phone. Rajbhar lodged an FIR with Kasimabad police station in Ghazipur district on Sunday night, alleging that an unidentified person threatened him of dire consequences. In his complaint, Rajbhar said that he received the phone call from an unknown number while he was moving through Kasimabad area on May 14. The caller used abusive words and threatened to kill him and his family members, alleged Rajbhar and demanded security cover for himself and his family members. Kasimabad SO Hanuman Singh said, “The accused, identified as Sunil Pandey of Mohammadpur village, has been arrested. He has been booked under sections 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace) and 507 (criminal intimidation by an anonymous communication) of IPC. Further investigation is underway.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/cops-arrest-one-for-threatening-ex-minister/articleshow/75813010.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Nashik||Situation in Malegaon under control: Chhagan Bhujbal||NASHIK: State food and civil supplies minister Chhagan Bhujbal on Monday said the situation in Malegaon due to Covid-19 outbreak is under control and people are now learning to live with the virus. Bhujbal, who is also the district guardian minister, held a long meeting with commissioner of police Vishwas Nangre-Patil, district collector Suraj Mandhare, civic chief Radhakrishna Game,civil surgeon Suresh Jagdale, among others to review the situation across the district. Talking to reporters after the meeting, Bhujbal expressed confidence that people would be able to live a better life even with the presence of coronavirus. “Everybody did mistakes in the beginning. But now police, medicos and even people have learnt how to beat the spread of Covid-19. All are better prepared and taking appropriate measures to contain the spread. Hence, we now see that most of the trade and industry has opened up with caution and we are sure the containment zones will only decline in the future,” Bhujbal said. Even as Bhujbal reviewed the developments, the district’s tally of Covid-19 patients touched the 800-mark with the addition of nine new patients since Sunday evening. The number of recovered patients also grew by 43 and has reached 491.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/situation-in-malegaon-under-control-bhujbal/articleshow/75813100.cms||Abhilash Botekar
May 19, 2020||Delhi||Rumour brings migrants to Anand Vihar||New Delhi: A rumour about buses plying to Uttar Pradesh and Bihar from Anand Vihar resulted in gathering of hundreds of migrant workers at the bus stop in violation of social distancing norms. When they realised that no such facilities were available, they sat in front of the railway station.The cops had to forcefully remove them after which the area DCP tweeted about it to inform the public that no such facilities were available.With Cluster Scheme buses returning on the streets on Tuesday and DTC restarting its passenger services, many workers tried to reach Anand Vihar and other bordering areas in the hope of getting a mode of transport back home.“There were some rumours that transport facilities would be available from Anand Vihar Interstate Bus Terminal or the railway station next to it and as a result, many migrant workers landed up in the area,” said a government official.“As bus services were open to all residents, it was difficult to distinguish migrant workers from other passengers. However, when we were informed by Delhi Police, bus services to Anand Vihar were immediately stopped,” he added.“Later, we asked bus crew and marshals to check identity cards of passengers before allowing them to board buses,”the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/rumour-brings-migrants-to-anand-vihar/articleshow/75837596.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Jaipur||Objectionable post in Ajmer admn’s WhatsApp group||Ajmer: An objectionable post was allegedly posted in an official WhatsApp group of the Ajmer district administration. After the post, women officials started leaving the group named ‘Ajmer Official Covid-19.’ The group was created in April to coordinate instructions to fight Covid-19 in the district. BJP MLA Anita Bhadel on Monday demanded to register FIR against the district collector for alleged carelessness and insulting the dignity of women officials of AjmḌer. District collector Vishwa Mohan Sharma, however, said he was not the administrator of the official group. Sharma added that the same has been conveyed to MLA Bhadel, who is also former women and child empowerment minister. District SP Kunwar Rashtradeep said police will inquire and look into possibility of taking action. The SP, also a member of the group, said the post was not pornography. The post was allegedly made by district collector’s personal secretary Manoj Kumar ‘by mistake’. Kumar has since been given APO. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/objectionable-post-in-ajmer-admns-whatsapp-group/articleshow/75815695.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Kochi||Kochi: Superhero memes to pay tribute to health workers||KOCHI: A Kochi-based comic artist is paying tributes to health workers by portraying them in his comic strips that draw parallels with the superhero world. Sanid Asif Ali, a techie based at Infopark, uses the characters, dialogues and scenes of famous comic movies of Marvel Cinematic Universe and DC Comics like the Avengers, Justice League, etc. and liken them to the service rendered by the health workers during the pandemic. Also, he uses the comic superheroes to make kids aware and follow health guidelines through memes like the one that shows Superman and Batman staying at home. “In popular culture, heroism has been defined by superhero movies for a while now. There is an instant connect the younger crowd has with these superheroes that is often stronger than real-life heroism. Right now, the efforts healthcare workers put in is priceless. I thought it would be apt to pay a tribute to them by drawing parallels with the superhero world. I also hope that this creates awareness among the public,” said Ali. One meme shows Coronavirus in the guise of the most powerful comic super-villain Thanos of MCU’s Avengers Endgame and the virus says the same dialogue “I am inevitable” that Thanos said before snapping his fingers using the Infinity Stones’ to wipe out life on earth. And just like the Ironman stopped Thanos and saved earth, Tony Stark (Ironman) wearing a mask and stethoscope is portrayed with the dialogue “And we are healthworkers”. Another meme shows Batman and Superman watching TV by ensuring physical distancing. “All the references can easily be related as these movies are that close to Keralites now. The memes are getting good response, especially from kids,” Ali said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/superhero-memes-to-pay-tribute-to-health-workers/articleshow/75813123.cms||Anantha Narayanan K
May 19, 2020||Nashik||Standalone shops to reopen in Deolali cantonment area with curbs today||NASHIK: Standalone shops in the cantonment area in Deolali, including the ones at the century-old Levitt Market, will re-open from Tuesday after almost two months. There are more than 300 shops in the Cantonment area, including 70 in Levitt Market. The shops will be open from 10am to 4pm as per the district administration’s instructions. Cantonment board’s chief executive officer Ajay Kumar said, “We are following the instructions of the district administration and have allowed shops to reopen. The shopkeepers will have to ensure customers observe social distacning norms in front of their shops. Customers will have to wear masks.” Tarun Punjabi, owner of a clothes shop in the Cantonment area, said, “I incurred losses in the past two months. I have paid salaries to the four workers in my shop and have also distributed masks. It will be a huge relief once my business reopens.” Although the clothes, shoes, stationery and sweets shops will open on Tuesday, restaurants, pan stalls and barber shops will continue to remain closed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/standalone-shops-to-reopen-in-deolali-cantonment-area-with-curbs-today/articleshow/75813127.cms||pragya jain
May 19, 2020||Goa||‘No merger on cards for coop banks’||Panaji: Chief minister Pramod Sawant on Monday called for people not to panic, and said that no cooperative society or cooperative bank in the state would be merged. Sawant told reporters that cooperative banks and societies are functioning well. “The government has not issued any circular in this direction,” he said. With the cooperative sector likely to take a hit due to the Covid-19 crisis, the economic revival committee had recommended that the state government merge all cooperative banks and cooperative societies to form just one cooperative bank for the entire state. There are over hundreds of cooperative societies and cooperative banks functioning in Goa. The Reserve Bank of India recently cancelled the banking licence of the Mapusa Urban Cooperative Bank Ltd and imposed financial sanctions on the Madgaum Urban Cooperative Bank.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/no-merger-on-cards-for-coop-banks/articleshow/75815719.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Varanasi||Ex-prof of BHU dies of Covid, takes city toll to 4||Varanasi: District on Monday registered fourth Covid-19 death when a retired professor of Ayurveda of Banaras Hindu University died of it at super-speciality wing. istrict magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma confirmed, “The 80-year-old retired professor of Shivala area had been admitted to BHU’s super-speciality wing following sharp deterioration in his health. He was tested positive two days ago.” The professor had been a former head of Ayurveda department of BHU. Following his retirement he was living in Shivala area. Before him, a 73-year-old patient of Covid-19, who was a retired government employee and resident of Lanka area, had died at the intensive care unit of BHU Hospital on May 16. Earlier, a 58-year-old woman resident of Lallapura area, who was old patient of hypothyroidism, hypertension and diabetes but admitted to BHU hospital with acute respiratory infection on May 4, had died of Covid-19 infection on May 14. A Kolkata-returned trader had expired on April 3 while his laboratory test report came on April 4 clearing that he was infected. Later, his wife and daughter-in-law were also tested positive, although they got cured and discharged from DDU district hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/ex-prof-of-bhu-dies-of-covid-takes-city-toll-to-4/articleshow/75813028.cms||---
May 19, 2020||India||Covid-19: Amid migrant exodus, ICMR revises testing strategy||NEW DELHI: Amid heavy movement of migrant workers across the country, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has revised its Covid-19 testing strategy to include all returnees and migrants who show symptoms for influenza like illness (ILI) within seven days of developing the ailment. Besides an urgent drive to check migrant workers for flu and fevers, all symptomatic frontline workers involved in containment and mitigation of Covid-19 will also be tested through the gold standard RT-PCR test given the large number of such persons including Asha workers and municipal officials involved in the exercise. So far, this procedure was applicable only for symptomatic healthcare workers. Under the revised strategy, RT-PCR tests would also be extended to cover all hospitalised patients who develop symptoms of ILI. The council, however, stressed no emergency clinical procedure, including deliveries, should be delayed for lack of testing. But a sample can be sent for testing simultaneously if the person showed symptoms prescribed in the guidelines. The guidelines also state that asymptomatic direct and high-risk contacts of a confirmed case are to be tested once between day five and day 10 of coming in contact, as per the new ICMR testing strategy. Asymptomatic contacts of a confirmed case were being tested once between day five and day 14, so far. Officials said the strategy has been revised in view of wider relaxations and provisions for restarting economic activities under the fourth phase of lockdown which have also raised concerns of a rise in cases. So far despite clusters with high incidence of disease in various cities, India has avoided community spread that would result in a sharp exponential rise in cases. “There is a heavy movement of migrant workers, who need testing once they reach their destination. The containment activities also have to be ramped up and states have been asked to deploy substantial workforce for surveillance and mitigation as we open up economic activities in all zones. So, certainly more testing and aggressive testing will be required, even as we have to do it in a reasoned way,” an official said. The death toll due to Covid-19 rose to 3,029 and cases climbed to 96,169 on Monday, registering an increase of 157 deaths and a record jump of 5,242 cases in 24 hours since Sunday 8 am on the back of rising numbers in Maharashtra . ILI case is defined as one with acute respiratory infection with fever more than or equal to 38 degrees Celsius and cough, while a SARI case is one with acute respiratory infection with fever more than or equal to 38 degrees Celsius and cough and requiring hospitalisation, the ICMR stated. Till now, people with ILI symptoms living in hotspots or containment zones, patients of severe acute respiratory infection (SARI) and symptomatic healthcare workers were being tested for coronavirus infection as per guidelines. All asymptomatic individuals with a history of international travel in the last 14 days and all symptomatic contacts of laboratory-confirmed case are also being tested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-19-amid-migrant-exodus-icmr-revises-testing-strategy/articleshow/75816436.cms||Sushmi Dey
May 19, 2020||Jaipur||State allows restricted bizactivity in red, orange zones||Jaipur: The state government on Monday issued guidelines for Lockdown 4.0 from May 18 to 31, allowing business activities in a restricted way in red and orange zones. But every activity in containment and curfew areas of these two zones shall, however, continue to remain shut. In the green zone, all activities except the prohibited ones have been allowed with adequate precautions, including interstate movement of passenger vehicles and city bus services. Gatherings of five or more persons shall continue to be prohibited in all types of zones. In the red zone, government and private offices can function with 50% staff, while in the orange zone two third of the staff will be permitted. The commercial, industrial and service establishments have been allowed to have staff as per requirement. But they will also be required to encourage operations from home. In the red zone, parks and public transport have not been allowed, but in orange zone, parks have are open from 7am to 6.30pm. Sports complexes, stadiums, golf courses, polo grounds will be permitted to open, but club houses and similar facilities shall not be opened and spectators not allowed. All shops can open with restrictions. Barber shops, salons and beauty parlours can open with complete safety precautions, disinfection and sanitisation after service of each customer. Similarly, taxis and cabs are allowed in the orange zone with a maximum of two passengers. Autorickshaws and cyclerickshaws are permitted, but with just one passenger. Inter city bus services are also allowed, but city buses are permitted only in green zones.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/state-allows-restricted-bizactivity-in-red-orange-zones/articleshow/75815720.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Nashik||Working from home takes a toll on productivity of IT employees||NASHIK: Frequent power cuts and disruptions in internet connectivity has eaten into the productivity of IT employees working from home. President of Nashik Information Technology Association (NITA) Arvind Mahapatra said, “Only a few units have started operating from office with minimum manpower. Over 95% of the IT units are still asking their employees to work from home as calling the staff to work may increase the chances of infection spread.” Talking about the the drop in productivity, Mahapatra said when the work-from-home module was adopted, most companies did not audit the internet facilities employees used in their homes. “Internet connectivity is poor in some areas. Moreover, weather conditions like unseasonal rain and winds led to power cuts in the last few days. This has led to around 10% drop in productivity,” he said. “We are also not getting new work orders or contracts. Moreover, our existing clients are also demanding discounts,” added Mahapatra. There are over 200 IT units located in the limits of Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC), most of which cater to USA and European countries.“The IT industry is a sector-specific industry. IT industries working for healthcare, banking and essential services sectors have not been affected. “However, the pandemic outbreak has largely impacted the industries working for the aviation, hospitality, transportation and entertainment sectors. Overall, an average 20% business of the IT industry has been affected due to Covid-19,” said Mahapatra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/working-from-home-takes-a-toll-on-productivity-of-it-employees/articleshow/75813165.cms||Tushar Pawar
May 19, 2020||Varanasi||Kashi Covid tally crosses 100 mark, 9 new cases in adjoining districts||Varanasi: With the detection of five new cases of Covid-19, Varanasi tally crossed the mark of 100 while nine more infected persons, including four in Mirzapur, two in Azamgarh and Sonbhadra each and one in Jaunpur district, were detected on Monday. After getting 168 test reports from Banaras Hindu University lab, district magistrate Varanasi Kaushal Raj Sharma said, “Five persons have been tested positive. With the addition of these cases, total tally of district has reached to 101. Of them four had died between April 3 and Monday, while 65 had been cured. Now active cases in the district has become 32 while number of hotspot areas increased to 41.” A 40-year-old man and his 24-year-old brother of Garkhada village in Sindhora area, were found positive, he said adding, a 35-year-old youth of Chiraigaon, a 32-year-old mobile mechanic of Madhavpur Harahua in Badagaon and a 30-year-old youth of Bhartharakala in Chaubeypur area were tested positive. They all had returned home from Mumbai on trucks on May 13. In Mirzapur, brother of an already infected youth, who had returned from Mumbai on truck on May 12, of Maheva village was tested positive. Other youth of Kachhwa Road, who is currently dwelling in Imarti village in Padari area, had also returned from Mumbai on May 12 and his sample had been collected on May 14. A 25-year-old woman of Pacherva village in Chilh area, who had returned from Noida with her husband on a truck on May 11, was also found infected. A 20-year-old woman of Khajuri village in Dehat kotwali area, who suffered cold and cough, has also been found positive. CMO Mirzapur Dr OP Tiwari said that with four fresh cases total tally of district has reached to 19 of which three had been cured. All new cases were sent to isolation ward. In Sonbhadra, a migrant labourer from Bahraich and other from Firozabad district were found Covid-19 positive, said CMO Sonbhadra Dr SK Upadhyaya. First case of Covid-19 positive in the district was found on May 10. All these three labourers had reached Sonbhadra from Mumbai by train on May 8. Now total cases in this district are three. In Azamgarh, a migrant labourers of Barva area in Mehnajpur and other of Jamalpur in Nizamabad area were tested positive. DM Azamgarh NP Singh said that these two had returned Azamgarh from Mumbai by truck on May 11. Both of them were sent to isolation ward of government hospital. Total number of positive cases in Azamgarh reached 15, of which one had died and nine had become cured. Now, the number of active cases in the district is five. In Jaunpur, a youth of Ahiyapur in city area was tested positive. DM Dinesh Kumar Singh said this youth had returned from Mumbai recently and his sample was taken on May 13 for laboratory test. He was shifted to Varanasi for treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/kashi-covid-tally-crosses-100-mark-9-new-cases-in-adjoining-districts/articleshow/75813134.cms||Rajeev Dikshit
May 19, 2020||Ranchi||New norms for areas outside of containment zones from today||Ranchi: A day after the Centre extended the ongoing lockdown till May 31 with a host of relaxations, Jharkhand government on Monday announced its own set of norms allowing certain economic activities across the state except in containment zones and municipal areas from Tuesday. Chief minister Hemant Soren, who held a series of consultative meetings since morning, said all other activities allowed prior to Monday’s announcement will continue. He said, “After a lot of deliberations, the government has decided on these relaxations for Lockdown 4.0. Our focus has been to balance influx of migrants and reviving economic activities in a staggered manner to avoid any chaotic situation. With time, we will take a call on other relaxations. I appeal to everyone to continue following proper safety norms and physical and social distancing in public interest.” The state-specific relaxations include opening of liquor shops, resumption of industrial and construction activities, opening of warehouses, shops selling hardware, construction materials, books and telecom products and reopening of all service centres of telecom and electronic items at all places except in municipal areas. Private office, e-commerce sellers, including non-essential items, and movement of both inter- and intra-district movement of taxis are also allowed. However, educational institutes, mall, temples and parks among others will remain shut during the lockdown period. Soren said the decision to open book shops was taken keeping the students in mind. He said, “As the new academic session is about to re-start and considering the CBSE’s remaining exams, we decided allow book shops to open so that students don’t face problems.” Earlier, the government had relaxed activities in the agriculture sector and allowed movement of goods including non-essentials. Public utility services, construction in rural areas and in-situ construction sites in urban pockets and MNREGA work among a few others were also allowed. Finance minister Rameshwar Oraon said it was difficult to give more relaxations. He said, “There is still a need for strict measures as many migrants are coming in daily from red zones.” Health minister Banna Gupta, who also holds the disaster management portfolio, told TOI that the ministerial sub-committee for Covid-19 held a meeting to suggest more measures to the government. Gupta said they are putting special focus to bring maximum number of migrants back at the earliest and increase the state’s testing capacities. He said, “We have given NoC for 76 more special trains from Andhra Pradesh, Maharashtra, Telangana, Gujarat, Dadra and Nagar Haveli, Punjab, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu and Delhi for now. This apart, people are coming via buses, too.” He added, “We have decided to install 30 TruNat machines at strategic locations in all districts. Ten of the machines have arrived. It can test 4 samples and give results in an hour. Three more medical colleges in Palamu, Hazaribag and Dumka will soon get Covid-19 testing labs.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/new-norms-for-areas-outside-of-containment-zones-from-today/articleshow/75814907.cms||ASRP Mukesh
May 19, 2020||Mangaluru||Showers bring mercury levels down in Mangaluru||Mangaluru: In the past fortnight, maximum temperature in Mangaluru has hovered around the 36 degrees Celsius but the heavy showers that the coastal city received on Monday brought the mercury level down to 30 degrees Celsius, much to the delight of the residents. Kudla residents, who had been reeling under soaring humidity levels and high temperatures, welcomed the heavy rain on Monday. Although Sullia and Belthangdy taluks had been receiving copious rainfall for the past few days, a drizzle that lasted no more than few minutes was Mangaluru’s lot. Worse still, the city was left hotter afterwards. However, the rain on Monday lasted for nearly four hours, perceptibly cooling the city. Along with gusty winds, the rain, which started around 6am, was accompanied by lightning and thunder. Consequently, power outages were reported across the city. Mangaluru Electricity Supply Company personnel struggled to locate the source of the problem, but once it was found, power was restored around 8am. The Indian Meteorological Department has predicted that thundershowers are likely in most places across Coastal Karnataka for the next 24 to 48 hours. Meanwhile, the prolonged spell of rain resulted in water level rising in the storm waterdrains in Mangaluru. Thankfully, the Mangaluru City Corporation’s initiative to remove silt from the drains prevented inundation of several low-lying areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/showers-bring-mercury-levels-down-in-mangaluru/articleshow/75813850.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Vadodara||Covid positive doc alleges lapses by A’bad Civil Hospital||Vadodara: The resident doctor of state-run SSG Hospitalm who tested positive for Covid-19 on Sunday, has alleged that Ahmedabad Civil Hospital is simply not following protocol and guidelines related to Covid.Sharing his experience at the civil hospital, where he was on deputation, Dr Suketu Dave claimed that even the donning and doffing areas are not proper putting the frontline warriors at risk.“The guidelines are very clear. There should be a separate donning area where doctor put on the personal protection equipment (PPE). Similarly, there should be doffing area to remove and set away the PPE for safe disposal once the duty hours are over. This is not being taken care of at the civil hospital, risking health of everyone involved in treatment of patients,” alleged Dave.Dave was also involved in treatment of patients both at SSG Hospital and GMERS Medical College and Hospital, Gotri in Vadodara.“Similarly, there should be enough sterillium (ready-to-use alcohol-based rub-in), soaps and things like washbasins should be in proper condition. But this is not the case at civil hospital,” said Dave, who served at the isolation ward there between May 6 and May 12.Many patients have complained about the quality of food served to them, but the condition of doctors is no different.“The food served to the patients as well as doctors should be protein-rich to boost their immunity. The quality there is so pathetic that nobody can complete a meal. Residents like me complained about this several times but all in vain,” said Dave, who was part of the first batch of 19 resident doctors from medicine, pulmonology and anesthesia who were on deputation at Ahmedabad.Resident doctors are demanding that the state government should bear the expense of treatment of health workers who get admitted at private hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/covid-positive-doc-alleges-lapses-by-abad-civil-hospital/articleshow/75811818.cms||Prashant Rupera
May 19, 2020||Bhopal||CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan does away with orange; Madhya Pradesh to have red or green Covid-19 zones||BHOPAL: Madhya Pradesh Covid-19 map will have just two colour codes – red and green – said chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Monday as he unveiled what lockdown 4.0 will look like in the state. Code orange is out. In his televised address on Doordarshan, the CM didn’t spell out the criteria for the zones but officials later told TOI that orange may have been dropped because there was too much fluctuation between orange and green as new cases cropped up or old ones got cured, and there wasn’t much difference in the relaxations in these two zones. “Lockdown-04 will be imposed in a different form and manner. We have to save lives along with the world,” he said. Indore and Ujjain are the only districts tagged red through and through. In Bhopal, Dewas, Dhar, Jabalpur, Khandwa, Mandsaur, Neemuch and Kukchi, only the municipal areas will be come under red-zone restrictions. The government’s intent, it seems, is to open up industries and businesses as far as possible to revive the economy, while continuing to fight Covid-19. “All activities, barring those restricted in all zones, are allowed in green areas. All shops, bazaars and vegetable mandis can open, and government and private offices can operate at 100% capacity,” the CM said, adding a cautionary note that a rise in Covid count can quickly push a green zone into red. “Continue to take precautions so that your green zone remains green,” he said. CM Chouhan said that it is time to explore “possibility in adversity”, rather than give in to the crisis. “I will soon present to people a draft on how Madhya Pradesh can contribute to the making of an Aatmanirbhar (self-sufficient) India as envisaged by Prime Minister Narendra Modi,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/shivraj-does-away-with-orange-mp-to-have-red-or-green-covid-zones/articleshow/75814363.cms||Ashutosh Shukla
May 19, 2020||Ajmer||Covid-19: In a first, Rajasthan breaches 300-mark in single day||JAIPUR: The state saw a sudden surge in corona infections on Monday with new Covid-19 cases breaching the 300 mark for the first time in a single day. Seven persons also died due to the virus, taking the toll to 138. With 305 people testing positive, the total coronavirus infected cases stands at 5,507. The highest number of cases was reported from Dungarpur (64), followed by Jaipur (47), Jodhpur (35), Bhilwara (25) and Jalore (25). Other districts which reported new cases are Udaipur (21), Jaisalmer (12), Barmer (11), Rajsamand (10), Bharatpur (6), Sikar (6), Sirohi (6), Bikaner (6), Chittorgarh (5), Dausa (5), Banswara (4), Pali (4), Dholpur (3), Tonk (2), Jhunjhunu (2), Kota (2), Nagaur (2), Ajmer (1) and one BSF personnel in Jodhpur. For the past five days, corona cases have constantly increased each day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/in-a-first-raj-breaches300-mark-in-single-day/articleshow/75826479.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Jodhpur||Covid-19: In a first, Rajasthan breaches 300-mark in single day||JAIPUR: The state saw a sudden surge in corona infections on Monday with new Covid-19 cases breaching the 300 mark for the first time in a single day. Seven persons also died due to the virus, taking the toll to 138. With 305 people testing positive, the total coronavirus infected cases stands at 5,507. The highest number of cases was reported from Dungarpur (64), followed by Jaipur (47), Jodhpur (35), Bhilwara (25) and Jalore (25). Other districts which reported new cases are Udaipur (21), Jaisalmer (12), Barmer (11), Rajsamand (10), Bharatpur (6), Sikar (6), Sirohi (6), Bikaner (6), Chittorgarh (5), Dausa (5), Banswara (4), Pali (4), Dholpur (3), Tonk (2), Jhunjhunu (2), Kota (2), Nagaur (2), Ajmer (1) and one BSF personnel in Jodhpur. For the past five days, corona cases have constantly increased each day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/in-a-first-raj-breaches300-mark-in-single-day/articleshow/75826476.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Jaipur||Covid-19: In a first, Rajasthan breaches 300-mark in single day||JAIPUR: The state saw a sudden surge in corona infections on Monday with new Covid-19 cases breaching the 300 mark for the first time in a single day. Seven persons also died due to the virus, taking the toll to 138. With 305 people testing positive, the total coronavirus infected cases stands at 5,507. The highest number of cases was reported from Dungarpur (64), followed by Jaipur (47), Jodhpur (35), Bhilwara (25) and Jalore (25). Other districts which reported new cases are Udaipur (21), Jaisalmer (12), Barmer (11), Rajsamand (10), Bharatpur (6), Sikar (6), Sirohi (6), Bikaner (6), Chittorgarh (5), Dausa (5), Banswara (4), Pali (4), Dholpur (3), Tonk (2), Jhunjhunu (2), Kota (2), Nagaur (2), Ajmer (1) and one BSF personnel in Jodhpur. For the past five days, corona cases have constantly increased each day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/in-a-first-raj-breaches300-mark-in-single-day/articleshow/75815725.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Nagpur||You may soon need to get NMC licence for your pets, cattle||NAGPUR: Animal lovers will have to shell out money for keeping dogs, cats and cattle. Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) is coming up with bylaws for mandatory registration and issuance of licenses for domestic and pet animals. “As per the new bylaws, citizens will require NMC’s nod to keep domestic animals in their house,” said deputy municipal commissioner Dr Pradip Dasarwar. The draft bylaws have been prepared under provisions of section 376 of Maharashtra Municipal Corporation Act (business licenses and animal husbandry and other permits for certain units) and rule 22 (animal husbandry and destruction) of Schedule ‘D’ Bye-Law 2020 has been prepared. “The new bylaws will require tagging of all animals — cow, buffalo, cats and dogs,” said NMC veterinary officer Dr Gajendra Mahalle. License and written permission will be given for keeping and transporting animals in the area within the municipal limits. This by-law for citizens is available at https://www.nmcnagpur.gov.in/vsnmc/ “Objections and suggestions have been invited from the citizens online and the department will consider them while preparing final draft before taking approval from the state government,” he said. The draft rule says permission of the municipal commissioner will be required for keeping or transporting any animals in the city. Also, persons who already been keeping or transporting animals will have to apply for licence within 90 days from the date of enactment of the new rule. Permission will be denied if citizens default on requisite fees. “It will be mandatory to renew the permit before it expires. Failure to do so will result in late fee per day otherwise the license will be revoked,” said Dr Mahalle. Penalties will also be levied on persons violating provisions. Person concerned can be fined up to Rs5,000 for each violation, and if the violation continues, a fine of Rs1,000 each day for the first seven days, Rs3,000 for the next seven days and Rs5,000 per day for the next seven days will be levied. If the penalty is not paid within the prescribed time, it will be recovered by including it in the property tax. If an animal is found defecating in public place like roads, footpaths, playgrounds, the owner can be fined Rs500 for the first offence and Rs1,000 for the second, the rule suggests. The department can file a case against them to revoke the municipal license and harming the health of citizens. Permission will be required for tagging animals as well as microchipping dogs and cats. The cost will have to be borne by the animal owners. The corporation can take possession of animals that are not tagging or chipped. Permission will be required under the Maharashtra Regional Town Planning Act, 1966 for construction of cattle sheds too. Also, if more than 10 animals are kept, permission of Maharashtra Pollution Control Board will be needed, the draft rules state. The NMC will also impose additional fees for disposal of cow dung. The bylaw also stipulates that the licensee will have to arrange for cleaning of the premises, firefighting equipment and disposal of excreta.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/you-may-soon-need-to-get-nmc-licence-for-your-pets-cattle/articleshow/75815212.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
May 19, 2020||Aurangabad||Migrants walk 380km to reach Beed village||AURANGABAD: A group of four migrant workers from Pune’s Chakan, who also sold vegetables for a living, reached Beed on foot on Monday with their household goods placed on a handcart. The group accompanied by a 7-year-old boy, includes two couples-one from Ambejogai in Beed and another from Parbhani. The migrant workers told TOI that it took them nine days to cover around 380 km from Pune to Beed on foot. They had not completed their journey even on Monday morning as they had to walk to their respective villages. 45-year-old Habib Shaikh from Ambejogai had gone to Lonavala with his family around seven to eight years ago. “We were working under different contractors in Lonavala and later shifted to Chakan. On days, when we did not get any work, we would sell vegetables,” an exhausted Shaikh said. Due to consistent walking, his wife had developed a limp. The workers said over the the last one and half months, all their savings were exhausted. They waited for the lockdown to be over, “As we did not get any work, we tried getting transport to go home but they were charging a lot. After exhausting all options, we decided to walk home.” Shaikh said. As on Monday, the two families did not even have money to recharge their phones. Ambejogai is 100 km from Beed while Parbhani is 150 km. A 7-year-old boy of the Parbhani family had become cranky but knows he will have to continue walking until they reach the village. An NGO on the way provided them with a meal and some money.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/migrants-walk-380km-to-reach-beed-village/articleshow/75813200.cms||Arpita Sharad
May 19, 2020||Ahmedabad||Stones, teargas: Migrants clash with cops in Ahmedabad's Vastrapur||AHMEDABAD: A day after violence took place between migrants and police in Rajkot, aggrieved workers from Jharkhand and West Bengal, who were working at the new campus of the Indian Institute of Management- Ahmedabad (IIM-A), went out on roads, threw stones and allegedly attacked cops on Monday morning. Police officials said cops lobbed two teargas shells to disperse the crowd, chased the migrant workers and resorted to lathi charge on the road outside the institute. “Migrant workers from West Bengal and Jharkhand were angry at workers from UP, Bihar and Rajasthan being sent home, and felt left out. They created a ruckus and pelted stones on cops. One TRB woman guard suffered head injury and some others suffered minor injuries,” said joint commissioner of police, Sector-1, Amit Vishwakarma. Vishwakarma said around a 1,000 labourers stayed at ther labour colony inside new IIM-A campus in Vastrapur . “They worked for a construction company. On Monday morning, they first aired their grievances to the company people, and then began vandalizing inside the campus,” said Vishwakarma. The campus people called up cops and when the police reached there and tried to talk with them they attacked cops with sticks and stones. Later, police managed to control the situation and booked at least 100 people for resorting to violence and registered a legal case against them, said Vishwakarma. On asked if the migrants will face charge of attempt to murder as the cops did in a case of Shahpur violence where a cop suffered injuries on his head, Vishwakarma said that this was not a pre-planned attack as it was in Shahpur. Another police official, who was present during the clash between migrants and cops outside IIM-A, said that it was terrible to see the migrants go berserk. “Some of them even barged into GMDC, got sticks and pipes and began attacking cops,” said a police official. On Sunday, a clash with migrant workers happened in the industrial area of Shapar in Rajkot district in which a police official and a journalist suffered injuries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/stones-teargas-migrants-clash-with-cops-in-vastrapur/articleshow/75814427.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Goa||Public feedback sought for tenant verification bill||Panaji: In the absence of a foolproof system to verify the credentials of tenants, the state government has drafted the tenant verification bill that seeks to address this issue. The bill will soon be placed in public domain for objections and suggestion from citizens. In February, chief minister Pramod Sawant had stated that 85% of rapes and murders in the state are committed by migrants, and hence, the government would introduce a tenant verification bill that would contain provisions to penalise landlords who rent out accommodation to migrants without due verification. A senior government officer said in the absence of a foolproof system for tenant verification, the police find it difficult to crack such cases. The file was sent to the law department to seek their opinion on whether the draft bill can be placed in public domain, the officer said. “The law department has suggested that as per law, it is not mandatory for bills to be placed in public domain. But if the department decides to do so, then they can go ahead,” the officer said. As there is no proper law in place, police and district collectors try to wash their hands of filing the complaint, he added. “This bill will fix the responsibility on who should file the case for not conducting tenant verification,” the officer said. As per practice, the collectors issue tenant verification notifications every six months. “All owners of houses, buildings, flats and other residential accommodation and owners/management of hotels, lodging and boarding, private guesthouses, paying guest accommodation of religious bodies, etc, should verify the bona fides of the persons through proofs of their identity such as voters’ ID, driving licence, aadhaar card, passport, etc, and should fill in the tenant/visitor/guest verification form before such persons are allowed to reside at their premises. The same must be furnished to the local police station for further verification and record,” states a recent notification.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/public-feedback-sought-for-tenant-verification-bill/articleshow/75815759.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Allahabad||Victims’ bodies sent back in six spl ambulances||Prayagraj: In a damage control exercise, Prayagraj police hurriedly arranged six special ambulances on Sunday night to transport the bodies of 17 migrant workers, who died in the tragic road accident in Auraiya, to Jharkhand and West Bengal. City police rushed to the rescue after Auraiya police drew flak for sending the bodies in a truck, citing constraints due to corona pandemic and lockdown. At least 26 migrant labourers were killed and 36 others injured when a trailer carrying them rammed a stationary DCM truck from behind on National Highway 19 in Auraiya district in the wee hours of Saturday. The Jharkhand government had on Sunday appealed UP to arrange suitable transportation after going through reports that bodies of migrant labourers were being transported in truck from Auraiya to Bokaro. IG Prayagraj range K P Singh told TOI, “Six special ambulances were arranged at Nawabganj, Prayagraj, on Delhi-Howarh highway on Sunday night to transport bodies of 17 migrants who had died in a road mishap in Auraiya district.” “We had to send 11 bodies to Bokaro and six to Purulia in West Bengal. It took more than two hours to shift bodies from truck into ambulances while following all norms strictly. The West Bengal authorities took all six bodies on Varanasi border while 11 bodies were sent to Bokaro in three special ambulances,” he added. Aurraiya police drew heavy criticism for sending the bodies in trucks. Jharkhand government took strong exception and criticised Auraiya police for the ‘insensitive treatment” meted out to bodies of migrant workers. The state government then directed Prayagraj police to take corrective measures and ensure bodies were transported to Bokaro in ambulances.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/victims-bodies-sent-back-in-six-spl-ambulances/articleshow/75813178.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Kolhapur||Kolhapur records 24 fresh cases in 24 hours||KOLHAPUR: A total of 24 people tested positive in Kolhapur district in the last 24 hours till Monday evening, which is the highest number so far, taking the tally to 67. Health department officials attributed the increase in the number of cases to the rising number of people returning to Kolhapur from red zone areas of other cities. Two members of a family of six who had returned to Ajara in Kolhapur after performing the last rites of a relative in Mumbai tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday morning. The other family members have been quarantined. District health officer Yogesh Sale said, “Adequate arrangements are in place. However, the number of people returning to their native places is increasing, it is putting a heavy load on the swab testing.” The official said that earlier, around 500 samples were collected and send for testing, but the number has almost doubled now, with over 1,000 swab samples sent for testing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/kolhapur-records-24-fresh-cases-in-24-hrs/articleshow/75813225.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Allahabad||3 arrested for setting house on fire in city||Prayagraj: Three men were arrested on Monday for allegedly setting a woman’s house on fire in Lakhanpur village in Koroan on Sunday night. The accused were identified as Rakesh alias Chhotu, Shyamdhar and Dheeraj. All three were residents of Lakhanpur. Inspector (Koraon) Rakesh Kumar said that the accused had entered the house of one Nirmala Devi and thrashed her and her family members. They later also set the house on fire and fled. The inspector said that Nirmala and the accused had been at loggerheads over an old dispute. Following the incident, the police rushed to the spot and doused the flames A case under sections 147, 323, 504, 506, 452 and 436 of the Indian Penal Code was registered. Police nabbed the three near Lakhanpur Bridge Canal Road.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/3-arrested-for-setting-house-on-fire-in-city/articleshow/75813205.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Jaipur||Covid testing unit at SMS shuts down after staff clash||Jaipur: A scuffle between doctors and lab technicians at the microbiology department of the Sawai Man Singh Hospital here led to the shutting down of its Covid-19 testing unit on Monday. Health department suspended the services of lab technician Ramesh Kumawat for allegedly thrashing the doctors. Following this, lab technicians have threatened to go on a statewide strike which could seriously affect Covid testing in the state. SMS Hospital’s microbiology lab has 500 technicians and their strength in the state is 2,700. Assistant professor at the microbiology department, Dinesh Jain said, “The incident happened (at around at 2.45pm) when I asked a lab technician why he had come late to duty. The timing of the shift starts at noon but he came around 2.45pm. He started arguing and picked up a mop and hit me.” Jain said the doctors will not return to work unless action was taken against Kumawat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/covid-testing-unit-at-sms-shuts-down-after-staff-clash/articleshow/75815726.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Schools to lay off 2 lakh contract teachers||HYDERABAD: With no clarity on when the 2020-21 academic year will commence, private school managements in the state have decided not to renew contracts of teachers. With no clarity on when the 2020-21 academic year will commence, private school managements in the state have decided not to renew contracts of teachers. Telangana Recognized Managements Association (TRSMA), which has over 10,000 school managements as members, has also decided not to pay salaries starting from the month of May and has attributed the move, which will affect over two lakh teachers, to non-collection of fee dues. “We will hire the required teachers only before the new academic year begins,” said Shekar Rao Y, president, TRSMA, and added that presently most schools only have a teaching staff or two to look after admissions and clerical work, along with a security personnel. “We are willing to conduct online classes at free of cost to all school students, but unless the state supports us, we won’t be able to pay teachers,” said Rao. Teachers said that this move will severely affect them, with many families struggling to survive due to the pandemic and its subsequent impact on multiple sectors. “Although schools take a count of how many teachers are willing to work next year before the class 10 exams, they don’t pay us during the summer vacation. However it was just two months of no pay. This year, there is no guarantee on when the academic year will begin and nearly two lakh teachers will have to go without salary,” said Shabir Ali, president, Telangana Private Teachers Forum. He added that teachers working in over 10,000 recognised schools and about 8,000 unrecognised schools are currently without jobs. Members of Private Teachers and Lecturers Union, AP, also confirmed that teachers working in various private institutes in the state have lost their jobs and many will go without any income at least until October. High school teacher from Yadadri-Bhuvanagiri district, Chiranjeevi K, and his colleagues were paid a part of his salary on Tuesday, within hours of TOI publishing a report on how teachers in the Telugu states had been forced to become dailywage labourers to survive the lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/schools-to-lay-off-2l-contract-teachers/articleshow/75814447.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
May 19, 2020||Nagpur||Lockdown & stock loss: Traders hit hard||NAGPUR: “Humko bhi jaan pyaari hai … hum apna our humare customers ka khayal rakhenge lekin humein humari dukaan kholne do (We too care for our life. We will take all precautions for the safety of our customers but allow us to open our shops for livelihood),” was the appeal of small retailers such as cosmetics, footwear, sweet shop owners, as they urged the government to allow them to do business amid the extended lockdown. TOI spoke to many retailers of various trades in the city and almost all claimed that the over 50-day lockdown had made a deep hole in their already tattered business. With the lockdown forcing them to keep their shops closed right from March 25, many stocks with limited shelf life turned unfit for use, aggravating their financial loss, retailers said. Pankaj Padiya, who owns a cosmetic shop on old Bhandara road, said the lockdown hit him very badly. “Apart from loss due to no business, I will suffer financial damage as many perishable cosmetic products like mehndi, nail paints etc will be of no use now.” Expecting a good business during marriage season, Padiya had big stock of cosmetics. “Now I am staring at a huge loss,” a dejected Padiya said. Ritesh Jain, who runs a ready-made garment shop at Shahid Chowk, Itwari, and does seasonal sale of raincoats and winter wear, said, “We have already approached municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe through our corporator Abha Pande and sought permission to run our business. Either allow us to open our shops on alternate days, or deliver garments through phone orders.” Closed markets in Nagpur means “no business in Central India”, Jain said. According to him, entire Vidarbha region depends on shops in Nagpur. No business in Nagpur means starvation for shop owners of all non-essential shops, Jain added. While big grocery shops selling essential commodities are allowed to operate during lockdown, why should our small shopkeepers — who sell similar daily-need goods — be deprived of their livelihood, asked the traders TOI spoke to. Many traders feared damage of their stocked material, as they could not check the consignment that arrived just a day before lockdown was imposed. Many traders approached local corporators to allow them to check their stocks, to safeguard against possible NMC action if they opened their establishments. Ashwin Mehadia, president of Nag Vidarbha Chambers of Commerce (NVCC), said that the extended lockdown had hit almost all traders dealing in non-essential goods in the city very hard. The NVCC had submitted a memorandum to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray through district guardian minister Nitin Raut, he added. The capital investment of these small retailers is locked in the stocks of non-essential products that remain unsold in their shops because of lockdown. They are now forced to dip into their minuscule savings, Mehadia added. “Since Prime Minister Narendra Modi said we have to live with Covid-19, our association has urged the CM to give permission to all shops and establishments to start business,” said Mehadia.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/lockdown-stock-loss-traders-hit-hard/articleshow/75815261.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
May 19, 2020||Allahabad||PG seats hiked by 25 per cent in Allahabad University colleges||PRAYAGRAJ: The number of seats in postgraduate courses in Allahabad University’s constituent colleges has been increased by 25% from the academic session 2020-21. The hike in seats has been implemented in accordance with the provisions for giving reservation to students from economically weaker section (EWS). Director admissions, Prof. Prashant Agarwal said, “The number of PG seats in Allahabad University’s constituent colleges has been increased in the upcoming academic session. Accordingly, PG admissions would be done for 9,447 seats at AU and its constituent colleges this year. This would include 4,273 seats in Allahabad central university and 5,174 seats in various constituent colleges.” The number of PG seats could not be increased in the constituent colleges last year owing to unavoidable reasons, and as a result 25% hike has been implemented in one go instead of in phases, Prof. Agarwal added. Sharing the breakup of PG seats in constituent colleges, Prof. Agarwal said, “Following 25% hike, admissions will be done for 1,257 PG seats at CMP Degree College, 1,023 seats at Allahabad Degree College (ADC), 720 seats at Iswar Saran Degree College (ISDC), 212 seats at Jagat Taran Girls’ Degree College, 870 seats at S S Khanna Girls’ Degree College, 496 seats at Arya Kanya Degree College, 410 seats at Shyama Prasad Mukherjee Degree College and 124 PG seats at Rajarshi Tandon Girls’ Degree College.” Likewise, admissions will be done on 62 seats in BEd course at K P Training College and 12 BEd seats at S S Khanna Girls’ Degree College. In Allahabad University, admissions will be done on 76 seats of LLM, on 75 LLM seats at CMP Degree College and 37 LLM seats at Allahabad Degree College, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/pg-seats-hiked-by-25-in-au-colleges/articleshow/75813263.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Delhi||Delhi moves in first gear, metro to stay shut||NEW DELHI: After nearly two months, the capital will be on the move again from Tuesday with chief minister Arvind Kejriwal announcing plying of public transport during lockdown 4.0. Although the capital’s lifeline, Delhi Metro, will remain shut, all other modes of public and private transport will be allowed to operate, albeit with restrictions. More than 6,000 buses of Delhi Transport Corporation and cluster scheme, nearly 2.5 lakh app-based cabs, 95,000 autorickshaws, 8,675 para-transit vehicles like Gramin Seva, Maxi Cabs, Phat-Phat Seva and over 8,000 kaali-peeli taxis will be out on the roads. Movement of private vehicles will be allowed with two passengers in four-wheelers and one rider on a two-wheeler. Autorickshaws and e-rickshaws will be allowed to carry only one passenger and buses 20. Two passengers will be allowed in taxis, cabs and Gramin Seva, Eco-friendly Seva and Phat-Phat Seva vehicles. Five passengers will be allowed in Maxi Cabs and 11 in RTVs. Carpooling has not been allowed for cab aggregators. The transport department has the Herculean task of ensuring social distancing in not only buses, but also the nearly 1,400 queue shelters, apart from carrying out thermal scanning of passengers boarding the vehicles. While buses will be sanitised at regular intervals, drivers of para-transit vehicles will have to ensure disinfection of the passenger seats after each drop-off. “We have identified 740 bus stops that witness heavy passenger traffic. We will deploy 2-6 Home Guard or Civil Defence personnel, depending on the volume of passengers, to ensure social distancing. Within 3-4 days, we will provide these personnel with thermal scanners too,” a transport department official said. Each passenger will be screened before boarding the bus by marshals equipped with thermal scanners. To keep a check on violations, 40 teams of the transport department’s enforcement wing will be stationed at major points like ITO, AIIMS, Uttam Nagar, Peeragarhi, etc. An official said stopping para-transit vehicles from overloading passengers will be tough, but Delhi Traffic Police will help by penalising them. “We are putting in place an unprecedented public transport system. There will be teething troubles, but we expect the system to stabilise in a couple of days,” the official added. Unions of para-transit vehicle operators, however, said though they will follow all norms, they won’t be able to meet the cost of running the vehicles with so few passengers. Shyam Lal Gola, general secretary of STA Operators’ Ekta Manch, said, “The fares haven’t changed in years and the cost of CNG, maintenance and staff salaries have gone up. We request Delhi government to pay us a fixed amount per kilometre just like cluster scheme buses.” Autorickshaw unions were also unhappy at being allowed to carry just one passenger. “Why will a single passenger take an autorickshaw? They will travel by bus instead. Two passengers travelling together will now shift to cabs,” said Rajendra Soni, general secretary, Delhi Auto Rickshaw Union. “Many auto drivers have left Delhi. Incomes for the rest will come down drastically as there won’t be many single passengers. Delhi government should provide life insurance to drivers as we are at the risk of getting infected,” Soni added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-moves-in-first-gear-metro-to-stay-shut/articleshow/75815272.cms||Sidharatha Roy
May 19, 2020||Nashik||Ashas, anganwadi workers to spread awareness on Covid-19||NASHIK: Around 8,500 Ashas (accredited social health activists) and anganwadi sevikas (volunteers) are involved in spreading awareness on coronavirus among the rural masses, following instructions by senior health officials of Nashik Zilla Parishad. Volunteers recently attended a workshop through Zoom App, wherein they were sensitized about the outbreak of Covid-19 and the precautions that were to be taken. Senior ZP officials said that they had earlier deployed Asha to trace people with fever and monitor those coming from Covid-affected places. “Now, the focus is more on educating the rural masses about the precautionary measures against Covid-19.” Recently, Ashas and Anganwadi volunteers from across the district were given information about coronavirus and the methods people should be adopting while moving in public places. They were also shown the importance of washing hands continuously and the method for the same.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/ashas-anganwadi-workers-to-spread-awareness-on-covid-19/articleshow/75813283.cms||Santosh Sonawane
May 19, 2020||Kanpur||12 migrants injured as busoverturns||Kanpur:Despite preventive steps taken by the state government, there seems to be no let up in the cases of road accidents involving migrant labourers in the region. In yet another incident, 12 migrant labourers including women and children on their way home to Mahoba district in a SRTC bus of Kaushambi depot were injured in a road accident in Hamirpur district. The accident took place early on Monday morning when the SRTC bus in which the migrants were travelling in turned turtle after the driver lost control near city forest area on the highway under the Kotwali police station limits. They had been travelling back from Noida, and 12 migrants were injured in the incident. The police reached the spot of the accident, and took all injured to the district hospital. The conditions of few migrants is reported to be critical. “All the injured persons have been admitted to district hospital. Doctors stated condition of few to be stable. We are monitoring the arrangements at the hospital,” said superintendent of police Shlok Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/12-migrants-injured-as-busoverturns/articleshow/75814622.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Allahabad||Stuck at home since lockdown, men take over iftaar duty in city||Prayagraj: For as long as she can remember, iftaar had largely been Nasreen’s responsibility given her husband’s busy schedule as a businessman. The Mundera resident has fond memories of rustling wholesome meals for her family, when they used to sit down together to break their rozas during the month of Ramzan every year. This year, however, there has been a change of roles in who’s heading the kitchen. Stuck at home because of the lockdown, Nasreen’s husband has been showing off his culinary skills in the kitchen while preparing iftaar. “Till last year, it was primarily the women in the family who used to prepare the iftari, as our husbands were busy managing shops and attending offices. Now, with my brother-in-law working from home and my husband’s shop being closed because of the lockdown, they too pitch in with the cooking. Even if they are busy with something, they at least help us in the preparation,” said Nasreen, who is a housewife. There are many Muslim women like Nasreen who are overjoyed at having their husbands and sons help them out in preparing meals while fasting for Ramzan. Many credit the change in tradition to the lockdown enforced due to the novel coronavirus (Covid-19) outbreak. Tabrez Ali, Shahganj-based contractor who used to travel frequently for work, is happy to be at home for once. “There were many times when I had to travel for work even during Ramzan. However, I have no option but to stay home because of the lockdown. My work has stopped, but I am happy to get some time with my family. I am using this opportunity to polish my cooking skills and making meals for my family.” Shahabuddin, who lives in Harwara, said he surprised his wife by making biryani for iftaar, after searching for the recipe online. “I have made it five times since and everyone loves it, except my son,” he added. For Shadab, until last year work never stopped even during Ramzan. “I was always busy either with meeting clients or with something else at office. I could only be home for a few iftaars. However, this year as I am working from home, I am not only getting time to help my wife Famina in kitchen, but also experimenting with dishes,” said the Leader Road resident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/stuck-at-home-since-lockdown-men-take-over-iftaar-duty-in-city/articleshow/75813224.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Allahabad||No new coronavirus case reported in city||Prayagraj: Even though no novel coronavirus (Covid-19) cases were reported in Prayagraj, three men tested positive for the infection in Kaushambi district on Monday. The three men are residents of Mahmadpur village and had returned from Mumbai last week, after which they were quarantined at a school. Their swab samples were collected on Sunday and they tested positive for the infection on Monday. Apart from Kaushambi, seven cases were reported from Chitrakoot and two each from Bhadohi and Mirzapur districts. Nodal officer and additional chief medical officer Dr Rishi Sahai said, “On Monday, 72 samples were collected for testing and results for 58 were finalised. Of the 58 samples collected, 16 were from Chitrakoot, 15 from Fatehpur, 14 from Mirzapur, seven from Pratapgarh, and three each from Kaushambi and Bhadohi.” “All samples tested negative for novel coronavirus, except 14. These 14 samples included seven collected from Chitrakoot, three from Kaushambi and two each from Bhadohi and Mirzapur,” Sahai added. However, no positive case was reported from Prayagraj till Monday evening. Saying that the two men who passed away while being quarantined on Sunday died of novel coronavirus, a senior health department official, said, “Three patients have died in Prayagraj district of novel coronavirus till now.” Sahai said that till now 38 cases have been reported in Prayagraj district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/no-new-coronavirus-case-reported-in-city/articleshow/75813321.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Kolhapur||Maharashtra: Two with travel history test positive in Satara||KOLHAPUR: The two people with travel history to Covid-19 affected area, who were recommended home quarantine, have tested positive for Covid-19 late at night, on Sunday in Satara district. With this, the total number of Covid-19 cases rose to 138. According to the health department officials, the two patients have been moved to Satara district hospital. As per the health department’s report, five people tested positive on Sunday night, of which three had travelled from Covid-19 affected areas. Two of the five were advised to be in home quarantine and one was put under institutional quarantine. The other two patients were close contacts of the Covid-19 patient from Karad. The health department said that the two inmates from Satara district jail, who had tested positive two weeks ago, have recovered from the infection. On Monday, seven patients were discharged including a 2-year-old girl. The Satara district health department has sent 232 throat swab samples for the further testing, said Amod Gadikar, the district civil surgeon. Meanwhile, the Satara district administration has allowed home delivery of food from restaurants between 8am to 6pm. District collector Shekhar Singh said the restaurants will have to abide by the norms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/2-with-travel-history-test-ve-in-satara/articleshow/75813304.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Couple with disabilities sent home to Uttar Pradesh with their kids||AHMEDABAD: A couple with physical disabilities, from Gonda district of Uttar Pradesh, along with their two kids aged eight and five, were taken to Singarva village near Odhav by cops after they were caught trying to leave the state in a truck. After around a week, cops arranged their travel to their native place, but later railways did not provide them seats together adding to their woes. Inspector Ravirajsinh Jadeja of Odhav police said that the couple, Puja and Pavan Chaurasia, who were victims of polio, were kept at Singarva village with their two kids after they were caught on Gujarat- Madhya Pradesh border in Dahod district. Jadeja said that the couple had shunted between Morbi and Ahmedabad thrice earlier to find transport to reach Uttar Pradesh. They had come to settle in Morbi, where Pavan was working at a private firm, just two days before the lockdown was imposed. Puja and Pavan did not find any shelter and spent their days on roadside without proper food and water. Puja’s sister Punam called up Jadeja and informed him about her sister’s issue. Jadeja and other cops sent them to a shelter home until their travel was arranged. Later, the couple and their kids were given tickets of a train between Ahmedabad and Gonda. However, it was not an easy journey for the couple with disabilities as they were given berths in different coaches. Puja’s sister Punam told TOI, “My sister and kids were in a coach near the engine and my brother-in-law has a berth near the guard’s coach. They were not allowed to sit together. My sister cannot walk and my brother-in-law cannot use his hands properly. In this situation, the authorities should have given them seats together as they cannot move without each other.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/couple-with-disabilities-sent-home-to-up-with-their-kids/articleshow/75814493.cms||Ashish Chauhan
May 19, 2020||Hubballi||Thousand women send money orders to Yediyurappa seeking ban on liquor||Belagavi: Women across the state took to postal protest, with nearly a 1,000 of them sending money orders to chief minister BS Yediyurappa, demanding a blanket ban on sale of liquor. Activists from the Madhya Nishedha Andolana, an organisation that has been campaigning for prohibition on liquor sale since 2016, said that women would continue to send money orders to the CM every Monday till the government acceded to its demand. In 2018, members of the organisation had sat in a 71-day round-the-clock dharna from February 20 to May 1. More than 75,000 people participated in the agitation in 2018. The following year, the organisation called for a similar mass protest in Bengaluru, calling on like-minded people to converge in the state capital from across Karnataka. Unfortunately, an activist died in an accident en route to Bengaluru. Member of the andolana’s state committee Swarna Bhat said that 1,000 women, spread across 22 districts, had sent money orders to the CM. “The state government justified its decision to throw open liquor outlets citing shortfall in revenue,” Swarna told TOI. Swarna, a Mangaluru-based activist, said that the women, who were victims of alcoholism, were sending across a message to the government. “We are telling the CM that we will fund welfare schemes of the government. Mahatma Gandhi dubbed use of revenue collected from sale of liquor for welfare schemes ‘immoral’,” she added. The andolana’s state convener Vidhya Patil reiterated the human cost of alcohol addiction. “There is a direct link between alcoholism and domestic violence, and many families have gone bankrupt because of addiction to liquor. In addition to sending money orders to the CM, the women also held placards seeking a ban on sale of alcohol,” said Vidhya. Ningamma, a resident of Dharwad, and Swapna from Bidar, said that they would not relent, and would continue with their unique protest till the government imposed a ban on alcohol sale.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/thousand-women-send-money-orders-to-yediyurappa-seeking-ban-on-liquor/articleshow/75813976.cms||Shreyas HS
May 19, 2020||Goa||Windy weather in state due to cyclone Amphan||Panaji: The cyclonic storm Amphan, which is over the Bay of Bengal, may not directly affect the Goa coast but the state did experience windy weather on Monday owing to the phenomenon. The India meteorological department (IMD) said the winds and cloudy weather may prevail until Wednesday. “The winds were moving at a speed of 25km per hour, and will sustain till Tuesday afternoon,” IMD scientist, Rahul M said. The winds are however not moving at this continuous intensity. The speed of 25km per hour is still normal according to the IMD, thus evoking no weather alert. No warning for fishermen has been issued for the Goa coast. The winds must be beyond 40km per hour for a warning to be issued, IMD said. The system may also bring some low-level clouds on the western coast. From that, there could be a possibility of light rain in isolated parts of Goa. “From Wednesday onwards however, we have issued a forecast for dry weather,” Rahul said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/windy-weather-in-state-due-to-cyclone-amphan/articleshow/75815787.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Lucknow||Worried resident doctors demand passive quarantine||Lucknow: KGMU authorities had a tough time convincing its 25 resident doctors at Queen’s Mary Hospital who were demanding to be sent to ‘passive quarantine’ after being exposed to Covid-19 risk while performing a surgery on a patient who later tested positive. On Monday, the 25 resident doctors wrote to KGMU saying their team examined the patient without proper protective gear and a nurse has already tested positive. “As per WHO’s definition, we are high risk contacts. We came in direct physical contact of the patient, or touched her linen or came within three feet distance without protection,” they wrote, and added “WHO recommends 14-day quarantine for anyone in such a scenario, but we are still working and that too under fear of catching infection.” KGMU spokesperson Dr Sudhir Singh said senior professors, including a microbiologist, explained residents that all protective measures are being taken and they will be tested again after five days. “These doctors are in ‘active quarantine’, which means they have to work, but cannot go home or mingle with others. It is same as serving in Covid-19 ward for seven days before being sent for 14-day quarantine,” said an officer. Meanwhile, on government’s order, a committee comprising SGPGIMS, RMLIMS and KGMU representatives started probing whether safety protocols were followed in the said surgery or not. KGMU VC Prof. MLB Bhatt said, “The decision on residents’ demand will be taken as per the committee’s report, which will also suggest any improvements in existing protocols.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/worried-resident-doctors-demand-passive-quarantine/articleshow/75815772.cms||Vivek Singh Chauhan
May 19, 2020||Kanpur||Visuals of migrants travelling with bodies create furore||Kanpur: Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren’s tweet on the extremely insensitive handling of Auraiya trailer-truck crash victims’ bodies created ripples both on social media as well as in state administration, following which district magistrate Auraiya Abhishek Singh ordered an inquiry. One of the injured migrant labourers had posted videos and photos on social media showing workers sitting on one end of truck and dead bodies wrapped in black polythene lying on the other end. Jharkhand CM Hemant Soren had on Sunday tweeted, “This inhumane treatment of our migrant workers could possibly be avoided. I request @UPGovt and office of @NitishKumarji to arrange suitable transportation of bodies till Jharkhand border and we will ensure adequate dignified arrangements to their homes in Bokaro.” In a face saving exercise, the authorities swung into action and transferred the bodies in ambulances at Prayagraj late Sunday night. A truck driver also alleged that the bodies were not kept on ice and were just wrapped in black polythene. It was difficult to drive as unbearable stench was emanating from the bodies,” he said. DM Abhishek Singh told TOI, “As maximum causalities were from Jharkhand, we had instructed officials to make proper arrangements for dispatching the bodies of the deceased migrant workers to their native places. I have ordered a probe. Besides, RTO officials would also be questioned as to how the injured were made to travel with dead bodies in truck.” On Saturday, 26 migrant workers, including 12 from Jharkhand, were killed when the trailer they were travelling on rammed a lorry in Auraiya. Auraiya SP Suniti said the injured persons seen travelling with dead bodies in videos and photos were those who had been discharged after treatment. The opposition leaders lambasted the state government for the ‘insensitivity’. “The workers deserve humanitarian treatment,” said BSP supremo Mayawati.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/visuals-of-migrants-travelling-with-bodies-create-furore/articleshow/75814647.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
May 19, 2020||Vadodara||Eventually, VMC declares three more nCov deaths||Vadodara: The Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) disclosed details of three more persons who have died from Covid-19. With this the total number of infection-related deaths in Vadodara went up to 35. VMC had decided to get death audits conducted for all cases of people who died after testing positive for Covid-19. In line with this, it had segregated deaths from Covid-19 alone, and those with co-morbidities separately. The civic body had declared the 32nd death on May 11 and almost a week later it declared three more Covid-19 deaths. While information of positive patients dying have been trickling out of the hospitals as well as places where their last rites were performed, the VMC has not acknowledged the deaths saying that it would declare them only after the audits. Sources said that audit reports had also been submitted in some other cases apart from the three deaths declared on Monday. Hanif Kadiwala (51), a resident of Wadi, Jayanti Rajput (72) from Waghodia Road area and Sushila Rana (53), a resident of Panigate area were included in the list of deceased Covid-19 positive persons on Monday. It has come to light that all the persons died due to co-morbidities. The city also registered 21 fresh cases of Covid-19 since Sunday evening. With this, the total number of Covid-19 cases in Vadodara including areas outside the city limits went up to 712. The fresh cases were identified from 149 tests conducted in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/eventually-vmc-declares-three-more-ncov-deaths/articleshow/75811871.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Delhi||Delhi shopkeepers not sure about odd-even rule||NEW DELHI: Traders and industrial bodies have given a mixed response to the new rules put in place during lockdown 4.0. While shopkeepers are apprehensive about customers not getting accustomed to the odd-even regulations, industrial areas have by and large welcomed the staggered timings. Vijay Kumar from South Extension Market Association strongly objected to the odd-even rule saying it was impractical for retail markets. “How will customers know which shops are open? How will market associations decide which shops to open on which days? There are some buildings that have six shops, while others have just one,” he added. The same concern was expressed by GK-I Market Association head Rajender Sharda. He said planned local shopping complexes and unplanned crowded markets should not be dealt with in a similar manner. A group of 35 wholesale market associations wrote to the CM on Saturday to reconsider opening markets, while explaining their insecurities and chances of increase in Covid-positive cases. “We are not in favour of opening markets now. Traders are dependent upon each other for procurement of goods. During odd-even curbs, business activities will not be smooth,” said Devraj Baweja, president of Delhi Vyapar Mahasangh. He added that the lockdown will continue in Sadar Bazar, Nabi Karim, Chandni Chowk and neighbouring areas till May 31. Traders of Connaught Place, Khan Market and Sarojini Nagar market had mixed views. After the CM’s announcement, the traders’ association of Sarojini Nagar (Babu Market and Mini Market) met Delhi Police to discuss the odd-even policy. Rakesh Sachdeva, who heads Naraina Industrial Area Welfare Association, said, “One set of industries will work from 7.30am to 5.30pm, while the second set will operate between 8.30am and 6.30pm. We just want the restriction on number of workers removed.” However, Prakash Chand Jain, who heads Bawana Chamber of Commerce, asked how staggered timings would be implemented along with the 7am to 7pm restrictions. “How will people reach the industrial area early and leave late? Moreover, rules for the 26 planned industrial areas should have been framed keeping in mind that they have more space.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/shopkeepers-not-sure-about-odd-even-rule/articleshow/75815312.cms||Paras Singh
May 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Dos amid don’ts: 14 infected after betrothal in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: Its not just religious congregation and migrants’ march, authorities in Hyderabad said on Monday that they are worried about Covid-19 super spreaders in the form of birthday parties, get-togethers and weddings even as police booked a executive bank manager for organising an engagement function on May 10, resulting in mass spread of the virus. The manager tested positive for Covid-19 on May 15, while 14 members of his family also turned positive later. In a tragic turn of events, one of them passed away on May 16 after suffering a cardiac arrest. “People should stay indoors and refrain from congregations and parties. The fact that we have not opened function halls shows our intent in containing the virus,” said chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao.  As part of contact tracing, police found out that the 38-year-old manager of a private bank in Gachibowli had been working from home since lockdown. But, he was frequently meeting a friend, who is a gym trainerm in Jiyaguda area in the Old City. “The bank manager had shown symptoms of illness around May 8. Two days later (May 10), engagement of his younger brother was organised with over 25 persons at Dhoolpet which he attended the event. Subsequently, he went to a local hospital. When the symptoms turned severe, he got himself admitted in a corporate hospital in Gachibowli from where he was shifted to Gandhi Hospital,” Mangalhat police said. He tested positive on May 15. A police official said a case was registered against the family for violating the lockdown code by organising the event. The authorities immediately identified 27 of his primary contacts and shifted them to an institutional quarantine at a hospital in Begumpet. On May 16, the manager’s 58-year-old father suffered a stroke at the quarantine centre. He died while being shifted to Gandhi Hospital, municipal officials said. Meanwhile, Shahinayatgunj police have booked a businessman for organising a pre-wedding event with over 150 people at a function hall on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/dos-amid-donts-14-infected-after-betrothal/articleshow/75814496.cms||Mahesh Buddi
May 19, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Trio cheats workers trying to return to their home states||AHMEDABAD: Ramol police on Sunday arrested three persons, Sanjay Mishra of Nikol, Aditya Shukla of Naroda Road and Ashoksinh Rajput of Odhav, for cheating migrant workers using forged tokens for trains to Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. Nikol police inspector K S Dave said Mishra used get these tokens from Shukla and Rajput for Rs 750 and sell them to migrant laborers for Rs 1,000. “Till now the accused have sold about 300 tickets and cheated migrant workers of Rs 3,00,000,” added Dave. According to the complaint lodged at Ramol police station by Dinesh Kushwaha of Saraspur, whose elder brother Mahesh Kushwah is state president of the Uttar Bhartiya Vikas Parishad and is working with the government of Gujarat to register migrant workers who want to go their native places in UP and Bihar. “According to the FIR, with the permission of the government they charge the train fare fixed by the government and give the workers tokens with a serial number, name and time of arrival and departure of the train. The tokens were signed by Dinesh Kushwaha,” said a police official. The FIR states that on May 15, six trains were to depart for Patna, Varanasi, Lucknow, Agra and Gorakhpur and some 9,600 passengers had been given tokens by the Uttar Bhartiya Vikas Parishad. It was found that even when all 9,600 passengers had boarded the train, 350 were left behind. When investigated and found that the color of tokens given by the Uttar Bhartiya Vikas Parishad and the tokens some of the workers left behind were different. The workers said they had bought the tokens for Rs 1,000 from one Sanjay Mishra and provided his mobile number. Dave said Mishra said that he had bought those tokens at Rs 750 from Shukla and Rajput. “We laid a trap and caught both of them along with Mishra. We are investigating if they have forged more such tokens and sold them to desperate migrant workers,” added Dave.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/trio-cheats-workers-trying-to-return-to-their-home-states/articleshow/75814512.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: 44 basthi dawakhanas to be set up||HYDERABAD: A decision to set up 44 new basthi dawakhanas in the city to control and treat vector-borne diseases was made at a review meeting attended by KT Rama Rao, minister of Municipal Administration and Urban Development (MA&UD) and health minister Eatala Rajender, at Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation head office on Monday.  KTR reviewed measures to control vector-borne diseases and asked GHMC to barricade nalas. “GHMC has been asked to clean private properties and collect cleaning charges from plot owners,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/44-basthi-dawakhanas-to-be-set-up/articleshow/75814544.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Nagpur||Salaries locked down for three months, Mayo housekeeping staff stop work||Nagpur: It’s been two months Ajay (name changed) haven’t had a proper meal though he continues to work full time. His colleague Shruti (name changed) is also largely dependent on ration kits and kindness of relatives and friends to run her family of four. Both are housekeeping staff working for a private agency BVG India at Indira Gandhi Government Medical College and Hospital (IGGMCH). Like them, around 200 housekeeping workers, including several women, have stopped work at IGGMCH for the last three days over non-payment of salaries for three months apart from other issues related to working in Covid wards.Each worker gets paid a paltry Rs8,500 per month. The disbursal of salaries had always been irregular, they allege. With the lockdown, their family budget has gone haywire as other members in the family have lost jobs or forced to stay at home.Their salaries would help pay off house rent, electricity bills and medical expenses. But now they are the sole bread winners of the family.Most of them have borrowed money and face the lender’s abuses daily. The landlords too are getting impatient over non-payment of rent. Their local grocer has asked to clear pending bills before they take more supplies.Putting up a united fight for their dues without any leader, some workers stand in the parking lot under the scorching sun while others are near the main entrance of IGGMCH. They are not allowed to go beyond the parking area adjacent to the entrance to avoid police action.The staffers said only promises have been doled out, not their salaries.“On May 6, we wrote to BVG asking for PPE kits, 14-day isolation on rotation basis and releasing our entire salary. Again, on May 14, we wrote to the IGGMCH administration, district collector, municipal commissioner and police commissioner. Last month also, we appealed to administration to pay attention to our demands. They promised to pay us on May 10. But on May 15, they told us that the company is ending its contract with the hospital. Left with no choice, we stopped work,” the staffers said.The workers said they are not averse to serve the coronavirus positive patients. “We only want our rightful dues,” they said.IGGMCH deputy medical superintendent (corona patient care) Dr Sagar Pandey said the private company has been paid Rs2crore in the last three months. “It is the company’s responsibility to take care of its employees and pay them on time. Yet, none of our work was hampered as an alternate contractor has been roped in. Hospital is functioning smoothly,” he said. Dr Pandey added that the company has expressed its desire to end the contract in violation of MoU (memorandum of understanding) clauses.BVG’s manager Vinod Shirke didn’t answer to calls and messages by TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/salaries-locked-down-for-three-months-mayo-housekeeping-staff-stop-work/articleshow/75813328.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
May 19, 2020||Kanpur||No fresh case, 26 get cured, discharged from Covid hosp||Kanpur:A good news from the district with no fresh Covid-19 positive case reported on Monday. Meanwhile, a group of 26 patients were discharged from the Covid-19 hospital at Rama Medical college in Mandhana area of the district on Monday. “After repeated negative report, they were finally discharged from the hospital. Now, they will have to remain in quarantine for 14 more days at their homes,” said chief medical officer Dr Ashok Shukla. The 26 persons who tested negative were given a warm adieu by the doctors and the hospital staff. They all clapped and showered flower petals on the cured patients as they walked out of the hospital exit gate. “They also took an oath to contain the deadly Corona virus from spreading further,” said the CMO further. To recall, three persons, including a baby born to a Covid-19 positive mother in Jajmau’s ESI hospital, had tested positive for the virus, on Sunday. The total number of cases in the district remained stable at 316, said CMO and added, “The total number of Covid-19 patients discharged in the district now reached 269. Total number of 8 persons had died till date since the spread of pandemic. Total number of active cases has now reached 39.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/no-fresh-case-26-get-cured-discharged-from-covid-hosp/articleshow/75814655.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Hyderabad||5,000 hospital beds to be Covid-ready in Telangana||HYDERABAD: A massive exercise to scale up government hospital beds with oxygen supply has been planned in the state, keeping in line with the Centre's directive for ensuring that a majority of the hospital beds in government hospitals are equipped to handle Covid-19 cases. The state is targeting 5,000 beds across various levels of state-run hospitals for the upgrade and identification of hospitals has begun for the purpose. Oxygen support is required for treating about 10-15 per cent of Covid-19 patients. As the virus attacks the respiratory system, it leads to dangerously low levels of oxygen in the body, which in turn can trigger cardiac and neurological disturbances. Moreover, a majority of the patients are treated with just oxygen supply. “For patients with severe acute respiratory illness (SARI), having respiratory distress may require, pulse oxymetry, oxygen therapy, non-invasive and invasive ventilator therapy,” as per the GOI document on containment plan of Covid-19. “We have identified over 20,000 beds in Hyderabad in all district hospitals, all teaching hospitals and private medical colleges for treatment of Covid-19 patients. While these will be used to treat symptomatic patients as per the new policy of the Centre, we are now preparing some beds in Primary Health Centres (PHC), Community Health Centres (CHC) district hospitals, area hospitals and teaching hospitals to be fitted with oxygen supply. Around 5,000-6,000 are being targeted,” said a senior official from the state health department. Elaborating further on the plan, the official said that beds will be planned for upgradation in a manner that it’s not required to shift critical patients to tertiary hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/5k-hosp-beds-to-be-covid-ready/articleshow/75814504.cms||Amrita Didyala
May 19, 2020||Nagpur||In a 1st, NU colleges to hold final year/semester exams||Nagpur: In a first, the Nagpur University has entrusted colleges to conduct final year/semester examinations that would be held in July. Even the backlog papers of failure final year/semester students would be conducted by colleges in the same month. In another major decision, the paper duration has been reduced from three to two hours, as per the guidelines issued by state higher and technical education department.The NU’s deans’ committee and top brass arrived at the decisions after realizing that it was impossible to conduct such a large number of examinations, their evaluation and make students’ sitting arrangements in a limited period due to Covid-19 pandemic. The NU’s affiliated and conducted colleges and its various departments would be conducting the main examinations of final years of two, three, four and five year courses at their level for the first time in NU’s history. Few days back, Amravati University had decided to rope in colleges for holding final year/semester exams. “There were several problems while conducting exams at NU level. Due to lockdown, the syllabus remained incomplete at various levels in colleges and we don’t know how much of it is covered. Paper setting would be extremely difficult in this case. Moreover, it would have taken at least three months for us to complete the entire exams and declare results. Hence, the decision was taken after much deliberation,” Board of Examination and evaluation (BOEE) director Prafulla Sable told TOI.The proposal would, of course, need clearance from the Academic Council and BOEE, but under the present extraordinary circumstances, it’s likely to sail through with a voice vote. “Even the government had advised to rope in colleges for conducting exams in its recent circular with a view to maintain Covid distancing. Now, with reduced duration, the colleges can hold papers in three shifts from morning to evening by ensuring proper distancing. Many of our students are residing in far flung areas like Ladakh and north-eastern states and they would need time to come back. Hence, it’s not possible for NU to conduct exams at this stage,” said Sable.He, however, said that the government would be conducting a review of entire situation on June 20 and if this situation continues, it would take final decision accordingly.Major decisions* Colleges to conduct final yr/sem exams on their level* They will also hold backlog papers of failure students* Paper duration reduced from three to two hours* Colleges can conduct exams in three shifts* Other failure students’ exams to be held in Dec-Jan* Equal marks to be give on past performance and final exam||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/in-a-1st-nu-colleges-to-hold-final-year/semester-exams/articleshow/75813346.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
May 19, 2020||Kanpur||Migrant worker dumped by truck driver on roadside dies||Kanpur: A 36-year-old migrant worker, who fell ill and was allegedly forced to alight from the truck, died in Patara area of Ghatampur on Monday morning. Deceased Jai Prakash Rajbhar, a native of Wajidpur town in Ambedkar Nagar district, along with his wife Radha, an eight-year-old daughter Sonakshi, his brother-in-law Ram Rajya, his wife Sangita and several other migrant labourers were going to their native places on Mumbai-Jhansi highway. They had paid Rs 3,000 per head to the truck driver for dropping them to Faizabad border. On way, as Jai Prakash developed some health related complications, the truck driver dumped him and his family members on the roadside. “My brother-in-law Jai Prakash used to work as a painter. After the lockdown, when we had exhausted all our earnings, we left Nala Sutara area of Thane in Mumbai for our home in Ambedkar Nagar on May 16. We paid Rs 3,000 each to the truck driver. Around 7.30 am on Monday (May 18), Jai Prakash developed severe health related complications and his condition started deteriorating”, said Ram Rajya. After this, the truck driver forced Jai Prakash and all of us to alight from the truck, he added. “We all were forced to alight the truck in Patara area in Ghartampur. We called the passers-by, who dialled108 ambulance. Later, an ambulance arrived and ferried Jai Prakash to the nearby Community Health Centre but it was too late. He was declared dead by the doctors at the PHC”, said Jai Pakash’s wife Radha while sobbing inconsolably.  “According to Jai Prakash’s family members, he has been suffering from respiratory illness for the past few years, As per their wish, we have dispatched his body to his native place in Ambedkar Nagar in an ambulance,” said CHC superintendent Dr Neeraj Sachan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/migrant-worker-dumped-by-truck-driver-on-roadside-dies/articleshow/75814665.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
May 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad still hotspot, sees 41 new Covid-19 cases||HYDERABAD: Telangana on Monday reported 41 new Covid-19 cases, taking the overall case load to 1,592 cases even as Hyderabad continued to be a concern for authorities. Officials said 26 new cases were added to the total tally from greater Hyderabad area. After a hiatus, Medchal district reported three more positive cases. Authorities said the number of infected migrants touched 69 with 12 more cases on Monday. “We have 556 total active cases, but we are delighted to announce that Telangana crossed a significant milestone by releasing 1,000 patients,” health director Dr Srinivasa Rao said. On a day more relaxations were announced, authorities discharged 10 more persons, taking the number of recovered to 1,002. There are 60 people in the age group 61-70 and 15 persons in 71- 80 age group. Among the recovered people, 339 are women and 663 men. People in the age group of 21- 30 had the highest discharges (233), 85 children below 10 years were discharged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hyd-still-hotspot-sees-41-new-cases/articleshow/75814519.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
May 19, 2020||Lucknow||KGMU’s maternity hospital nurse tests Covid-19 positive||LUCKNOW: A 26-year-old nurse at the Queen Mary’s Hospital (QMH) tested positive for novel coronavirus infection on Monday. She was a part of the team which performed emergency C-section surgery on a Covid-19 positive woman on Friday. The nurse was in “active quarantine” with other team members and worked in the ward (labour room) till Sunday. She is the 10th medical personnel in the city to test positive. So far, 306 Covid-19 cases have been recorded in the city. The female patient was admitted to QMH on Thursday and her emergency surgery was done on Friday. She was isolated after testing positive to Covid-19 on Saturday. However, KGMU authorities said it was not clear how the nurse got infected. Chief medical superintendent (CMS), QMH, Prof SP Jaiswar said, “After the pregnant woman tested positive, at least 57 people, including 25 doctors, 11 nurses/paramedics and 21 patients, were tested. Only the nurse tested positive.” “The nurse was tested positive two days after being exposed to risk. The incubation period of the virus is 3-5 days, hence, the possibility of her getting infection from the patient is low,” she added. “The nurse told us that her 18-year-old niece had flu-like symptoms for last four days, which makes her niece a suspected case of Covid-19. The picture will be clear once her report arrives,” the CMS said. However, when contacted, the nurse, who is admitted in KGMU’s Covid-19 ward, said: “My niece did not step out of the house during lockdown. I came for duty all this while I was exposed to the risk of infection more than my niece.” She claimed nurses were not given protective gear till the woman came out positive. The hospital authorities, however, denied allegations. When asked why the nurse worked till Sunday as it exposed staff and patients to risk, KGMU spokesperson Dr Sudhir Singh said all the staff members would be tested again after five days. CMO, Lucknow, Dr Narendra Agarwal said, “The nurse lives with her niece in Nishatganj and went home after Thursday’s surgery. Her sister and brother-in-law came from Gonda to visit her the same day. We have asked the CMO of Gonda to quarantine them.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/kgmus-maternity-hosp-nurse-tests-ve/articleshow/75815792.cms||Vivek Singh Chauhan
May 19, 2020||Nagpur||‘Positive patient moved into ward where I was working without PPE kit’||Nagpur: Shruti (name changed), a 32-year-old housekeeping worker, has accused the Indira Gandhi Government Medical College and Hospital (IGGMCH) administration and the private contractor BVG’s supervisor for whom she works of not alerting her that patient in the ward assigned to her was coronavirus positive.“Mujhe mere dono baccho ka chehra nazar aya. Kuch samjha nahi jab doctor ne kahan patient positive hai (I could see faces of my children. Couldn’t understand what to do when doctor said the patient is positive),” she told TOI.Shruti, who has been working at the hospital since last two years, was among the 200 housekeeping workers who protested over non-payment of salaries on Monday.According to Shruti, the patient was shifted there on May 13 when she was cleaning the new ward. She claimed that neither the supervisor nor the hospital gave her PPE kit though they had started shifting positive patients there. “On May 13, a positive patient was moved into the new Ortho OT. Our supervisor didn’t tell me that the patient was positive. The sister and doctor were wearing PPE kits. The doctor told me that patient was positive. I was petrified. Immediately I rushed out and met the supervisor. I started crying while thinking about my sons aged 5 and 7,” said Shruti whose husband is a labourer.IGGMCH administration said it is the responsibility of contractor to provide kits to employees. BVG’s manager Vinod Shirke didn’t answer to TOI’s calls.Shruti said an hour later that day she was provided the PPE kit. She is entrusted with patients’ care, taking them to OT, giving pillows etc, tasks which require direct contact with them.“No one is concerned about my safety. No test has been done on me. After putting on the PPE kit, I was in touch with the patient for six hours,” she said.She added that her supervisor had left for the day while the others refused to listen to her. “Still, I haven’t given up. I am ready to work in Covid hospital after the salary is released,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/positive-patient-moved-into-ward-where-i-was-working-without-ppe-kit/articleshow/75813337.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
May 19, 2020||Chandigarh||After a week’s lull, Pak again violates ceasefire in J&K||Jammu: After a week’s lull, Pakistan army on Sunday again violated ceasefire by resorting to unprovoked firing and shelling along the Line of Control (LoC) in Poonch district of Jammu and Kashmir, a defence spokesperson said. The Jammu-based defence spokesperson, Lt Col Devender Anand, said, “At 8.40am on Sunday, Pakistan army initiated unprovoked firing along the LoC in Degwar sector of Poonch district in J&K. Indian Army retaliated befittingly.” Col Anand said the firing continued for some time and there was no report of any injury or damage. Before this, Pakistan had violated ceasefire in Degwar sector on May 9. Earlier, it had violated ceasefire for four consecutive days – on May 7 in Shahpur, Kirni and Qasba sectors of Poonch; on May 6 in Shahpur sector of Poonch; on May 5 in Manjakote of Rajouri and on May 4 in Nowshera and Sunderbani sectors of Rajouri district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/after-a-weeks-lull-pak-again-violates-ceasefire-in-jk/articleshow/75794291.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Kanpur||Covid-19: City records 85.12% recovery rate||Kanpur: The city has recorded the best recovery rate in Covid- 19 patients which is around 85.12 percent, claims chief medical officer Dr Ashok Shukla . He said that of the 316 positive cases reported in the city, 269 of them have recovered and sent back to their homes. At present, 39 active cases in the city are being treated whereas eight patients have died. Tanvi, a three years old girl, daughter of a police constable Ashwini Kumar and a resident of Anwarganj and an 80 year old man have also recovered from the disease. The girl and her s father Ashwini Kumar were found corona positive on April 26 last and were being treated at Kanshiram hospital. Both were discharged by the health authorities on Sunday. The 80 year old man, belonging to Coloneganj area of the city, who too was discharged, told media that if he could defeat corona then why not others. ” There is no need to afraid from the deadly virus. Instead of fear, face the challenge and win the battle”, he said. The first corona patient in the city was a an NRI who after being cured left for his home. Singer Kanika Kapoor’s visit to the city had panicked the residents but luckily not a single person who had been in contact with her was found positive. The youngest corona positive case is of a 17 day old neonatal. A woman, resident of Peshkar Road in Colonelganj ,had given birth to a child around 17 days back. The woman after delivery was discharged and sent back to her home but her sample was found positive after which she was admitted to ESI hospital in Jajmau while the neonatal along with her family members were sent to Halim College quarantine centre. Later, the neonatal too was found corona positive and he is now being treated along with her mother.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/covid-19-city-records-85-12-recovery-rate/articleshow/75814684.cms||Anant Shekher Misra
May 19, 2020||Chandigarh||11,456 stranded JK residents reach Jammu, 54,866 through Lakhanpur so far||Jammu: With the evacuation of 2,470 more persons, the total number of J&K residents evacuated through Lakhanpur has reached 54,866. Meanwhile, 11,456 stranded passengers have reached Jammu and Udhampur railway stations by special trains, an official said. Deputy commissioner Sushma Chauhan, who is supervising the process of boarding and de-boarding of the returnees at Jammu railway station, said that 100 % sampling of returnees was being done at the kiosks established by the district administration. “Besides, an elaborate transport system has been put in place to take the passengers to their native districts,” she added. Meanwhile, 8th special train with 1,315 passengers reached Udhampur on Sunday. At Udhampur railway station, special trains are being received by deputy commissioner Piyush Singhla. The DC had a brief interaction with the passengers about their journey. The DC said that the district authorities were ensuring strict adherence to the guidelines issued by the ministries of home affairs and health and family welfare.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/11456-stranded-jk-residents-reach-jammu-54866-through-lakhanpur-so-far/articleshow/75794300.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Hyderabad||80 without symptoms discharged in Telangana||HYDERABAD: Raising eyebrows, the medical and health department has begun discharging mild and asymptomatic Covid-19 patients without them being tested negative. According to highly placed sources, 80 such patients were released from designated Covid-19 hospitals till Sunday. Telangana changed the earlier process of patient discharges after the ICMR came up with a revised list of guidelines. ICMR recently said mild and asymptomatic patients can be treated at home and they can be discharged after 10 days and will have to undergo seven days of home quarantine. They need not be at hospitals till they are tested negative. The health department has now began discharging mild patients without waiting till they are tested negative. Till now, atients irrespective of being mild or asymptomatic were being given treatment in the hospitals and are released only if they test negative in two consecutive days. Patients are tested after 14 days of coming to the hospital. Officials said some patients were given just vitamins as they did not have any symptoms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/80-without-symptoms-discharged/articleshow/75814546.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
May 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Apartments must have STPs , says KT Rama Rao||HYDERABAD: All apartment complexes with more than 100 flats within outer ring road limits should construct sewerage treatment plants, said MAUD minister KT Rama Rao, on Monday. KTR reviewed the status of comprehensive sewerage master plan which would be implemented in Greater Hyderabad and its peripheral area. Water board officials participated in the meeting at their main office in Khairatabad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ktr-apartments-must-have-stps/articleshow/75814567.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Nagpur||Glimpses of normal life in city as Lockdown 4 begins||Nagpur: Monday morning offered a glimpse of life coming back on city streets. With lockdown restrictions relaxed according to latest norms, a surge in movement of people and vehicles could be seen on the roads and a number of market places were bustling with customers.TOI found that apart from grocery shops, medical stores and essential services, several other businesses also began working. All government departments too started functioning though visitors here were scarce.As regular public transport is yet to resume, office-goers commuted in own vehicles and that explained the sudden increase in vehicular traffic. Taking advantage of the relaxation, several motorists ventured outdoors o get pending works done.Traffic police too were active at many busy junctions and those violating rules were penalised. Two-wheelers with pillion riders and cars with more than two occupants or with both front seats occupied were stopped, questioned, and a few were forced to pay fine.Though banks were continuing operations, Monday saw a sudden increase in their footfall too. Long queues were witnessed outside banks and other financial institutions. City’s commercial areas like Itwari, Mahal and Jaripatka too witnessed huge footfalls after shops started opening.Standing committee chairman Vijay Zalke said, “Many shops in Sakkardara, Nandanwan witnessed a buzz of activities.”Hardware, electrical, plywood, footwear and stationery stores opened as lockdown curbs were eased by the district administration. As the shops had remained closed for nearly two months, many shopkeepers could be seen cleaning the stores. Many customers were seen taking gadgets, appliances and even coolers for repairs.As construction works were allowed with minimal workers, many were seen rushing to hardware shops for purchases. The number of people visiting automobile workshops to repair their vehicles too witnessed a steep increase.Shopkeepers heaved a sigh of relief as they feel now they can hope for revival of economy. Mohan Kale, who runs a mobile shop, said he felt happy as he was allowed to open the shop.Municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe said only mobile repair shops were allowed and the crowd on the city roads and markets was not expected. “We are starting economic life in a phased manner so it is expected that everybody follows the rules,” he said.“The lockdown is a rule and these are relaxations and citizens have to understand that the city is still in red zone with new positive coronavirus cases being reported daily. If people are going outside without reason, we will have no option but to roll back the relaxation,” Mundhe said and appealed to citizens not to venture out without any work. “If going out, please ensure you are following all norms including wearing masks and following Covid distancing etc,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/glimpses-of-normal-life-in-city-as-lockdown-4-begins/articleshow/75813361.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
May 19, 2020||Nagpur||More workload, tighter deadlines worry evaluators, CBSE says nothing’s changed||Nagpur: Many CBSE board exam evaluators are spooked over their quality of work suffering due to increased workload, tighter deadlines, one less round of scrutiny and the possibility of a heavy fine in case of errors. Making things worse is the blatant violation of CBSE’s guidelines by many head examiners (HEs), who refuse to drop the answer sheets to evaluators’ homes.An evaluator told TOI that she has to finish checking 200 answer sheets in seven days, but in reality she’s getting only six. “The seventh day is slotted for pickup of evaluated answer sheets. Also, day one is counted when the papers are delivered home, which is usually between 9am and noon. We would evaluate 18-20 papers daily, but now that’s increased to over 30,” said the evaluator.“We are working for almost 11-12 hours daily now,” she added.Another evaluator said that this year there will be one less round of scrutiny, which is increasing pressure on evaluators to not make any mistakes. “We have been told that there won’t be any cross-examination by HEs, and answer sheets will go straight to the centre. If any mistake happens, it will be our fault and there’s a possibility of a Rs50,00 fine too,” she said.At many places, the same teacher is checking physics, chemistry and biology papers, whereas earlier at least two different subjects’ experts did it. One such evaluator said, “I will be checking biology section too, even though my expertise is in physics. I have been told by the school that teachers should have broader domain expertise.” In at least one group, the ‘great Indian jugaad’ is being contemplated. A few science teachers mulled exchanging papers and evaluating their particular portions. Till the time of going to press, they had not actually done that. CBSE, too is dealing with an unprecedented situation with the lockdown, but its efforts to ensure timely and fair evaluation is stretching teachers more than previous years, say academicians.A senior academician said that one can understand CBSE’s situation too, but the priority should always be teachers. “I know that the lockdown restrictions in the district make it very difficult for CBSE, which has to take care of schools across the country. But the deadline could have been eased a bit to cushion the workload,” said the academician.What’s spooking evaluators?Increased workload and tighter deadlinesIncreased personal fine of Rs50,000 in case of errorQuality of work suffering||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/more-workload-tighter-deadlines-worry-evaluators-cbse-says-nothings-changed/articleshow/75813355.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
May 19, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: Exams delayed, universities’ final year students jittery||LUCKNOW: Final year students of city universities and colleges are passing sleepless nights these days. Inordinate delay in examinations following closure of institutions due to Covid-19 pandemic has forced most of them to drop their plan to skip an academic year to prepare for competitive examinations or for seeking admission in top institutes. Now, their priority is to seek a job, while those who have planned to pursure higher studies abroad are chalking out their strategies afresh. “The news of people being sacked from jobs, companies withdrawing job offers and pay cuts is a nightmare for all final year students. Not only this the delay in examination and results is one of the biggest worries as we will get our degrees late and hence job application for various government and private jobs will be delayed further,” said Btech student Abhigyan Srivastava of IET college. MBA student at LU Utkarsh Sinha said, “After completing BTech I took an education loan for MBA. Now, when I am in MBA final year economic slump due to the lockdown is a reason to worry.” The students also shared that they are open to earn while learning and will be beginning job hunts along with higher studies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/exams-delayed-varsities-final-year-students-jittery/articleshow/75815815.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: No hugs and sweets, warmth of Eid to stay indoors||NEW DELHI: With an excess of orders to be executed before the end of Ramzan, Mohammad Yakub wouldn’t have a moment of peace in the days leading up to Eid. This year is different because of Covid-19. No one has approached the tailor with orders for new Eid clothes. Out on the streets, there are no sweets being sold, no decorations around Jama Masjid and no shoppers thronging the markets. “I guess there won’t be regular Eid celebrations, seeing how Matia Mahal, the hub of celebratory shopping, is shut this year,” said Naved, co-owner of Kallan Sweets. The sweet shop, known for its Ramzan fares like paneerwali jalebi, meat samosa and khoya samosa, was shut through the holy month. “In the last week of Ramzan, our sales usually tripled, but this year people are saving money for essentials.” Evidently, they won’t splurge on Eid-ul-Fitr which falls either on May 24 or 25. Most shopkeepers have made their peace with fate. Many, in fact, are requesting people on social media platforms to avoid leaving their homes. Other citizens too are doing the same. Through social media groups, entrepreneur Abu Sufyan asks people not to come to the markets. “There are people who do come out whenever police relax the restrictions for two hours,” Sufyan said, “but since shops are closed, Eid shopping is almost nil. We are now planning to make a video with Muslim intellectuals appealing to people to remain at home on Eid.” Several clerics have already released statements asking community members to avoid congregating anywhere. “It is sad that we cannot celebrate Eid this year, but it is for the best,” said Mufti Mukarram, imam of Fatehpuri mosque. “I have asked people not to come to the masjid, but to pray for those troubled by the corona crisis. I have also instructed them that since there are no Eid prayers this year, it will suffice to have the four Rakats of Nafil namaaz at home before noon.” Hugging, the usual manner of extending Eid greeting, is also being discouraged, as is hand-shaking. This has prompted people to cancel plans of visiting relatives. Lawyer Sarah Haque said her home saw a steady stream of friends and family members arriving for a massive feast on Eid, but this year the plan is to be at home and maintain social distancing. Historian Rana Safvi felt that Eid 2020 should be a “humanitarian event’ and celebrations should be eschewed to acknowledge the suffering of people due to the lockdown. Supreme Court advocate Anas Tanwir will venture out, but for charity. “We will provide relief materials to the migrant workers. Since I live alone, a few non-Muslim friends and neighbours will join me in preparing the meals,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/no-hugs-and-sweets-warmth-of-eid-to-stay-indoors/articleshow/75815330.cms||Mohammad Ibrar
May 19, 2020||Hyderabad||SCR’s first weekly special brings 528 passengers from Delhi to Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: The first terminating train on South Central Railway (SCR) network brought 528 passengers from New Delhi on Monday. The AC superfast train (02438) departed from New Delhi at 4pm on Sunday and arrived at Secunderabad railway station at 1.45pm on Monday. It was the first weekly special between New Delhi and Secunderabad after the railways has issued new guidelines for travel on 15 special trains from May 12, asking passengers to arrive at stations at least 90 minutes before departure for health screening. It also said all passengers must wear face masks during the journey. All the 528 passengers, who alighted at Secunderabad, had to undergo thermal screening at the station in the wake of the prevailing Covid-19 situation. “Those who were found asymptomatic were advised to undergo home quarantine. The passengers were also provided sanitisers,” SCR officials informed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/scrs-first-weekly-spl-brings-528-passengers-from-delhi-to-hyd/articleshow/75814558.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Government stops issuing passes to Telangana residents coming from 3 states||HYDERABAD: To put an end to community transmission in positive cases in the aftermath of some workers from Telangana testing positive for coronavirus, the state government has stopped issuing passes to Telangana’s migrant labourers and others seeking to come back from Maharashtra, Gujarat and neighbouring Andhra Pradesh, which have registered the highest number of Covid-19 cases. A senior official of the control room said issuance of the passes was stopped on May 14 itself. “We have stopped issuing passes to our migrant workforce in Maharashtra, Gujarat and AP on the directions of the government as a precautionary measure. Incidence of Covid-19 positive cases is still very high in these three states,” he said. The control room was set up to help the workers return to the state after thousands of them got stranded due to the lockdown and expressed an interest to come back. However, officials said this was a temporary measure and that the government would soon start issuing passes to those seeking to return from the three states. “It is only as a precautionary measure that the government has decided to temporarily stop the influx of the migrant workforce from these states into Telangana,” said an official. He said the workers and others from these states continue to call the control room (phone No. 040-23450624) seeking passes. Though the number of Covid-19 cases in AP are not as high as Maharashtra and Gujarat, a decision to stop issuance of passes to the labourers in AP seeking to return was stopped keeping in view of the blood relations, friends and other relations being on a large scale among the people of two Telugu states, sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/govt-stops-issuing-passes-to-t-residents-coming-from-3-states/articleshow/75814571.cms||Roushan Ali
May 19, 2020||Nagpur||2nd death in Mominpura, +ve cases here now 201||Nagpur: A 56-year-old woman from Mominpura died at Mayo Hospital on Sunday and her samples tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday taking death toll from this locality to two and total positive cases to 201. This area had registered 27 cases in initial 26 days and whopping 174 in last 19 days despite being notified as containment zone for a total of 45 days as on Monday.Five more persons from Mominpura tested positive on Monday. Total 15 persons in city tested positive with remaining nine coming from Gaddigodam. They are family members and close contacts of a 65-year-old person who died on May 16. District’s tally increased to 373 of which Mominpura accounts for 53.88% cases.City’s first hotspot—Satranjipura— is now halted at 121. These two areas account for 86.32% cases. The woman from Mominpura is fourth among seven deceased who tested positive after death after one each from Satranjipura, Parvati Nagar and Tulsi Nagar. Remaining three from Mominpura, Pandhrabodi and Gaddigodam died at isolation wards.IGGMCH deputy medical superintendent Dr Sagar Pande and NMC zonal medical officer Dr Khwaja Moinuddin told TOI, “The woman was a kidney patient on dialysis and also had diabetes. She was admitted in medicine ward at 5.30pm and died at MICU in night on Sunday. Her swab samples came positive on Monday,” they said. Three doctors and two staff of medicine wards who treated her have now been quarantined and being tested.She was a resident of Bhagwagar chowk, Hansapuri, in Mominpura containment zone. NMC had arranged for funeral and only two sons of deceased attended. A cap seller from Takia Deewanshah was first from Mominpura to test positive on April 4. This case came to fore as he was digital footprint of Nizamuddin. Later, seven TJs of Jabalpur, son of cap seller’s landlord and two caretakers of TJs tested positive. Thirteen more family members of one of two caretakers, resident of Choodi Gully, tested positive. His father died at isolation ward on April 29.The same day, a woman (28) of Dobi Nagar, admitted with labour, tested positive and delivered a baby. Over 10 pregnant women from this area tested positive including a few from special camp. One SRPF personnel and two policemen who walked into special camp and gave samples also came positive. They were on duty in containment zone.Eleven inmates and one caretaker of NMC night shelter situated at Hansapuri also contracted Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/2nd-death-in-mominpura-ve-cases-here-now-201/articleshow/75813375.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
May 19, 2020||Chandigarh||Hizb commander involved in major terror attacks killed, Army jawan martyred||Sanjay Khajuria | tnn Jammu: Security forces on Sunday achieved a major success when in a joint operation they neutralised a Hizbul Mujahideen (HM) commander in a fierce gun battle in Doda district of Jammu & Kashmir, while an Army jawan also lost his life during the encounter. Police claimed the terrorist, Tahir Ahmed Bhat, was part of a group of terrorists who killed RSS activist Chanderkant Sharma and his PSO in April 2019 and his name had also cropped up in the probe investigating explosion near a CRPF convoy at Banihal in March 2019. Jammu zone inspector general of police (IGP) Mukesh Singh said that late on Saturday night specific information was received regarding presence of top HM commander Tahir Ahmed Bhat of Pulwama in Khotra village of Doda district. “An operation was launched and the village was cordoned by early Sunday morning by joint teams of police, Army, CRPF and SSB,” the IGP said. During the search operation, terrorists hiding in a house opened indiscriminate firing, which triggered fierce retaliation from the security forces. "In the encounter, Tahir Ahmed Bhat was killed and an AK-47 rifle and a magazine were recovered," the IGP said. Bhat had joined the terror outfit early last year. “His name had figured in fabrication of IED which had exploded near a CRPF convoy at Banihal in March 2019. He had subsequently visited Doda district and was given the task of recruiting youths and reviving HM activities there,” he said. A senior police officer said that Bhat was also part of a group of HM terrorists who killed RSS activist Chanderkant Sharma and his PSO in April 2019. “The AK-47 rifle recovered from the encounter site is the same which was taken away from the PSO of the RSS activist,” he added. Police also claimed that Bhat was a close associate of present HM operational commander Saifullah alias Dr Saif and was assigned the task of revival of terrorism in Chenab valley by recruiting more youths from there. When asked about the killing of another terrorist named Maqsood in the encounter, the IGP said that the encounter site was still being cleared. “We can’t confirm the reports of killing of Maqsood. Things will be clear after the clearing of debris there,” he said. Defence sources, however, confirmed that an Army jawan also attained martyrdom in the encounter, but did not divulge details of the martyr, briefly stating that more details were awaited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hizb-commander-involved-in-major-terror-attacks-killed-army-jawan-martyred/articleshow/75794322.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Kochi||Kochi corporation plans to revive Padmasarovaram project||KOCHI: Kochi corporation is planning to revive the Padmasarovaram project, which was denied approval by Kerala Coastal Zone Management Authority (KCZMA). The bund constructed across Chilavannoor backwaters for facilitating the work on the project causes waterlogging in many places. At the district level high power committee meeting held a few days ago, corporation authorities demanded that the district administration should give approval for the project. “But the district administration made it clear that any such decision cannot be taken at this juncture as the matter is pending before the court,” sources associated with district administration said. Though approval from district administration is not sufficient for implementing the project, the nod will be a temporary relief for the corporation authorities. The project can’t be started without the approval from KCZMA. Kochi mayor Soumini Jain was not available over phone to comment on the matter. Corporation had started the work on Padmasarovaram, which is a walkway and cycle track constructed on a viaduct across Chilavannoor backwaters connecting Subhash Chandra Bose Road and Sahodaran Ayyappan Road, without securing the necessary approvals. After this, environmentalists complained with various agencies alleging that the project will harm environment. This forced the corporation to submit an application for securing nod from KCZMA. The authority declined nod for the project after it found that the project will obstruct the natural flow of saline water. According to environmentalists, the project is the result of a conspiracy hatched out at higher levels. “Kochi corporation’s plan is to help those constructed houses on the banks of Chilavannoor backwaters violating coastal regulation zone (CRZ) norms. It is based on salinity of water in the lake that high tide line (HTL) is being fixed. Curbs on construction are imposed after considering the distance from HTL. The bund will check the flow of saline water and so, the HTL will move further into backwaters. Then, the illegal construction on the shores will automatically come out of the restricted area,” said RTI activist K T Cheshire. “I have lodged complaint with vigilance stating that the corporation authorities are trying to help the owners of illegal buildings. In my complaint, I have pointed out that corruption to the tune of around Rs 10 crore occurred in the designing and implementation of the project. Vigilance have started probe into the case. It is learnt that they have quizzed many people who are associated with the project implementation,” Cheshire said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/kochi-corp-plans-to-revive-padmasarovaram-project/articleshow/75813380.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Hyderabad||First flight from Muscat arrives||HYDERABAD: Acharter flight carrying 28 Oman nationals took off from the Rajiv Gandhi International Airport, on Monday, as part of the ongoing evacuation operation. The relief flight of Star Air, OG 9111, that departed from Hyderabad at 7.12 am ferried the passengers to Mumbai. From there, they were to be airlifted by an Air India Express flight to Oman. Later in the evening, an Air India Express flight, IX 0818, from Muscat (Oman), landed at the city facility with 182 Indian nationals on board. While 166 deplaned at RGAI, the remaining were ferried to Mumbai. The flight was operated under the second phase of the Vande Bharat Mission. The aircraft which was expected to reach Hyderabad at 5.35 pm, reached at 8.12 pm. Under phase 1 of the mission, the RGIA has so far handled 14 departures and nine arrivals of close to 1,500 Indian citizens returning home.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/first-flight-from-muscat-arrives/articleshow/75814581.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Complaint filed against OTT show||HYDERABAD: A private employee has lodged filed a complaint against director and producer of a show on Alt Balaji, a streaming platform owned by producer-director Ekta Kapoor. S Vishal Kumar from Lalapet, alleged that the show, ‘Uncensored 2’ aired defamatory content against the Army and was insulting the national emblem.  As per the complainant, a character tears the Army uniform which has the national emblem on it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/complaint-filed-against-ott-show/articleshow/75814578.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Mangaluru||Eight Covid-19 cases reported in Uttara Kannada||Karwar: Uttara Kannada district on Monday received a jolt with eight more cases — 5 men and 3 women — being reported from different taluks of the district. But for one patient, the rest of the infected persons had travelled to Mumbai. Of them, four had been quarantined at BCM Hostel in Honnavar. None of them belong to Uttara Kannada district, but hail from Kundapur in Udupi district. They reportedly tried travelling to Kundapur from Mumbai four days ago. After they were denied entry to Udupi district, they stayed back in Honnavar, it is said. One of the women in this family is a native of Malkod in Honnavar. Two persons each from Bhatkal and Mundgod also tested positive for the infection on Monday. On Sunday, a 23-year-old man from Anashi in Joida taluk, who had crossed over to Goa from Karwar, had tested positive there. With two more cases in Mundgod, the total cases in ghat area of the district has gone up to three.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/eight-covid-19-cases-reported-in-uttara-kannada/articleshow/75813711.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Rights panel seeks report on 3 cops for harassment||HYDERABAD: The Telangana State Human Rights Commission (TSHRC) has called for a report from Hyderabad commissioner of police on the allegations made against three cops of Chikkadpally police station by a techie. The directive was in connection with the charges levelled by an IT employee against SI R Kotesh and constables — P Arun Kumar and G Arvind Sagar — on how she and her brother were harassed by cops for walking along the Tank Bund stretch on May 14. TSHRC asked for an ‘impartial and independent report from the CP. In her complaint, she said they were stopped by the cops and asked to remove their masks. The cops then told the siblings that a case would be booked against them for stepping out and started taking videos and photographs without their consent. A resident of Narayanguda, the techie said she called her father after other cops descended there. When her father arrived, she alleged that cops verbally abused him and tried to bundle him into a van. It was only when she raised an alarm, they stopped. She said the cops even established a romantic link between the siblings. She said despite tendering apologies for being out and telling them that her brother had recently suffered a heart attack and that she had a fractured leg, their phones were taken away. She said cops asked them to come to the station on Monday and that an FIR was filed against them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/rights-panel-seeks-report-on-3-cops-for-harassment/articleshow/75814593.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Cancer research centre work to resume soon||KOCHI: Construction of Cochin Cancer Research Centre (CCRC), which was stalled for the past two months, would resume in a day or two. According to CCRC authorities, mobilization of equipment and manpower has already been started and the work could be resumed immediately. All arrangements for resuming the work with a workforce of 150 people have been completed. “Engineers with the private firm, which has undertaken the construction work, are yet to arrive in Kochi. Most of them are in Tamil Nadu. Measures to bring them to Kochi are being taken and they are expected to reach Kochi by May 20,” said Dr Mony Kuriakkose, director, CCRC. “Engineers with the private firm will give advice over phone or other means and engineers with Inkel, the nodal agency of the project, will oversee the work,” he said. At the same time, construction work will gain speed only after the engineers of the private firm arrive in Kochi and start monitoring the work. Authorities had planned to bifurcate the work and rope in another contractor. But, Inkel authorities are yet to give the final approval for tender inviting second contractor. The plan was to entrust the existing contractor with the work of two towers, while the remaining two towers will be constructed by a new firm. The existing firm has already completed more than 30% of the work. But, since the pace of their work is too slow, Inkel had decided to rope in one more contractor so that the works of four towers would progress simultaneously. “We are unaware of such things. It is up to Inkel to decide,” Dr Kuriakkose said when asked about the delay in awarding tender for entrusting half the work to another firm. As of now, there has been 35% progress in the construction of CCRC building. A portion of the main building, which was under construction, had collapsed on November 25, 2019, leading to stalling of the work. Though it resumed after a couple of months, the contractor couldn’t speed up the work. Later, the work had to be stopped again following restrictions due to Covid-19. It was in October, 2017, that KIIFB board chaired by chief minister Pinarayi Vijyan gave approval for the first phase of CCRC. As per the revised schedule, the entire work should be completed by the end of 2020. The state government had allotted Rs 379 crore for setting up the hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/cancer-research-centre-work-to-resume-soon/articleshow/75813395.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata gets its sixth Covid-19 facility, now has 1,700+ beds for patients||KOLKATA: The state government has designated KPC Medical College for Covid-19 treatment. This will be the sixth such Covid-19 hospital in Kolkata and the third in the private sector. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee announced the government’s decision on Monday. Even before the announcement was made, KPC Medical College administration had started doing groundwork and also had rounds of meetings with health officials. After thorough planning, a five-storey building block that has 206 beds, including 13 ICU beds, has been earmarked as the Covid-19 facility. The hospital has a total 750 beds. “At this hour of crisis, the government and private health sectors need to work as a unit. We have whole heartedly taken up the responsibility the health department and the CM have entrusted on us,” said Joydip Mitra, CEO of KPC Medical College. While the government will supply essential support like PPE, equipment like ventilator and portable dialysis machine, the manpower, including doctors, nurses and other healthcare workers, will be given by the hospital itself. The hospital has already formed a core Covid-19 committee and its medical team with senior faculty members from departments like medicine and critical care unit. The hospital, however, will continue services for general patients. All services, including OPD, emergency, surgeries and admission, in the remaining 500 beds will remain opened. “We have made the Covid unit in a totally different block with separate entry and exit so that there is no interface between general and Covid patients. We will continue services for non-Covid-19 patients uninterrupted,” said the CEO. The state has also assigned nodal officers and a team each for four Covid hospitals in the city to support surveillance and monitor the implementation of Covid management protocol. While tropical medicine specialist Bibhuti Saha and medicine specialist Jyotirmoy Pal have been designated as nodal officer for Medical College and Desun Hospital respectively, gastroenterologist Gopal Krishna Dhali will look after MR Bangur Hospital and AMRI hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kolkata-gets-its-6th-covid-facility-now-has-1700-beds-for-patients/articleshow/75814585.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
May 19, 2020||Nagpur||Radha Soami Satsang to provide free food at quarantine centres||Nagpur: Radha Soami Satsang Beas, which has provided its sprawling premises on Kalmeshwar Road to develop 5,000-bedded quarantine centre, has now offered to provide free of cost food to people staying in nine quarantine centres across the city. Assistant municipal commissioner Milind Meshram said the Satsang trust had submitted a proposal to provide the meals. The offer will help the cash-starved Nagpur Municipal Corporation which is spending almost Rs2 lakh per day for providing breakfast, lunch and dinner to over 1,700 people in different quarantine centres. Currently, the NMC is paying Rs159 for per person for providing meals at the centres. “Food will be cooked at Satsang’s mega kitchen on its premises, while NMC will have to pay only for transportation expenses to deliver the cooked food to different quarantine centres,” said Meshram and added that the Satsang will probably start the service from May 21. The official further said that NMC will spend only Rs50 per person — Rs2 lakh to Rs2.50 lakh per day. Apart from this, the NMC is also providing ration kits to poor citizens, slum dwellers and food packets in shelter homes across the city. “We are also providing food packets to migrants travelling in special shramik trains, either leaving from city or passing through Nagpur railway station,” said Meshram.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/radha-soami-satsang-to-provide-free-food-at-quarantine-centres/articleshow/75812221.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
May 19, 2020||Mangaluru||Downpour washes away vegetables, fruits at APMC Yard; merchants furious||Mangaluru: Vegetable and foodgrain merchants who, following directions from the Dakshina Kannada district administration, had shifted their stores from the Central Market in Mangaluru to the APMC Yard in Baikampady, could do little but watch their merchandise get drenched after heavy showers lashed the coastal district on Monday. The Central Market Merchants’ Association pegs the loss from the downpour at Rs 50 lakh. Association president Mustaffa said that nearly 80 wholesale traders had suffered losses. He said that they would demand compensation for their loss from the district administration, at whose behest they had shifted shop to the APMC Yard. The downpour, which lasted four hours from 6am, washed away vegetables and other perishables at the Baikampady yard. The district administration had shifted operations from the Central Market to the yard, which is roughly 18km from Mangaluru city centre, as part of its emergency measures to ensure social distancing and prevent crowding. Although the authorities decreed that traders shift their stalls to the APMC Yard, the merchants complained about the lack of basic facilities, in addition to the unhygienic environment, which they said was not conducive to sale of vegetables and fruits. “The APMC Yard was established three decades ago, and lies in a dilapidated condition with no basic facilities. The Central Market, on the other hand, was set up six decades ago, but its condition is still very good. This is why we want to return to the Central Market. Our pleas, however, have fallen on deaf ears. The deputy commissioner is indecisive, and keeps deferring the decision not realising that our livelihood is at stake. If this continues, we will be forced to look for our own alternatives,” Mustaffa said. Another merchant rued the apathetic attitude of the APMC authorities. Meanwhile Mangaluru City Corporation commissioner Shanady Ajith Kumar Hegde, who issued the notice ordering the closure of Central Market, said that it was the responsibility of APMC authorities to provide adequate facilities for traders. Meanwhile, former MLA and senior Congress member JR Lobo lashed out at BJP MLAs and the district administration for failing to make adequate arrangements at the yard prior to shifting. Neither the deputy commissioner nor any of the APMC officials was available for comment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/downpour-washes-away-vegetables-fruits-at-apmc-yard-merchants-furious/articleshow/75813814.cms||Stanley Pinto
May 19, 2020||Pune||SPPU plans to hold exams for outstation students after July||PUNE: Students of the Savitribai Phule Pune University, who have gone back to their home states or countries, may be able to appear for the final-year exam within 120 days after the July examination. Arvind Shaligram, the director of SPPU’s board of examination and evaluation, said students that were outside the state or the country could inform of their inability to appear while filling the examination form. He said the university planned to conduct the exam for these students within 120 days along with the supplementary exams. The university was also working out a system where students in the state could get an examination centre in their own district. This would restrict the large-scale movement of students, he said. There are over 2.14 lakh students across various faculties in their final-year final semester under SPPU. Meanwhile, an online petition requesting cancellation of examinations for final-year students across Maharashtra also gained momentum, with the petition getting 50,000 votes in a week’s time. The petition raised issues such as students not having books, risks of travelling during a pandemic and students crowding near exam halls, as reasons for demand to cancel exams. Meanwhile, outstation students were also requesting the university to either cancel the examination or conduct it online. “We have already given seven semester exams and they can take an aggregate of all these years and conduct a viva online. We can submit a project online. The condition in India may improve, but in other countries it may worsen. What about the students living in areas with Internet connectivity issues and they have no books as most of us left ours at the hostel,” a student from a middle east Asian country said. Meanwhile, Shaligram said the examination forms needed to be filled online by all final-year or final semester students. “Majoirty of students live in Maharashtra. For students who do not live in the three districts of Pune, Nashik and Ahmednagar, we are working out a system where they can give the exams in their own districts. We are in talks with other universities too. Students who cannot travel to Maharashtra also have to fill the forms. We are working out a strategy, where students can apepar for the examination in 120 days post the final examinations,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/sppu-plans-to-hold-exams-for-outstation-pupils-after-july/articleshow/75815338.cms||Ardhra Nair
May 19, 2020||Vadodara||Migrants escape city bus inferno in Vadodara||VADODARA: About 50 migrants from Jharkhand and the driver of a city bus they were travelling in had a narrow escape when the bus caught fire near Khodiyarnagar on Monday. The migrants were being taken to a government school at Khodiyarnagar for coronavirus screening as they plan to go back to their villages. Sources said after their registration at mamlatdar’s office near Sama pond, they were being taken in the city bus to the school when the bus suddenly caught fire. “The source of fire can be known only after we find the driver of the bus. He is yet to be located. It was completely engulfed in fire when we reached the spot,” said fire officer Amit Chaudhary of Panigate fire station. “The driver suddenly stopped the bus in the middle of the road and rushed out. We were confused about what had happened, but then somebody started to shout,” said Arvindkumar Sah, one of the migrants. As all passengers tried to rush out, some of them received minor injuries. The migrants left their luggage inside the bus before running out. “My clothes and three months’ salary that I had received were charred in the fire,” Sah said. Another migrant Barika from Latehar district too lost her money in the fire. “I had asked for some money from my family in village to travel back, but there is nothing left now,” she said. “There was a smoke initially but within a short time the bus got engulfed in flames,” another migrant said. “There could have been a major disaster had the bus’ CNG tank caught fire. After the fire was controlled to some extent, our staff managed to turn off the valve of the tank,” Chaudhary added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/migrants-escape-city-bus-inferno-in-vadodara/articleshow/75811986.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Vadodara||12 ft crocodile strays on to road in Kalol||VADODARA: A 11.5-foot crocodile was rescued from near the Shaktipura village in Kalol taluka of Panchmahal district. The crocodile had strayed on to the service road of the Narmada main canal on Monday morning. According to sources, the female crocodile was spotted by commuters on the road that remains busy as it is well-developed and used by residents of the villages. A crowd gathered at the spot and the forest department was also informed regarding the incident. A local volunteer, who has expertise in catching reptiles, including crocodiles, was called by the forest officials. He, with the help of others, rescued the crocodile and handed it over to the officials. The female crocodile is believed to have come out of the canal to lay eggs. The crocodile was taken to the Panam dam in Shehra taluka and released in it. Sources said that a crocodile was spotted in the canal recently too and the one rescued on Monday may be the same.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/12-ft-crocodile-strays-on-to-road-in-kalol/articleshow/75811952.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Finnish researcher spends the lockdown in Kutch learning quilting||AHMEDABAD: While many may have felt intensely bored in the lockdown, some have used the time to learn new skills to satisfy their creative urge. An academician from Finland, who is spending her time under this lockdown at a farmhouse in a small village near Mundra in Kutch, has gained proficiency in quilting.Marjaana Jauhola is a senior lecturer in development studies at the University of Helsinki. For the past couple of years, this ethnographer has been studying the changes the society in Kutch has recorded in the aftermath of the 2001 killer quake. Like many, she too has fallen for Kutch’s handicrafts. Being an ethnographer, it’s the quilting the way it is done in Kutch that has fascinated her. For her, quilting is nothing short of an “alternative history writing”. She said, “In research and women’s activism worldwide, there is an interest for such ‘archives’ as they tell a lot about women’s lives, dreams and lived experiences.” Jauhola stays in Bhuj town for her research, but because of the lockdown she shifted to Zarpara village near Mundra. She and her co-researcher Shyam Gadhvi had to cancel their plans of surveys, but they are writing up the research now. Jauhola also keeps herself busy with the distant academic work for the campus in Helsinki. But at other times she focuses on quilting, learning mostly from Gadhvi’s mother, Aashbai. On quilting, Jauhola said, “I am learning the quilting method used in the Zarpara village, but more widely as a way to learn about co-creation and collaborative ways of working because quilts are done often by several women.” She went on to say: “Quilts carry many stories as the materials are usually reused clothes. It connects generations within one family. We, I and Shyam Gadhavi are also using quilting as a metaphor for collaborative ways of working. We also held a workshop on this subject in Helsinki in February.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/finnish-researcher-spends-the-lockdown-in-kutch-learning-quilting/articleshow/75814596.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Pune||Pune: Man wanted in cheating cases held||PUNE: The Deccan Gymkhana police on Monday arrested a Bhosari resident for cheating multiple banks collectively to the tune of Rs40-50 lakh. Police said the suspect, Rajesh Gopal Sondkar (52), fraudulently obtained home loans from the banks. The police had been searching for Sondkar since about a year after a nationalized bank registered a cheating case against him. “Similar cases have been registered against Sondkar with the Swargate, Faraskhana, Bhosari and Nigdi police,” senior inspector Deepak Lagad said. Lagad said that Sondkar would approach builders and get details of the scheme and flats. “He would submit bogus documents and open bank accounts in the name of the builders. Sondkar would then approach banks and obtain home loans. The bank would issue cheques in the name of the builders, which Sondkar would deposit in these accounts,” Lagad said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/man-wanted-in-cheating-cases-held/articleshow/75815341.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Chandigarh||Three narcotics peddlers held in Udhampur||Jammu: In separate cases, police on Sunday arrested three persons for alledgedly peddling drugs. In the first case, SSP (Udhampur) Rajiv Pandey said that a police team led by inspector Vijay Singh Choudhary intercepted two persons and seized 7 grammes of heroin-like substance from their possession. The accused have been identified as Ajay Singh and Mohinder of Udhampur. In a similar incident, officials of Chenani police station intercepted a bus and seized 4.6kg poppy husk from the possession of the driver of the vehicle, Rakesh Kumar. The accused was arrested. A complaint has been filed against him under various sections of the NDPS Act||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/three-narcotics-peddlers-held-in-udhampur/articleshow/75794344.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Lucknow||No job in sight, education loans a worry for those pursuing professional studies||The lockdown triggered by novel coronavirus and the subsequent slump in the economy have come as a setback to millions. However, final-year students who have taken education loans to pursue professional courses are having sleepless nights. Their worry is that they do not know how to pay back the loans as there are no jobs in sight as of now. Many want the government’s intervention to suspend loan recovery. “My father is retiring next year. I had taken an education loan with the hope that I will pay back after getting a job but now, it seems the entire family will have to suffer,” said Shitiz Mukherjee, a civil engineering student. “My father works in a private college and has not got salary for two months. My mother has recently undergone open-heart surgery. I don’t know how I will pay back my loan,” said final-year mechanical engineering student Akhil Agarwal. “I did not get a job after completing engineering, so I joined a part-time job at an engineering college and took loan for an MBA. The situation has become worse,” said MBA final-year student Ritika Shukla.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/no-job-in-sight-education-loans-a-worry-for-those-pursuing-professional-studies/articleshow/75815843.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Mysuru||Lightning strike kills man in Karnataka's Mandya||MYSURU: A man was killed and two others injured due to lighting at KR Pet taluk in Mandya district on Sunday night. According to police, the victim is farmer Papanna, 60, from Shivapura village in the taluk. His son Nagaraj, 40, and daughter-in-law Shreya suffered minor injuries in the incident. Mandya district received heavy rain, accompanied by thunderstorm and lighting, on Sunday night. The trio was struck by the lightning when they were standing in front of their house. Nagaraj and Shreya were rushed to the government hospital for treatment. KR Pet town police have registered a case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/lightning-strike-kills-man-in-mandya/articleshow/75814147.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Auto driver killed after drunken brawl in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: A petty argument among a group of drunk friends after a wedding reception resulted in the murder of an auto driver at Asif Nagar on Monday. V Sravan, 24, was killed in the brawl, while 23-year-old computer operator S Sai Ganesh suffered injuries. They were attacked by Bhikshapathi, a former history sheeter from Tappachabutra police station limits, and his brother Ganesh at around 12.30 am. In his complaint Sai said, “After the function, I, Sravan and friends Chintu, Lakhan, Omkar started consuming liquor. Chintu invited Bhikshapathi to join us.” After a while, Bhikshapathi and Chintu got into an argument. “Chintu assaulted Bikshapathi, who left the spot and returned with his brother Ganesh, carrying a hockey stick and a dagger,” Asif Nagar ACP Shiva Maruthi said. West Zone DCP A R Srinivas said that Sai is out of danger. A case under Section 302 and 307 was registered. “We are booking auto trolley owner Narsing Rao for organising an event in violation of lockdown rules,” the DCP said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/auto-driver-killed-after-drunken-brawl/articleshow/75814617.cms||Mahesh Buddi
May 19, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Drunk woman creates ruckus, booked||AHMEDABAD: A woman, Neha Roy, created ruckus at her house in Vastral area at 2am in an inebriated condition. Roy was so heavily drunk that her friend Shivani, who used to live with her in the same house, had to call police. The cops have booked Roy under stringent acts of prohibition. Police said Roy and her friend Shivani stay in the same house. On Sunday night, Roy came home and started banging on the door. “As Shivani opened the door, Neha came inside and started shouting. Shivani then went near her and smelt her mouth. Neha was drunk and she also indulged in lewd behaviour. Shivani then called the police control room,” said a police official. Police reached the spot and found Neha in inebriated condition. “She didn’t have any permit to drink. We then booked her under prohibition laws and women cops arrested her,” said a police official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/drunk-woman-creates-ruckus-booked/articleshow/75814619.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Chandigarh||Two killed, 8 injured in Ramban landslide||Jammu: Two persons were killed and eight others sustained injuries when a landslide hit Jammu-Srinagar national highway in Ramban district of Jammu & Kashmir, police said on Sunday. As many as nine vehicles, including two trucks and an oil tanker, were damaged when a sudden landslide hit the highway in Ramban area on Saturday. The police, State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) men and Red Cross volunteers, besides locals and workers of a road construction company, launched a massive rescue operation. As per reports, one person was killed on the spot. However, on Sunday the death toll mounted to two while eight injured were admitted to District Hospital, Ramban.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/two-killed-8-injured-in-ramban-landslide/articleshow/75794367.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Pune||Gangster bludgeoned to death||Pune: The Pimpri Chinchwad police on Monday arrested a 32-year-old man for bludgeoning a gangster to death on Sunday night. The murder occurred late on Sunday night when the history-sheeter, Manoj alias Dingrya Dhakoliya of Dehu Road. “The suspect, Adam Khan (32), and Dhakoliya were consuming liquor under the bridge. They had an argument and Dhakoliya went to sleep. The suspect reappeared later and fled after bludgeoning Dhakoliya to death,” assistant inspector Ambarish Deshmukh of Pimpri Chinchwad crime branch said. Dhakoliya was the brother of gangster Rakesh Dhakoliya alias Mahakali. After Rakesh’ s encounter in 2011, Dhakoliya took over the reins of ‘Mahakali gang’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/gangster-bludgeoned-to-death/articleshow/75815343.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Lucknow||Court seeks govt reply on opening of isolation centre||Lucknow: The high court on Monday sought response from the state government, Lucknow Municipal Corporation (LMC) and Lucknow Development Authority (LDA) on a plea against opening of a quarantine centre in a residential area in Viraj Khand of Gomtinagar. Directing lawyers of the state, LMC and LDA to obtain instructions from their respective authorities, the court set next hearing on May 26. A bench of Justice Anil Kumar and Justice Saurabh Lavania passed the order on a PIL moved by Viraj Khand Residents’ Welfare Society while hearing the matter through video-conferencing. The PIL alleged that the authorities have opened a quarantine centre 5 in Viraj Khand, which is aresidential area and such a centre is likely to incur risk of being infected by novel coronavirus epidemic. It was also pleaded that on the plot, where a hotel has been opened whereas it is illegal because the area is earmarked as residential in Lucknow Mahayojna – 2031 and hence hotel activity is prohibited in the area. It was alleged that the plot measured about 2013 square-foot and about 31 persons have been quarantined here, while there is no proper police security out here. After hearing the matter, the bench asked response of the authorities on the issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/court-seeks-govt-reply-on-opening-of-isolation-centre/articleshow/75815853.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Pune||Four arrested for attacking decorator in Pune||PUNE: Four criminals were arrested and their accomplices were booked on Sunday for thrashing a mandap decorator and attacking him with a sharp weapon at Beedi Kamgar Vasahat around 5.10pm on May 16. “The suspects reached the spot with the intent of attacking another criminal over a previous dispute. But, when they could not find him, they removed their frustration on the mandap decorator and attacked him,” senior inspector Yunus Shaikh, who is in charge of the Yerawada police, said. He said Nigde suffered injuries on his head and his right hand’s middle finger. “He was admitted to a private hospital in an unconscious state,” Shaikh said. The victim’s brother lodged an FIR with the Yerawada police on Sunday. The police then analysed the CCTV camera footage and have established the identity of five suspects so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/four-arrested-for-attacking-decorator/articleshow/75815346.cms||Asseem Shaikh
May 19, 2020||Delhi||What offices need to do if staff test +ve||New Delhi: There is no need to close an entire office building if one or two corona-positive cases are reported among the staff, states the latest central guidelines. However, in case there is a larger outbreak involving multiple staff members, the entire building will have to be closed for 48 hours after disinfection. In case of one or two patients, the disinfection procedure has to be carried out in places visited by the patient in 48 hours following which work can be resumed. In the second case, “all staff will work from home till the building is adequately disinfected and is declared fit for re-occupation”, the guidelines add. Delhi has allowed all offices, private and government, to operate at full strength. A source in the health department said the central guidelines would be applicable at all offices in Delhi. “District health officials have been made aware of the protocol to be followed in such cases. The procedures for disinfection, contact listing and tracing are available with everyone,” said an official. If a staff develops symptoms of Covid-19, the offices are supposed to put him in an isolated room or area at the workplace and give them a mask or face cover, while informing Helpline 1075 immediately. In case of mild illness, the person will be placed in home isolation. Those with mild-to-moderate symptoms can be shifted to Covid-19 care centres or designated hospitals as required. The rapid response team of the district concerned will undertake listing of contacts. According to the Union health ministry’s guidelines, any staff member who may have worked in the same room as the patient or travelled in the same environment but not having high risk of exposure will be a low-risk contact and can continue to work. But his health is to be monitored closely for 14 days. A person who may have touched the patient’s body fluids or had direct physical contact will be a high-risk contact. Passengers in close proximity — within one metre — in a conveyance with a symptomatic person, who later tests positive, for more than six hours will also be a high-risk contact. They will be quarantined at home or in an institutional facility for 14 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/what-offices-need-to-do-if-staff-test-ve/articleshow/75836614.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Chennai||Maharashtra returnees among 536 fresh coronavirus cases in Tamil Nadu||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu reported three deaths and 536 fresh Covid-19 cases on Monday, with people returning from Maharashtra being the only ones testing positive in some districts. The testing strategy continued to be a subject of debate with the ICMR releasing new guidelines and the state set to finalise its own by Tuesday. The state tested 10,887 people on Monday, compared to 12,445 on Sunday. “We have not reduced testing,” said health minister C Vijayabaskar. The state was criticised for reducing the number of tests over the past week by epidemiologists, doctors and political leaders. “Our state has done the largest number of tests. We are following the ICMR protocol. We don’t plan the number of tests. It depends on the number of people who come into the city by road, flights or trains or the number of home contacts of a person who tested positive,” he said. So far, TN has tested more than 3.3 lakh people, including 85,000 in Chennai, which reported 364 cases on Monday. On Tuesday, a comprehensive testing policy will be released by the state health department, said health secretary Beela Rajesh.“We have high tests and recovery rate but low mortality. Let’s not hurt the sentiments of people who work hard,” Vijayabaskar said in response to a tweet by DMK president and opposition leader MK Stalin. The state has been testing people with influenza-like illness and people admitted to hospitals with severe acute respiratory infections. “Sometimes, we do more than what ICMR recommends,” he said. “We draw samples from all passengers coming by road at the district check posts. Samples are drawn for air and rail passengers too,” the minister said. On Monday, ICMR published revised testing guidelines for all states under which returnees and migrants having influenza-like illness should be tested within 7 days of illness. All symptomatic individual with international travel history, health care workers or frontline workers involved in containment and mitigation of Covid-19, asymptomatic direct and high-risk contacts of a confirmed case, people with flu-like symptoms within hotspots, all hospitalised patients who develop flu-like symptoms, and all patients with Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI) should be tested, the ICMR protocol said. “No emergency procedure (including deliveries) should be delayed for lack of test,” it added. “It will define the state’s testing policy for migrants, passengers, patients in emergency wards and close contacts of Covid-19 patients,” Beela Rajesh said. The number of passengers from other states testing positive continued to grow on Monday. Vijayabaskar said 46 people who had travelled from Maharashtra to Tamil Nadu by road tested positive in the last 24 hours. Tuticorin, which reported one case from within, found 14 passengers travelling by road from Maharashtra positive. In many other districts, the only cases reported were from outside the state. Tirunelveli reported 12 cases from Maharashtra. Tenkasi and Ramanathapuram had six each while Salem reported five, Dindugul two and Cuddalore one. Chennai, the most affected district of the state reported 364 cases, taking the city’s tally to 7,117. Its neighbours Chengalpet reported 43 cases, Kancheepuram 17 and Tiruvallur 19. Thirteen other districts reported cases in single digit. As many as 234 people were discharged on Monday. There are 7,270 active cases in the state now. A 53-year-old woman and a 65-year-old woman died in Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital on Sunday while a 70-year-old woman died in Stanley Medical College Hospital on Monday. Meanwhile, government hospitals in the state were waiting for protocols from ICMR to start the clinical trial on plasma therapy and the multi-viral Remdesivir for the drug trial, officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/maha-returnees-among-536-fresh-cases-in-tn/articleshow/75815353.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Pune||Five more succumb to Covid-19, 159 test positive in Pune||PUNE: After staying over 200 for two days, Covid-19 positive cases in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) came down to 159 on Monday, taking the total patient count to 4,177 so far. Besides, five more patients succumbed to the contagion on Saturday, pushing the casualty count in PMR to 211. Of the fresh cases, maximum 111 were recorded from Pune municipal limits. Among the casualties, four were recorded at private hospitals, while one at Sassoon General Hospital. The district health officials said about 1,232 swab samples were sent for testing on Monday. About 166 patients admitted to various hospitals were in critical conditions and 55 patients were declared cured and discharged on Monday, they said.. PMC health officials said over 50 patients were on ventilator support at various hospitals in the municipal limits. There were 1,599 active cases in the PMC area on Monday. Record rise in cases at PCMC limitsWith 23 new cases, PCMC areas recorded their highest 24-hour rise in patients on Monday. Eighteen of them came from a single area of Anandnagar slum in Chinchwad. “It is a very densely populated area. People are adhering to the social distance protocol,” said Santosh Patil, additional commissioner, PCMC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/five-more-dead-159-test-positive-in-pune/articleshow/75815357.cms||Sarang Dastane
May 19, 2020||Pune||Stand-up shows go online as comics adapt to new normal||By: Anjali Jhangiani PUNE: Crowd interaction is a major part of any live stand-up comedy show. With restrictions in place on gatherings, stand-up comedians are thinking of ways to adjust to the new scheme of things. "When people laugh or applaud, we know they’re enjoying the joke or that content. If they don’t laugh, you change the topic. Audience makes a comedy show," said stand-up comedian Sapan Verma. In the new scheme of things, public gatherings have been restricted. "Even if the lockdown ends, stand-up and entertainment in general will be the last thing on people’s minds. Also, stand-up involves a big cluster of people gathering in a room, which is not advisable given the circumstances," he added. Comedian Papa CJ said, "The lockdown has led to me doing a range of different sessions for corporate clients online. Not only am I performing stand-up comedy, but given my background in motivational speaking and corporate training, I’m talking to clients about the challenges they are facing." Comedians are looking forward to adapting to the new norm. "Sure, making money is a little tough now, but as long as the WiFi is running, we should be able to keep doing our stuff without complaining too much. I’m regularly doing a lot of postcast, facebook live, YouTube videos, all to manage audience expectations," said comedian Sorabh Pant, who has been doing shows on Zoom. "||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/stand-up-shows-go-online-as-comics-adapt-to-new-normal/articleshow/75815359.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Kolkata||‘Helpers’ to replace nurses in hospitals||Kolkata: The state government’s decision to appoint male and female ‘helpers’ to replace nurses who have left Kolkata came as a relief for city private hospitals who have been grappling with a healthworker shortage ever since an exodus of nurses started last week. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee said on Monday at Nabanna that these helpers will be trained to carry out the basic functions of a nurse so that they can fill in for those who have quit. While the details of their appointment are yet to be announced, private hospitals felt it would help to ease the crisis to an extent. Banerjee said, “We will train locals for seven days to put saline, give oxygen support or check temperatures to help with the crisis. How will the hospitals work if nurses are leaving?” “We have our health assistants who are similar to these helpers. It will certainly help if we have more hands even though they can’t really be a long-term replacement for trained nurses,” said AMRI Hospitals CEO Rupak Barua. AMRI have lost 80 nurses so far. Medica Superspecialty Hospital, that has lost 75 nurses, lauded the move. “It will help if they can chip in and help. The more personnel we have the better. It will supplement the measures that we are now taking to plug the gap,” said Medica chairperson Alok Roy. Another private hospital said the move will help to keep services uninterrupted till replacements arrive. “This is a well-planned move at a time when we need more nurses than ever before,” he said. Even as they approved the decision, nurses organizations said trained nurses should continue to be given priority. “We are in the midst of a crisis and vacancies have been created. While we need to make sure that services are not hampered, it must be ensured that only the skilled are allowed to serve at Covid units. We must also investigate why nurses are leaving our hospitals,” said Nurses’Unity secretary Bhaswati Mukherkjee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/helpers-to-replace-nurses-in-hospitals/articleshow/75814602.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Acting on TOI report, PCB confirms contamination of Raa Cheruvu||HYDERABAD: Municipal administration minister KT Rama Rao has asked the Telangana State Pollution Control Board (TSPCB) authorities to take action against those polluting Raa Cheruvu at Ambedkar Nagar in Boduppal. On Monday, the minister took to Twitter saying: “Request @TelanganaPCB Member Secretary Neetu Prasad Ji to get this looked into & if proven true, take the most stringent action possible immediately (sic).” TSPCB issued notices to 73 industries located upstream of the water body, said M Venkanna, environmental engineer, TSPCB, Rangareddy. A PCB team had inspected the lake and collected samples, which showed there was a ‘slight contamination’ in the lake, he said. TOI had reported about contaminated water seeping into the lake in its columns, dated May 12. Sources said samples had a pH level of 11.20, total dissolved solids (TDS) 4,250 mg/l and chemical oxygen demand (COD) 1,059 mg/l. As per standards, pH level between 6.5 and 8.5 is considered good, for TDS it is 2,100 mg/l for controlled waste disposal and COD must be 250 mg/l or less. KTR had reacted to a comment by activist Prashant Mamidala, who has been working on restoration of the lake for years. Locals allege that industrial pollutants are being let into the lake from the neighbouring Mallapur industrial area. Speaking to TOI, Prashant said a battery of officials had come to the area following KTR’s tweet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/acting-on-toi-report-pcb-confirms-contamination-of-raa-cheruvu/articleshow/75814643.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow’s famous biryani outlet now in veg avatar to serve migrants||LUCKNOW: Famous for its delectable awadhi biryani across the country, Lucknow’s ‘Wahid Biryani’ has turned vegetarian for a noble cause — to feed the migrants who are passing via the city on way to their homes. The popular eatery has been feeding over 1,500 migrant workers daily for the past one week, by serving the vegetarian fare, that includes vegetable biryani made of cottage cheese and peas, and rechristened as Navratna Biryani. This is for the first time in its 65-year history that the eatery, which now has seven outlets in Lucknow, is serving a vegetarian platter. Since the joint’s chefs left for their homes after the lockdown was clamped, Wahid Biryani owner Abid Ali Quraishi has donned the chef’s cap along with his family members. Despite the family observing rozas, it is cooking and serving food to the migrants on the city’s outskirts. The eatery has set up distribution tables, with Tricolour hoisted near them, at four points on the city’s outskirts — Chinhat, Polytechnic Crossing, Sitapur Road, and Agra Expressway. The family of four, including Abid’s two sons and a brother, along with some staff, are serving the food. Abid said they will continue serving even after Eid. “Hum apni poori jaan aur poora maal laga rahe hain is seva mein (We are putting all our heart, soul and money into the service). We hope that labourers reach their homes safely and we can help them on the way,” Abid told TOI. Four cauldrons (degh) of Navratna Biryani are being cooked daily and ferried to the four spots. Each cauldron contains 15kg biryani which is served to about 400 people. The platter includes potato or paneer sabzi, fruits, juice, biscuits and water bottles. Wahid Biryani started off on a cart in Chowk in 1955 by Abid’s grandfather Aladdin. Later, Abid’s father Wahid took the reins of the business and made it a brand name.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/citys-famous-biryani-outlet-now-in-veg-avatar-to-serve-migrants/articleshow/75815860.cms||Yusra Husain
May 19, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: In locked-down, New Garia Metro work resumes||KOLKATA: Construction of the New Garia-Airport Metro stretch has resumed following the government orders regarding relaxation during the lockdown. The work resumed at Hemanta Mukherjee (Ruby Hospital) station as the 5km stretch between New Garia and Ruby Crossing — first phase of the 32km corridor — is a priority and due to be commissioned in 2021. “We have disinfected the entire construction area before resuming work. All precautions, including temperature screening, are being taken. Labourers are wearing masks and maintaining social distancing while working,” a senior official told TOI. Rail Vikas Nigam Limited (RVNL), the implementing agency for the city’s Metro projects, wants to proceed with construction of the portions of viaduct between the New Garia station and the Ruby crossing to facilitate operations on the 5km stretch by September 2021. The beginning of operations on this truncated stretch on the New Garia-Airport route has been pushed back from the previously targeted December 2020 deadline. Officials said the labourers will be completing the construction of roofs, platform shades and foot overbridges at the five stations of this stretch. They will also construct the 400m viaduct from the terminal station at New Garia. “We have also conducted health check-ups for labourers with the help of doctors and provided them hand sanitizers and masks. We are making them aware of safety guidelines,” said a senior official. The work has resumed after the home affairs ministry allowed some economic activities.  Officials said the New Garia-Airport Metro project, which received Rs 328 crore in the 2020-21 budget, will try to show significant progress in the next few months so that it receives a higher allocation. Tenders have been awarded for track-laying and signalling.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/metro-work-on-ruby-new-garia-stretch-resumes/articleshow/75814640.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
May 19, 2020||Lucknow||Special CBI court seeks video conferencing facility for Babri trial||LUCKNOW: The special CBI court in Lucknow, which is hearing the Babri Masjid demolition case, on Monday directed its office to write to the UP chief secretary to seek video conferencing facility in the courtroom to facilitate trial proceedings in the case. In its order, special judge SK Yadav said the Supreme Court had, on May 8, directed the special court to continue trial proceedings through video conferencing as it was difficult to ensure physical presence of witnesses and accused in view of lockdown. “For compliance of the SC direction, it is incumbent upon the chief secretary to provide video conferencing facility in the courtroom for which he was already intimated on May 14, 2020, but nothing has been done so far,” the special court said. The special court had to conclude the trial by April 20 in pursuance of the apex court’s earlier direction but it could not be done due to lockdown. Following an application by the special court, the Supreme Court extended the deadline till August 31. The special court has recorded the prosecution evidence and has to record the statements of accused persons under Section 313 of the CrPC. Meanwhile, the special court allowed cross-examination of three prosecution witnesses this week and asked the CBI as to how it would ensure the presence of witnesses through video conferencing. The proceedings of the trial are going on daily basis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/spl-cbi-court-seeks-video-conferencing-facility-for-babri-trial/articleshow/75815865.cms||Ravi Singh Sisodiya
May 19, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: CM Edappadi K Palaniswami opposes ‘onerous’ terms for central loans||CHENNAI: Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami on Monday opposed the conditions imposed by the Centre on states for enhancing their borrowing limits. He described them as “needlessly onerous conditions” for enhancing borrowings, which need to be repaid, and not grants from the Centre. In a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the CM questioned the aggressive push for reforms on which consensus is yet to be arrived at and linking it to state borrowings. “These are borrowings which the states have to repay and not grants from Centre,” he wrote, while pointing out that reforms in the power sector are a politically sensitive subject. TN opposes any move to alter free power to farmers, he added. Palaniswami said in the letter,“Imposing needlessly onerous conditions on borrowings will constrain the state governments in finding funds to meet essential expenditure in the wake of a serious financial situation. I am confident that you will appreciate and understand the difficulties that states face at this time and instruct that the necessary changes be made to the relevant guidelines.” The states sought the additional borrowing limit beyond 3% GSDP mainly because of the significant shortfall in revenues due to the lockdown to curb the Covid-19 pandemic. There are also large additional expenditure commitments. “To attach needlessly demanding conditionalities to the additional borrowing requirements appears to be unreasonable and not keeping with the spirit of co-operative federalism,” said Palaniswami. Ideally, the proposed reforms ought to have been discussed in detail with the states, a consensus arrived at depending on the specific conditions in each state and the reforms linked to special central Covid-19 grants and not to additional borrowing by the state, he said. Linking the Centre’s power under Article 293(3) of the Constitution to permit additional borrowings by the states to conditionalities is unprecedented, he said. Among the four major areas of reforms stipulated as conditions by the Centre for states to avail of additional borrowing, Tamil Nadu has already undertaken some reforms without expecting any financial assistance. “Power distribution reforms are politically sensitive and these have been repeatedly raised by me in communications to the Prime Minister as well,” Palaniswami said. The CM thanked Modi for having announced the five-tranche economic relief package, especially additional allocation for MNREGA, for reviving the economy, besides establishing infectious diseases blocks in district hospitals and public health laboratories at the block level.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/eps-opposes-onerous-terms-for-central-loans/articleshow/75815369.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Delhi||MINIMUM CITY ON FIRST DAY||New Delhi: After almost two months of standstill, Delhi government allowed all modes of transport, except Delhi Metro, in the city on Tuesday. However, citizens did not appear too enthusiastic to come out of the lockdown mode. TOI travelled to different parts of the city, including the major transit hubs, from 7am to 1pm and noted that there were fewer than regular commuters during the morning rush hour. The orange Cluster Scheme buses joined Delhi Transport Corporation buses that have already been operating ‘special hire’ services for hospital staff and security personnel. Of their cumulative fleet of 6,500 buses, only 2,000 were on roads on Tuesday. Apart from special hire buses, 1,400 were reserved for taking migrants to railway station. But despite the fewer buses and strict adherence to the rule disallowing more than 20 passengers per bus, there was no crowding at bus stops. The people waited patiently to board the buses, though there was no thermal screening of passengers, as had been announced by Delhi government on Monday. The vehicles were disinfected and passengers were asked to sit on alternate seats, with stickers marking the seats to be left vacant. Similar scenes played out in the normally busy areas of Laxmi Nagar, ITO, Connaught Place, Central Secretariat, Delhi Gate, AIIMS, Hauz Khas, Saket, Ambedkar Nagar, Kalkaji, Nehru Place and INA Market. At the Shakarpur Crossing bus shelter in east Delhi, Dinesh Chand, 36, awaited a bus on route 623. “I couldn’t get on two because of the 20-passenger restriction,” he grumbled. “Most people here are those who have been going to work for about a week. The frequency of buses is low. When more people need to travel, there will be chaos.” The government said that more buses would start running when drivers residing in neighbouring states were able to report for work. Delhi transport minister Kailash Gahlot explained that the deployment of Civil Defence personnel in work related to helping migrant workers was why not many of them could be posted at the bus stops to assist operations on Tuesday. “Our Home Guard personnel are in the buses,” said Gahlot. “I appeal to people to cooperate and follow protocols like wearing masks at all times.” While the full complement of public transport buses was not on the streets, the marshals that Delhi government had promised at the busier bus shelters were missing. “I had read there would be marshals at bus stops and inside buses, but there’s no one here, neither in many other buses,” pointed out Rohit Chandolia, 27, as he waited for a bus near Adhchini Mor. “Besides, the buses should have hand sanitisers for commuters too.” Addressing this concern, Gahlot said later on Teusday that the government would provide hand sanitisers in buses and carry out thermal screening of passengers. In six hours, TOI detected only one marshal, at the Dilshad Garden J&K Block bus stop, stretching his limbs in the absence of commuters. A Home Guard personnel deputed as a bus marshal, said, “We have to work for 12-14 hours and we Rs 755 as allowance. But we also have to bring our own masks and sanitisers. We don’t have thermal scanners yet to check passengers and are at high risk of getting infected,” Not that the absence of marshal eventually mattered on Tuesday because the fewer travellers meant that social distancing was maintained without the need to enforce it. Autorickshaws and many app-based taxis could also be seen on the roads after a long time. However, auto drivers attributed the restricting of passenger to a single one for their lack of business during the day. There were some, however, who were merrily flouting the rule and ferrying two, even three, passengers. Paratransit vehicles like Grameen Sewa and Phat-Phat Sewa were almost completely absent in the city. Drivers said that with the two-passenger rule and low fares, they couldn’t sustain operations. The number of e-rickshaw drivers in residential neighbourhoods was significantly low as Delhi Metro, which provides them last-mile passengers, is still closed. At the bus stop opposite the New Seemapuri Cluster Scheme depot, there were more buses than commuters. In the pre-lockdown days, this location saw heavy passenger traffic throughout the day. Satish Chaudhary, a Seemapuri resident, was in shorts and bedroom slippers at the roadside, his eyes peeled for a bus on route 33 terminates at Noida. “I don’t have to go to office yet, but I’m checking to see whether buses going towards my office have begun running,” he smiled.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/minimum-city-on-first-day/articleshow/75836661.cms||Sidharatha Roy
May 19, 2020||Pune||Pune: Half of deceased over 61 years of age||PUNE: People above the age of 61 are most vulnerable to Covid-19 complications often resulting in death. This has been revealed in the analysis of 206 Covid-19 deaths recorded in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) till May 17. Of the total casualties, 111 or 54% the deceased were above 61 years, with the people in the 61-70 years category accounting for highest 66 deaths. As per the data of the district health office, 47 of the patients who succumbed to the infection were from 51-60 years age group, while 44 were aged above 71, including nine deaths from the age group of 81-90 years. Of the total, 48 patients were aged below 50 years. The data also showed that the PMR took just 15 days to cross the death tally of 200 after reaching the 100 mark on May 2, which took 33 days since the first casualty on March 30. Besides, more Covid-19 deaths have been recorded in May so far as against April. When it comes to the areas in PMR, the most number of deaths (182) were recorded in Pune municipal limits followed by the rural parts and various cantonments at 14. The Pimpri Chinchwad municipal areas have recorded 10 deaths, which is the least in the PMR. While the critical Covid-19 patients are being treated at various government-run and private hospitals in PMR, the Sassoon General Hospital has recorded more deaths than any other medical establishment in the region. About 50% of the total casualties so far have been reported at Sassoon hospital. Experts from the health sector said attributed more deaths at Sassoon hospital to delayed medical intervention. They said most of the deceased were referred to the hospital when they were already in a critical condition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/over-half-the-ncov-casualties-in-pune-aged-above-61/articleshow/75815363.cms||Sarang Dastane
May 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Woman gets life term for murder in Telangana||HYDERABAD: A woman who was involved in a murder for gain at Badangapet in 2016 was awarded life imprisonment by a local court on Monday. Rachakonda police, in a press note, said 60-year-old Nagalakshmi was killed by one Ch Yadamma with the help of her husband Balasubramanyam, an auto driver. Balasubramanyam knew Nagalakshmi as he used to pick up and drop her granddaughter everyday. On the pretext of seeking loan of Rs 2,000, the couple met the victim and killed her. They stole gold ornaments and other valuables. Subsequently, Yadamma was caught by Meerpet police. A local court in LB Nagar awarded life imprisonment. Police said efforts were still on to nab the absconding Balasubramanyam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/woman-gets-life-term-for-murder/articleshow/75814654.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Kochi||Contractor dumps bitumen on road||Kochi: Callous attitude of a PWD contractor is causing accidents along the Pukkattupady-Chembaracky stretch of Ernakulam-Perumbavoor major district road. The contractor dumped around 20 truckloads of bitumen on the carriageway of the two-lane road after a dispute with the local residents. It was on May 12 that the contractor dumped bitumen mix on the road at Malayidamthuruth. On Sunday night, a car bumped into the heap of bitumen mix, drifted and fell into drains. Some two-wheeler riders also had met with minor accidents due to the blockade. “I was driving to Thevakkal when the accident occurred. They (the contractor) had dumped bitumen mix all over the road. It was around 7.30pm and a car was coming from the opposite direction. I couldn’t see the heap of bitumen mix. I noticed it after reaching very close to it, and took a sharp turn to the left and ended up in the drain,” said Augustine, the car driver. “Around 50 local residents rushed to the spot and helped me pull out the vehicle from the drain. Fortunately, I didn’t suffer any major injuries. Front portion of the car, including headlight and bumper, got damaged. Now, I have to spend Rs 20,000 for repair works,” he said. According to PWD officials, they had served notice to the contractor for removing the bitumen mix from the road. “Officials led by superintendent engineer had visited the site. We had given notice to the contractor for removing the bitumen mix a few days ago. As the contractor has not removed the bitumen mix, we are taking measures to remove it on our own,” a PWD official said. Police also have send notices to the contractor, Kizhakkambalam grama panchayat and PWD for removing the bitumen mix. “PWD officials said that they have taken measures to remove the bitumen mix. We will take further steps based on the situation,” said Suresh Kumar, circle inspector, Thadiyittaparambu police station. Local residents said the contractor who delayed the work is not doing the works properly. “When we pointed out the shortcomings in the work, the contractor asked the truck drivers to dump the bitumen mix on the road. This has caused many accidents. Fortunately, none of them became grievous,” said Eldho Jacob, a resident. Though TOI tried to contact the contractor over phone, he didn’t respond.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/contractor-dumps-bitumen-on-road/articleshow/75813452.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Delhi||HC imposes fee restrictions on two branches of Apeejay||New Delhi: Delhi high court has barred two branches of Apeejay school from collecting any amount other than tuition fee from students. The court added that the fee can only be charged at the rates prevailing prior to October 31, last year. In his order, justice Rajiv Shakdher also directed the schools, located in Saket and Sheikh Sarai, to immediately pay salaries of the staff and teachers. On the allegation by Directorate of Education (DoE) that the school management forged emails to make it appear as if the directorate approved a fee hike, the court found the directorate has already approached Delhi Police to lodge a criminal case. It made police a party to the court case filed by the school management and asked the cyber cell of Delhi Police to file a report before it on the genuineness of the e-mails. It, however, protected the school management from any coercive action by police, asking it to wait till the next date of hearing. “The high court has once again found merit in our arguments and ordered that no coercive action be taken against the school management. You will recollect that we had, vide our earlier communications, requested DoE to appoint an independent investigator for the false, baseless and malicious accusations being made against us. However, despite numerous requests/pleas, we did not receive any reply. Now the court, at our insistence, has formally impleaded Delhi Police as respondent and given directions to them to investigate the matter and submit a report,” said the statement from the school.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/hc-imposes-fee-restrictions-on-two-branches-of-apeejay/articleshow/75836686.cms||Abhinav Garg
May 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Traders protest, want market open||HYDERABAD: Protesting against the closure of the Malakpet Mahboob Gunj, traders and workers on Monday demanded that the market be reopened immediately. Alleging that the market has been closed for the last 14 days, by GHMC and police authorities, traders raised slogans at the main gate of the area. “We are ready to follow all norms for social distancing and sanitization. The authorities should open the Malakpet Mahboob Gunj immediately” said Mohammed Altaf a trader. A team of Chaderghat police rushed to the spot to bring the situation under control. The Malakpet market was closed after three positive cases of Covid-19 were reported from two traders and a helper. The area was sealed on May 1 and barricades were erected at the entrance of the market. A police picket was also posted. The traders said that even after the completion of mandatory 14-day quarantine period, authorities have not allowed them to open shops. Meanwhile, authorities said that they are taking precautions since cases in the area are surging. “As the Malakpet market falls under the Malakpet zone which has been reporting an increasing number of Covid-19 cases, we are reviewing the situation. We will take a final call on reopening it the market soon,” said a senior GHMC official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/traders-protest-want-market-open/articleshow/75814661.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu man kills three children, ends life||CHENNAI: A 37-year-old man without a job murdered his three children and hanged himself from a tree branch at a village near Sriperumbudur on Monday, police said. Arumugam, already at home, couldn’t land employment during the lockdown, while his wife Gomathi Ammal, a housekeeping employee rendered wageless by the pandemic-induced lockdown, resumed her job on Monday after more than 50 days, a police officer said. Arumugam strangled his elder daughter Rajeswari, 12, and drowned Shalini, 10, and Sethuraman, 8, after tying their hands and feet, the officer said, based on inquiries with the man’s wife and other villagers. Preliminary inquiries revealed that Arumugam had been fighting frequently with Gomathi Ammal over the past week after she chided him for not looking hard enough for a job. Around 5pm, the officer said, Gomathi Ammal, 32, returned to her home in Vadamangalam and found Arumugam and their kids missing. She found her elder daughter Rajeswari lying dead in a pool of blood, a bed-sheet wrapped around her. Her screams brought some of their neighbours to her side. A thorough search later, they found Arumugam hanging from the branch of a tree on a farm 300 metres from his house. A short distance away, near a well, the search party found a shirt that Gomathi identified as belonging to her son Sethuraman. Some villagers jumped in and brought out the boy’s body and that of his sister Shalini. Their limbs were tied up. A police team led by Sriperumbudur inspector J Vinayagam rushed to the place and sent the three bodies to the government hospital in Sriperumbudur for autopsy. Police registered a case of murder against Arumugam and closed the file. Further investigations are on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tn-man-kills-3-children-ends-life/articleshow/75815382.cms||A Selvaraj
May 19, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Four injured after speeding car hits lamp post in Behala||KOLKATA: Four youths were injured on Sunday night when the car they were travelling in rammed a roadside lamp post on James Long Sarani close to Thakurpukur State Bank at a high speed. Police said the accident happened around 11.50pm as they were speeding on the deserted road in Behala. The youths, Avijit Adak (26), Debjit Ghosh (19), Debdas Das (23) and Rohit Kamath (19), were taken to Vidyasagar Hospital. While three of them were discharged from the hospital, the other was shifted to a private hospital after he had complained of dizziness. While locals claimed that the four had been racing with another car, cops said no other car was involved in the accident. But, the youths were charged with definite sections of the Disaster Management Act for violating the lockdown. “They broke several rules. They had no permission to travel so late at night and they had no e-pass to go out in the car. They also did not maintain social distancing inside the car,” said an IPS officer, adding that they had been slapped with the IPC sections 188 (violation of government orders), 279 and 337 (rash driving) and 427 (mischief). “We are conducting mechanical test on the car. We will go through the CCTV footage of the area . The youths were not under influence of alcohol as was claimed by locals,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/four-injured-after-speeding-car-hits-lamp-post-in-behala/articleshow/75814653.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
May 19, 2020||Goa||Lawyer seeks MHA action against govt||Panaji: Mapusa resident and high court lawyer Gautam Pednekar has written a letter of complaint against Goa chief minister and state chief secretary to the Union ministry of home affairs. The complaint states that Class X and XII board exams are being conducted in Goa in violation of the norms of lockdown 4.0. He requested the MHA to get the board exams cancelled. He told the MHA that Goa government is risking lives of children and is therefore liable to be booked under Section 188 of IPC and for other criminal offences under the Disaster Management Act. He calls the decision “condemnable, irrational, selfish and adamant”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/lawyer-seeks-mha-action-against-govt/articleshow/75815372.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Lucknow||Shade, shelter and food for migrants at toll plazas: UP CM Yogi Adityanath||LUCKNOW: As migrant workers continue to walk or pedal their way into the state, CM Yogi Adityanath on Monday directed officials to ensure they are provided shaded shelter, food and drinking water at toll plazas on national highways. The government has also increased deployment of buses at the borders and instructed police and district administration to ensure nobody walks or uses bicycles or other means of unauthorised transport to travel within the state. Additional chief secretary, home, Awanish Awasthi said, “A bottle of water will be given to every person at the state border as a mark of respectful welcome. The CM has insisted on intensive patrolling of all national and state highways, expressways and crossroads, especially during the night, to stop anyone travelling in unauthorised manner and ensure they are taken to quarantine shelters for testing and then sent home by bus.” The CM said pulse oximeters should be used at the district level to ascertain the level of oxygen in a person’s body which will indicate the primary level of coronavirus infection. Oximeters will be made available to ASHA workers, ANMs and field employees as they are part of rural surveillance teams keeping a check on returning migrants. “In last 8-10 days, 590 trains have brought over 7.6 lakh migrants back to the state,” Awasthi said. In view of high number of workers returning to the state, the health department has bolstered its capacity to conduct tests for coronavirus infection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/shade-shelter-and-food-for-migrants-at-toll-plazas-cm/articleshow/75815873.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Pune||Pune: Couple killed, toddler hurt in accident||PUNE: A 50-year-old construction worker and his wife died after a speeding car hit their motorcycle near Indapur at noon on Sunday. Their two-year-old granddaughter, who was on the motorcycle, suffered severe head injuries. The couple — Dayanand Dupargude and his wife Suvarna (45) — and seven other relatives were riding to their hometown in Osmanabad district when the accident occurred. “Around 7am on Sunday, nine members of our family left Pune on four motorcycles,” Vaibhavv Dupargude, Dayanand’s nephew, said. “When we reached Londhe Vasti, around noon, I stopped along the road to drink some water. My uncle stopped his bike next to mine. My aunt was on pillion with their granddaughter Vedika. Suddenly, a car hit their bike and they died on the spot,” he said. Police have detained the car driver for negligent driving.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/couple-killed-toddler-hurt-in-accident/articleshow/75815368.cms||Mihir Tanksale
May 19, 2020||Nagpur||Gaddigodam cases rise to 12, likely to be city’s 3rd hotspot||Nagpur: Gaddigodam in West Nagpur seems to be emerging as third hotspot of Covid-19 as the number of patients from the area increased to 12 after nine more family members and close contacts of 65-year-old deceased tested positive on Monday. Monday was also the day when 64 Covid-19 positive patients were discharged from Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) and Indira Gandhi Government Medical College and Hospital (IGGMCH), the highest for a single day in the city so far.As per new guidelines of discharging pre-symptomatic positive patients on the 10th day without testing, GMCH discharged 61 patients while IGGMCH three. Earlier highest for a single day was 53 on May 15, the day when the new guidelines were implemented.The total number of discharged persons has now increased to 272 while seven patients have died. The district has 94 active cases undergoing treatment in isolation wards of GMCH and IGGMCH.A 65-year-old comorbidity patient from Khalasi Line, Gaddigodam, was admitted at GMCH on May 13 and tested positive on May 15. He was first patient who was on ventilator and died on May 16. The NMC later quarantined 199 persons including 22 family members in two days.Two family members, including one-year-old granddaughter of deceased, tested positive on May 17. Nine persons, including two family members — 35-year-old woman and 43-year-old man — and seven close contacts tested positive on Monday.The NMC plans to quarantine more 250 persons from this locality as it is a slum and congested place like earlier two hotspots —Satranjipura and Mominpura.Gaddigodam is situated on the right side of Kamptee road between Gol Bazaar Chowk and railway underbridge. After Satranjipura and Mominpura, it is only the third area to register more than 10 Covid-19 cases. Khamla had registered six cases.The number of cases in district reduced by one as the policeman from Amravati admitted at IGGMCH is now being counted in Amravati district. The patient’s sample was taken in Amravati before he was shifted here. He tested positive on May 17. His son was found positive in Nagpur and so added to the district tally.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/gaddigodam-cases-rise-to-12-likely-to-be-citys-3rd-hotspot/articleshow/75814659.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
May 19, 2020||Kochi||Student makes short film on empty roads||Kochi: The city roads wore a deserted look throughout days and nights for one and a half months due to the lockdown and a 14-year-old boy has made as short film on these empty roads. The film, ‘Silent Roads’, was made by Sreehari Rajesh, a Class IX student of Bhavan’s Vidya Mandir, Eroor. The three-minute film visualizes empty city roads during the lockdown. Sreehari, who was a volunteer of ‘Nanma-Feed a Stomach’ programme by the police during the lockdown, shot the visuals in his mobile during his travel as part of the service in the city in two days. The video shows almost all major roads in the city and places like railway stations, bus stations, which usually witness heavy traffic. “I have never seen the city roads lying empty ever in my life except at midnights and during hartals. Kochi is one of the busiest cities in the state and its empty roads showed how a small virus has changed the daily lives of everyone irrespective of their social status. I thought the video would be a record of the difficult times we are facing now,” said Sreehari. Sreehari has made two other films earlier. “I have made a short film against drugs named ‘PUKA-The Killing Smoke’. The second one was a documentary ‘The Change-Let’s Make It Happen’. It was about sea level rise due to global warming.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/student-makes-short-film-on-empty-roads/articleshow/75813472.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Goa||CM: Class X, XII exam as scheduled, arrangements in Maha & K’taka||Panaji: Class X and XII exams of the state board will take place as scheduled, chief minister Pramod Sawant said on Monday. For those students who will have to come from Maharashtra and Karnataka, arrangement is being made for them to answer the exam in schools there, Sawant said. The state executive committee had suggested that provision should be made for students from across the border to answer the public exams in their states itself. “Class X exams will be held as scheduled. I spoke to the Goa Board chairman today and he said that for students coming from across the border from Maharashtra, a school has been identified in Maharashtra. They have also identified a school in Karnataka,” Sawant said. In cases, where students from Maharashtra have to come to Goa to answer the exam, the board has made a provision for them to be seated separately, Sawant said. Students from border areas of Maharashtra, like Banda, find it more convenient to attend schools in Goa due to the distance. These students will now be crossing the border everyday to answer the Class X and XII exams. Sawant said that as there has been no community transmission of Covid-19 in Goa until now, there should not be an issue in going ahead with the exam. He said that the state fully supports the decision of the Goa Board to conduct the Class X exams from May 21 and three remaining papers of Class XII from May 20 to 22. “The directorate of education, Goa Board and the government are being assisted by primary health centres to see that 100% precautions are taken. There is huge pressure from parents on the government, the board. Some had gone to court and the court has not given a stay on the exams,” said Sawant. He said that Goa Board has increased the number of examination sub-centres and with the exams set to be held in 2,563 classrooms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cm-class-x-xii-exam-as-scheduled-arrangements-in-maha-ktaka/articleshow/75815366.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Vadodara||Priest beaten up in row over dog poop in Vadodara||VADODARA: The stench from a pet dog’s poop reached Manjalpur police station when one of the two warring neighbours lodged a complaint against the owner. It was an issue between two neighbours, priest Ashwin Ahir, who lives at Panchdevnagar Society and the dog’s owner Anil Bhawand and his wife Neeta. Ahir lodged a complaint of assault and criminal intimidation against Bhawand with Manjalpur police on Sunday. According to the police, Ahir had raised the issue of Bhawand’s dog pooping outside Ahir’s house on May 13. Ahir said that the dog had been littering the surroundings for the past few days, but he chose not to complain. But on May 13, seeing Bhawand tagging along, Ahir told him about the latter’s pet dog’s misbehaviour. This angered Bhawand, who allegedly abused Ahir and manhandled him too. Ahir claimed that Bhawand beat him with a wooden stick on his head and later when the latter’s wife Neeta arrived, she too abused him. In the melee, Ahir’s t-shirt was also torn. When Ahir’s father came out of the house, he too was beaten up and abused by the duo, he alleged. Ahir called the police and submitted an application to register an offence on the same day, but as the father-son duo had to be taken to SSG Hospital, Ahir could not give a detailed statement. “After taking his statement, we have registered the offence and investigating it,” said a police official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/priest-beaten-up-in-row-over-dog-poop/articleshow/75812019.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Mangaluru||PU lecturers urge govt to allow evaluation from home||Mangaluru: Vincent D’Costa, secretary, Dakshina Kannada Pre-University Principals’ Association, has requested the government to allow evaluation of II PU answerscripts from home. He has appealed to education minister Suresh Kumar and Kanagavalli, director of PUE department, to follow the CBSE Board as far as evaluation is concerned. During lockdown, CBSE board examiners have carried out evaluation of answerscripts from their respective homes. “The number of answerscripts for PU is less compared to CBSE exam papers,” D’Costa told TOI. The government is considering to carry out evaluation at the district centres. This could pose a challenge to those who have to travel from taluks. “So we urge the government to consider taluks as the nodal centres for distribution of answerscripts. Lecturers could pick them up from the respective taluk centres. The government needs to fix a deadline for them complete the evaluation. On their part, lecturers should do it with responsibility,” D’Costa said. D’Costa also suggested that a pilot project can be done in Dakshina Kannada. “Political science or sociology answerscripts can be given to teachers from the district. If successful, the process can be extended to the rest of the state for all subjects,” he said. Speaking on the English exam — the only paper left for the students to write — he said the government can avoid conducting it in the present crisis as it involves health risks and inter-district movement of students.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/pu-lecturers-urge-govt-to-allow-evaluation-from-home/articleshow/75814268.cms||Deepthi Sanjiv
May 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Constable suspended for accepting bribe in Hyerabad||HYDERABAD: A constable from Pet Basheerabad, who demanded and accepted a bribe of Rs 300 from a family that he visited for the Covid-19 verification process, was suspended on Monday.  The complainant shared the issue on Twitter and uploaded the screen shot of this online transaction made to the cop. Initially, the cop was attached to Cyberabad commissionerate for inquiry.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/constable-suspended-for-accepting-bribe/articleshow/75814673.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Mysuru||Pre-monsoon rain pounds Old Mysore region, Malnad||Mysuru: Pre-monsoon rainfall lashed Mysuru belt and Malnad regions, disrupting normal life on Monday. Malnad districts of Chikkamagaluru and Shivamogga witnessed downpour on Monday morning. Mysuru district received good rainfall on Sunday night. According to IMD forecast, rain will continue for two more days. This comes amidst indications that the onset of monsoon is expected to be delayed by 4-5 days this year. The quantum of rain received in different places of Mysuru Karohatti (63mm), Hanumanalu (62mm), Beedanahalli (61mm), Tumbala (58mm), and Atttahalli (52mm). Rain lashed across Chikkamagaluru district and major parts of Shivamogga, and in Mysuru city late on Sunday night. After a gap of a 10 days, rain pounded Mysuru, inundating low-lying areas in the city. But unlike last time, when it uprootedtrees and snapped power lines, there was no major damage to public property this time. Delay in South West monsoon According to G Srinivas Reddy, director, Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Centre (KSNDMC), if the South West monsoon is delayed by four days as per the forecast made by the India Meteorological Department (IMD) for neighbouring Kerala, the state may get it only after the first week of June. However, he stated that due to good pre-monsoon rainfall, agricultural activities have picked up across the state. IMD has said that this year, the onset of South West monsoon over Kerala is likely to be slightly delayed against the normal date of onset — June 1. This would be delayed by four days in the neighbouring state. “Generally, South Western monsoon sets in Karnataka three-four days after setting in Kerala,” he said, adding: “We are following the IMD forecast closely. As per its earlier forecast, South Western monsoon should have set in at the Andaman and Nicobar Islands by May 20. But this happened on Sunday. If South Western monsoon winds are strong, we can expect early onset of monsoon in Karnataka.” The previous dates of monsoon setting in Karnataka are June 8 (2019), May 29 (2018), and May 30 (2017).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/pre-monsoon-rain-pounds-old-mysore-region-malnad/articleshow/75814091.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra health minister orders private hospitals to set aside 80 per cent beds for Covid-19 patients||PUNE: Private hospitals in the state, especially in Pune and Mumbai, will have to reserve 80% of their beds for Covid-19 patients who will pay as per the government hospital rates. Health minister Rajesh Tope, who issued the order on Monday, said there is a spike in Covid-19 cases in both cities and a shortage of beds. “ Local authorities will make sure that private hospitals adhere to these directives till there is reduction in cases. This order will be followed for the next three months which are crucial and it will be mandatory for all private hospitals,” the minister told TOI on Monday. Stringent measures in all the containment zones and a lockdown for these areas will continue depending on the availability of beds at Covid-19 hospitals. “If no beds are available, the lockdown in the containment zones will continue, and if beds become available, there will be some relaxations,” he added. Tope, after speaking with Kerala health minister K Shailaja and her team via a video conference on Monday, said the challenges for both the states were different. “Kerala does not have slum clusters like Maharashtra. However, we have to learn from their model of tracing, tracking and quarantine monitoring. Maharashtra has over 30,000 cases and over 1,900 deaths while Kerala was able to restrict it to 600 cases,” he said. In his interaction, the state health minister sought a way to ensure social distancing in congested places like Dharavi, a hotspot, which has so far recorded over 1,200 cases. Kerala had provided the best quarantine system and its effort to motivate frontline workers with celebrities calling them up would be implemented in the state, he added. The southern state was doing 1,500 tests a day while Maharashtra was taking up 15,000 tests because of which there was a huge number of positive cases, Tope added. All health department posts will be filled up immediately and AYUSH directives will be implemented after they are issued, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/health-minister-orders-pvt-hospitals-to-set-aside-80-beds-for-covid-19-patients/articleshow/75815371.cms||Nisha Nambiar
May 19, 2020||Delhi||No walk in park for citizens, yet||New Delhi: While other activities are slowly resuming under the relaxations provided in Lockdown 4.0, morning walks and exercising in the city parks still remain elusive due to confusion about the relaxation provisions announced by the government. For the time being, over 17,000 parks of the capital remain closed. All three municipal corporations have said that there was no clear directive yet on the opening of parks and the green spaces would remain closed for the general public until further notice. Delhi has 8% forest area, which is more or less covered with greenery. There are more than 18,000 parks and gardens in city, spread across 8,000 hectares across the capital. South Delhi Municipal Corporation manages more than 5,000 parks spread across four administrative zones. “Parks will remain closed and open gym equipment will remain out of bound. We will follow the instructions issued by Delhi government,” Radha Krishan, spokesperson of SDMC, said. While globally, experts remain divided over whether opening spaces like parks would lead to crowding or frequent touching of commonly used equipment, some argue that a limit can be put up on the number of visitors allowed inside parks and usage of equipment like open gym and benches can be barred. East Delhi Municipal Corporation spokesperson Arun Kumar claimed that once parks in city are thrown open, it would become difficult to stop people from accessing the open gyms, as these areas are generally not segregated from the main park. “May be parks which have open gyms can remain closed for a longer time,” he suggested. Kumar said that there is no clarity over when parks would reopen. “The notification states that sports complexes have been opened but no spectators are allowed. Some of our parks have walking tracks. Ideally, these should be thrown open but there is confusion over it.,” he claimed. North corporation has 6,000 parks — the largest number — under its jurisdiction. Director of information department, Ira Singhal, said that right now parks are closed as it would be difficult to maintain social distancing in these spaces. “Right now, we are opening them as there are no clear orders from the government in this regard,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/no-walk-in-park-for-citizens-yet/articleshow/75836699.cms||Paras Singh
May 19, 2020||Amaravati||Andhra Pradesh CM okays Rs 20 crore for styrene-hit villages||AMARAVATI: Chief minister Y S Jaganmohan Reddy on Monday said the government will take stringent measures to prevent mishaps such as the recent styrene leak at LG Polymers plant in Vizag. He also released Rs 20 crore compensation for residents of the five villages who were affected by the vapour leak, in which 12 people were killed and several were were hospitalised. While the district administration had handed over the ex gratia cheques to the kin of the deceased, Rs 10,000 will now be paid to each of the 20,000 villagers as compensation. The CM, who interacted with some of the villagers and district officials through video link from his camp office, said no industry would be allowed to play with the lives of people in the state. He said the permission to LG Polymers were granted during the TDP regime, but he refrained from making political comments keeping in view the seriousness of the mishap. “We will take action against the firm depending on the report of the expert committee that is probing the incident. There is no question of sparing anyone. The firm was told to immediately transport styrene gas from the plant to ensure that it will not resume operations anytime soon,” he said. The chief minister assured the villagers that the government would be with them for long and extend all support, and directed district collector V Vinay Chand to accept complaints from locals and resolve them from time to time. Jagan also complimented the district administration for the way it responded to the tragedy and rescued people. He said many people were evacuated within two hours of the leak.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/cm-okays-rs-20cr-for-styrene-hit-villages/articleshow/75813492.cms||Samdani MN
May 19, 2020||Goa||‘Stop trains from other states to Goa’||CALANGUTE: Minister for ports Michael Lobo has urged the state government to immediately stop outstation trains from bringing in people from other states. “The number of Covid-19 cases has shown a very big rise in Goa in the last few days only because the Centre and our government allowed trains to bring in passengers, and also allowed the entry of vehicles through the border. The trains must be stopped immediately and there has to be stricter controls at the border,” Lobo said. He said non-Goans with second homes in the state also must not be allowed. He said a lot of non-Goans who have properties in Goa but normally live in other states are coming to stay in Goa since it’s considered safer here because there is no community transmission of corona virus in the state. “We should not allow this, otherwise we will soon become a red zone,” he said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/stop-trains-from-other-states-to-goa/articleshow/75815387.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Goa||‘We will pay fare for trains to WB, Odisha’||Calangute: Beach shack owners have urged the state government to urgently arrange for trains to West Bengal and Odisha to enable them to send their staff back to their home states. They have even expressed willingness to pay for their fare. Speaking to reporters at Calangute on Monday, Shack Owners Welfare Society (SOWS) president Cruz Cardozo and general secretary John Lobo said that they, along with minister for ports Michael Lobo, had met chief minister Pramod Sawant last week and that he had agreed to arrange for the trains, provided the train fare was paid. “The Shramik special trains are free. Many trains have already taken migrants back to some states. But the governments of West Bengal and Odisha are not ready to pay for the trains to take their people back. So, shack owners and hoteliers who employ people from these states are ready to pay for their return,” the minister said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/we-will-pay-fare-for-trains-to-wb-odisha/articleshow/75815380.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Pune||Pune: Ambulance doctor stays with patients from home till they are in good hands||PUNE: For the past 50 days, Nilkanth Deo, has been performing his duties on the 108 ambulance as doctor where he has stabilised at least three critical Covid-19 patients inside the ambulance. In the initial days, he would take patients from one hospital to another depending on the availability of beds. Now, the system has been streamlined by the Pune Municipal Corporation and the task of running from pillar to post to find a bed for patients has eased. On many occasions, he has taken calls in the dead of the night and sometimes his duty time of 2pm to 10pm has extended well beyond till 2am. “I drove a patient to two government hospitals but there were no beds free so we went to a private hospital and by the time the admission was done, it was 2am. The PMC has now streamlined this system,” he added. He has ferried a group of 7-8 Covid-19 patients and on occasions taken pregnant women to the hospital, Deo, who has been doing the ambulance duty as a doctor for years now, said despite his experience, the initial chaos was hard to handle. “The patients sitting inside the ambulance would be fearful and get hyper, afraid of the test turning positive and the treatment. I have switched from a doctor to a counsellor, telling them all would be well,” he added. In a month, he has taken care of three critical patients, putting them on oxygen support. “Some patients struggle to breath right from their residence. So, till the hospital, they are my responsibility and I give them the best care and support,” he said, adding that he is ready with his PPE kit to ensure personal safety at all times.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/ambulance-doctor-stays-with-patients-from-home-till-they-are-in-good-hands/articleshow/75815383.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
May 19, 2020||Lucknow||5 lakh new MNREGS cards issued amid migrant influx in Uttar Pradesh||LUCKNOW: In an indication that Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MNREGS) is turning into a job spinner amid influx of migrants into the state, rural development department has issued nearly 5 lakh new job cards while engaging over 7 lakh people during lockdown. This means that almost half of the total 16 lakh migrants returning to UP may have got jobs under the scheme. According to the figures compiled by the department, at least 4,63,911 new job cards have been issued since April 21 when the state government decided to start economic activity after the first phase of lockdown. Data show that maximum over 26,000 job cards were issued in Siddharthnagar, an economically poor district of east UP region. It was also districts which received highest number of migrants in the state. Likewise in Azamgarh, the parliamentary constituency of SP chief Akhilesh Yadav, nearly 25,000 new job cards were issued. In Gorakhpur, the home turf of chief minister Yogi Adityanath, at least 17,000 new job cards were issued. Similar was the case with Ghazipur, the parliamentary constituency represented by BSP strongman Afzal Ansari –brother of mafia-turned-politician Mukhtar Ansari – where over 15,000 job cards were issued. In Rohilkhand region, the highest number of over 20,000 job cards were issued in Bareilly. Additional commissioner, MNREGS, Yogesh Kumar said: “The number of new job cards is gradually increasing as scores of migrants are returning to the state. This also indicates the unskilled people are looking up to the scheme for employment.” A senior official in rural development said, “Total number of people engaged in MNREGS is already touching 30-lakh mark. It also includes workers who had job cards but could not work due to the lockdown.” Statistics show that the department started work under MNREGS in a graded manner. MNREGS works were conducted in 13,265 gram panchayats in Covid green zones (20 districts), in 24,482 gram panchayats in orange zones (36 districts) and in 8,658 panchayats in red zone (10 districts).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/5-lakh-new-mnregs-cards-issued-amid-migrant-influx/articleshow/75815888.cms||Pankaj Shah
May 19, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Govt yet to initiate steps for takeover of synagogue||KOCHI: It has been seven months since the government issued orders for the takeover of Kadavumbhagam Synagogue at Mattancherry, the former place of worship of the Malabari Jews. Yet authorities are unable to do anything in this direction. Chances of the centuries-old synagogue falling down is high during the monsoon as the structure is already in a dilapidated condition. It was in October 2019 that the government allotted Rs 1.5 crore for taking over the structure from the woman who owns the building and property now. After the Malabari Jews left for Israel in the 1950s, private buyers bought it and since then it had changed several hands. Its current owner, K A Regina, will be given a compensation of around Rs 1.5 crore. On September 10, 2019, the façade of the structure had fell off during heavy rains. Though the state government allotted Rs 90.5 lakh for providing compensation to the current owner of the building in 2018, the move was aborted due to the financial liabilities on the synagogue. A few years ago, Rejina had mortgaged 3.51 are of land where the synagogue is located. There are allegations that a portion of the building had been pulled down by vested interests in 2015. Following the incident, district administration deployed policemen for the security of the synagogue. But the security was withdrawn in 2016. According to those demanding that the government should protect the monument, the structure will collapse at any time. “The structure is very weak and may collapse at any time. It won’t last till the government completes the procedures for takeover. Moreover, the lockdown may cause further delay. So, the government should take measures to reinforce the structure immediately,” said C Karmachandran, a researcher in Jewish history.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/govt-yet-to-initiate-steps-for-takeover-of-synagogue/articleshow/75813510.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Goa||Quarantine facilities filled to brim even as influx continues in Goa||PANAJI: The state government is grappling with the huge influx of people into the state even as all its quarantine facilities were filled to capacity on Monday. Although some hotels have also been requisitioned by the state, their managements have informed the government that their staff has gone home. The problem is even starker at Goa Tourism Development Corporation (GTDC) residencies. A top official told TOI that after the residencies were requisitioned as quarantine centres, most contractors “either refused or disappeared”. Now, the government has engaged workers and caterers for cleaning and food services at the residencies. The past two days have seen over 600 travellers enter Goa, most by train. “We had a tough time arranging hotel rooms for domestic travellers who came by train,” an official said. On Saturday, some passengers who arrived by rail were made to stay at Fatorda stadium till their test results were known. The official said that the situation, already dire, is set to get worse. In the next few days, Goa is slated to receive over 400 seafarers. “We are repeatedly asked why sailors in facility quarantine are being charged for accommodation while others are not,” an official said. The official said that the “uneven” policy pertaining to persons placed in quarantine has created a feeling of ill-will among seafarers. Currently, their employer companies pay the state government for facility quarantine and the Covid test. He added that another issue for the government to handle is the non-payment of dues by some who opted for paid quarantine. The government currently places high-risk contacts — passengers who travelled in the same coach as persons who tested positive — in facility quarantine. Seafarers are required to be placed in facility quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/quarantine-facilities-filled-to-brim-even-as-influx-continues/articleshow/75815892.cms||Bindiya Chari
May 19, 2020||Goa||No additional relaxations in Lockdown 4.0, says Goa CM Pramod Sawant||PANAJI: CM Pramod Sawant said on Monday that there would be no additional relaxation in Lockdown 4.0. However, he said that inter-state public transport, which has been allowed by the Centre, will not be started by the Goa government. “There is no major change in guidelines issued by the Union ministry of home affairs (MHA),” Sawant told reporters, adding that the same situation (as it stands) will continue in the state, and that economic activities will continue. He said that his government’s decision to continue the ban on inter-state public transport was taken with the consent of both Maharashtra and Karnataka. “We are not starting inter-state movement,” he said. On Monday evening, Sawant met BJP MLAs and briefed them about the Covid-19 situation in the state. He told the MLAs that all cases so far are imported, and that there’s nothing to worry about. On bringing back Goans, Sawant said that trains have begun to bring Goans stranded in other parts of the country. He added that except a few who wish to go to neighbouring areas, all the other passengers are Goans. He also said that the train from Nizamuddin to Kerala will stop at Margao. The CM said that the Rs 2,000 charged for the Covid test isn’t just for the test, but also for quarantine and food. Meanwhile, speaking on the migrant issue, Sawant said that trains have been arranged to drop migrants to Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Jharkhand and Chhattisgarh. Around 1.5 lakh migrants have registered with the nodal officer to return to their states. “We are still waiting as Bihar and West Bengal have not yet booked trains to take back their migrant labour,” he said. Sawant also reacted sharply to job cuts, saying that the government would seek details and action would be taken against errant industries. “Nobody should retrench workers,” he said. Also, on the SSC exam, Sawant said that it will be held as scheduled, and that Goa board has made arrangements for students from Maharashtra and Karnataka to answer the exam in those states. He also said that all precautions will be taken during the exams.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/no-additional-relaxations-in-lockdown-4-0-says-sawant/articleshow/75815896.cms||Murari Shetye
May 19, 2020||Lucknow||‘37% road crash casualties during lockdown were migrant workers’||LUCKNOW: Home-bound migrant workers lost their life in 37% of the total road traffic accidents (RTA) that took place during the period of lockdown—from March 24 to May 18. This assessment, undertaken by Road Safety Network, a national coalition of organisations promoting safe roads, also showed that 7% of the accident victims were corona warriors deputed on Covid duties. The researchers noted that a total of 1,236 crashes took place during the lockdown. The incidents led to 423 deaths and 833 injures. Of these, 158 deceased and 607 injured were migrants workers. Accidents also took lives of 29 essential workers and left 26 injured. The remaining 236 deaths and 200 injured were placed in the ‘others’ category. State-wise, 56.7% (or 138) of these crash deaths took place in Uttar Pradesh. The number included 51 migrant workers and 10 essential workers. Madhya Pradesh followed next with 44 deaths. Telangana, Punjab and Maharashtra secured the third, fourth and fifth positions with 35, 23 and 21 crash deaths respectively. Speaking on behalf of the network, founder of SaveLife Foundation Piyush Tewari said: “The information for the analysis was gathered from secondary sources, particularly media reports. It was verified with district police, ambulance service providers and traffic department.” Referring to the incidents in Auraiyya, Unnao and Kushinagar, Tewari said: “State governments can increase highway patrolling while agencies like NHAI and other agencies’ inspecting vehicles should keep an eye on speeding, especially by commercial vehicles, to avoid accidents.” The network also recommends police check barriers on highways to reduce speeding. Barriers can be placed after every 20km or near roads with risky terrain.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/37-road-crash-casualties-during-lockdown-were-migrant-workers/articleshow/75815901.cms||Shailvee Sharda
May 19, 2020||Nagpur||16-year-old beats dad to death; man kills son||YAVATMAL: Two murders were reported from the district on Monday. In the first incident, a 16-year-old boy beat his father to death in Hivra Sangam village of Mahagaon tehsil. According to police the boy worked as a truck cleaner, but lost his job due to lockdown. While at home, his father used to scold him for constantly remaining glued to mobile. On Monday, an altercation took place between the two after which the father broke the mobile. Enraged over this, the boy hit his father with a rod resulting in his death. Local police patil Pravin Kadam lodged a complaint with Mahagaon police who took the juvenile into custody. In the second incident, one Pintu Chavan of Ganeshpur Beda village picked up a quarrel with his wife under the influence of alcohol. The altercation ended in Pintu strangulating his one-and-a-half-year-old son Savan to death. Pandharkawda police have registered a case under Section 302 of IPC against Pintu and arrested him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/16-yr-old-beats-dad-to-death-man-kills-son/articleshow/75815407.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Goa||Goa: Paediatric ward has a four-month-old, bros aged 3, 6, 11||PANAJI: A four-month-old child, Goa’s youngest coronavirus patient, was admitted to the Covid hospital in Margao over the weekend. The baby, whose mother tested negative, is one of five children currently in the hospital’s paediatric ward. Three siblings — boys aged 3, 6, and 11 — who, along with their mother tested positive for the novel coronavirus, are also being treated at the ward. Last week, a one-year-old who tested positive became the first child to be admitted at the Covid hospital. She travelled to the state by road from Maharashtra. The children admitted to the paediatric ward all have their mothers with them. In the cases where the child is positive but the mother is not, they have been asked to wear special gowns while breastfeeding and spending time with their children. Patients admitted in the paediatric ward are under the care of paediatric doctors and nurses. In addition, the hospital also has a special paediatric ICU. “Everything is ready, we are prepared to treat patients,” said deputy director of health services Dr Ira Almeida. Most of the patients at the Covid hospital are asymptomatic. Interestingly, none of the 31 who are admitted there are senior citizens, although there are patients in their late-50s. While the first seven patients treated at the hospital (and cured) were mostly seafarers who didn’t have any complications, some of those currently admitted have diabetes, hypertension, and other co-morbidities. All of them, however, are stable, doctors said. The South Goa district hospital has a lab at which throat swab samples are tested. If the result is positive, another swab — this time a nasopharyngeal swab — is taken and sent for confirmation to Goa Medical College (GMC) and hospital. Only after this confirmatory test is positive is a patient said to be Covid-19 positive and is shifted to the Covid hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/paediatric-ward-has-a-4-mth-old-bros-aged-3-6-11/articleshow/75815906.cms||Lisa Monteiro
May 19, 2020||Indore||Indore still not ‘self-sufficient’ to test its own samples||Indore: Even though Indore constitutes around 50% of state’s Covid-19 cases, it has to take help of other laboratories in and outside MP for testing of around 60% samples while other hotspots like Ujjain and Bhopal are now testing all samples in city labs. MGM virology laboratory has been receiving 1700 to 2200 samples daily for last one week including 70% samples from city. Of those samples received by medical college, only 850 samples were tested in a day including 150 in a private laboratory in city. Dean Dr Jyoti Bindal said that they had been maintaining zero pendency with the help of labs in and outside the state. She confirmed that the virology laboratory had been testing around 700 samples a day. Bindal added, “The installation of two bio-safety cabinet machines is going on. This will smoothen testing in lab and also help in increasing the capacity to 1000 daily.” Medical college also has the burden of testing samples of other districts. But, because of less capacity in its lab as compared to demand along with less number of laboratories in the city, is posing problem to test all samples. According to a list of ICMR about functioning labs in country, MP has only 18 labs including 12 in government facilities. Of those, one-third is in state capital Bhopal including four in public facilities. Indore has four labs including three private ones. But, two of them have got permission only couple of days back and are testing very less samples. Sampurna Sodani lab is waiting for permission from state government to begin testing samples received by medical college. “At present, the lab is testing around 10 samples only. But, it has testing capacity of 50 per day,” said Dr Sadhna Sodani, owner of lab. The other one at SAIMS began functioning two days back and is testing around 40 samples a day. The capacity will go up to 80 samples but as SAIMS is red-cum-yellow hospital, it already has its share of load. So, it can’t test samples from medical college for now, said Dr Rajeev Singh, official spokesperson of institute.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/indore-still-not-self-sufficient-to-test-its-own-samples/articleshow/75814702.cms||Antriksh Singh
May 19, 2020||Goa||1,520 passengers set off for MP||Margao: The Shramik Express train carrying 1,520 stranded passengers from Goa to the districts of Jabalpur and Reva in Madhya Pradesh departed from Margao railway station on Monday evening. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/1520-passengers-set-off-for-mp/articleshow/75815393.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Amaravati||455 liquor outlets to be shut down in Andhra Pradesh, including 50 in Vizag district||VISAKHAPATNAM: Following the chief minister’s directive earlier this month to reduce liquor stores by another 13% in the state, a majority of the district excise wings have submitted their proposals with regard to it. When the directive comes into play the number of liquor stores in the district that dipped from 4,380 to 3,500 last year will fall further. But sources in the departments say that most districts have proposed that the number of stores be slashed by 20%, seven per cent more. If the proposal were to be accepted 700 shops will closed in place of 455. “The directive was for 13%, but most proposals seek 20%. A decision on bars will also be taken soon,” said a senior government official in Amaravati. The excise department earned around Rs 14,300 crore by the end of December 2019. Visakhapatnam district alone generates a revenue of Rs 150 crore every month. This year there will be a steep drop in revenue owing to the lockdown and the phased prohibition.  “We have already submitted the report to the government. Between 40 to 50 shops, including about 22 shops in the city, would be closed in the district. Once the instruction comes from the higher-ups, the process will begin,” deputy commissioner of Visakhapatnam district Srinivasa Rao told TOI. Speaking on the dipping revenue, he said the government has decided to phase out liquor in the state And it is committed toward it. “There is no debate on it,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/455-liquor-outlets-to-be-shut-down-in-state-including-50-in-vizag-dist/articleshow/75819837.cms||Siva G
May 19, 2020||Visakhapatnam||455 liquor outlets to be shut down in Andhra Pradesh, including 50 in Vizag district||VISAKHAPATNAM: Following the chief minister’s directive earlier this month to reduce liquor stores by another 13% in the state, a majority of the district excise wings have submitted their proposals with regard to it. When the directive comes into play the number of liquor stores in the district that dipped from 4,380 to 3,500 last year will fall further. But sources in the departments say that most districts have proposed that the number of stores be slashed by 20%, seven per cent more. If the proposal were to be accepted 700 shops will closed in place of 455. “The directive was for 13%, but most proposals seek 20%. A decision on bars will also be taken soon,” said a senior government official in Amaravati. The excise department earned around Rs 14,300 crore by the end of December 2019. Visakhapatnam district alone generates a revenue of Rs 150 crore every month. This year there will be a steep drop in revenue owing to the lockdown and the phased prohibition.  “We have already submitted the report to the government. Between 40 to 50 shops, including about 22 shops in the city, would be closed in the district. Once the instruction comes from the higher-ups, the process will begin,” deputy commissioner of Visakhapatnam district Srinivasa Rao told TOI. Speaking on the dipping revenue, he said the government has decided to phase out liquor in the state And it is committed toward it. “There is no debate on it,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/455-liquor-outlets-to-be-shut-down-in-state-including-50-in-vizag-dist/articleshow/75813518.cms||Siva G
May 19, 2020||Kochi||Acute stroke admissions drop by 61%||Kochi: Acute stroke admissions in hospitals have come down during the lockdown period. There is overall reduction of about 61% in the reporting of weekly stroke cases across India and in Kerala too, as per a study conducted from 13 established stroke centres in India. Even intravenous thrombolysis that is the only approved treatment for patients with acute ischemic stroke and endovascular procedures is also severely affected, with an overall reduction of 65% and 67% respectively. Around 70% of stroke cases in India are reported to be ischemic. The results from the study was published in the Annals of The New York Academy of Sciences. The pattern is similar to what doctors have noted in Italy and USA during the Covid-19 pandemic. Neurologists are also concerned whether this is because of the extreme measures adopted to contain the spread of Sars-CoV-2 or the stroke incidence has really reduced. “We are planning to do a multicentre study in India to find out the hospitalization rate, patterns and outcome of acute stroke patients during this pandemic,” said Dr P N Sylaja, in-charge, comprehensive stroke care program, Sree Chitra Tirunal Institute for Medical Sciences and Technology (SCTIMST) and the main author of the study. The study shows that even stroke rehabilitation services, especially for outpatient care, were markedly affected in more than 53% of the hospitals because of a lower number of personnel, fear among the staff and patients and poor access. Also, patients are unable to get medicines and go to the lab to test if risk factors like diabetes and cholesterol values are under control. Some of the patients who take anticoagulant drugs like warfarin, which require regular monitoring to adjust the dose of the drugs, have even stopped these medicines, thereby increasing the risk of stroke recurrence. “It is a more devastating disease and timely treatment is important. Mortality due to Covid-19 is 2% to 3% but mortality due to stroke is almost 20% to 40% and morbidity is also high. Almost 30% to 50% stroke patients will have moderate to severe disability after a stroke,” added Dr Sylaja. But during a pandemic, management of stroke care has become even more challenging and there is an urgent need to improve stroke awareness and implement proper strategies of triage, acute treatment and introduce well-defined rehabilitation plans along with teleservices and virtual check-ins. Added to this is the concern that patients with severe Covid-19 who have co-morbidities like diabetes and hypertension are at increased risk of developing a stroke. The disease also leads to hypercoagulable state which increases the risk of having a stroke. “In all stroke cases, the need for timely care in hospitals supersedes the risk of possible exposure to Covid-19. The functional outcome in three months was found to be better in patients who arrived at the stroke unit within three hours of symptom onset than those who received treatment late,” said Dr P Subramaniam, neurosurgeon, Renai Medicity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/acute-stroke-admissions-drop-by-61/articleshow/75813526.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Indore||Loan package fails to impress MSMEs||Indore: The announcement for collateral free loans and other boosters have failed to impress Micro, Small & Medium Enterprises (MSME) sector demanding interest free loans and direct assistance in clearing two months dues of workforce. Finance minister announcement of Rs 3 lakh crore collateral free loans for MSME claiming to benefit 45 lakh small businesses across the country have left the sector asking for more direct benefits to provide immediate help to cope with the slump in economy. Mahesh Gupta, president, Laghu Udyog Bharti, Madhya Pradesh said, “A relief package was much awaited for the sector but we were anticipating direct benefits to lease liquidity crunch and liquidate working capital. Collateral free loans will help in the longer run but immediate burden will continue to pile up.” The collateral free loan to MSME announced by the government will have a four-year tenure and 12-month moratorium in repayment. Industry players also sought clarity on the implementation of the announcements. Rajesh Kumar Mishra, general secretary, Laghu Udyog Bharti, Indore said, “Industry was anticipating interest waiver on loans and waiver of fixed electricity charges. These measures would have given direct support to the industry.” TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/loan-package-fails-to-impress-msmes/articleshow/75814711.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Kolkata||Cops take watchtower route to monitor wholesale market crowd in Kolkata||KOLKATA: Police have drawn up a new strategy to keep an eye on central and central-north Kolkata markets and prevent overcrowding, to minimize the spread of the novel coronavirus. Watchtowers have been built at Nutan Bazar and Mechhua, from where cops can have a bird’s-eye view of the markets and ensure too many people don’t gather anywhere at any point of time. More such watchtowers will be set up in Posta, Burrabazar, milk market near Ganesh Talkies and Koley Market, where trucks bring in goods from various parts of the state and outside. Not only drivers and helpers of those vehicles but also local labourers and buyers from different parts of the city converge on these wholesale bazaars and interact with each other, increasing the risk of transmission. The government has been attempting to temporarily relocate the wholesale markets outside the city limits as a precautionary measure, but the shift has been delayed owing to various infrastructure problems. But till the relocation is finalized, the police do not want to leave anything to chance and so, drawing up plans to monitor and impose strict rules to prevent crowding. “Most of these are wholesale markets and it’s important that they function for unhindered supply of essential commodities. We cannot shut them. But keeping the markets open is also making it difficult to contain the spread of the virus as drivers and helpers from different states mingle with local labourers, traders and buyers here. This poses a threat of the virus spreading to other parts of the city,” said a senior police officer. Till the infrastructure issues are resolved and the Mechhua market is shifted to Kona Expressway, police have built a watchtower right in the middle of the wholesale fruit bazaar. A separate entrance has also been created for the use of drivers and helpers so that they do not mix with the local population. “Most fruits come from other states and the market is very crowded. We have barred the entry of trucks and small vehicles are being used to ferry fruits. A watchtower has been built in the middle of the market to track crowds. If they spot people gathering anywhere, cops atop the watchtower can alert other officers who can disperse the crowd,” said an officer from the Jorasanko police station. Conceding that it was difficult to implement social distancing norms in those wholesale markets, an officer from the Posta police station said, “We have to come up with newer strategies to make sure these markets don’t become instrumental in spreading the virus.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cops-take-watchtower-route-to-monitor-wholesale-market-crowd/articleshow/75814699.cms||Zeeshan Javed
May 19, 2020||Indore||72, including 3 octogenarians and a 3-yr-old, discharged from hosp||Indore: Every third person is of high-risk age group (above 50 years of age) among 55 patients discharged from Sri Aurbindo Institute of Medical Sciences (SAIMS) on Monday including 88-year-old female among three octogenarians. There were 23 people of high-risk age group along with a three-year-old boy discharged from hospital. Three-four teenagers were also discharged, who were excited to go back home. Seventeen more were discharged from two hospitals including 15 from Index Hospital later in the evening. All the cured walked back to their homes with smiling face thanking health workers with folded hands. The 88-year-old female thanked health workers and doctors for their hard work in treating them during a short interaction with media after discharge. Dr Ravi Dosi, HoD respiratory department of SAIMS said, “The elderly people were admitted to ICU with severe infection in their lungs. They were low in oxygen content initially.” However, within two-three days of the treatment their body began to show improvement and later they were shifted to general ward, said Dosi. The three octogenarians were having co-morbidities like hypertension and diabetes but they were controlled ones. So, there situation improved, said Dosi. They were administered drugs in accordance to protocol like low molecular heparin for blood thinning, HCQs and other drugs based on symptoms, said Dosi. All those persons discharged were of contact history and got infection from any of the family members. The three-year-old boy remained asymptomatic throughout the treatment, said Dosi. A good thing about this batch, despite more number of high-risk age group is that they were discharged in two weeks, only couple of them remained for longer, added Dosi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/72-including-3-octogenarians-and-a-3-yr-old-discharged-from-hosp/articleshow/75814718.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Goa||No FY, SY exams, TY’s from July 1: Goa University||PANAJI: Goa University on Monday issued a circular stating that it has decided not to hold semester end examinations for first and second year students of undergraduate general stream programmes like BA, BSc and BCom, among others. It has directed affiliated colleges to instead allot grades as per performance in the intra-semester assessment (ISA) of the current semester. Exams for final year students should be conducted from July 1, the university said. GU had earlier said that, due to the lockdown, affiliated colleges will conduct TY exams for general stream undergraduate programmes, instead of the university. On May 5, it had issued a circular stating that colleges can conduct the exams from June 22 to July 15. But these norms have now been modified as per the new circular issued on Monday. The varsity has reiterated that even in the new method of grading students, no student will be detained and that they will be given opportunities later to improve their scores. “In accordance with the special ordinance OS-1 and in partial modification to circular dated May 5, the University has decided not to hold semester end examinations (SEE) for the first and second year students of UG programmes of BA, BSc (including home science), BCom, BBA, BCA, BSW offered at the university and its affiliated colleges for the current year 2019-20,” the circular issued by university registrar Y V Reddy stated. Similarly, SEE will also not be conducted for first, second and third year regular students of BSc BEd and BA BEd programmes, Reddy has said. “All the above students shall be graded based on the marks scored by them in the intra semester assessment and practical examination during the current semester. In those cases where practical examination of the course could not be conducted, the same will be held whenever the circumstances permit. The results of such students will be declared on completion of the practical examination,” the circular read. No student shall be detained from moving to the next semester. However, students who fail after applying the grading system will have to pass the examination for the course in which they have failed, whenever the examination is held next, the university said. “Such students shall also have an opportunity to improve their grades by appearing for the current semester course in the succeeding semester or through supplementary examinations. The performance of students appearing for improvement of grades shall not be considered as an additional attempt,” the registrar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/gu-no-fy-sy-exams-tys-from-july-1/articleshow/75815919.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Madurai||Farmers begin preparatory works to cultivate kuruvai in delta dists||Trichy: Farmers have begun preparatory works on kuruvai crops in the delta districts as the chief minister announced water would be released from Mettur reservoir for irrigation on June 12, the customary date. This has brought renewed hopes among farmers to cultivate samba/thalali and navari crops also.The water level in Mettur reservoir was at 100ft on Monday, against its full capacity of 120ft. The dam was closed for irrigation purposes on January 28. Officials from the agriculture department said they aimed to raise kuruvai crops on around 3.30 lakh acres in delta districts.The agriculture department said that it has adequate stock of certified paddy seed, fertilizers, biofertilizer and micronutrients. In Nagapattinam, according to S Panneerselvam, joint director of agriculture, since most of the area in the district is prone to floods, they have recommended TKM 9 apart from Co 51, ADT 45 and AS16 varieties. “We have targeted 90,000 acres for kuruvai season this year. However, we hope of achieving 1.30 lakh acres,” he said.In Thanjavur, A Justin, joint director of agriculture department, said that out of 1.07lakh targeted kuruvai area, farmers from Papanasam, Thiruppananthal and Thiruvidaimaruthur have already raised transplanted paddy nurseries covering 40,000 acres. In Trichy, kuruvai cultivation is usually taken up on 11,250 acres. However, due to scarcity of water, the area has come own 9,000 acres. “Water released on time and favourable rainfall would encourage farmers to cover more areas in Trichy,” officials said.While expressing happiness over the announcement of the release of water on time, All Farmers Associations’ Coordination Committee president P R Pandian appealed the state government to announce kuruvai package.“Due to the outbreak of Covid-19, farmers have no money to take up cultivation. If the government would announce special kuruvai package it would be helpful for them to commence preparatory works to raise kuruvai,” he said.Tamil Nadu Vivasayigal Sangam state secretary PS Masilamani urged the state government to complete the kudimaramathu works before June 12.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/farmers-begin-preparatory-works-to-cultivate-kuruvai-in-delta-dists/articleshow/75815400.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
May 19, 2020||Kochi||FAO publishesCIFT report onfishing gear loss||Kochi: The Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations has published a report by Central Institute of Fisheries Technology (CIFT) on ‘food and gear loss from selected gillnet and trammel net fisheries of India’. This publication assumes significance as it is the first work from India on assessment of abandoned, lost or otherwise discarded fishing gear (ALDFG) which is a major problem leading to ‘ghost fishing’. It is estimated that around 6.40,000 tonnes of all fishing gear is lost or discarded in our oceans annually, in bad weather or when nets get stuck to the rocky bottom. A research team led by Saly N Thomas, principal scientist, ICAR-CIFT, undertook the study. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/fao-publishescift-report-onfishing-gear-loss/articleshow/75813560.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Goa||Unrest among labourers reaches Panaji, protests outside collectorate||PANAJI: The restlessness among migrant workers, who are desperate to head home, reached the state capital on Monday with more than 300 workers from several states gathering outside the North Goa collectorate. The agitated workers created an uproar and demanded that the state authorities arrange transport for them to head home or allow them to make their own travel arrangements. Goa Police officials and North Goa collectorate officers had a tough time keeping the migrant workers in check and only managed to pacify them after assurances of organising Shramik Special trains for them in the coming days. The upset migrants protested outside the complex for more than an hour and at one point even threatened to block the roads till the state government facilitated their return. Seeing the agitated workers, Goa police brought in additional reinforcements. Deputy superintendent of police, Uttam Raut Dessai stepped in to soothe frayed tempers. Cajoling and sometimes sternly reprimanding the migrant workers, Dessai convinced the workers to sit and stop protesting. “All of you will be taken home that is our guarantee. But first your state has to agree. Those of you who wish to go by bus, submit the information in a separate list and the collector will give you permission. Don’t create any unrest, agitate or block roads. It will not solve any problem,” Dessai told the workers. Finding a listening ear, the workers, most of them from Odisha and Bihar, began showing their documents and throwing their queries at the cops. There were a few workers from West Bengal, Assam and other states, too. By then deputy collector Vivek H P arrived on the scene and explained to the workers that there are several Shramik Special trains in the pipeline and that travel permissions from the destination states are required. “Trains for Uttar Pradesh and Bihar have not yet started. There are 10,000 of you from Bihar, but not all 10,000 can leave on the first train. Those who registered first and who got tickets, will be allowed to leave. The remaining can leave as the trains come,” Vivek said. It took a lot of convincing from the deputy collector and Dessai to reassure the workers. One of the migrants, a resident of Odisha, said that there are thousands of migrant workers scattered all over Taleigao. “Let us go because whatever money we had we finished here. Now we can’t survive,” he said. Authorities informed him that even if the state government allowed the workers to leave, until the other states allowed them to travel through their jurisdiction and enter Odhisa, travelling by foot or road is futile. Tense moments were witnessed at the Sports complex in Peddem-Mapusa on Sunday when nearly 1,000 migrant workers threatened to walk home if the government failed to provide them trains to reach their native places at the earliest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/unrest-among-labourers-reaches-panaji-protests-outside-collectorate/articleshow/75815398.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Goa||Goa’s Covid-19 tally hits 31 as 9 new cases detected in a day||PANAJI: Goa’s rapidly-rising Covid-19 tally touched 31 on Monday, as the state detected nine more cases, all of whom had travel history. While four each entered Goa by train from Maharashtra and Delhi, one came by road. All 31 positive cases are currently being treated at the Covid hospital in Margao. The tally is set to rise further, with several confirmatory tests pending. Late on Monday night, health minister Vishwajit Rane said that four passengers who arrived on the train from Nizamuddin tested positive on TrueNat, and that their confirmatory tests are awaited. Monday saw the state send a further 503 samples for testing, and it received 888 test results, 879 of which were negative. Nine Covid-19 suspects are being treated at isolation wards of various government hospitals. Chief minister Pramod Sawant said on Monday that of the 700 passengers who arrived in Goa by rail over the past couple of days, 150-odd have been placed in facility quarantine. As most of the recent cases arrived in Goa by rail, Sawant said, “The first and second contacts have been established and they have also been quarantined”. Sawant brushed aside criticism that train services to Goa were started to bring in outsiders to the “Green Zone”. He said all active cases are “imported”, and added that it’s the responsibility of the government to bring in Goans stuck outside the state, whether seafarers or others. “Except for four patients, all the others (positive cases) are Goans who have valid documents, Aadhaar/voting cards and residential addresses in Goa,” he said. “Trains were not started to bring in people from other states.” Currently, rail passengers arriving in Goa are tested for Covid-19 via the TrueNet test. If they test negative, they’re allowed to go home. However, if they test positive, a confirmatory test is required from Goa Medical College’s (GMC) virology lab. Sawant said that rail passengers often have to wait a while, since confirmatory tests take around six hours to produce a result. A similar strategy is followed for road entrants too. All those who enter through checkposts (apart from goods carrier drivers and accompanying men) are tested and quarantined. With the sharp spike in cases due to people with travel history, locals have been demanding that the Goa government again seal its borders completely, and that trains should not be allowed to stop in Goa.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goas-covid-tally-hits-31-as-9-new-cases-detected-in-a-day/articleshow/75815881.cms||Bindiya Chari
May 19, 2020||Kolkata||Child-abuse plaints pour in during shutdown, helpline gets over 100 calls in Kolkata||KOLKATA: The lockdown has been a tough time for children who have been subjected to physical and mental abuse at home. Childline (1098), the government helpline number, has received over 100 calls from children and teenagers in the city seeking help during this lockdown period. As per data shared by the agency, there have been two instances of sexual abuse, eight cases of physical abuse, five cases of attempted child marriage and eight instances of emotional abuse reported between the period of March 23 and May 15 in Kolkata. Apart from this, there have been 70-odd calls from teenagers and their parents seeking food and medical attention. TimesViewThese numbers tell us how much more difficult it has been children to cope with the lockdown. Help from abuse becomes that much moredifficult to get, and online education triggers its own set of problems. Parents, guardians and educators must keep these factors in mind even as they cope with their own problems.“At the start of the lockdown, we had estimated there will be a sharp decline in calls as kids would mostly stay at home, safe with their parents. But contrary to our estimates, there has been a steady flow of calls. More than two or three cases of child harassment are being reported almost every day, which is very scary,” said an official of Childline’s unit in Kolkata. According to sources, the two instances of sexual abuse on two 13-year-old girls were reported from Garfa and Pachasayar areas. “In the first case, a father was accused of sexually assaulting his daughter and in the second, a neighbour was arrested for preying on a Class-VII student living next door,” said an official. The official explained that a mistreatment is categorized as physical abuse if the abuser inflicts marks or injuries on a child during the abuse. If there are no injury marks but the child remains in a trauma, it is considered as emotional abuse. “Most instances of physical abuses took place at homes of the child where parents, relatives or even neighbours have injured children. We get alerted mostly by family members or neighbours,” said an official. The officials said, they are equally worried about the rise in complaints of child marriages in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/child-abuse-plaints-pour-in-during-shutdown-helpline-gets-over-100-calls/articleshow/75814714.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
May 19, 2020||Meerut||Celebrate Eid indoors this time, says Darul Uloom in a fatwa||Meerut: The country’s most influential Islamic seminary, Darul Uloom in Deoband, has asked people of the Muslim community to celebrate Eid at homes due to the coronavirus pandemic. It also asked them to offer Alwida namaz (the last Friday prayer of the month of Ramzan) at homes. “If the lockdown remains in place and gathering at religious places is prohibited, not only Alwida namaz but Eid namaz will be offered within homes,” the fatwa read. A bench of clerics in the fatwa department responded to a query raised by vice-chancellor of Darul Uloom, Maulana Abul Qasim Nomani. The bench also said, “If any devotee due to unavoidable circumstances is not able to offer prayers, his act will be forgiven.” “At present the entire world is fighting a pandemic. And the only way to avoid infection is maintaining safe distance and staying within the safety of home. We are very much with the government’s endeavours,” said Ashraf Usmani, spokesperson of Darul Uloom. The Islamic varsity’s fatwa came against the backdrop of several instances where people gathered to offer prayers during lockdown in west Uttar Pradesh, prompting police to book them. The seminary had made a similar announcement during Barawafat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/celebrate-eid-indoors-this-time-says-darul-uloom-in-a-fatwa/articleshow/75813555.cms||Sandeep Rai
May 19, 2020||India||IAF presses ‘reset’ button on modernisation plans to push ‘Make in India’||NEW DELHI: With the government renewing its thrust on ‘Make in India’ amidst the ongoing fund crunch, the IAF is furiously re-prioritising its modernisation plans. Much more technology-intensive and imports-dependent than the Army & Navy, Air Chief Marshal Rakesh Kumar Singh Bhadauria tells Rajat Pandit that IAF’s major focus is on ‘desi’ fighters and platforms like Tejas rather than `videshi’ ones for now. Excerpts: Q: The government has capped expenditure due to the Covid-19 pandemic, while the defence budget is also likely to be slashed. How is IAF tackling the situation? A: The capping of government expenditure will affect us. But we are looking at ways to mitigate the impact by prioritising our critical requirements. We are putting measures in place to curtail our revenue budget by about 20-25%. On capital expenditure, we are looking at reorganising our plans based on actual budget availability. Q: What is the delay in placing the Rs 37,000 crore order for 83 Tejas Mark-1A fighters with HAL? In the long run, how many Tejas Mark-1 and Mark-2 fighters, as also the proposed indigenous 5th-generation AMCA (advanced medium-combat aircraft), does IAF plan to induct? A: We had earlier signed the deals for 40 Tejas Mk-1 jets. The contract for 83 Tejas Mark-1A, which is being scrutiniszed by the defence ministry, is likely to cleared in the near future. IAF is looking at inducting 83 Tejas Mk-IA, around six squadrons (18 jets in each) of Tejas Mk-II and six squadrons of AMCA. The AMCA is a 5thgeneration-plus fighter, which would have a multitude of technologies borne out of the indigenous production of Tejas Mk-II and other contracts under `Make in India’. We expect the AMCA development to take place in a time-frame of next 15 years. Q: Is the proposed strategic partnership (SP) project to produce 114 fighters with foreign collaboration in India for around $20 billion on hold now? A: Our current focus is on funding 83 Tejas jets. The SP project for 114 multi-role fighter aircraft (MRFA) is an important component of the ‘Make in India’ programme, with significant spin-offs towards establishing a robust aviation ecosystem. MRFA is to be seen under a separate category in terms of performance and technology. The associated transfer and absorption of technology as well as manufacturing in India will energise the indigenous industry. The project is under examination and details will be provided after finalisation and MoD approval. Q: By when does IAF hope to reach its target of having 42/43 fighter squadrons instead of the just about 30 now? A: IAF plans to increase its squadron strength in a pragmatic manner making full use of the ‘Make in India’ initiative. The squadron strength will improve based on availability of funding and ability of ‘Make in India’ to deliver. Q: With a negative list to be prepared for import of weapon systems and platforms, what IAF projects are likely to be delayed or scrapped? A: The current list is being updated. We will evaluate the indigenous options once the negative list is finalised. We have launched a detailed effort to shift to indigenisation and ‘Make in India’. For example, the trainer plan has been completely shifted to the HTT-40. Similarly, many initiatives have been taken towards development of some weapons. Q: The arrival of the first four Rafales in India (of the 36 ordered from France for Rs 59,000 crore in 2016) has been delayed due to the pandemic? A: The first four Rafales are expected to arrive in India by July-end now. The delivery of subsequent fighters will follow and current delays due to pandemic will be mitigated in future deliveries. Q: How is IAF maintaining operational readiness during the pandemic? A: Since the beginning of the lockdown, IAF has ensured full `air defence’ readiness and optimised training of combat crews to ensure currency and sustenance of combat capabilities. Our transport aircraft and helicopters have been at the vanguard of the national effort towards maintaining the aerial bridge throughout the country to handle Covid-related tasks, including evacuation of citizens from abroad and supply of medical aid to friendly countries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/iaf-presses-reset-button-on-modernisation-plans-to-push-make-in-india/articleshow/75816529.cms||Rajat Pandit
May 19, 2020||Vijayawada||SEB steps up vigilance as bootlegging rises in Andhra Pradesh||VIJAYAWADA: Officials of the Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB) have stepped up measures to control the menace of non-duty paid liquor (NDPL) and illicit distillery (ID) liquor in the state following an increase in smuggling after liquor shops were opened in neighbouring Telangana. The SEB was set up recently to curb illegal transportation of sand and liquor in the state. NDPL smuggling has spiked in districts sharing a border with Telangana, with over 300 cases in Krishna district and an almost equal number in Guntur. The rise in cases has been attributed to the variance in price between the states and curbs on liquor sale in Andhra Pradesh. Smugglers have been making use of the land border in Krishna and West Godavari districts as well as the Krishna river to transport liquor. Speaking to TOI, commissioner of SEB, Vinit Brijlal said the SEB has deputed young Indian Police Service (IPS) officers to contain smuggling of NDPL and ID liquor. Brijlal observed that the bureau has been able to detect many cases with the participation of SEB officials and other young officers. “We are also in the process of enhancing out intelligence capabilities, both technical and human intelligence, to make out borders foolproof,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/seb-steps-up-vigilance-as-bootlegging-rises/articleshow/75813539.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Goa||Goa: Government stops staff housing loan scheme||PANAJI: Government employees who had plans to avail the subsidised home loan scheme will no longer be able to do so, as the Housing Building Advance (HBA) scheme, initiated in 1988, has been withdrawn by the state government. Under secretary (finance) Maya Pednekar issued an order last week informing all departments that government employees would no longer be eligible for cheap loans to build homes.  “The government has decided to withdraw (and) close the house building advance rules and scheme extended to its employees,” said Pednekar in the order. Much before the lockdown was imposed on March 22, the finance department had issued an order putting a halt on sanctioning of files under the scheme. Under the HBA scheme, government employees were entitled to a housing loan at a negligible 2% rate of interest, while the remaining 7% was borne by the state government. Several thousand government employees availed the loan under the HBA scheme, and many loans are still being repaid. Finance department officials said that the closure of the scheme was an attempt to reduce the government’s expenditure, but had nothing to do with the ongoing Covid-19 crisis. The HBA scheme was being reviewed before the pandemic hit the state, a source said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/govt-stops-staff-housing-loan-scheme/articleshow/75815936.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Madurai||South TN reports 63 Covid-19 cases, total count 896||Madurai: Sixty-three more Covid-19 cases were recorded in the southern districts of Tamil Nadu on Monday, including 49 imported cases. The total number of cases in the region has now reached 896, including nine deaths. For the fourth day in a row, the southern region reported more than 50 cases. Out of the total 55 imported cases in the state reported on Monday, 49 were from the southern districts. Tirunelveli and Tuticorin districts once again saw the most cases among imported cases with 12 and 14 cases respectively. The total cases in Tiruneveli district are now 206. Among the 206, nearly 100 cases are all imported cases from other states reported during the past few days. The district now has the 7th highest number of Covid-19 cases in the state. In Theni district, as many as nine Covid-19 cases were reported of which five were those who had returned from Maharashtra and four were contacts of Covid-19 patients. Kanyakumari district reported seven cases, all having contact history. Six imported cases each, all from Maharashtra, were also reported in Tenkasi and Ramanathapuram districts, while Dinidgul reported two cases, who returned from Maharashtra. Madurai and Virudhunagar reported three Covid-19 cases each. One had returned from Maharashtra, one contact of a Covid-19 patient and one with ILI from a containment area. Meanwhile, on Monday, several discrepancies were noticed in the number of local and imported Covid-19 cases mentioned in the daily medical bulletin issued by the state health ministry. As many as nine cases of those who returned from Maharashtra in Madurai, Theni and Kanyakumari were reported as local cases as per the bulletin.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/south-tn-reports-63-covid-19-cases-total-count-896/articleshow/75815404.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Goa||Goa: Curtorim MLA pushes for exams to be cancelled||PANAJI: Given that the number of active novel coronavirus cases are on the rise in Goa, the state government should stop compromising the health of students and instead cancel the SSC and HSSC exams, said Congress MLA Aleixo Reginaldo Lourenco in a letter to the chief minister. Lourenco said the safety of the children is important and that the Ministry of Home Affairs has ordered the closure of schools, colleges, educational and training institutions. “As it is an extraordinary situation created by the virus, and the health and safety of our students cannot be compromised, students studying in Class X and Class XII, whose papers are remaining to be answered, must be promoted on the basis of internal assessments or average marks secured by them in their preliminary examinations,” said Lourenco. The Congress MLA said that if a better choice is available or another criteria is applied for marks then students should be spared the ordeal of answering the exams in such stressful circumstances. “The south west monsoon would be hitting Goa very soon and conducting exams during the rains would be an arduous task for authorities as well as difficult for students. Hence, the 2020 SSC and 2020 HSSC examinations should not be postponed further, but cancelled,” said Lourenco.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/curtorim-mla-pushes-for-exams-to-be-cancelled/articleshow/75815411.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Bareilly||UPSRTC Rampur depot bus driver ferrying migrants on Covid duty dies in Basti||Bareilly: A driver of Uttar Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation (UPSRTC) deputed in Rampur depot, who was on Covid duty for ferrying migrant workers to Gorakhpur and Basti districts, died in Basti on Monday, while on the job. Officials at UPSRTC said that the driver was sent on duty three days ago to ferry stranded migrants to their destinations. His body was sent for postmortem and report is awaited. Confirming the incident, UPSRTC regional manager (Moradabad RM), Atul Jain told TOI, “The deceased was a resident of Moradabad and was deputed in Rampur depot. He was allotted duty in Gorakhpur region for ferrying migrant workers to their destination. The deceased, Mahendra Singh, died at Basti railway station around 3:30 am. We were informed about the incident at midnight following which health department and UPSRTC regional officials rushed to the spot and his body was sent for postmortem. His report, which is awaited, will reveal the actual cause of death.” Expressing grief, UPSRTC managing director Raj Shekhar said, “ Necessary measures and financial assistance have been initiated by district administration of Basti and UPSRTC. The driver lost his life in the line of duty in fight against Covid-19 pandemic. He shall be remembered as a corona warrior.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/upsrtc-rampur-depot-bus-driver-ferrying-migrants-on-covid-duty-dies-in-basti/articleshow/75808529.cms||Maria Khan
May 19, 2020||Meerut||Haryana man, 30, suffering from depression, zooms past barricades, injures cop||Meerut: High drama prevailed on the Uttar Pradesh-Haryana border near Shamli district when a 30-year-old man from Panipat broke barricades with his car and fled after leaving a policeman injured. A constable received fractures in his hand and leg and had to be hospitalised. The man was caught after a high-octane chase. The occupant, a resident of Panipat, said he was going to Haridwar for a holy dip in Ganga. His relatives were contacted, who told police that the youth was suffering from depression. Constable Ajay Kumar, who was deployed at Gurdwara crossing with other policemen, said, “I received a flash from the control room that a car was racing towards our direction and needed to be stopped. We immediately rolled barricades on to the road to block it when all of a sudden a speeding white car crashed into one of the barricades and escaped. The heavy iron barricade fell on me with a lot of force. I got a broken hand and leg.” Later, when the car was finally brought to a halt a few kilometres away, the man at the wheel told the policemen that he was Covid-positive, forcing them to stay away. Identified as Anil Kumar, a resident of Panipat, the man told the policemen that he was going to Haridwar for a dip into Ganga. His family members were contacted soon after the incident. His father came to Shamli and claimed that his son was under depression and was lying about his Covid-positive status. He had also brought Anil's medical documents with him. His samples later turned out to be negative too. Circle officer (city) Jitender Kumar said, “The culprit was taken into custody and injured constable Ajay Kumar has filed an FIR against him under IPC’s sections 279 (rash driving on public way), 337 (rash and negligent act endangering human life), 338 (causing grievous hurt), 427 (mischief causing damage), 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty), 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) and relevant sections of the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897. He was later released on bail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/haryana-man-30-suffering-from-depression-zooms-past-barricades-injures-cop/articleshow/75813575.cms||Sandeep Rai
May 19, 2020||Indore||Rural Indore To Breathe Easy In Lockdown 4.0||Indore: District administration on Monday came out with a separate plan for Lockdown 4.0 by dividing city into three zones – Sensitive zone, Village zone and City zone while giving relaxation for 29 villages of Indore. Collector Manish Singh said that they have come with this ‘zone wise’ plan for better enforcement of Lockdown 4.0 that came into effect on Monday. The collector said that they have given liberty in Village Zone by allowing operations of small industrial or commercial activities such as grocery stores, convenience stores, Sanchi points, medical shops, mobile shops, repair shops, laundry that are located in limits of 29 villages from Monday. “These establishments will have to operate in closed or covered premises and would not need any special permission for operations and would be allowed to operate between 11.00am and 5.00pm,” said the collector. Singh said the lockdown norms for urban areas of city would however continue to be in place and there would not be any changes. “We are devising a phase wise strategy to continue with lockdown and give relaxations in the three zones accordingly,” he said adding that working on the same is on. He said that ‘sensitive zone’ includes most of the core areas of east parts of city including markets starting from Regal Square to railway station, Sarwate bus stand, Juni Indore, Collectorate, Gangwal bus stand, Bada Ganpati, Subhash Marg, Rajkumar Bridge. Village zone has 29 villages including that were included in municipal limits in 2014, and remaining areas of city have been kept under City zone, he said. The collector said that there would not be any relaxation in sensitive and city zones, and citizens will have to comply with all lockdown restrictions and norms. “The city’s centre starting from Regal to Bada Ganpati has maximum number of containment zones and most of the Covid-19 cases were also reported from these areas,” he said adding that on basis of the same they have been kept under Sensitive zone. He said that remaining areas have been kept under city zone. “We would soon come out with a separate plan for these two zones,” he said. The collector also held a meeting with excise department officials to discuss about measures required for opening liquor outlets of village areas of city. “Since we have already allowed most of the activities in rural areas and are considering opening of liquor outlets in rural areas from revenue point of view,” said Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/rural-indore-to-breathe-easy-in-lockdown-4-0/articleshow/75814743.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Madurai||SFI protests against Class X board exam||Madurai: The Students’ Federation of India (SFI), on Monday, staged a protest demanding that Class X board exams be conducted only after lockdown ends and the number of Covid-19 cases in the state comes down. Even as many activists, political leaders, educationists and teachers across the state continue to call for postponement of the Class X board exams amid Covid-19 lockdown, exam centres are starting preparations at district levels. As part of the protest, a Class X student wore an oxygen mask and held an exam pad in hand. “There is no need to put vulnerable school children at risk of Covid-19 by conducting the exams,” said Vel Deva, district secretary, SFI. The SFI also submitted a plea to Madurai district collector T G Vinay regarding the same. Government school teachers are also hoping for the exams to be postponed. “During these difficult circumstances, students, especially from rural areas would not have studied properly. This would be like suddenly pushing them off the deep end,” said the headmaster of a government high school. On the other hand, meetings of all school headmasters in the district were held at various levels to discuss the available infrastructure at exam centres. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/sfi-protests-against-class-x-board-exam/articleshow/75815415.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Pune||Three baby girls, aged 90 days and less, beat back Covid-19 in Maharashtra||PUNE: A 22-day-old girl in Solapur, a 45-day-old girl in Pimpri Chinchwad and a 90-dayold girl in Pune cantonment were among the youngest survivors of Covid-19 in the state. All three infants were discharged on Sunday from their respective hospitals after they staged a full recovery. Doctors treating them said breastfeeding had built their immunity and they responded well to treatment. Studies from across the world also show that babies’ immune systems interact with the virus differently from those of adults. The youngest of the three babies was born on April 26 at Solapur Civil Hospital and sent home with her mother. They live at Rahul Gandhinagar in Solapur city, a hotspot. The mother came in contact with a family member who had tested positive for the coronavirus. Medical superintendent Audumbar Maske said, “The woman and her baby tested positive and were quarantined in Solapur Civil Hospital on May 5. The baby was just 11 days old then. Both regained health and were discharged on May 17.” The baby from Pimpri Chinchwad and her four-year old brother tested positive, but their mother did not. They were admitted to Yashwantrao Chavan Memorial Hospital on May 4. “The baby had a fever and a runny nose for three to four days. On the fourth day, she began to respond to treatment. Breastfeeding improved her immunity. The mother wore a mask and PPE and all three were closely monitored which helped treat them,” said Deepali Ambike, head of the hospital’s paediatrics department. In the third case, the threemonth-old girl and her father from Modikhana in Pune cantonment area tested positive on May 6, but her mother did not. The baby recovered after 10 days in the Pune Cantonment Board’s Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel General Hospital. Except for an initial dose of anti-viral drugs, no medicine was given to the baby, the doctors said. Both mother and child were discharged after two successive tests which ruled out the contagion. V D Gaikwad, resident medical officer of the hospital, told TOI, “We had a paediatrician, a nurse and medical staff to care for the baby and her mother who wore a mask and PPE. She breastfed the baby which improved her immunity and helped her recover.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/three-baby-girls-aged-90-days-and-less-beat-back-contagion/articleshow/75815413.cms||Sandip Dighe
May 19, 2020||Vijayawada||Over 6,000 families to get compensation: Minister||VISAKHAPATNAM: Tourism minister M Srinivasa Rao, on Monday, said that 6,398 families living in 17 villages affected by the styrene leak from the LG Polymers India Pvt Limited (LGPI) plant in RR Venkatapuram have received compensation. The minister further said that severe action will be taken if the committees constituted to investigate the case find the company’s plant in violation of regulations. As part of the compensation, one member of a family where someone had died in the incident would be given a job. Further, 19,893 people of the 6,398 families have been given a compensation of Rs 10,000. Srinivasa Rao said that the compensation amount has already been transferred. He further said: “Around 25 animals were also killed in the incident. Owners of these animals were given Rs 8.75 lakh each as compensation.” He added that if there’s any confusion with receiving compensation, people may contact the committees set up by the government. The tourism minister further said that ward volunteers will visit the villages on Tuesday to verify if the people have received the compensation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/over-6000-families-to-get-compensation-min/articleshow/75813583.cms||Siva G
May 19, 2020||Vadodara||Petrol pump owners seek urgent help from govt||VADODARA: Central Gujarat Petrol and Diesel Dealers’ Association (CGPDDA) has shot off a letter to oil marketing companies seeking help for fuel retailers. The association has said that petrol pump owners are facing losses and they need support from the companies or the government for their survival. The letter written by CGPDDA president Mehul Patel states that the oil companies have recovered their inventory losses and the central as well as the state governments too have increased their taxes and duties to cope up with the loss of revenue. “But no one thought of petrol pumps that are the most important channel partners. Sale at fuel stations is down by 85 to 90 per cent, resulting in very low income. But we are still paying the employees as per the government guidelines,” said Pappu Bhatia, owner of petrol pump at Harni and a member of CGPDDA. The association has sought compensation or support from the government for their losses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/petrol-pump-owners-seek-urgent-help-from-govt/articleshow/75812100.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Vijayawada||Chittoor, Anantapur cops bust arrack trade||TIRUPATI: Chittoor and Anantapur district police carried out simultaneously raids on Monday and seized large quantities of arrack . Special party police and Ramakuppam police jointly raided PMK Thanda in Chittoor district and seized 300 litres of illicitly distilled arrack, destroyed 1,500 litres of jaggery wash and arrested four persons. Meanwhile, in Anantapur district, police seized 271 liquor bottles, 991 litres of illicitly distilled arrack and destroyed 25,258 litres of jaggery wash. On the same day Guntur rural police seized nearly Rs 6 lakh worth liquor stock being smuggled from Telangana in the early hours of Monday and arrested two persons, including the vehicle driver.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/chittoor-anantapur-cops-bust-arrack-trade/articleshow/75813563.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
May 19, 2020||Meerut||Man attempts suicide over failed relationship||Meerut: A man in UP's Hapur district allegedly attempted suicide by shooting himself with a country-made gun on Monday morning. Police said the family has not raised any suspicion of foul play. The critically injured man was rushed to a local hospital where he was eventually referred to All India Institute of Medical Sciences in Delhi after his condition deteriorated. The victim, identified as Aarif, was a resident of Chainpur locality under Hapur (rural) police station limits. While sources claimed that the man was depressed over his former lover’s marriage, police are yet to ascertain the motive the suicide attempt. “Based on the claims of the family, we have learnt that the victim was under depression, after his ex-lover was married to someone else. Circumstantial evidence suggests that he attempted to kill himself. As of now, he is unconscious and we are yet to record his statement,” Sarvesh Mishra, additional superintendent of police, Hapur, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/man-attempts-suicide-over-failed-relationship/articleshow/75813592.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Goa||Goa: Police to get strict with enforcing lockdown norms||PANAJI: With the rise in Covid-19 cases in the state, Goa Police has decided to strictly enforce between 7pm to 7am so that people are not seen out on streets. Speaking to TOI, north Goa superintendent of police Utkrisht Prasoon said that police have also started conducting surprise checks at public places to check whether people are wearing face masks. “We have started imposing fines on those found not wearing face masks,” he said. He also said that the police department’s focus currently is to streamline the process for migrants to return to their native states. On Monday, Prasoon visited the migrants camp at Mapusa and assured them that the train to their state would be arranged and till that time they should not become restless. On Sunday migrants came out of their camp demanding that they be allowed to go back to their respective states, some of who threatened to walk home if trains were not arranged for them. Prasoon said that they are also helping senior citizens, women, disabled at railway stations to board trains. With migrant labourers stranded in Goa getting restless to return to their native states, inspector general of police (IGP) Jaspal Singh directed Goa Police personnel to “deal with migrants with compassion”. Around one lakh migrant labourers have registered with the nodal officer to leave the state, of which over 15,000 have already left in trains, buses and private vehicles. Over the past couple of days, migrants have been seen gathering in large numbers at the border check-posts to leave the state. A few workers were seen walking along the railway tracks as well. TOI had also reported that migrants who have failed to get travel permits have been trying to cross the border illegally. Hungry, angry and frustrated they are willing to walk thousands of kilometres to get home.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/police-to-get-strict-with-enforcing-lockdown-norms/articleshow/75815419.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Indore||Indore: 1000 manufacturing units may start operations||INDORE: Relaxing norms for industries in lockdown 4.0, around 1,000 small scale manufacturing units of Indore district may soon resume operations with conditions set by district administration. As many as 1,000 manufacturing units located in non-containment and rural areas of Indore district have started preparations to start manufacturing of goods by the end of this week with condition to make accommodation for all workers within premises. Small and mid-sized industries under banner of Association of Industries Madhya Pradesh (AIMP), have moved application to district administration to resume manufacturing by following prescribed safety guidelines Anil Joshi, director operations at a copper components manufacturing unit at Sanwer said, “We resumed manufacturing from Monday with skeletal workforce after a detailed safety arrangements and accommodation for entire manpower. Manufacturing pace is very slow but if administration allows more workers in coming weeks, we may certainly increase capacity utilization.” Joshi said that to meet export commitment production capacity needs to be enhanced in a gradual manner. Industry players said almost every industry is willing to resume operations but have limitation of space to accommodate workers as directed by the district administration. Most of the industries anticipated to recommence work are located at Sanwer Road, Palda, Bardari and other nearby villages of Indore. State government in a circular has permitted industries located in rural areas of red zones outside containment areas to resume work. Pramod Dafarai, president, AIMP said, “District administration has agreed to grant manufacturing permission to all such units that have arrangements to keep less than 10 workers within their campus. Around 1,000 manufacturing units will start functioning and most of them are into foot ware, packaging and paper sector.” The association said permission for industries located in containment areas have been withheld by the administration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/1000-manufacturing-units-may-start-ops/articleshow/75814762.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Meerut||Meerut hotel doubling up as quarantine centre stops service, docs shifted out||Meerut: A high-end hotel in Meerut that doubled up as a passive quarantine centre for government health staff for the past 45 days has stopped its services with immediate effect due to alleged non-payment of dues amounting to Rs 1.3 crore late on Sunday night. In a hurried action, the doctors were shifted to another hotel in the city. The hotel management claims they have not been paid a single penny despite repeated reminders to the authorities concerned. In contrast, the district authorities claimed that the hotelier had himself allowed the establishment to be used as a quarantine facility for free. The administration has now agreed to pay accordingto government rate of Rs 1,500 per day per room, which adds to Rs 33 lakh. Jitendra Bajwa, owner of Godwin Hotel, said, “I had allowed the hotel rooms to be given out for free only for the initial 14-day lockdown period, that too when only a week of lockdown was left. My philanthropic gesture was not meant to be considered a free service for indefinite period. If the government had decided on paying Rs 1,500 per day for one room, I should have been informed about this in advance. Who is supposed to bear the losses now?” Meerut district magistrate Anil Dhingra said, “The hotel owner had promised to provide 'a free quarantine facility'. Even then, we are ready to make the payments. But we can pay only according to the government norms, the amount for which has been fixed at Rs 1,500 per room per day. A committee has been formed and the payment will be made. As far as the meals are concerned, food was provided by our own contractor and he (hotel owner) himself agreed to provide complimentary breakfast.” Meerut chief medical officer Dr Raj Kumar said, “We have the data of doctors who stayed at the hotel for quarantine purpose, and we will pay up accordingly. This is even when the owner had promised us that he would allow the hotel to be used as a quarantine facility for free.” Bajwa said, “According to my records, a total of 189 health staff stayed here for a combined total of 2,255 nights, for which the charges add up to Rs 1.30 crore -- if I charge Rs 5,800 without taxes per night. If the district authorities knew that the government will not be able to afford our hotel, they should have opted for a cheaper hotel.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/meerut-hotel-doubling-up-as-quarantine-centre-stops-service-docs-shifted-out/articleshow/75813613.cms||Ishita Bhatia
May 19, 2020||Vijayawada||Buzz picks up at registration offices in Vizag||VISAKHAPATNAM: Registration of properties in Visakhapatnam urban area is slowly picking up after a lull of over 40 days of lockdown. The government permitted registrations from May 3 but mandated certain rules, such as maintaining social distance and wearing masks, to be followed at the registrar’s office. Before the Covid-19 lockdown was imposed, eight sub- registrar offices in Visakhapatnam Urban generated a revenue of around Rs 2 crore a day by processing over 200 applications. This fell to around 80 applications a day during the lockdown. Speaking to TOI, district registrar K Manmadha Rao said in the past two weeks Visakhapatnam urban has earned over Rs 5.5 crore through sale of stamps. The highest number of registration were reported at the Madhurawada office,133 applications which helped earn over Rs 1.45 crore, given that the area has emerged as a favourite of realtors. “We have observed that around 40% to 50% of the documents were gift deeds or related to marriages, partition, and mortgage. Over 80% of the revenue is generated through the sale of properties such as flats and plots of land,” Manmadha Rao added. The state government had set a goal to collect Rs 824 crore from the urban area in 2019-2020 financial year. But it has managed to earn Rs 595 crore so far owing to the Covid-19 crisis. It has not set a target for the 2020-21 financial-year. “Property registrations has come down by over 50% in Visakhapatnam urban areas and less than 30% in rural areas. It will take some time for the real-estate sector to recover. The stamps and registration department is one of the top contributors to the state revenue,” said president of Visakhapatnam unit of Confederation of Real Estate Developers' Association of India (Credai), B Srinivasa Rao.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/buzz-picks-up-at-registration-offices-in-vizag/articleshow/75813604.cms||Nalla.Babu
May 19, 2020||Goa||Lobo to request Mamata to allow entry of migrants||Panaji/Calangute: Making a case for the several migrants from West Bengal stranded in the state, ports minister Michael Lobo on Monday said that there was urgent need to arrange for two trains to send them home. “I am sending an email to West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee requesting her to allow entry to these people from Bengal who are working in Goa,” he said. Lobo said that a large number of people from West Bengal and Odisha work in hotels along the coastal belt. “Nearly 3,500 people, including 1,500 who are working in the hotel industry, have registered with us,” he said. Migrant workers desperate to return to their home states gathered in front of Lobo’s office after they learnt that his staff were making arrangements for labourers to travel home. With their number swelling to a few hundred by mid-morning, Calangute police swung into action and dispersed the crowd. “Around 1,500 migrant labourers from West Bengal and Odisha came to my office seeking train tickets to return home,” Lobo told reporters. The migrant workers were getting very frustrated at the continued lockdown, he said. “Since there are no free trains, the hotel industry is ready to pay for their return to their native place. Since they don’t have money, we will pay for their ticket.” The minister said that shackowners, hotel owners and guesthouse owners have kept Rs 1,200 per person ready to send their workers home. “This money will be deposited with Konkan Railway to make train arrangements. We are ready to pay for those who don’t have money and need to return to their native state,” he said. Referring to the huge protest by migrant labourers, including those from Odisha and West Bengal, outside the office of the North Goa collectorate, Lobo said this would not happen if their return journey was ensured by Goa. “||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/lobo-to-request-mamata-to-allow-entry-of-migrants/articleshow/75815424.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Madurai||GRH dean to look into bribery allegations against nurse||Madurai: Dean of the Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH), Dr J Sangumani on Monday said that he will be looking into allegations of bribery against a staff nurse who was posted in the labour ward after a oral complaint was received from state organizing secretary of ‘Makkal Satta Urimai Iyakkam’, S Jaganesan. The dean said that required action would be taken once the complainant gives a written complaint on Tuesday.Jaganesan filed the complaint on behalf of a couple who alleged that a nurse had demanded bribe from them. “The incident happened on Sunday at around 7pm, shortly after a girl baby was born to the woman. One of the nurses had demanded Rs700 and refused to show the child to the couple, if the bribe was not paid. So, the couple were forced to pay her. We have proof and stand by the claim,” said Jaganesan. He added that it was disheartening to see bribes being demanded even during these difficult times.Speaking to TOI, Sangumani said that he has spoken to the activist and assured to deal with it strictly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/grh-dean-to-look-into-bribery-allegations-against-nurse/articleshow/75815421.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Kolkata||Online heritage lectures help museums bridge social distance in Kolkata||KOLKATA: How did Jamini Roy paint? How did village scenes, sights from everyday life, stories from mythology, inspire him to create his landmark, Mother and Child and Ganesh Janani? How did Abanindranath Tagore create his Varnamala — the unique figures he designed out of the Bengali alphabet? These were nuggets of info that kids learnt in an interactive audio-visual session arranged by the Victoria Memorial Hall, simultaneously on two social media platforms, to celebrate International Museum Day on Monday. The Indian Museum not only organized a web lecture on heritage during this occasion, but also involved four other museums to join in and exhibit their collections, while the Birla Industrial and Technological Museum (BITM) engaged kids in a series of experiments from everyday life and explained the science behind them. City heritage expert GM Kapur was invited to a webinar organized by the Development of Museums and Cultural Spaces, ministry of culture, to speak about how to revitalize museums and cultural spaces. VMH called the initiative, Museum Comes Home and tied up with art accessibility experts, Nirali and Siddhant Shah, who engaged kids in discovering artefacts preserved inside the museum and even tried their hands at copying them or creating crafts inspired by these artefacts. “This year we couldn’t continue with our tradition of holding our special museum day programme on campus. But technology has come into great use,” said Jayanta Sengupta, curator of VMH. The web lecture given by Amareshwar Galla of International Centre for Inclusive Cultural Leadership on celebrating diversities to understand the cultural past, which was hosted by Indian Museum, had a huge viewership. “We linked up with Gurusaday Museum, Bankim Bhavan, Bangiya Sahitya Parishad and Bishnupur district museum for better co-operation and understanding,” said Arijit Dutta Chowdhury, director, Indian Museum. “The lockdown has opened up several locks and we have managed to celebrate museum day meaningfully,” said BITM director V S Ramachandran.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/online-heritage-lectures-help-museums-bridge-social-distance/articleshow/75814744.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
May 19, 2020||Madurai||Protest against Tasmac shop||Tension prevailed at a Tasmac shop at Broadway, Ponnagaram in Madurai, as members of CPI(M), DYFI and AIDWA protested to down the shutters of the shop on Monday morning. The protest was led by AIDWA district president K Rajeswari, DYFI district president Gobinath and CPI(M) area secretary V Stalin. Police personnel led by ACP Venugopal held talks with the protesters to withdraw the protest. As they did not pay heed, they were forcibly evicted and taken to a nearby marriage hall and released later. Sale of liquor was affected for a brief period but resumed after the protesters were shifted. Protesters said that the Tasmac shop is located in busy residential areas surrounded by schools and places of worship. Although the district administration had assured to shift the shop three years ago, it has not materialized.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/protest-against-tasmac-shop/articleshow/75815433.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Goa||KTC aids transit of 116 Sikkim-bound workers||Panaji: Five buses of the Kadamba Transport Corporation Ltd (KTC) carrying 116 people from Sikkim left Goa on Monday. The buses will ferry the passengers to Bengaluru where a train has been arranged to transport them to the north-eastern state. “The government of Sikkim has arranged the train for people stranded in Bengaluru. The 116 people from Sikkim who were in Goa during the lockdown will be boarding this train so they can return home. We have arranged buses for them to help them in their journey,” a KTC official said. In line with MHA guidelines on social distancing, there will be only one passenger per seat in each of the five buses. They are expected to reach Bengaluru on Wednesday morning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ktc-aids-transit-of-116-sikkim-bound-workers/articleshow/75815430.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Andhra Pradesh ups the ante, asks Godavari river board to stop Kaleshwaram||VIJAYAWADA/HYDERABAD: The ongoing water war between the two Telugu states took a new turn on Monday with Andhra Pradesh dragging the prestigious Kaleshwaram Lift Irrigation Project (KLIP) and six other projects across the Godavari into the Krishna water dispute. The Jaganmohan Reddy government in Andhra Pradesh has asked the Godavari River Management Board to stop all irrigation projects on the river, including KLIP, immediately. AP has also accused Telangana of using 450 tmc ft of Godavari water without any legal allocation. Telangana chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao has called KLIP, one of the biggest lift irrigation projects in the world, the lifeline of the state. Thus far both states have limited themselves to fighting legal battles over one river, never mixing the two. But for the first time, AP has dragged the Godavari issue into the Krishna dispute. While Telangana had raised objection over AP utilising Krishna water for Rayalaseema region, AP has petitioned before Krishna River Management Board (KRMB) and Godavari River Management Board accusing Telangana of utilising both Godavari and Krishna waters in violation of the AP State Reorganisation Act. According to AP, Telangana is utilising 150 tmc ft of surplus water from the Krishna river through five new projects with no sanction from the KRMB or Central Water Commission (CWC). Reacting sharply, KCR said that he was opposed to AP using unallocated water. He recalled that he had suggested that both AP and Telangana should utilise flood water from the Godavari. He said Telangana has no objection if AP diverts flood water from the Godavari that goes into the sea to Rayalaseema. “After formation of Telangana, five new projects based on surplus water for utilization of 150.53 tmc ft of Krishna water with an ayacut of 16.87 lakh acres, for which there is no allocation by the KWDT-I are taken up by Telangana in violation of provisions of AP Reorganisation Act 2014 i.e. without any clearance or approval from KRMB, CWC and Apex Council prejudicially affecting the interests of lower riparian state of Andhra Pradesh,” the AP government said in its affidavit. The AP government has also justified its proposed projects on Krishna river aimed at utilising flood water for the parched Rayalaseema region. It gave details of existing and proposed irrigation projects on Krishna river in AP and Telangana. The Jagan government said Telangana had proposed five new projects based on surplus water in Krishna to utilise 150.5 tmc ft of water in violation of the AP State Reorganisation Act, 2014. The Telangana projects are a clear violation of Sections 84 and 85 and Schedule XI of the Reorganisation Act. These projects have the approval of neither KRMB nor Central Water Commission (CWC), as stipulated in the Act, the AP government said, adding it would have an adverse effect on the existing and approved projects aimed at providing drinking water to Rayalaseema region and Nellore and Prakasam districts. AP also sought to remind KRMB that it had lodged protests several times against the projects in Telangana. It stated that Pothireddypadu head regulator full withdrawal can be achieved when the water level in Srisailam is above 881 feet, which happens only for 10 to 15 days a year on average. AP will execute the Rayalaseema lift scheme to draw water at 800 feet level to meet the drinking water and irrigation needs of the critically and chronically drought-prone areas of Rayalaseema, Nellore and Prakasam districts and will restrict itself within the allocation of KWDT, the government said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ap-ups-the-ante-asks-godavari-river-board-to-stop-kaleshwaram/articleshow/75815995.cms||Gopi Dara
May 19, 2020||Madurai||26 local cases in Madurai, highest in last five days||Madurai: While there was a spike in Covid-19 cases in southern districts, mainly due to people returning during the last five days, Madurai district has accounted for the highest number of local cases during the same period. There were 26 new local cases, including 10 reported on Sunday. The last time there were 10 or more local cases in a day was on April 6, which saw a record high of 20 cases. Since then, the district had been seeing a declining trend. As of Monday, 163 cases were reported in the district since March 23, including two deaths. According to health officials, most cases in recent days were contacts of those who had travelled to Chennai. All other cases so far have been contacts of Covid-19 positive patients or from containment areas. Testing does not seem to have been increased as the district continues to test around 250-350 people per day, according to health officials. “Contacts of Covid-19 patients have come down these days as we have more cases of those from outside the district. All pregnant women and ILI cases in containment areas are also being tested,” said a senior city health official. Health officials are carrying out surveillance in containment areas and are testing only those who display flu-like symptoms as per protocol. During the last two days, there have been two cases of those with ILI in containment areas testing positive. However, in the district, most patients have been asymptomatic. In non-containment areas in the district, with relaxations in lockdown and most shops open, there continues to be movement with many among the public not even wearing masks despite vigilance. “The movement is concerning and the district officials are doing their best. We will know better only when we check fever trends there, perhaps by next week,” the official added. An ICMR team will soon reach Madurai and collect samples for testing from various locations in the district to check for community spread.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/26-local-cases-in-madurai-highest-in-last-five-days/articleshow/75815427.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Are you ready with mobile labs for Covid-19 tests, HC asks Telangana||HYDERABAD: Stating that Telangana is conducting fewer tests compared to other states in the country, the high court on Monday sought to know by May 26 whether the administration will make available mobile testing labs for citizens as was done in Kerala. A bench of Chief Justice Raghavendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy said this while hearing a PIL filed by S Varun of Suryapet, who wanted tests to be carried out even on asymptomatic because people with no symptoms were also turning out to be Covid-19 patients. The petitioner’s counsel Pujitha Gorantla raised questions over officials declaring Suryapet, which had high number of infections till recently, as Covid free. The bench wanted the details of tests conducted in Suryapet district after April 24. “Suryapet is close to Hyderabad and to declare it Covid-free without adequate testing is a cause for concern,” the bench said. As majority of labs were in Hyderabad, mobile labs might take testing to rural areas in a more effective manner, the bench said. It also sought to know from the state whether it would allow those who could afford testing charges to get themselves tested. The bench told advocate general BS Prasad to inform the court details of testing done in the state, with district-wise particulars, by May 26. Seeks Nirmal test details While dealing with another PIL filed by advocate Chinnolla Naresh Reddy, who expressed concern over the state of affairs in Nirmal where officials have turned liberal on the ground that it is in the green zone, the bench sought to know from the district collector the ground realities prevailing in the district. “Tell us the number of tests you have conducted from April 22 till now,” the bench said. Even migrants coming from Covid-hit Maharashtra were not being tested or quarantined, the advocate claimed. “You have to ensure that people in Nirmal maintain social distance,” the bench said. Monitor the movement of migrant labour, more particularly those who have come from Maharashtra, into Nirmal. Submit details of tests conducted on them (migrant workers), any positives among them, and the particulars of how many such people were quarantined, the bench directed the collector.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/are-you-ready-with-mobile-labs-for-covid-19-tests-hc-asks-t/articleshow/75814777.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: 46% funds of YSRC, TDP from unknown sources||VIJAYAWADA: YSRC has the second highest income — Rs 181 crore — amongst regional political parties for 2018-19 financial year, but nearly Rs 100 crore of its income came from ‘unknown sources’, the latest report by Association for Democratic Reforms (ADR) and National Election Watch (NEW) says. TDP, which is among the top four in accruing income, has shown a funding of Rs 114 crore, including Rs 37.7 crore from unknown sources. This translates to almost 46 percent funds originating from unknown sources for the two major regional parties in AP. Of the Rs 100 crore ‘unknown income’ of YSRC, Rs 99.8 crore was generated through electoral bonds. The same bonds provided a funding of Rs 27.5 crore income from unknown sources to TDP, while around Rs 10 crore was raised through voluntary contributions. ADR prepared the report based on income tax returns and donation statements filed by the regional parties with the Election Commission of India. Unknown sources include donations via electoral bonds, sale of coupons, relief fund, miscellaneous income, voluntary contributions, contributions from meetings etc. As per the report, details of donors of voluntary contributions are not available in public domain. For its analysis, ADR took into account 52 regional (recognized) parties. But only 26 of them were found to have filed both their annual audit and contribution reports. And of the 26, discrepancies were found in the declarations of TRS, SAD and LJP, which left only 23 parties in the analysis list. BJD, the ruling party in Odisha, topped the income chart for 2018-19 at Rs 249 crore, of which 213 crore came from unknown sources. The total income of the 23 regional parties stood at 885 crore, out of which funding from unknown sources was Rs 481 crore, including Rs 436 crore through electoral bonds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/46-funds-of-ysrc-tdp-from-unknown-sources/articleshow/75814783.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
May 19, 2020||Vijayawada||HC orders status quo on Machilipatnam housing project||VIJAYAWADA: The high court on Monday directed the state government to maintain status quo on the proposed housing project at Gilakaladhindi in Machilipatnam. A fisherman, Kola Ramu, and Avanigadda Lakshmana Rao from Machilipatnam had moved the high court alleging that the state was filling mangroves to convert them into housing sites. A bench headed by Justice Rakesh Kumar and Justice Suresh Reddy heard the petition. Vishnuteja, counsel for the petitioners, argued that the state government is destroying mangroves that play a key role in maintaining flora and fauna of the region. The petitioners argued that destroying mangroves will have a negative impact in coastal areas. The high court directed the government to maintain status quo on the issue and to file an affidavit with all details in four weeks. Meanwhile, Jana Sena member and activist Bolisetti Satyanarayana and a few fishermen from Kakinada in East Godavari district moved the National Green Tribunal (NGT) alleging that state government is destroying mangroves in order to build housing projects for the poor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/hc-orders-status-quo-on-mpatnam-housing-project/articleshow/75813614.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Pune||Pune: Lockdown 4.0 begins amid FMCG items’ short supply||PUNE: Fast moving consumer goods (FMCG) are in short supply in the city with a 30-70% shortage at grocery stores the lockdown was extended till the month end. Most retailers said packaged food items such as noodles, some brands of biscuits and tea, pasta, salty snacks or ‘namkeen’, toothpaste and ready-to-eat products are either unavailable or in short supply at grocery stores, as glitches in supply are affecting the stocks. The retailers said the distributors, at the end of the manufacturers, have refused to deliver goods to them. Sachin Nivangune, president of the Pune District Retail Traders’ Association, said, “Only those retailers have all the products can go to the distributorships to collect all the items. Distributors or super stockists attached to multinational companies are no longer offering deliveries to retailers.” He told TOI, “This has been going on since the lockdown. The distributors have been claiming that they are either short staffed or do not have vehicles to transport the goods. The retailers often have to stand for 4 hours in a queue to get all the goods from distributorships, which too is on a first-come, first-served basis.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/fmcg-items-in-short-supply-amid-lockdown/articleshow/75815438.cms||Neha Madaan
May 19, 2020||Hyderabad||T BJP slams CM for comment on Centre||Hyderabad: BJP spokesperson K Krishna Sagar Rao on Monday condemned chief minister KCR for his statement regarding the relaxation of borrowing limit, saying that he is frustrated as the Centre has imposed conditions on borrowing. “The usage of increased borrowing demands accountability,” he said. He also alleged that the CM has failed the state. “The mismanagement of finances has almost bankrupted the state,” he said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-bjp-slams-cm-for-comment-on-centre/articleshow/75814865.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Meerut||Meerut’s Covid-19 tally mounts to 20 with the death of private doctor||Meerut: The death toll due to novel coronavirus infection touched 20 in Meerut on Monday with the demise of a 73-year-old physician. And 12 new cases of Covid-19 were detected in the district. Four more were reported in Shamli and one in Baghpat.With the fresh inputs, the tally in Meerut reached 340 (including one found in Kanpur), 36 in Shamli (including two patients found in Agra and three each in Auraiya and Mainpuri) and 26 in Baghpat. “A 73-year-old man, who was a private doctor and had a heart ailment, was brought dead to Lala Lajpat Rai Memorial (LLRM) Medical College on Monday evening. He was on ventilator at a private hospital and died while being brought to LLRM. He was also diabetic,” said Dr SK Garg, principal of LLRM Medical College.The doctor had a clinic in Shastri Nagar and he lived with his wife in Vaishali Colony. He was admitted to a private hospital last week after getting a heart stroke.“The 12 who tested positive in Meerut include a 73-year-old man from Vaishali Colony, a 30-year-old medical store owner from Khair Nagar, a traveller and others. We are in the process of ascertaining the locations of others,” said Dr Vishwas Chaudhary, Meerut district surveillance officer.Jasjeet Kaur, district magistrate of Shamli, said, “Four persons tested positive in Shamli on Monday. While three are contacts of previously positive tested vegetable vendors, another one is a vegetable vendor himself.”Dr RK Tandon, Baghpat’s chief medical officer said, “A new case surfaced in Baghpat on Monday. He is a ward boy at a community health centre who had come in contact with a Covid-19 patient. He is the first health worker to have tested positive in Baghpat.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/meeruts-covid-19-tally-mounts-to-20-with-the-death-of-private-doctor/articleshow/75813623.cms||Ishita Bhatia
May 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Centre’s economic stimulus is 100% bogus: Telangana CM||HYDERABAD: Telangana chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao on Monday called the Centre’s Rs 21 lakh crore economic stimulus package “100% bogus” and against the spirit of cooperative federalism. He said state governments were not beggars and were more responsible and accountable to the people than the Centre. “It (package) is nothing but cheating, deceiving and a number game. I condemn it,” he said. KCR is probably the first chief minister to openly criticise the package. He had earlier urged the Centre to come to the rescue of the states by giving financial assistance through helicopter money, enhancing the Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management (FRBM) limit and deferring payment of the state government’s loans. Quoting articles in international journals on the package announced by the Centre, KCR said at a press conference after the cabinet meeting, “The Centre is asking us to implement reforms but putting our necks on the chopping block. The package should not have been announced in this way. The states have suffered because of the lockdown. Had it been cash flow to the states, the benefits would have reached the people.” He said FRBM limit has been enhanced by 2% by the Centre which means the state is eligible for another Rs 20,000 crore loans. But even for this, several conditions have been imposed. For instance, if market committee reforms are implemented, the state is eligible for Rs 2,500 crore. Similarly, municipal reforms have to be implemented by enhancing tax collection. “Is this the way to announce a package during these testing times? This is not a real package, but a bogus one,” KCR said. He alleged that the Centre had been giving some share in taxes in the name of devolution of taxes. “Truly speaking, it is the share of the states in central taxes. The states have a constitutional right to get the share. The central government is collecting taxes in the form of cess from the states,” he said. The CM claimed that of the major reforms, like ease of doing business and one nation and one ration have already been implemented in the state. “The state would not implement some reforms like for electricity sector and ready to forego Rs 2,500 crore financial loans,” KCR declared.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/kcr-centres-economic-stimulus-is-100-bogus/articleshow/75814791.cms||Koride Mahesh
May 19, 2020||Meerut||Nawazuddin Siddiqui put under home quarantine after reaching UP's Muzaffarnagar from Mumbai||MUZAFFARNAGAR: Bollywood actor Nawazuddin Siddiqui and his three family members have been placed under home quarantine after their 26-hour-long journey from Mumbai to their hometown in Budhana in UP’s Muzaffarnagar, amid the lockdown. Siddiqui – along with his ailing mother, brother and sister-in-law – reached his ancestral house on May 11, after which their samples were sent to test for Covid-19. Authorities directed him and his family members to remain under quarantine for two weeks till May 25. According to local authorities in Muzaffarnagar, their samples have tested negative. Speaking about his experience of the 26-hour-long journey back home, the film star said, "We left for Muzaffarnagar after getting permission and a car pass from authorities. We were stopped in Gujarat and Rajasthan but were allowed to move after they checked our documents and medical records." His brother Faizuddin Siddiqui, who was also travelling with Nawazuddin, said, “Our mother is a heart patient. A few months ago when our sister passed away in Budhana, my mother and brother were not able to take part in her funeral. That is why he decided to visit Budhana.” According to sources, when the actor and his family reached Budhana on May 11, they first informed the local police before going home. After the police and a medical team were through with the Covid-19 protocol, all four were put under home quarantined. Additional district magistrate (finance) Alok Kumar said, “Siddiqui and his three family members have tested negative for coronavirus and they are under home quarantine till May 25.” Sources said that Nawazuddin Siddiqui was in Lucknow for the shooting of his new film ‘Dimple Kidnap Ho Gai’ and only after getting an advisory issued by the film association about coronavirus, he returned to Mumbai on March 17. Siddiqui went on self-quarantine in his house in Mumbai for weeks. Meanwhile, his mother got ill and she insisted that they left for their native home in Budhana in Muzaffarnagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/nawazuddin-siddiqui-put-under-home-quarantine-after-reaching-mnagar-from-mumbai/articleshow/75813647.cms||Mohd Dilshad
May 19, 2020||Dehradun||Cops attacked in US Nagar and Pithoragarh||RUDRAPUR/PITHORAGARH: Four police personnel were assaulted in two separate incidents on Sunday night in Udham Singh Nagar district. In the first incident, a beat constable at Pratappur police outpost in Kashipur, was thrashed by a mob in Kachnal Gaadi colony. In his complaint, the personnel has alleged that he had received the link to a live social media post in which a man was asking for help saying that his house was under attack by a mob. He reached the spot with a homeguard and tried to pacify the irate mob. However, the mob attacked the policeman while the homeguard had gone to call extra force. The group of men allegedly kicked and punched him till he fell unconscious and also snatched his cellphone. Police have detained 12 people and are also scanning CCTV footage for more evidence. In another incident, two constables, both attached to city police station, and a sepoy of 46th PAC were attacked by two bike-borne men with knives. The attack took place after the security personnel stopped them for questioning at Uttarakhand-Uttar Pradesh border in Kartarpur village on Sunday night. Meanwhile, six people were booked in Pithoragarh on Monday for manhandling police personnel. The men attacked cops after being questioned for loitering around in the town in violation of lockdown norms. All the accused are absconding. “On Sunday late evening, a group of men were founding wandering around Siltham square. When they were stopped, the accused manhandled the cops and threatened them. They also tarred a policeman’s uniform,” said OP Sharma, SHO Pithoragarh. A complaint has been lodged against them under sections 186, 188, 147, 269, 332, 353, 504, and 506 of the IPC and 51 (b) of Disaster Management Act of 2005, added Sharma.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cops-attacked-in-us-nagar-and-pithoragarh/articleshow/75813635.cms||Aakash Ahuja
May 19, 2020||Vijayawada||Guntur starts home delivery of meat and fish in all zones||GUNTUR: Guntur Municipal Corporation (GMC) has granted permission for home delivery of chicken and mutton. Twenty-three merchants, one each per municipal division, were granted permission for home delivery, including containment and buffer zones. The sale of meat, poultry and fish at stalls, however, remains banned in the city. Local legislator Mohammed Mustafa had recently requested district collector and GMC special officer Samuel Anand Kumar to allow at least identified merchants to open meat and chicken stalls as a large number of people in his constituency were observing fast in the month of Ramzan and depriving them of desired protein food was not correct. Subsequently, the collector directed municipal commissioner C Anuradha to look into issue. The commissioner held discussions with the owners of mutton and chicken stalls two days ago and readied a list of merchants who expressed willingness to deliver the orders at home. The GMC then issued passes to the traders and asked them to adhere to the lockdown rules. The vehicles carrying meat parcels will be allowed to operate only between 3 pm and 6 pm. The GMC commissioner has asked municipal health officer Dr Sridevi to ensure the quality and hygiene of the meat being delivered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/guntur-starts-home-delivery-of-meat-and-fish-in-all-zones/articleshow/75813626.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Kochi||Transgender people seek help||Alappuzha: Transgenders, who are staying away from families, have landed in financial trouble due to lockdown and are clamouring for a helping hand. They don’t have income and many of them even haven’t received any government assistance so far. According to state transgender cell, based on a survey conducted in Kerala in 2015, there are 25,000 transgender people in Kerala and of them, only 1,100 have identity cards. So only those with ID cards and membership in transgender community-based organizations received the financial assistance of Rs 1,500 from the Union government and food material packets of social justice department. Others have not received any other financial assistance or food materials so far. “The festival season falls in March and April and it was an income generating period for us. During those months, we were busy with performance of various stage shows and art forms. We were busy almost every day of those two months. But due to the outbreak of Covid-19, all our income sources have stopped. Though the state government declared help for people of various fields, the government has not announced any assistance for us,” said Lija Thomas, a member of the transgender community. According to the members, many of them are staying in rented houses and they are unable able to pay their rents. They also don’t have ration cards. They are not even able to return to their homes if their landlords ask them to vacate. “At present, the food materials can be given to only those possessing ID cards. But we have received at least 2,000 new applications for ID cards. The 2015 survey said that at least 78% of the transgender community members were abandoned by their families after they revealed their identity. But currently, the situation has changed after the verdict of the courts and awareness programmes. At present at least, 50% of the transgenders are staying with their families. We are also trying to trace the transgenders, who are staying away from their families and without any financial assistance and food items. We will also try to ensure food materials to them,” said Syama S Prabha, project officer, transgender cell. According to transgender cell, Kochi, Kozhikode and Thiruvananthapuram have the highest number of transgenders in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/transgender-people-seek-help/articleshow/75812489.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Goa||Panaji market to stay open||Panaji: The Panaji market will continue to function as is during the extended lockdown, till May 31, city mayor Uday Madkaikar said. After lockdown 3.0 ended on May 17, the Corporation of the city of Panaji (CCP) had held a meeting on Monday to decide the fate of the city’s market place as the state entered the fourth leg of the lockdown. “We will ensure the maintenance of social distancing among the people in the market,” Madkaikar said. The Panaji municipal market complex, however, will continue to have limited accessibility with only garment stores, mobile phone repair shops and shops selling masalas operating within the premises. The vegetable, fruit and coconut vendors will continue to sell their produce from outside the building complex, along the street near Inox theatres. The area had been barricaded to allow shoppers to purchase grocery items without crowding. “We will decide where to shift the vendors. The onset for monsoon has been forecast for June 10. Until then they will continue to stay outside,” Madkaikar said. TOI had reported on May 18 that the vendors will be shifted out of the street before monsoons hit the state. The India meteorological department has forecast that the onset of south-west monsoon in Goa is likely to be delayed by a few days this year, arriving at the state by June 10.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/panaji-market-to-stay-open/articleshow/75815448.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Bhopal||Crime branch goes Sherlock to track coronavirus footprints in Bhopal||BHOPAL: The silent Corona warriors — city crime branch cops — have been tracking the contact history of Covid-19 patients like a crime investigation. As soon as they get the list of positive patients, five teams of the crime branch track each and every person they came in contact with so that their testing is done. Crime detection techniques like tracing the mobile location of the patient are also being used by the cops to identify and track the people who came in direct contact with the Covid-19 patient. Silent warriors like crime branch are playing the most important role of breaking the chain of the deadly disease. The primary responsibility of tracking the patient’s contact history is of health workers, but given the special ability of the crime branch which is armed with various digital techniques to track people, police were made partner in this most important task. Around 1,000 samples are being taken and sent for testing from the city each. ASP (Crime Branch) Nishchal Jharia said that on April 9, the crime branch was given the responsibility of contact history tracking of Covid-19 patients. As soon as crime branch was given the charge, five teams were formed comprising a DSP-level officer, who leads the team, three sub-inspectors and around 6-7 policemen. The teams investigate each and every corona positive patient’s contact history like a blind crime. The city is divided into four police zones and one team each is responsible to track the contact history of patients found in their assigned zone. ASP Jharia said that a special format has been created to keep the record of first contacts, who came in contact with the affected person and their names, age, relation to patient, address, record of sampling, test result if received, and medical history. Police also records the names of neighbours, friends, tenants if any, colleagues and the shops, including grocery shops/milk parlour where the patient visited. ASP Jharia said that every day, there are 3-4 such corona-positive patients in the list whose address and phone numbers are not clear, so it becomes difficult to track them. ASP Jharia said that once the contact history of Covid-19 patients is recorded, it is properly compiled in tabular format. Police tracks the contact history of the corona-positive patients and shares the data with health department, BMC and district administration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/cops-go-sherlock-holmes-way-to-track-contact-history/articleshow/75814787.cms||Sudeept Mishra
May 19, 2020||Pune||Pune: Traders gear up to resume business||PUNE: Thousands of traders from across the city pulled up their shop shutters to clean and disinfect the premises before resuming business from Tuesday. The Federation of Trade Associations of Pune on Monday held a video conference through a cellphone-based app seeking views of all committee members and heads of various trade associations. “We heard their views and decided to open shops in the non-containment areas from Tuesday. The traders were told to start disinfecting their shops on Monday. The shops will open as per the guidelines issued by the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) commissioner,” Federation of Trade Associations of Pune secretary Mahendra Pitaliya told TOI. He said he shops within the various containment zones demarcated by the PMC would continue to remain shut till further notice. The Federation of Trade Associations of Pune’s decision came after the Centre permitted opening of stand-alone shops dealing in non-essential items in the “green”, “orange” and “red” zones. Hundreds of shops dealing in an assortment of goods in areas such as Karve Road, Karvenagar, Kothrud, Aundh, Baner, Bhandarkar Road, Prabhat Road, Law College Road, Model Colony and Sinhagad Road pulled their shutters up on Monday. The traders said they were not sure if the days allotted by the PMC for various types of stores during lockdown 3.0 were applicable for the next phase of restrictions. A resident of Deep Bungalow Chowk in Model Colony said, “All shops, including those of clothes, footwear and electronic servicing, and garages were open in the area and also on F C Road.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/traders-gear-up-to-resume-biz-start-disinfecting-shop-premises/articleshow/75815441.cms||Rujuta Parekh
May 19, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh cops take pregnant woman to Odisha hospital||VISAKHAPATNAM: Swift action by the police helped a pregnant woman, who went into labour while travelling to West Bengal on Sunday night, deliver a baby boy on Monday at a hospital in Berhampur, Odisha. Speaking to TOI, Srikakulam superintendent of police RN Ammi Reddy said Tushi Jena and her husband Lalu Jena were returning home in a bus from Hyderabad. Tushi began experiencing labour pain near Ichchapuram border checkpost in Srikakulam district and the national highway toll plaza ambulance staff took her to an area hospital. However, the doctors there said she had to be shifted to a better hospital for immediate treatment. “Our Icchapuram circle inspector Vinod Babu and his team shifted the woman to Berhampur medical college in Odisha where she gave birth to a baby boy on Monday. Both the mother and child are safe,” Reddy said. “The officers were able to take her to Berhampur medical college in just 20 minutes,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ap-cops-take-pregnant-woman-to-odisha-hosp/articleshow/75813656.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
May 19, 2020||Hyderabad||CM putting people’s livesat risk: N Uttam Kumar Reddy||HYDERABAD: Telangana Congress president and Nalgonda MP N Uttam Kumar Reddy on Monday said the state is way behind the national average and other states in conducting the number of Covid-19 tests. Uttam on Monday tweeted that the data released by the state health department has revealed that: “Telangana is conducting 652 tests per month while the national average is 1,600 per month. Look at the total tests done by Telangana and neighbouring states. Telangana has so far done 22,842 tests... Telangana state is testing only 250 samples per day! Is Telangana government policy - less tests mean less #COVID cases!!,” Uttam tweeted. Uttam slammed CM K Chandrasekhar Rao for putting at risk the lives of people by not conducting tests of every asymptomatic person and not revealing the correct data of confirmed coronavirus cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cm-putting-peoples-livesat-risk-uttam/articleshow/75814809.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Nagpur||Of 112 Covid +ve in Amravati, 8 are SARI and TB patients||AMRAVATI: Eight of the 112 Covid-19 positive cases confirmed in the district since March are Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI) and tuberculosis (TB) patients. Giving this information at a press briefing on Monday, collector Shailesh Naval said the district has to date reported 114 patients with SARI and TB collectively. “Of them, eight have thus far tested positive for novel coronavirus,” he said. Naval said a 150-bed Covid Hospital is being readied at the local Dr Panjabrao Deshmukh Medical College and Hospital, where a swab sample testing lab has also been set up and it would become operational in a few days. Naval hinted at bringing down the number of containment zones in the city after May 20. As regards home delivery of liquor in the city, which began from Monday, he said no complaints have been received so far from any quarter regarding violation of the rules. Naval warned of strict action against those found selling expired goods. He assured that citizens stranded in Andhra Pradesh would soon be brought back.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/of-112-covid-ve-in-amravati-8-are-sari-and-tb-patients/articleshow/75815457.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Meerut||Over 2,000 migrants throng Meerut railway station to board trains bound for Bihar, east UP||MEERUT: Social distancing went for a toss after more than 2,000 migrant labourers, mostly from eastern Uttar Pradesh and Bihar, gathered at Meerut railway station to board the Shramik Special trains. Though the local administration had made arrangements for registration and medical examination of the migrants before boarding the train, their plan went sideways as the overwhelming crowd jostled for space on the premises, giving a hard time to the railway staff and policemen deployed to oversee the arrangements. “A batch each of around 1,600 migrants will be boarding the train to Bihar on Monday and Tuesday. Medical screening, masks and refreshments are being provided to the passengers. Another set of 700 migrant laborers and students will be boarding a train for Jammu and Kashmir, which will be originating from Moradabad and taking halt in Meerut. Other migrants from UP are being sent through buses," Anil Dhingra, Meerut district magistrate said. Meanwhile, railways minister Piyush Goyal announced that Shramik special trains for UP have been doubled. So far, the Uttar Pradesh government had given approval for 526 trains. “Held discussion with chief minister Yogi Adityanath and I am glad that he approved to double the number of Shramik special trains for the state. He is very serious about taking back migrant workers of the state to home safely," Goyal tweeted. Special trains are also being operated from Saharanpur and Ghaziabad, which witnesses an influx of migrants in large numbers. In Saharanpur, two special trains bound for east UP and Bihar have already been flagged off, and the administration has secured approval for much such special trains, senior officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/over-2000-migrants-throng-meerut-railway-station-to-board-trains-bound-for-bihar-east-up/articleshow/75813658.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Pune||PMC holds back decision on more relaxations||Pune: The civic body on Monday decided against issuing any orders for more relaxations in the non-containment areas of the city. “We shall not issue new guidelines today (Monday). The decision may be taken on Tuesday,” said Pune municipal commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad told TOI. According to a Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) official, the fresh directives were put on hold as the state government's guidelines were still awaited. Pune district collector Naval Kishore Ram said the extension of lockdown would continue in the district in the present model and only municipal corporations would declare revised containment zones. He issued an order to open the registration offices outside the containment areas. A total of 37 registration offices would now be operational in the district. Ram said those travelling from hotspots like Mumbai and Nagpur to Pune would be quarantined once they entered the district. He also said 80,000 migrant workers had left the district and another 35,000 would leave in the coming days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmc-holds-back-decision-on-more-relaxations/articleshow/75815444.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand high court says migrants’ fundamental rights may be violated if they are not brought back||NAINITAL: The Uttarakhand high court (HC) on Monday held that both the state and the central governments are obligated to bring back the migrants to Uttarakhand because their fundamental rights under Article 21 of the Constitution may be violated if they are left stranded. The division bench of Chief Justice Ramesh Ranganathan and Justice Alok Kumar Verma held that the obligations of the state and Centre to bring back the migrant labourers can be traced to Article 21 since it relates to their life and livelihood. “As the fundamental rights of these persons, under Article 21 of the Constitution of India, may possibly be violated if they are not brought back to the state immediately, and provided the much-needed food and shelter, both the central and the state governments are obligated to forthwith bring back these persons to the state of Uttarakhand,” the bench said in its order. Speaking to TOI, SK Mandal, the counsel appearing for petitioner Preetam Singh, said the HC’s decision holding the rights of migrants to return as the fundamental right under Article 21 is a landmark. “I don’t think any high court in India, till now, has linked the migrant crisis in the country to the fundamental rights. The fundamental rights are guaranteed and enforceable rights. Therefore, the decision by the HC to obligate the Centre and state to bring these people who have been stranded across the country without wages is a guarantee that they will surely be brought back and the government cannot use any excuse against it,” Mandal said. Mandal had argued that though the Uttarakhand government has started the process to bring the stranded people back to the state but only 1,500 people are being brought daily on an average. “Till now over 2.2 lakh people have registered with the government. If we work at this pace, it would take over six months for the government to bring all the willing people back,” he said, adding that most of the people have lost their livelihoods and the delay may possibly result in starvation deaths whose number would be higher than the deaths from coronavirus. The bench has also directed the Union government to file a report detailing the number of trains they have arranged to bring back stranded people and the time within which they would ply. The court further said that since these trains terminate at Dehradun, Haridwar, Udham Singh Nagar and Nainital districts, the state government should provide details about the number of buses deployed to take them to their residences and the arrangements of their stay as well as home quarantine, food and shelter. The HC has given the state and the centre time till Thursday to file their responses when the case will be heard. Meanwhile, the same bench while hearing another PIL challenging the decision to categorise Haridwar in the red zone and Dehradun in orange despite the latter reporting more Covid cases has directed the state government to explain the rationale once the new categorization is released. The case will now be heard on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/hc-says-migrants-fundamental-rights-may-be-violated-if-they-are-not-brought-back/articleshow/75813654.cms||Prashant Jha
May 19, 2020||Hubballi||Five test positive for Covid-19 in Gadag; active cases in district rise to 11||Hubballi: A 12-year-old was among the five individuals who tested positive for the novel coronavirus in Gadag on Monday, pushing the district’s tally of active cases 11. Gadag deputy commissioner MG Hiremath said that, among the five people who were confirmed infected, was a 30-year-old man, who had travelled from Chennai to Shirahatti in the district. “He entered Gadag on May 12, along with 16 others. However, his fellow travellers have all tested negative for the infection,” Hiremath said. The four other individuals, including the 12-year-old child, are residents of localities around Ganji Basaveshwara Circle, which had been under containment after a local had tested positive more than a month ago. All four individuals reportedly contracted the novel coronavirus from previously infected patients. The man who had returned to Shirahatti had been placed in institutional quarantine immediately after his arrival from Chennai, Hiremath added. “He has now been admitted to the Gadag Institute of Medical Sciences. We have also sent throat swab samples of primary and secondary contacts of the four others who have been confirmed infected on Monday. We are contemplating the possibility of quarantining all residents of localities around Ganji Basaveshwara Circle in our facilities,” the DC said. Citing the success that the district administration had in Rangwanwada, where all residents were shifted to the quarantine centre, Hiremath said, “Soon, the entire area was free of Covid-19.” On the other hand, five people have recovered from the infection and have been discharged from GIMS in the district so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/five-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-gadag-active-cases-in-district-rise-to-11/articleshow/75810614.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Pune||Panchshil Foundation, Cyrus Poonawalla tie up to help medics||Pune: Panchshil Foundation on Monday said it has tied up with industrialist Cyrus Poonawalla to provide accommodation to medical staffers, treating Covid-19 patients at Sassoon and Naidu hospitals, at its 201-room Lemon Tree Premier facility near the city railway station. Atul Chordia, director, Panchshil Realty (which runs the foundation), told TOI the hotel was chosen by the district collector and would be funded from the corporate social responsibility proceeds of the group. He said Rs50 lakh will be spent on the initiative. “Our valiant Corona Warriors continue to work tirelessly and serve selflessly and are at the forefront of our battle against this deadly pandemic. As a token of our appreciation and deep gratitude, Panchshil Foundation and Dr Cyrus Poonawalla have made arrangements for doctors and nurses from Sassoon Hospital and Naidu Hospital to stay over and get some much-needed rest and nutrition at the Lemon Tree Premier hotel,” he said. Cyrus Poonawalla, founder and owner Serum Institute of India said, “We intend to keep doing this service during the Covid-19 crisis for at least next two to three months. Our objective is to help out the doctors by providing them with proper accommodation and food.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/panchshil-foundation-cyrus-poonawalla-tie-up-to-help-medics/articleshow/75815446.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Mysuru||Mumbai returnee escapes from hosp, brought back||Shivamogga: One of the Mumbai returnees, who was under treatment at McGann Hospitalin here, had escaped to his hometown in Chikkamagaluru. However, the authorities brought him back to the hospital. The man has been quarantined in Shivamogga as he entered the district on his way from Mumbai to Chikkamagaluru. Though his samples have tested negative for the infection, the man is in quarantine as per protocol. Sources said the man fled the hospital under the cover of darkness. After coming to know of his absence at the ward, the authorities traced him to his hometown and got him back. However, Shrivamogga DC K B Sivakumar downplayed the incident. Speaking on the cases, the DC said 916 people have been quarantined at the hospital, while 64 have been home-quarantined. About 50 residential schools and hotels, seven schools in rural areas have been identified as quarantine facilities. Samples of 802 people who had arrived from different districts have been tested, and the results are awaited, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/mumbai-returnee-escapes-from-hosp-brought-back/articleshow/75813177.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Family with 7-month-old makes it safely to Madhya Pradesh||HYDERABAD: Amid tragic stories of migrant families facing ill-fated consequences on their arduous way back home, the safe return of a six-member-family with four kids including a seven-month-old child from Hyderabad to Ashoknagar in Madhya Pradesh, comes as a huge sigh of relief. Kamal Singh Adivasi and his family reached their village on Monday morning after 400 kilometres of walking and hitching rides on trucks. “We could not even find milk for my seven-month-old son on our way. For two nights, my children slept on an empty stomach,” said the 39-year-old. “We came across a lot of good people who would give us water and some biscuits for the children. But there were also some people who did not want to help fearing they would contract the virus from us. A few policemen were angry that we were going back home during the lockdown,” Singh said. When asked if he would come back to Hyderabad after the lockdown, Singh said: “There is no way we are going to come back. Even when there was no work during the lockdown, our landlord demanded rent. We used to starve to manage our expenses. Here in the village, at least my children will not have to sleep on an empty stomach.” Singh and his wife worked as construction workers in Hyderabad for two years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/family-with-7-mth-old-makes-it-safely-to-mp/articleshow/75814841.cms||Moulika.KV
May 19, 2020||Pune||PMC’s nod to dialysis centres to restart operations||PUNE: All the dialysis centres in the Pune municipal limits have been allowed to resume operations, while adhering to all precautions to check Covid-19 spread. According to Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) officials, many centres operating across the city had shut down due to the Covid-19 spread. “The centres are providing life-saving treatment and should operate. So, we have given them instructions not to stop their services. Steps like usage of masks, hand gloves and sanitisers is a must,” a senior civic official said. He said the patients visiting these centres should also take proper care and should go for a regular check-up for Covid-19 infection. PMC has been offering dialysis to needy patients at Rs 400. Patients suffering from renal failure have to spend Rs 1,200 to Rs 1,800 in private hospitals to undergo follow-up dialysis. The problem is compounded by the fact that kidney failure is incurable. This puts a perennial load on the patient and his family.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmcs-nod-to-dialysis-centres-to-restart-ops/articleshow/75815450.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: This doctor’s timely decision helped detect 46 cases in Shivajinagar||BENGALURU: A decision taken by the BBMP’s east zone health officer, Dr A Siddappaji, to test employees of a hotel serving as an institutional quarantine in Shivajinagar for Covid-19 led to detection of 46 cases in the locality. While one of the hotel staffer, a 34-year-old man, was found infected on May 5, 45 of his contacts, all residents of the building where he lived in Shivajinagar, have tested positive till Monday. A nurse staying in the quarantine had tested positive on April 22. “We just decided to conduct a routine test on the hotel employees. None of them had any symptoms. But I thought why not test them just to be doubly sure. Some of the hotel employees resisted. Four of them volunteered and one of them (P653) was found positive. The positive result was a shocker for us,” said Dr Siddappaji, 49, whose timely decision has helped in early detection of the virus spread in Shivajinagar. All other employees of the hotel were later tested and found negative. BBMP officials, meanwhile, began tracing contacts of P653. The hotel staffer lived in a building on Chandni Chowk Road and there were 72 other residents in it, all of whom were shifted to a quarantine centre the day he tested positive. All of them were isolated and tested according to protocol. As on May 18, Shivajinagar containment zone has 46 Covid-19 patients, all residents of this particular building. “In Karnataka this must be the only instance where all 46 cases of a containment zone are from one building. It’s a three-storey structure standing on a plot measuring not more than 40 feet by 60 feet. They are all daily wage labourers. Most of them had no work during the lockdown and stayed home,” he added. As of now, results of eight residents of the building are pending. Dr Siddappaji believes the nurse may not be the source of infection for P653. “His job was to mop and clean the hotel. Doctors and nurses were quarantined in the hotel and they were extremely careful as they were all aware. He may not have been infected by the nurse. We don’t know any other source yet,” he said. The BBMP health officer credits the early detection of cases to his team and discussions with the Palike’s epidemiologist (east zone), Parashuram Pujari. When Dr Siddappaji goes out in the containment zone for contact tracing, the mask is his only weapon and he says that’s enough to stay safe. Keen on cluster sample testing Dr Siddappaji’s team is keen on taking up cluster sample testing in Shivajinagar for which a mobile testing unit is needed. “These are overcrowded areas. We can’t take all of them from here to a testing centre. We are waiting for the mobile van and other essentials required for testing. More cases may be detected with cluster sample testing,” he added. According to Dr Siddappaji, the BBMP has now decided to test employees of all institutions serving as quarantine facilities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/this-docs-timely-decision-helped-detect-46-cases-in-shivajinagar/articleshow/75813839.cms||Sunitha Rao R
May 19, 2020||Bengaluru||Wedding planners to resume work with small ceremonies, trendy masks||BENGALURU: With the spread of coronavirus, Indian weddings may no longer be the same. While in the short run, people organised virtual weddings or postponed them, in the long run, the pomp and show that Indian weddings are known for may give way to smaller, intimate and personalised ceremonies. Some wedding planners say people have started asking them to organise smaller ceremonies with limited guests and other safety measures in place. Soumya Raghu, co-founder of Taarini Weddings, says they will plan future weddings as per government guidelines and will make sure every person entering the venue is tracked and checked for safety. “Our primary concern will be the guests as well as our team, which will be exposed to the crowd. Apart from social distancing, we will also have strict intervals between people entering the venue,” Soumya, who has a wedding planned for the next month, said. Post-Covid-19 weddings will need sanitising, masks and more but without dampening the spirit of the occasion. According to Soumya, this may mean innovatively designed face masks, personalised notes from the couple asking guests to use sanitisers in cute packages and other novel methods. “We will try to give masks a fun twist,” she says. There might even be quirky masks with ‘Bride’s family’ or ‘Groom’s friends’ on the lines of badges worn at some weddings. Pradeep Gowriraju of Happy Retreats, which offers celebration getaways for weddings, birthdays and other events, agrees that the new situation has led to unique scenarios. “Social distancing will figure in our agreements with clients from now on. We will be looking forward to hosting socially responsible clients as it’s a matter of health and safety. We will have a gap between bookings to ensure the venue and rooms are well sanitised. The number of guests will also be limited,” Pradeep says, adding they already have bookings for their speciality, off-beat weddings, in the coming months in three locations. “Many who had budgets of Rs 15-20 lakh are now spend around Rs 5-6 lakh for these smaller weddings, which is in fact giving them the feel of a destination wedding,” he adds. There are some positives too. For one, intimate weddings are helping families bond like they would on such occasions decades ago. “Families are coming together to set the mantap and decorate the venue. It has turned into a bonding exercise,” says Pradeep. However, there are some like Divya Vithika Wedding Planners, which isn’t encouraging any weddings till November or December. “We have to wait and watch the situation till July or August. The tricky part is we have some clients whose families stay abroad, and they are unsure if they can travel,” Vithika Agarwal, co-founder of the company, says. She suggests local weddings by November-December 2020 and March 2021 for international clients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/wedding-planners-to-resume-work-with-small-ceremonies-trendy-masks/articleshow/75814285.cms||Farheen Hussain
May 19, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: 35 labourers in Hongasandra recover from Covid-19, some leave for Bihar||BENGALURU: The residents of Hongasandra area, which had been sealed for the last 25 days after 35 people tested positive for Covid-19, will be relieved if no case is reported in the next three days. All the 35 patients have recovered and some of them have started returning to their home state, Bihar. As on Monday, 206 recovered persons and their primary and secondary contacts returned to Bihar by trains. The spotlight was on Hongasandra after a labourer from Bihar got infected; the source is still not clear. Dr Suresh GK, medical officer, Bommanahalli, said the authorities responded swiftly to curb the spread of the virus. “The first case was reported on April 21 and 256 migrant labourers were quarantined immediately. Though none tested positive in the first test, later the cases started to report. By then, all the primary and secondary contacts were under quarantine which helped make Hongasandra a Covid-free area now. Also, police sealed down the area in no time and BBMP and the labour department provided the workers with ration,” he said. Officials said the people in the locality followed rules which also yielded results. BBMP commissioner BH Anil Kumar said the migrants, who were the primary contacts, were quarantined in a hotel and could leave if they tested negative twice.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/35-labourers-in-hongasandra-recover-some-leave-for-bihar/articleshow/75814395.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana HC bench rebuts allegations of bias by fee committee chief||Hyderabad: The Telangana high court on Monday put to rest all speculation over a controversial memo filed by former judge and current chairman of Telangana Admissisons and Fee Regulatory Committee (TAFRC) Justice P Swaroop Reddy against sitting judge Justice MS Ramachandra Rao alleging bias. The memo sought recusal of Justice Rao from hearing a case that challenged his fee hike order pertaining to post-graduate (PG) medical courses. The court clarified that while the actions of the former judge to attribute motives to a sitting judge was fit enough to launch a criminal contempt case against the former, it had no such plan as it did “not want to display the same kind of unacceptable behaviour.” “By employing intemperate language and by making scurrilous, false and motivated allegations, the former judge displayed behaviour that is unbecoming of a judge,” the high court said. The division bench, comprising Justice Ramachandra Rao and Justice K Lakshman, which dealt with the memo filed by the TAFRC chairman said that filing the memo amounts to interference in administration of justice. The bench while refuting the allegations made by Justice Reddy, recused itself from the case and referred it to Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan. The CJ is likely to take up the case on Tuesday, according to Sandeep Reddy Sama, counsel for the aggrieved students. The bench also passed an order charging Justice Reddy with resorting to bench hunting (a bid by litigant to manage the matter being listed and heard by a particular judge or bench to ensure a favourable order) to have the case removed from the current bench. “We did not want this case. We heard it only because the Chief Justice, as master of the roster, has sent it to us after marking it as an urgent matter,” the bench said. The bench in its order penned by Justice Rao found fault with the memo filed by the TAFRC chairman and said in his capacity as a quasi-judicial authority, he cannot in law defend his decisions personally before the high court by filing memos and acting as a private litigant. “A statutory authority like the chairman cannot even challenge the adverse orders passed against him. The harsh language used by the chairman in his memo is unbecoming and not expected and goes beyond all levels of propriety,” the bench said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-bench-rebuts-allegations-of-bias-by-fee-committee-chief/articleshow/75814830.cms||Sagar Kumar Mutha
May 19, 2020||Hyderabad||V Hanumantha Rao to CM: Clarify stance on uranium||HYDERABAD: The Telangana Congress on Monday demanded chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao to come clean on the issue of uranium exploration work in Nallamala forest area. AICC secretary V Hanumantha Rao on Monday said the Centre has sent a letter to the state government seeking details of green cover, wildlife and other information in the forest area, raising suspicion that uranium exploration works have commenced again. The letter was sent to the state government on April 23.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/vhr-to-cm-clarify-stance-on-uranium/articleshow/75814831.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Vijayawada||Poll bonds contributed 90% of political parties’ income||Vijayawada: YSRC has the second highest income — Rs 181 crore — amongst regional political parties for 2018-19 financial year, but nearly Rs 100 crore of its income came from ‘unknown sources’, the latest report by Association for Democratic Reforms (ADR) and National Election Watch (NEW) says. TDP, which is among the top four in accruing income, has shown a funding of Rs 114 crore, including Rs 37.7 crore from unknown sources. This translates to almost 46 per cent funds originating from unknown sources for the two major regional parties in Andhra Pradesh. Of the Rs 100 crore ‘unknown income’ of YSRC, Rs 99.8 crore was generated through electoral bonds. The same bonds provided a funding of Rs 27.5 crore income from unknown sources to the TDP, while around Rs 10 crore was raised through voluntary contributions. ADR prepared the report based on income tax returns and donation statements filed by the regional political parties with the Election Commission of India. Unknown sources include donations via electoral bonds, sale of coupons, relief fund, miscellaneous income, voluntary contributions, contributions from meetings etc. As per the report, details of donors of voluntary contributions are not available in public domain. For its analysis, ADR took into account 52 regional (recognized) parties. But only 26 of them were found to have filed both their annual audit and contribution reports. And of the 26, discrepancies were found in the declarations of TRS, SAD and LJP, which left only 23 parties in the analysis list. BJD, the ruling party in Odisha, topped the income chart for 2018-19 at Rs 249 crore, of which Rs 213 crore came from unknown sources. The total income of the 23 regional parties stood at Rs 885 crore, out of which funding from unknown sources was Rs 481 crore, including Rs 436 crore through electoral bonds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/poll-bonds-contributed-90-of-political-parties-income/articleshow/75813672.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
May 19, 2020||Vadodara||Vadodara: Cops turn cooks to feed poor, homeless||VADODARA: His daughter died of cancer last year so he donated groceries to police department in her memory. The cops appreciated his gesture and used the groceries in police kitchen that took off last month at city police headquarters. When they began the police kitchen to feed the poor and homeless a month ago, the cops were apprehensive if they would be able to sustain it. But the police kitchen has now turned completely into community kitchen. “During our regular patrolling, we saw many homeless going hungry and that was when the idea of starting police kitchen struck us. We roped in eight women cops who began cooking food daily at city police headquarters after finishing their duty hours,” said Saroj Kumari, DCP (administration and HQ). Initially, senior cops shelled out money from their own pockets to buy the groceries. “We were not sure how we would sustain the kitchen as it required funds to feed hundreds of poor persons daily. But when the word about police kitchen spread, Barodians started coming forward and donating groceries and vegetables to police,” Kumari told TOI. “Some citizens of Sanskarinagri donated either groceries or money to police instead of celebrating their birthday parties or anniversaries. In fact, now all the groceries used in our kitchen come from people. We are now running a community kitchen,” she added. The cops prepare food for nearly 600 people daily and distribute it in evening. “The lady cops, who cook the food, pack it and visit different areas for distributing it every evening. We never thought that people would donate so graciously for our initiative. We will continue feeding the poor till the lockdown is in effect,” Kumari said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/cops-turn-cooks-to-feed-poor-homeless/articleshow/75812050.cms||Tushar Tere
May 19, 2020||Pune||Retail price of onion plummets in Pune||PUNE: The retail price of onion has dipped to Rs15-20 per kg in most parts of the city as against Rs35-40 a kg three weeks ago. Only in a few pockets, retailers and vendors are selling onions for Rs30-40 per kg despite its wholesale and retail prices dipping. The reason behind this fluctuation in onion prices is lack of demand, less supply of the produce outside the state and closure of the Agriculture produce market committee (APMC) markets. Babasaheb Bibve, the head of onion and potato division of the Market Yard, told TOI, “Many restaurants, the bulk buyers of onions, are still closed. Besides, mess and small food outlets are yet to open.” Sandip Pokale, an onion grower from Khed tehsil, said, “Since the APMC markets are closed, we are unable to sell bags of onions in large quantities.” The rainfall in the past few days added to the onion growers’ woes. “A fortnight ago, I had stored 50 sacks of onions, but over 10 sacks got spoiled,” said Changdev Barkade from Shirur tehsil. A commission agent from the Market Yard said, “Since the lockdown, the prices of onions have started falling.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/retail-price-of-onion-plummets/articleshow/75815461.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Home is not a place, it is a feeling||CHENNAI: For years, they have set out from their villages far away from the city hoping to make their lives better. The Chennai Central railway station has been their gateway to a better future, but for the past few days, the red-brick building towering across the wide road has been witness to the anxiety and suffering of thousands of guest workers. For these workers, stranded across the city without jobs, money and a square meal, all roads lead to the station, again. Men, women and families from neighbouring districts such as Kancheepuram have been walking towards the station hoping that the ‘news’ they had heard or read on social media would be true – a train is waiting for them and home was just another journey away. Neeraj Kumar Singh, 22, who hails from a nondescript village near Hajipur in Bihar, came to Chennai a year ago to work at a tiles company in Thoraipakkam. Later, he shifted to another employer in Kancheepuram. His wife, Muskaan Devi and their three-year-old daughter Arohi, joined him months later. On Sunday, the couple walked more than 70km with their luggage and daughter from Kancheepuram hoping that they will be accommodated in any of the trains leaving for Bihar. The family spent the night at the station but the morning did not bring any good tidings. “I do not know the language. I do not know whom to approach. Some are asking me to fill a form. Some are telling that a message will be sent to my mobile if I register. We decided to walk to Central so that we can get help,” Neeraj said. Brothers Sajarul Sardar and Moinul Sardar paid Rs 500 to an autorickshaw driver to ferry them from Madhavaram to Central railway station. “We have to reach Murshidabad (West Bengal). Our train is on Tuesday. But we came today as we are not aware of the timings and do not want to risk missing out,” Sajarul said. But while the Greater Chennai Corporation has asked its zonal officials to set up camps to house the guest workers until their trains are confirmed, the message has not reached the workers and several of continue to throng the railway station. “It must be understood that even though there are a few trains operated every day from May 6, it is in no way a proportional response to the colossal problem at hand,” city based NGO Arappor Iyakkam said and demanded that the Central and state governments co-ordinate and run at least 25 to 30 trains, special flights from each state to ensure that lakhs of stranded guest workers go home with dignity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/home-is-not-a-place-it-is-a-feeling/articleshow/75815477.cms||Srikkanth D
May 19, 2020||Aurangabad||Vegetable markets to remain shut in Aurangabad till May 20||AURANGABAD: Civic chief Astik Kumar Pander on Sunday issued a notification stating that all vegetable markets and stalls will be closed in the city till May 20. The notification added that supply of vegetables directly to residential areas will be allowed for permit holders. The notification, dated May 17, stated that assembly of five or more people may lead to the transmission of coronavirus. Therefore, as per the guidelines issued by the state ministry of health, a decision on keeping strict lockdown in the city until May 20 has been taken. Subsequently, all traditional vegetable markets and the new spots where the Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) had allowed vegetable and fruit markets to function during the lockdown will remain shut till Wednesday. “Housing societies can get direct supply of vegetables from registered vegetable vendors. There would be no prohibition on home delivery of milk, fruits, vegetables and other essential commodities,” the notification stated. Milk processing, distribution and sale is kept out of the list of restricted activities. The functioning of medical services and drug stores will continue as before.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/vegetable-markets-to-remain-shut-in-aurangabad-till-may-20/articleshow/75812509.cms||Arpita Sharad
May 19, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Odisha gets into survival mode as Cyclone Amphan threatens widespread damage||BHUBANESWAR: In the middle of a pandemic that has put the world on edge, the state government on Monday started evacuating people from low lying areas in northern parts of Odisha as Cyclone Amphan developed into a Super Cyclone and threatens to cause extensive damage in at least five districts even though it may spare the state further misery by making landfall between the coasts of West Bengal and Bangladesh. Report from the India Meteorology Department (IMD) stated that after intensifying into a Super Cyclone inside the sea, the storm is moving at a speed of four km per hour and will cross the coasts of West Bengal and Bangladesh between Digha and Hatiya Islands (Bangladesh) close to Sundarbans on Wednesday afternoon as an extremely severe cyclonic storm with maximum sustained wind speed of 165-175 kmph and gusting to 185 kmph. “The district administrations have started evacuating people. Hopefully, all the vulnerable people will be shifted to safer places by Tuesday evening,” special relief commissioner (SRC) Pradeep Jena said. The government has set a target of evacuating 11 lakh people. On Monday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi chaired a high-level meeting to review the response measures against the cyclone. Sources said DG NDRF S N Pradhan made a presentation on the evacuation plan. He said 25 NDRF teams have been deployed on the ground while 12 others are ready in reserve and 24 other NDRF teams are also on standby in different parts of the country. Home minster Amit Shah, principal adviser to the Prime Minister, P K Sinha, and cabinet secretary Rajiv Gauba were present in the meeting. “Cyclone is a multi-hazard disaster with heavy rain, strong wind, high tidal surge and flood. Five coastal districts of Odisha including Balasore, Bhadrak, Jagatsinghpur, Kendrapada and Mayurbhanj may suffer extensive damage. So, evacuation of people is required,” said Mrutyunjay Mohapatra, director general of IMD. The government has asked collectors of Balasore, Bhadrak, Kendrapada and Jagatsinghpur to evacuate all people living in thatched, asbestos houses, huts or in low lying areas. The wind speed will gradually increase to 75 to 85 kmph and gusting to 95 kmph from Wednesday morning along and off north Odisha coast. It will gradually increase, thereafter, with wind speed of 110 to 120 kmph and gusting to 135 kmph along the northern districts causing heavy rain and damage to kutcha houses and electricity poles and may disrupt road and rail communication due to uprooting of trees along its path, the IMD’s report said. Though Odisha has the experience of evacuating people prior to cyclones in the past, this time it is more complex given the social distancing norms that need to be followed owing to the Covid-19 outbreak and the use of cyclone shelters as quarantine facilities for migrants returning from other states. Of the 809 cyclone shelters in 12 districts which are likely to be affected, 242 were used as temporary medical centres to quarantine recent returnees to the state. As many as 47,725 people were quarantined in these centres. The government on Monday sent 11,525 of them back home to remain in isolation there as their samples have returned negative for Covid-19. This has helped in vacating 44 centres. The rest 36,200 have been put in 198 shelters. It has made 611 multipurpose cyclone shelters available to accommodate evacuees. “This apart, 7,092 buildings have been identified which will be used if needed,” the SRC added. As many as 13 teams of National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and 15 teams of Odisha Disaster Rapid Action Force (ODRAF) and 217 units of fire service personnel have been deployed to oversee evacuation and for possible relief and rescue. The state government on Monday deputed four senior IAS officers in four coastal districts to provide guidance and support to the district administrations in cyclone management. “The Odisha government is taking the cyclone very seriously and ensuring highest level of preparedness. Steps are being taken in coordination with the Centre and IMD. All 12 coastal districts have been kept on alert for any kind of emergency situation,” said chief secretary Asit Kumar Tripathy. Meanwhile, work on Puri Rath Yatra chariots will remain suspended on Tuesday and Wednesday on account of the cyclone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/state-gets-into-survival-mode-as-cyclone-amphan-threatens-widespread-damage/articleshow/75813688.cms||Ashok Pradhan
May 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Get facts on Andhra project: Congress to BJP||HYDERABAD: AICC secretary S A Sampath Kumar on Monday said that BJP state president Bandi Sanjay should obtain factual information before making allegations against the Congress. Referring to Sanjay’s comments that Congress and TRS were responsible for Pothireddypadu episode, Sampath said all irrigation projects in Telangana and AP were constructed by Congress governments. He added that the stimulus packages announced by Centre are just ‘number games.’||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/get-facts-on-andhra-project-cong-to-bjp/articleshow/75814836.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Ahmedabad||Contract workers of AMTS, BRTS seek salary payment||AHMEDABAD: Contract workers of the Ahmedabad Municipal Transport Service (AMTS) and the Bus Rapid Transit System (BRTS) have requested the transport agencies to pay their salaries for March and April. Sources said that the workers, who are posted at bus stations, have not been paid their salaries by the contractors. They also held a protest at the AMC office seeking their due salaries. The Gujarat Mazdoor Sabha has issued a notice to transport managers, asking them to immediately pay the due to the 1,000-odd contract workers who are employed with the AMTS. The AMTS has paid salaries to its employees who are on its roll, but the 1,000-odd contract workers are not paid their salaries for two months. The notice issued by the secretary, Ambrish Patel, states, “Since 21/3/2020 as per the directions of Government of India and state of Gujarat and even municipal commissioner, the AMTS has stopped running all its regular buses due to Covid-19 and has not allowed workmen to perform their regular work. The government of India and Gujarat government have issued directive to pay wages to all the workmen employed. Despite this directive, AMC and AMTS have denied wages to all the contract conductors and drivers for March and April 2020.” Chairman of the AMTS, Atul Bhavsar, said, “These are contract workers who are paid only if they are given any work for that particular day. In lockdown, these employees have not come to the office. However, AMC is trying to make an effort to pay these employees of AMTS.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/contract-workers-of-amts-brts-seek-salary-payment/articleshow/75814838.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Pune||Pune: 4,000 companies set to open, but labour shortage an issue||PUNE: Over the last three days, about 4,000 companies in the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation limits have received permission to resume operations. About 10,000 micro, small, medium and large companies operate across the 181sqkm spread of the municipal limits. An estimated two lakh people work in these enterprises. “About 60,000 employees have been given permission to come to work, and many have reported for duty,” Sadashiv Survase, joint director of industries, said. While the government is still taking stock of how many reported to work on Monday, vehicular movement on streets was an indication of businesses slowly opening up. However, for the industrial units that have resumed operation, labour shortage is a big problem as many workers have left for their hometowns. “A large number of migrant workers has returned to different parts of the state. So there will be manpower shortage,” Sandeep Belsare, president, Pimpri Chinchwad Small Scale Industries Association, said. For micro and small enterprises, particularly, this is likely to be a challenge over the next two months. “We decided to start and called our workers. However, only four out of 40 have turned up,” said K Reddy, who runs a small factory in Bhosari area. There are also other problems for the small and medium enterprises. “We understand that some of these problems are genuine, but we have to do it phase wise. Some companies are managing with carpooling, among other measures,” Survase said. He said big companies like Tata Motors, Pudumjee Paper Products, Thermax, Finolex Industries, Alfa-Laval and Sandvik, among others, have resumed operations. Survase said there is a similar demand from Pune Municipal Corporation-based companies too, many of which are part of the service industry. “If the state government relaxes the norms, we will allow some of the 5,000 units outside containment zones in PMC to open shop too,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/4k-cos-in-set-to-open-but-labour-crunch-an-issue/articleshow/75815456.cms||Satyanarayan Iyer
May 19, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Visakhapatnam: MoEF panel to hear styrene leak petition||HYDERABAD: The ministry of environment and forests (MoEF) expert appraisal committee will hear a petition on Tuesday on the violation of Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) notification by LG Polymers India in the Vizag styrene leak on May 7. The MoEF said the video conference meeting will discuss allegations of violation of terms of reference for manufacturing polystyrene and expandable polystyrene and expanding total capacity from 415 tonnes per day (TPD) to 655 TPD by LG Polymers. The MoEF has asked the authorised representative of LG Polymers to produce salient features of the project, related environmental issues and the proposed environmental management plan. A case of culpable homicide not amounting to murder is already booked against LG Polymers. Environment conservationist and general secretary of Jana Sena Bolisetty Satyanarayana said, “ MoEF shall cancel the terms of reference for the expansion of the LG Polymers unit and also clearances given previously if it fails to satisfy all the norms as per Indian environmental laws. Proper enquiry has be to be done and also to find out the composition of the gas that leaked. According to expert opinions, it mixed with some other harmful chemicals.” Meanwhile, officials said shifting of styrene from the area of the accident would be completed by Monday morning. KBS Prasad, deputy chief inspector of factories, Visakhapatnam said, “We have so far shifted 8,000 tones of styrene monomer from the LG Polymers site. We are shifting 5,000 tones by Monday morning. The styrene will be taken to Vizag port and from there to South Korea. As people have already returned to their houses, we are ensuring safety. Regarding probe, we are assisting the government-appointed committee.” Police investigation into the accident, however, is yet to pick up pace. Dwaraka zone assistant commissioner of police RVSN Murthy said, “I took over the investigation into the case of culpable homicide temporarily as the West DCP is on leave. We are waiting for the report of inspector of factories on the issue.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/moef-panel-to-hear-styrene-leak-petition/articleshow/75794633.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
May 19, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Doctor couple returns to ‘retire’ Covid-19||KOZHIKODE: A senior doctor couple who served in top posts in the state health department has come out of retirement to be part of the Covid-19 battle in Wayanad. Dr A Sukumaran, a former state epidemiologist, has offered his services to help the district surveillance officer in contact tracing at the Covid-19 control room while his wife Dr Nita Vijayan, an ex-state programme manager of NHM, is coordinating disease prevention and surveillance in the tribal belts at Thirunelly. The couple had been working in Wayanad from 1985, and Dr Nita was the district medical officer for several years. She also served as an additional director (vigilance) in the health department after they moved to Thiruvananthapuram. “We had returned last year to Wayanad and decided to spend our retirement life here,” Dr Sukumaran said. “But now when the district is under the threat of Covid-19, we felt we should give a helping hand to our colleagues in the health department who are putting up a brave fight. As we have long years of service here we know every nook and corner of the district and the intimacy and bonds with tribespeople can be a crucial factor to make them comply with the directives to be followed to prevent Covid-19 spread,” he added. Though the authorities have reportedly offered them a ‘small remuneration’, they have said it ‘is not an issue’. Dr Nita, who has been visiting the tribal colonies near Panavally where many are under observation after featuring in the contact list of a shop owner who tested positive last week, said that knowing the likes and dislikes of the tribal community can help make the right interventions. “There is a good team of the health department in Wayanad and we have just volunteered to join them. The situation in Wayanad needs high vigil as there are lots of people coming to the district from other states and also from foreign countries. “Also, the vulnerable tribal community needs special attention and efforts are to protect them at the best possible way,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/doc-couple-returns-to-retire-covid/articleshow/75812543.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Pune||Pune: Public transport’s revival unlikely in immediate future||PUNE: The residents of the city will have to wait longer for public transport to resume operation. The Union government guidelines have given relaxations to public transport vehicles, but state transport minister Anil Parab told TOI that the focus was on revival of intra-state transport with the help of buses at the moment. "We are also preparing a plan to start intra-district transportation. It will be a restricted and demand-driven system. Each district will be contacted to find out the number of buses they want. As far as PMPML or autorickshaws are concerned, no decision has been taken yet," he said. "We haven’t received any instructions from the state government regarding plying of PMPML buses," a transport body official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/no-public-transportation-yet-in-pune-as-state-govt-focuses-on-intra-state-transportation/articleshow/75815468.cms||Joy Sengupta
May 19, 2020||Pune||Cab aggregator’s new safety rules for rides||PUNE: Uber on Monday announced several steps it would undertake to ensure safe rides for passengers. The cab aggregator is running only its “UberMedic” service in Pune at present. Senior officials stated that several additions had been made to their application. Sachin Kansal, the global senior director of product management at Uber, said, “Before drivers go online, they would be told to confirm via a new ‘Go Online Checklist’ that they have taken safety measures and wearing masks. A similar checklist has been compiled for riders.” He said, “We are advising riders not to sit in the front seat. Only two riders will be allowed in a car.” Before drivers can accept trips, they will have to take a selfie with a mask on. Uber’s new technology will verify it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cab-aggregators-new-rules-for-rides/articleshow/75815480.cms||Joy Sengupta
May 19, 2020||Nagpur||Campaign ‘Stay at home’ in Wardha for people returning from other districts||WARDHA: A special public awareness campaign ‘Stay at home and be a corona warrior’ was launched on Monday in the district where four Covid-19 positive patients were found in a day. Under the campaign people who have returned from other districts with government permission will be appealed to follow home quarantine rules. Administration is giving a letter to the families asking them to stay at home to protect their life as well as of others. “This is a battle against coronavirus and if you stay at home, then you are a soldier,” the letter states. Under this campaign 7,312 families were approached on Monday. In the last seven days, more than 7,000 people who were stranded in Covid-19 affected districts, mostly Mumbai and Pune, have entered Wardha. On Monday, three persons who had come to Arvi from Navi Mumbai were found positive. One person who had come to Vinoba Bhave Rural Hospital, Sawangi, for treatment from Dhamangaon tested positive. District collector Vivek Bhimanwar requested all officers and people’s representatives to implement the campaign. MP Ramdas Tadas, MLAs Pankaj Bhoyar and Samir Kunawar, ZP president Sarita Gakhare as well as other people’s representatives, Bhimanwar, SP Basavaraj Teli, ZP CEO Sachin Ombase, all SDOs, and other officers visited families under home quarantine and appealed to them to stay at home and follow government guidelines. The collector said that the number of people returning to the district is increasing daily. He also issued an order warning that if anyone bearing the home quarantine stamp is found at public place, a fine of Rs10,000 will be charged. Municipal council presidents Atul Tarale, Prem Basantani, Prashant Savvalakhe, all three sub-divisional officers Suresh Bagle, Harish Dharmik, Chandrabhan Khandait, all sub-divisional police officers, all tehsildars, deputy tehsildars, agriculture officers, panchayat samiti block development officer, panchayat samiti chairperson and members, Rotary club members, members of the Red Cross Society, as well as all staff at the village level participated in the campaign.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/campaign-stay-at-home-in-wardha-for-people-returning-from-other-districts/articleshow/75815494.cms||Balwant Dhage
May 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Human rights group felicitates hospital staff||SECUNDERABAD: The 40-odd medical staff at the Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel Cantonment Hospital at Bollarum was felicitated by a human rights group on Monday. The doctors, nurses and paramedics were honoured by the Delhi-based International Human Rights Commission (IHRC) for their outstanding services during the lockdown. The rights team garlanded them and had distributed fruits to the hospital staff. A festive atmosphere was witnessed at the 30-bed hospital which was renovated in 2016.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/human-rights-group-felicitates-hosp-staff/articleshow/75814850.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Ahmedabad||Panel to finalize rules for medical admissions||AHMEDABAD: After the declaration of Class XII (science) board results on Sunday, the admission committee will soon start the process to finalize rules for admissions in medical colleges, according to sources. The Admission Committee for Professional Undergraduate Medical Educational Courses will initiate the process at a time when the NEET (UG) 2020 are yet to be conducted. The admissions to undergraduate courses in medical, dental, ayurvedic and homoeopathic courses are conducted based on the scores obtained in NEET (UG) which will be held on July 26. The results are expected to be out only in August, only after which the committee can start the admission process, said sources. More than 82,000 students from Gujarat have registered for taking the NEET. The examination was earlier scheduled to be held on May 3. It was deferred in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. The rules being finalized will largely be the same as last year, according to sources. They include the criterion for domicile and quota for the Economically Weaker Sections (EWS). The Gujarat government had approved a 25% seat hike in medical, engineering and other professional courses last year. The decision was in line with the Centre’s directive to implement the 10% EWS quota by ensuring that it did not take away the existing SC, ST and OBC quotas. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/panel-to-finalize-rules-for-medical-admissions/articleshow/75814856.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Ahmedabad||GSHSEB clarifies about viral fake message||AHMEDABAD: A fake message that went viral on social media claiming that Class XII (general stream) results will be published on May 19 caused so much confusion that the GSHSEB was forced to issue a statement clarifying the message was fake. The Gujarat Secondary and Higher Secondary Education Board (GSHSEB) stated that dates of the results, when finalized, will be posted on the GSHSEB’s official website. In the press release, the board authorities have urged the people including teachers and school authorities to not fall prey to such ‘misinformation’. On May 17, the board declared results of Class XII (Science) students. An advertisement by the board about the declaration of results on Sunday was published recently in newspapers. “Some miscreants photoshopped a copy, changed the date to May 19 in the advertisement, and replaced Class XII Science stream with Class XII general stream. This message was circulated in social media today, creating a lot of chaos,” said a source in the GSHSEB. School authorities, teachers and education department officials were on Monday flooded with calls from anxious students and parents who wanted to verify the authenticity of the social media message, the source added. The state education board on Sunday declared Class XII (science) stream results with a pass percentage of 71.34%. Over 1.6 lakh students appeared for the exams. The board exam results have been delayed this year due to Covid-19 pandemic and the lockdown situation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gshseb-clarifies-about-viral-fake-message/articleshow/75814847.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Odisha allows all govt offices to operate with full quota of staff from Tuesday||BHUBANESWAR: From Tuesday, government offices will start operating with full quota of employees while there will be almost no restriction on movement of vehicles within Odisha as the state came out with its own guidelines for lockdown 4.0, which will be in effect till the end of the month. Unlike in earlier lockdowns when only employees of certain critical and semi-critical departments were asked to come for work, and that too by rotation, now everybody will have to report for work. However, those showing symptoms of influenza or severe acquired respiratory syndromes and those staying in containment zones have been asked to stay away from office. “Employees who are unwell will have to apply for leave while those in containment zones have to report to their authorities,” a government order stated. Chief secretary Asit Tripathy said there will be very limited restrictions during the present lockdown except in containment zones. “However, people have to abide by social distancing norms. The government will strictly enforce rules regarding masks and ban on spitting in public places,” Tripathy said. As per the government order, sports complexes and stadiums can open for sportspersons, but not visitors. Kalinga Stadium in Bhubaneswar will open for training of athletes. Inter-state movement of private vehicles, taxis, cabs and buses will be allowed with mutual consent with other states. Intra-state movement of vehicles will be allowed following social distancing norms, the government order stated. Temporary medical centres, Covid care centres and Covid hospitals will continue to be considered containment zones and would remain out of bound for unauthorised people. In a key change in division of zones as part of the containment strategy, panchayats will be the administrative units while deciding red, yellow or green zones depending on the positive cases, unlike districts in the earlier lockdowns. “The district collectors and municipal commissioners will decide on such zones in localities under their jurisdictions,” the chief secretary added. While educational institutions will remain closed, the government will promote distance and online learning. Cinemas and malls will continue to stay closed. Similarly, religious places will remain out of bounds for devotees. Restaurants will remain closed for dining but can deliver takeaways while standalone shops can stay open except in containment zones. As far as liquor shops are concerned, the government has not yet taken a decision on reopening them, but sources said it is not in a hurry. “The government may take a call after the cyclone,” a senior government official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/state-allows-all-govt-offices-to-operate-with-full-quota-of-staff-from-today/articleshow/75813702.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Pune||No new addition to PMPML’s fleet this year||PUNE: The Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML) will not get any new buses this year, senior officials of the city transport body said. “This year, we cannot even think of procuring new buses. We are dependent on funds from the Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad municipal corporations and both bodies are battling Covid-19 and need a lot of funds,” a PMPML official said. The transport utility had planned to add another 200 electric buses this year. The current fleet of 1,700 buses was to be increased to 2,400 this year. “PMPML might get the new buses from mid-2021, provided the situation improves,” another official said. The official said PMPML was currently running buses only for emergency services. “On normal days, PMPML would Rs1.25 crore. This has now come down to to Rs1.25 lakh per day,” the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/no-new-addition-to-pmpmls-fleet-this-year/articleshow/75815488.cms||Joy Sengupta
May 19, 2020||Aurangabad||60 new cases take Covid-19 figure beyond 1,000, death toll rises to 34||AURANGABAD: As many as 60 people tested positive for Covid-19 across Aurangabad between Sunday and Monday, taking the total number of cases to 1,022. Moreover, three deaths were also reported at Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH). With this the death toll has gone up to 34. The city saw its first Covid-19 case on March 15 when a 58-year-old woman professor with travel history to Russia and Kazakhstan was tested for coronavirus. Following her treatment at a private hospital, the woman recovered and was discharged on March 23. Thereafter, no new cases were detected in Aurangabad for over a week. On April 2, two cases were confirmed — one from Aref Colony and one from Cidco N-4. After their contact mapping more cases came to the fore and the total number of patients in Aurangabad had crossed the 500-mark on May 9. And the figure has now doubled in just 10 days. The new cases include 27 women and 33 men. The deceased include a 65-year-old man, resident of Madani Chowk, who died at 6pm on Sunday, a 56-year-old woman from Paithan Gate and a 42-year-old man from Buddi Lane — they both died on Monday. “All three died due to Covid-19 infection,” Arvind Gaikwad, media interaction officer at GMCH, said. A total of 392 patients have so far recovered and discharged from different health facilities in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/60-new-cases-take-covid-19-figure-beyond-1000-death-toll-rises-to-34/articleshow/75812538.cms||Arpita Sharad
May 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Disconnect e-pharmacies from Aarogya Setu: Chemists to Centre||HYDERABAD: Seeking modifications to Aarogya Setu app, Telangana Chemists and Druggists Association (TCDA) demanded the Centre to delink the aarogyasetumitr.in extension in the app, claiming that AarogyaSetuMitr is promoting online pharmacies. TCDA said that retail drug business in the country would be adversely affected causing immense hardship to around 8.5 lakh chemists and millions of employees. TCDA president Ch Janardhan Rao said that they are only against AarogyaSetuMitr but have no issues with Aarogya Setu. “We are not against ArogyaSetu. We welcome it as it is useful for controlling the spread of Covid-19. But we are concerned about aarogyasetumitr which has been added by Niti Aayog. Pharmacists and employees will be affected on a large scale,” Rao said, adding that chemists and druggists are opposing online pharmacies and several high courts have issued orders against the functioning of e-pharmacies.“On several occasions we brought the issue to the notice of the chief minister, ministers and the officials concerned,” said Rao. Honorary general secretary of TCDA, J Satish Rao said that if Centre goes ahead with its plans then lakhs of families dependent on drug stores would suffer. “Even though the issue of online pharmacies is being challenged in the courts, Centre’s decision to promote them is not right,” Rao said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/disconnect-e-pharmacies-from-aarogya-setu-chemists-to-centre/articleshow/75814860.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
May 19, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Long drive for shopping puts man in dock||AHMEDABAD: Vastrapur police on Monday booked a resident of Usmanpura for violating lockdown orders as he went out on his motorcycle with his wife riding pillion for shopping in the Vastrapur area. The FIR in the matter states the cops were at a checkpoint near a mall in Vastrapur at around 10.30am on Monday when they spotted the couple on a motorcycle. When police asked them on why they had come out of home, the man told cops that he and his wife were out for shopping in Vastrapur area. Police did not accept the argument as for them breaching lockdown and travelling for 6.5km from Usmanpura just for shopping seemed irrational and unjustified. They were booked for breach of lockdown norms, and under relevant sections of the Disaster Management Act and Epidemic Diseases Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/long-drive-for-shopping-puts-man-in-dock/articleshow/75814868.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Gurgaon||In Gurugram for 20 years, Odisha man kills self over eviction threat||GURUGRAM: A 40-year-old migrant worker from Odisha living in Gurugram for 20 years committed suicide on Sunday in the lone room he occupied in a building. In a suicide note, Madhusudan wrote his landlord had asked him to leave if he could not pay rent. He had nowhere else to go. Madhusudan’s body was found on Monday morning. Madhusudan had come to Gurugram as a 20-year-old, with the hopes every person leaving home behind has. He took up whatever work came his way, a little more flexible with every passing year. He had lately been doing the odd plumbing job. It was never too comfortable but he managed. When the lockdown came, the odd jobs dried up. Madhusudan’s earnings stopped, something that had never happened before. He lived alone in one room of a three-storey house in a cramped lane of Gandhi Nagar. He had not been able to pay rent for the room — around Rs 2,000 — for two months. His landlord had asked him to pay up or leave. On Monday morning, no one saw Madhusudan step out of his room. It seemed unusual. His neighbours, workers like him, knocked on his door. There was no response. After a few attempts, they broke in. “He was lying dead on the floor, a suicide note beside him,” said police spokesperson Subhash Boken. The note blamed the landlord, who had allegedly asked him to vacate the house if he could not pay up. So he got hold of sulphas (aluminium phosphide), an agricultural fumigant easy enough to procure, and killed himself. His body was taken to the mortuary and police got in touch with his family in Odisha. They said he had not visited in 20 years. He did, however, from time to time, send money to his mother. The landlord, who TOI spoke to, said Madhusudan had “seemed fine” and never under pressure. “I cannot say what he would do in his room or why he would commit suicide,” he said, declining to respond to questions about the suicide note. The note is the basis of a case registered at Shivaji Nagar police station under Section 306 (abetment to suicide) of the IPC against “unknown persons”. Police said they are still trying to “identify” the landlord. Madhusudan’s death is the third suicide by a migrant worker in Gurugram over the past month. On May 10, Gangaram, a mason from Madhya Pradesh had hanged himself from a tree in the Aravalli hills. The 40-year-old lived with his wife and two children at Ghata village and had been trying to get home to Madhya Pradesh several time but had to turn back each time after police stopped them at the border. Three weeks before that, Mukesh, a migrant worker from Bihar, had killed himself after his family ran out of food and he could not arrange anything for them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/in-city-for-20-yrs-odisha-man-kills-self-over-eviction-threat/articleshow/75815660.cms||Bagish Jha
May 19, 2020||Dehradun||In Uttarkashi hills, returning migrants housed in plush camping tents||UTTARKASHI: It could be mistaken for a camping site – tents of different colours, fitted with lanterns, blankets, cosy sleeping bags on meadows, with rolling hills in the background. However, they are actually quarantine units for returning migrant workers in Uttarkashi. In a unique attempt to provide a decent quarantine facility to migrant returnees in order to check the spread of Covid-19, the villagers of Agoda village in Uttarkashi have provided separate tents, sleeping bags, blankets and lanterns to every individual "coming home" to the village. Arrangements for temporary toilets, drinking water and food are also being made in the village which is situated nearly 5 km away from the nearest motorable road in Assi Ganga valley region of Uttarkashi. The Assi Ganga valley is a naturally-lush area that is famous for bird watching and trekking with most of the villagers here engaged in adventure tourism activities. With their work suspended due to the ongoing lockdown, they decided to provide the camping gear used in treks, to be used as quarantine units, free of charge, to house the returnees even though they are themselves facing financial losses due to non-arrival of tourists. Suman Panwar, a villager who runs a trekking agency, told TOI, “Due to lockdown, we have suffered an estimated loss of more than 70 lakh rupees till now. However, we cannot compare our financial losses with the troubles our migrant brothers and sisters have faced, while remaining stranded miles away from home. Therefore, it is our responsibility to provide them shelter, food and all other possible support.” Mukesh Panwar, gram pradhan of the village, who also runs a trekking agency, added, “ We are pitching separate tents for every returnee in order to maintain social distancing. We have also placed bags, blankets and solar lanterns in each tent and made provision for mobile charging. Besides, we have also arranged temporary tent-based toilets, drinking water supply and food facility for all those who are quarantined.” The villagers are expecting 23 migrants to return to the village for which provisions are being made, so that all of them can be accommodated in the camping tents. Pravendra Singh, one of those who is currently staying in quarantine in a tent, after his return from Gujarat, told TOI, “Earlier, I was worried how I would manage the 14-day quarantine period, after hearing about many instances of mismanagement in quarantine centres in several parts of the country. However, all my worries vanished after reaching this beautiful set-up.” He added that “living in a tent surrounded by rich flora and fauna, gives a feeling as if I am doing adventure camping, for which many city dwellers have to pay a hefty amount. Besides, the hospitality and care shown by villagers is helping me relax mentally.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/in-uttarkashi-hills-returning-migrants-housed-in-plush-camping-tents/articleshow/75813700.cms||Abhyudaya Kotnala
May 19, 2020||Aurangabad||Public servants asked to donate part of salary||Aurangabad: The general administration department (GAD) on Monday issued a government resolution (GR) asking all government employees, including all-India service personnel to donate one or two day salaries to combat Covid-19 in the state. As per the GR, Grade A and B officials have been asked to donate 2-day salary, while Grade C and D employees have been asked to donate their one day’s salary from their salaries fro the month of May, would include a combination of basic and dearness allowance. The move has not gone down well with the government employees, especially those in police and health departments, as despite being on frontline duties, they are already getting salaries in installments. The GR has cited that the decision has been taken after considering several representations and letters from government employees and their associations offering contributions to the state’s efforts to fight the pandemic. Instructions have been passed to the ministries asking them to ensure that this GR is passed on to all the government, semi-government, ZP, panchayat samitis, municipal corporations, municipal councils, PSUs, corporations and other.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/public-servants-asked-to-donate-part-of-salary/articleshow/75812564.cms||Mohammed Akhef
May 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Farmer killed by lightning strike in Telangana||WARANGAL: A farmer from was killed after being struck by lightning on Monday night at Motlagudem village. Bonta Sateesh, 25, was returning after attending his field at Narsinhasagar village when it started raining heavily. Lightning struck near the place he had taken shelter under. He was taken to Eturnagaram health centre, where doctors declared him brought dead. His father, Komuraiah, called the Tehsil office for assistance, but to no avail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/farmer-killed-by-lightning-strike/articleshow/75814874.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana worker in Gulf tests +ve, fails to get hospital admission||HYDERABAD: A 26-year-old worker from Telangana, who tested positive for Covid-19, is finding it hard to get an admission in a hospital in Dubai. His employer has reportedly told him that he will lose his job if he goes to the hospital frequently. In a video circulated on social media, V Prashanth Kumar of Nirmal district said after the tests were done, he was diagnosed as Covid-19 positive. He said he was given medication and when he tested negative for the virus, he was advised to continue taking the medication. A hotel worker, Prashanth said he is suffering from indigestion and bloating. He is also not able to take food because of the infection. “While the hospital is not admitting me, my employer informed me he would terminate my contract and leave me without accommodation. Please help me,” he said in the video. Prashanth’s relative Bhumesh told TOI on phone from Qatar that Prashanth was also having difficulty breathing. Meanwhile, Patkuri Basanth Reddy, president, Gulf Telangana Welfare and Cultural Association, said attempts are being made to contact the Consulate General of India, Dubai, to provide help to Prashanth.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-worker-in-gulf-tests-ve-fails-to-get-hosp-admission/articleshow/75814870.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
May 19, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: ‘I want to meet my family before Eid’||CHENNAI: Shakeel Ansari and his four friends were cycling their way home on Monday when their journey came to an abrupt halt -- police had stopped them on the outskirts. The five workers from Jharkhand had spent all their savings to buy bicycles for Rs 5,000 each hoping they could pedal home and be with their families on Eid, which falls on May 25. “I somehow want to meet my family before Eid,” Ansari, who works at a factory in Ekkaduthangal. But Ansari’s story, unlike thousands stranded in Chennai and elsewhere in the country, had an immediate happy ending. “One policeman sent us to Central Railway Station as a train was leaving for Chhattisgarh today,” Ansari told TOI over the phone from a train that was on its way to Raipur. However, the five men had to sell their cycles at a steep discount of Rs 4,000 hours after buying them. With Rs 1,000 each left in their pockets, Ansari and his friends hope to get a truck or a bus to Ranchi. Kareem A K Abdul, state committee member of Social Democratic Party of India, said Muslims stranded in camps have already missed out on a chunk of the holy month. “Usually we break the fast at 4am. But camps don’t provide food at that time,” he said. Given the lack of widespread efforts to facilitate labourers’ return, workers are scrambling amid desperation to reach the Chennai Central railway station. One such effort by a group of workers led to unrest at Mugalivakkam. “We arranged our own buses to reach the station. But even that has been stopped,” said Saddam Ansari, one among the four workers from Uttar Pradesh. They were taken to a nearby police station in Mugalivakkam. Saddam said they had been receiving half of their salaries and were not able to buy essentials. “Most mosques here are closed. Even when mosques in our native are closed, we can still make arrangements for prayers,” he said. The local police inspector said that the UP workers were picked up to understand their demands, adding that he informed them they can’t leave Chennai till Tuesday as there was no train.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/i-want-to-meet-my-family-before-eid/articleshow/75815498.cms||Ram Sundaram
May 19, 2020||Dehradun||Odd-even traffic rule in seven major cities of Uttarakhand||DEHRADUN: The state government on Monday decided to implement the ‘odd-even rule’ for private vehicles in seven major cities of the Himalayan state. Also, seven districts, including Haridwar which was earlier in red zone, have been put in green zone while six districts, including Dehradun, are in the orange zone category. The other districts in orange zone are Almora, Udham Singh Nagar, Nainital, Pauri and Uttarkashi. The districts in green zone apart from Haridwar are Tehri, Rudraprayag, Chamoli, Pithoragarh, Bageshwar and Champawat. Sharing the information about the odd-even rule to be implemented, chief secretary Utpal Kumar Singh said, “It has been observed that many vehicles are plying during the relaxation period, therefore for the welfare of people, we have decided to implement the odd-even traffic formula in seven major cities –Haldwani, Rudrapur, Kashipur, Haridwar, Dehradun, Kotdwar and Roorkee.” He added that the rule would be applicable for all private vehicles including two-wheelers and four-wheelers. For intra-state movement of vehicles, Singh said that the guidelines were being prepared and would be finalised soon. “We will wait for other states to categorise their districts on the basis of which, we will approach the authorities for the movement of public transport vehicles from our state to theirs. A decision in this regard can be taken mutually by two states,” he added. No movement of people or vehicles will be allowed in the state from 4pm to 7pm, the CS further said. “We have seven containment zones in the state and like earlier, no activity will be allowed in these identified areas,” he added. On other decisions, the CS said that the sport complexes and stadiums will be permitted to open, “but no spectator or visitor would be allowed.” He added that religious places would remain closed for visitors and only rituals would be performed. Salons though have been given permission to operate. The chief secretary also said that till Monday, 2.25 lakh people had registered themselves to return to Uttarakhand. “Of all those who have registered, 1.04 lakh have already returned and more are expected in the next few days. Of the 38,000 people who have registered to go to other states, 22,000 plus have already left.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/odd-even-traffic-rule-in-seven-major-cities-of-ukhand/articleshow/75812552.cms||Kautilya Singh
May 19, 2020||Hyderabad||No compromise on Krishna water: Telangana CM||HYDERABAD: Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao was at his aggressive best on the ongoing water wars, saying that his government will not compromise on the interests of the state in the sharing of Krishna river water. Reacting strongly on the Pothireddypadu canal and Rayalaseema lift irrigation project proposed to draw 3tmc water daily from Srisailam project, the CM said Telangana has no objection if the surplus water from Godavari is utilised and diverted to Rayalaseema region in Andhra Pradesh. “The state government will not compromise on Krishna water share. Telangana had proposed projects on the Krishna within the limits of allocation,” KCR said. He said it was TRS that had fought against the Pothireddypadu canal issue when Congress was in power. “The Congress government fought with the neighbouring states and did not achieve anything. On the Babli project issue with Maharashtra, I met Maharashtra CM seven times and got clearance for Kaleshwaram project,” KCR told the media. The CM, who held a video-conference earlier in the day with district collectors, agriculture officers and others on regulation of cultivation of crops in the state, repeated his earlier that farmers will have to cultivate the crops as suggested by the government. “Those do not follow the suggestions will not get Rythu Bandhu scheme sops and other benefits,” he asserted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/no-compromise-on-krishna-water/articleshow/75814876.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat realtors get 6 months more to finish projects||AHMEDABAD: Gujarat Real Estate Regulatory Authority (Gujarat) has extended by six months the completion deadline for real estate projects in the state. This automatic extension will be granted to those projects which have their scheduled completion or extended completion date on or after March 25, 2020. “The completion date or extended completion date is hereby automatically (without application) extended by 6 months due to outbreak of Covid-19,” the secretary Gujarat RERA said in a recent order. The relief follows Central Advisory Council (CAC)’s recommendations to states and Union territories to extend real estate project completion deadline by invoking ‘force majeure’ under Section 6 of the RERA Act. While announcing the first tranche of economic stimulus few days ago, Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman had stated that states and UTs will be advised to extend registration and completion date for projects registered under RERA. Meanwhile, the relief granted last month will also continue to be available to realtors beyond the automatic extension. Among other things, the state regulatory authority had on April 13 allowed developers an one-time extension in completion date for projects registered on and between April 1, 2020 and March 31, 2021. According to Gujarat RERA, the cut-off date for the relief (announced on April 13) now stands revised from March 31, 2021 to September 30, 2021. Gujarat RERA has also provided this six-month extension to those projects which have end date before March 25 and have applied for extension. Such projects will get the six-month relief in addition to the extension that would normally be granted on processing the application. Those projects which have not yet made an application for extension are also allowed to avail of this six-month relief provided they make an application for extension with necessary fee. The extension will also apply to all buyer-seller agreements (AFS) entered into prior to March 25, 2020 for which the project completion date is on or after March 25. “Promoter shall extend similar extension in payment due date to allottee, when requested for, where these due dates are between March 25 and September 30, 2020,” the authority order further stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gujarat-realtors-get-6-months-more-to-finish-projects/articleshow/75814873.cms||Kalpesh Damor
May 19, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Capital city becomes corona-free||BHUBANESWAR: The capital city, which was placed in the red zone by the Centre for a spurt in Covid-19 cases in March and April, achieved the feat of having zero active coronavirus cases on Monday. The city has recorded 50 positive cases and two deaths. The last three Covid-19 patients were discharged from hospital on Monday. Prem Chandra Chaudhury, commissioner, Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation (BMC), attributed the success to active surveillance, monitoring, health mapping at the household level and aggressive testing, besides strict enforcement of social distancing. “We don’t have any active cases now but that doesn’t mean we can become complacent. There may be a few cases again as people from outside the state return. Hence, our next course of action will be aggressive community sensitization,” he told TOI. He further said the BMC has not only created a Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) for people currently under home quarantine here, but also for their neighbours. “We will redraw zones for the fourth phase of the lockdown. The markets — vegetables, fish and meat — will continue to run from their new locations,” the commissioner added. The localities that reported the last three cases around 10 days ago — Mancheswar, VSS Nagar and Surya Nagar — have also not been designated as containment zones. The BMC had earlier removed containment tag from three areas, Satyanagar, Bomikhal and Suryanagar, for not reporting any case for two weeks. Bhubaneswar reported its first case on March 15 and then kept adding to the count. The highest single-day jump was 18 cases on April 5, followed by 10 on April 3. The last three cases in the city were reported on May 7. The state government continued to keep the city under the red category during the third phase of the lockdown as there were 15 active cases. Altogether, thirteen localities here have reported cases — Bomikhal, Suryanagar, Jharpada, Satyanagar, Unit-IV, Unit-V , BJB Nagar, Badagad, Saheed Nagar, Kapila Prasad, Mancheswar, VSS Nagar and Gymkhana Palm Heights. Suryanagar was the first to become a containment zone, followed by Bomikhal, which recorded 18 cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/capital-city-becomes-corona-free/articleshow/75813728.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Aurangabad||After morning showers, city witnesses humid weather||Aurangabad: Intermittent cloudy sky and light rain were observed in different parts of the city during Monday morning, followed by hot and humid weather throughout the day. Shriniwas Aundhkar, director of APJ Abdul Kalam Astrospace Science Centre and Club, said that the shift in the direction of cyclone ‘Amphan’ towards the Bay of Bengal would result in a marginal rise in mercury level in Marathwada. Aurangabad recorded a maximum temperature of 40.6 degrees celsius, which is one unit above normal. The city reported a minimum of 28 degrees celsius, which was also above the normal range by four units, India Meteorological Department (IMD) data shows. The Met department has predicted partly cloudy weather over the city for the next 48 hours with the possibility of slight rise in both maximum and minimum temperature. As per official data, Marathwada has reported around 10.56 mm rainfall till Sunday Among different districts, Latur has reported highest rainfall (21 mm), followed by Jalna (13 mm), Nanded (12 mm), Osmanabad (11mm), Aurangabad (8mm), Beed, Hingoli (both 5mm) and Parbhani (3mm).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/after-morning-showers-city-witnesses-humid-weather/articleshow/75812580.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Bareilly||Fresh positive corona case raises tally to 15 in Pilibhit||Pilibhit: A resident of Gajraula village in Pilibhit tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday morning. With this, the tally of positive cases in Pilibhit has gone up to 15. Earlier, on Sunday, eight people were confirmed positive. So far, four patients have been cured and discharged.The 45-year-old man had come from Delhi on May 10 along with his wife and two kids. Since their arrival, all of them had been placed in home quarantine. According to additional chief medical officer, Dr CM Chaturvedi, seven other members of his family arrived from Delhi on May 13. The samples of four of them were randomly collected for tests. One of them tested positive, he added.After this, officials shifted all the 13 members of his extended family to a government quarantine facility in the district headquarters.He further said that the containment zone had completely been sanitized and the drive for door to door thermal screening would begin here from Tuesday.The SDM of Pilibhit sadar circle, Avinash Chandra Maurya, told that the entire containment zone had been barricaded and the police force had been deployed at barriers. All norms as assigned by the concerned protocol would strictly be enforced here, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/fresh-positive-corona-case-raises-tally-to-15-in-pilibhit/articleshow/75813735.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Ahmedabad||HC stalls Chhota Udepur court’s plans||AHMEDABAD: As the decision to open courts by the principal district judge of Chhota Udepur came to the notice of the Gujarat high court (HC), the judicial officer was instructed on telephone not to go ahead with his plans for regular court functioning. Sources said that the HC administration conveyed to the Chhota Udepur court that it should continue to work through video conferencing on matters that are heard on urgency. The office order for regular court work has been revoked and the district court has now decided to continue functioning with one third of its staff till the end of the month. The new office order has assigned work to only six staffers in a day now.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/hc-stalls-chhota-udepur-courts-plans/articleshow/75814888.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Two boys drown at Mangapet mandal||MANGAPET: Two students drowned in Taralakunta lake of Mangapet mandal when they had gone for swimming. They were not aware of the depth of lake and went to the deep end. Their bodies were noticed by neighbours, who took them to hospital. The boys were identified as M Yashwanth, 14, and M Veerendar ,13. Their parents retrieved the bodies from the hospital. A case was registered by Mangapet police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/two-boys-drown-at-mangapet-mandal/articleshow/75814886.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Covid-19 cases spike, but a pattern emerges||VIJAYAWADA: A geographical trend in the spread of Covid-19 has emerged with the rise in number of cases in Krishna district. Vijayawada rural mandal, for example, has reported a total of 28 cases and emerged a hotspot in the last 20 days. A majority of patients however, have been discharged, with the average age group of infected persons being between 40 to 50 years and only two patients above 70. In terms of death toll in the district, the area under Vijayawada Municipal Corporation (VMC) surpasses rural areas with six deaths. The district stands second in the state with a death toll of 15 on Sunday. Suburbs such as Ibrahimpatnam, Penamaluru, Kankipadu, Gannavaram, Jaggayapeta and Nandigama account for 32 cases while mandal headquarters Machilipatnam saw a jump in cases in Chilakalapudi where seven cases have been reported. Data from the district administration show that in Vijayawada city, Covid-19 cases are concentrated in small areas. Ten cases have been reported from one place in Gupta Centre at Kummaripalem in Bhavanipuram, another ten from Ranigarithota in Krishna Lanka and 26 from Karmika Nagar in Machavaram. Taken together, Bhavanipuram, Krishna Lanka and Machavaram account for over 65 Covid-19 cases in the city. Officials point out that concentration of cases in other areas is only among primary contacts, while areas like Karmika Nagar and Kummaripalem have emerged as ‘super-spreaders’ of the virus with secondary contacts getting infected. City police stated that these hotspots have been marked off as containment zones and are also among areas that reported high numbers of infections much before other areas in the city. One of the main sources of contraction has been traced to attendees at the Delhi congregation and truck drivers who drove long distances to deliver essential commodities in the region. Meanwhile, of the 366 cases reported in the district, as of May 14, 255 were concentrated within VMC limits. At least 66 of 255 are concentrated in three areas—Bhavanipuram, Krishna Lanka and Machavaram.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/over-65-infections-have-been-traced-to-3-areas/articleshow/75813724.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
May 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Sops and cajoling fail, migrant workers just want to go home||HYDERABAD: No ration, sacked by employer and thrown out from their accommodation, and promised trains still not arranged, migrant workers from Telangana are leaving the state in droves. The government has been distributing rice and giving Rs 500 for migrant workers in a bid to make them drop their plans to return home, but a group of migrant workers from Jadcherla in Mahbubnagar said they got no benefits. “We registered with police three times as we were informed that trains will be arranged, but they said such plans were cancelled,” a migrant said. They reached Medchal on the outskirts of the city hoping to find their way from here on their own and hired a truck to take them to Madhya Pradesh. “We heard the government was giving ration, but at least we did not get any. To make matters worse, our employer also denied us salaries,” the workers said. Those workers coming from different places to Medchal, however, are also told by police that travel arrangements are made for them to go to their native places. “They are assuring us that. But no one is able to say when we will be sent.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/sops-and-cajoling-fail-migrant-workers-just-want-to-go-home/articleshow/75814884.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
May 19, 2020||Bareilly||Man thrashed to death, six booked||Pilibhit: Five people who were arrrsted on Monday for the murder of a 30-year-old resident of Pilibhit's Barkhera town, identified as Makhan Lal. The sixth accused is on the run. In his complaint, deceased's brother, Nanhe Lal, claimed that Makhan was brutally beaten up by a group of people on the street on the intervening night between Sunday and Monday. When they learnt about it, they rushed to the spot, found him lying on the roadside and took him home. However, the same group allegedly barged into Makhan's house in the early hours of Monday and beat him up again, he alleged. His family found Makhan dead on Monday morning. Nanhe Lal alleged that his brother was on way home from work when he had an argument with one Imtiaz Ahmad. The latter called his sons, Ishtiaq and Intaqal, his nephew, Danish, and two others, Junail and Chhotu, to the spot. They allegedly beat up Makhan with sticks and iron bars and left him there. Some locals informed Nanhe, who took him home. Makhan was allegedly again attacked by the same group in his house and succumbed to injuries. Umesh Solanki, SHO, said six named accused were booked under section 302 (murder), 147 (rioting), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 458 (lurking house trespass or house-breaking by night after preparation for hurt, assault, or wrongful restraint), 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke the breach of peace) and 506 (criminal intimidation).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/man-thrashed-to-death-six-booked/articleshow/75813749.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Hyderabad||All styrene monomer removed from Vizag||HYDERABAD: Over 10 days after a styrene vapour leak from its Vizag facility left 12 dead and many sick, LG Polymers, a part of Korean chaebol LG Group, said it has completed the transportation of the Styrene Monomer (SM) inventory. “As a precautionary measure, on May 18th, we have successfully completed the transportation of the Styrene Monomer (SM) inventory within the plant as well as in the styrene tanks that were at the port,” the company said on Monday. “There is now no SM left at the LG Polymers plant in Vizag,” firm’s managing director Jeong Sunkey said. The company said its team of technical experts from Seoul headquarters have arrived at the plant and with their help the company has already commissioned a special task force consisting of over 200 people to actively support the bereaved victims and families. On May 13, the company had said it has dispatched an eight-member team led by the president of LG Chem from Seoul to probe the cause of the incident and work closely with the concerned authorities to resolve the situation. “ We are devoting our resources to analyse the cause of the accident, prevent re-occurrence, and most importantly provide assistance to the families of the deceased and injured. Our immediate focus is to provide assistance to the people in the local area to help them continue with their normal lives as soon as possible,” LG Polymers said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/all-styrene-monomer-removed-from-vizag/articleshow/75814903.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Delhi||Delhi lockdown: Home a mirage, misery a reality||NEW DELHI: Women with infants in their laps sitting under a tree, people fighting over water, and a kilometre-long queue with no social distancing — this was the scenario at a government school in east Delhi’s West Vinod Nagar where migrant workers were being screened on Monday to be sent to their home states. Unlike the day earlier, none of the migrants was allowed to enter the school premises, but were told to wait outside, helpless and foodless. People had started lining up as early as 3am, but even past noon, no officials there had heard their pleas. Around 2.30pm, some good Samaritans started distributing food, but many quailed at the prospect of standing in the endless queues in the sun. Under a tree, Parmila Devi, 48, constantly fiddled with her handkerchief mask and rocked her 45-day-old granddaughter. She, her husband, daughter and others came to the school on Sunday too. “We are daily-wage labourers and want to return to our village in Sitamarhi, Bihar,” Devi said. “We are surviving on what people are giving us. We came here at 6am and have been sitting on the footpath.” Shatrughan, 38, was disappointed at not being allowed to enter the school despite being screened. The paper he held showed his name, medical status and Bhagalpur as destination. Shatrughan said he and 25 others wanted to go to Darbhanga, but were told the train for that destination was fully booked. “So, we agreed to go to Bhagalpur, but even then we are still standing in the queue. Even if we are able to bear the heat and hunger, look at the women and children struggling in the sun,” he added. Amid this, a welfare worker came to distribute water and was taken aback when two people grabbed the same glass and broke it in the process. “I will get more,” he said and hurried off. Around the same time, people from a gurdwara started distributing food to a long line of migrant hopefuls. Many migrants had arrived early and squatted right outside the school gate in the hope of being the first to be summoned for verification. They had come on foot from various parts of Delhi. As they teemed at the school, there was no one who instructed them to maintain social distancing. Even the civil defence volunteers deployed at the school addressed only some of the migrants. But as the crowd swelled, they gave up their lame attempt to keep the people separate from each other. A civil defence volunteer estimated that around 700 migrant workers were inside the school at that point of time, and entry had been barred to others till these people were taken to the railway stations. When TOI had visited the school on Sunday, the open area had a tent erected as shade for migrants who were being screened, but on Monday the same area was occupied by cars. Just outside the gate was Shama Devi, 55, along with her family of six. “We have been standing here since morning,” she said. “They said they would take us to New Delhi Railway Station and dropped us at Mayur Vihar Phase II, but we had to walk back to this place. No one is giving us anything, neither information or food.” Twelve Shramik special trains departed from Delhi on Monday, six each from Old Delhi and Anand Vihar stations for various destinations in UP, Bihar and Madhya Pradesh, officials said, who added that each train carried over 1,000 passengers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/home-a-mirage-misery-a-reality/articleshow/75814901.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Bareilly||Private hospital flouting norms sealed in Kheri||Bareilly: A private hospital in Dhaurahra area of Lakhimpur Kheri district was sealed on Monday, after it was found to be flouting lockdown guidelines and its staff not following safety measures. The hospital was sealed during a drive, which was launched by the Kheri officials after 27 novel coronavirus cases surfaced in the district in just three days. After finding the anomalies, the hospital was sealed by the sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) and its patients were shifted to the government hospital on Monday. This is the third hospital that has been sealed in Dhaurahra by SDM Sunandu Sudhakaran this month. Speaking to TOI, Sudhakaran said, “The hospital was operating with more than permissible beds and there was no authorised doctor present. That is why we decided to seal it.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/private-hospital-flouting-norms-sealed-in-kheri/articleshow/75813761.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
May 19, 2020||Dehradun||Trainee officers stuck at IGNFA await travel arrangements to join home cadres||DEHRADUN: Despite being relieved by the institute on April 30 , around 50 trainee officers remain stuck at Indira Gandhi National Forest Academy (IGNFA) as they have not yet been provided with any arrangement to travel to their respective home cadres. “We were expecting travel facilitation by the academy but no such arrangement has yet been made. Probationers of states like Himachal Pradesh that are close Uttarakhand are also stuck here as they have not been given any official order,” said a probationer at IGNFA. Notably, other institutes like Lal Bahadur Shastri National Academy of Administration (LBSNAA) and Central Academy for State Forest Service (CASFOS) have already made travel arrangements for their probationers to join their respective cadres. SK Awasthi, deputy director of IGNFA, told TOI, “No probationer has yet joined his home cadre but by May 19, two trainees will be joining Uttar Pradesh cadre and many others are on their way. However, some of them are stuck here due to Covid-19 travel restrictions but they will also be joining their respective cadres soon.” In their training period of 24 months, these trainees spend initial four months at LBSNAA in Mussoorie, the next 16 months at IGNFA in Dehradun, and the remaining four months at their respective home cadres. “The training of these probationers is not being impacted as some of the states have started online courses for their cadres,” added Awasthi. This year, the academy had to relieve these trainee officers without marksheets due to Covid-19 related issues. However, IGNFA will issue academic performance cards to each trainee officer after the crisis ends, the deputy director added. It is worth mentioning that the 73 trainee officers of 2018-20 batch had attended online training sessions for 40 days after returning from their international study tour. Among them, three had also tested positive for coronavirus. They were subsequently discharged after they recovered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/trainee-officers-stuck-at-ignfa-await-travel-arrangements-to-join-home-cadres/articleshow/75812591.cms||Shivani Azad
May 19, 2020||Cuttack||Orissa HC lists 350 cases for hearing amid lockdown||CUTTACK: The Orissa high court on Monday listed over 350 cases for hearing, cancelling its summer vacation in view of the loss of regular working days due to lockdown after the Covid-19 outbreak. Over 300 bail matters along with some criminal appeals and writ petitions found place in the weekly list before the courts of five single judge benches. The registrar general on Sunday notified that the ensuing summer vacation has been cancelled both for the high court and subordinate courts in the state. According to the high court calendar, summer vacation is from May 18 to June 16. Judges are assigned to hold vacation courts for 10 to 12 days during the vacation. In a notice, the registrar (Judicial) said the high court shall function on all five working days of the week with one division bench each on Tuesday and Thursday and five single benches on each working day of the week (except on May 22). The judges sitting in the division bench will also hold single benches after completion of the work of the division bench. The notice said the filing counters of the court will be open from 10.30 am to 1 pm on all working days. With the loss in working hours litigants are facing severe hardships and difficulties on account of the lockdown and consequent suspension of functioning of the courts. Initially, the high court had been taking up only urgent matters through video conference since functioning of the court was suspended due to the lockdown on March 25. From April 17, one division bench and two single judge benches functioned on each alternate day through video conference. Since May 4, the high court had been functioning on all five working days of the week even as its normal working remained suspended in view of the extension of the nationwide lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/cuttack/hc-lists-350-cases-for-hearing-amid-lockdown/articleshow/75813758.cms||lalmohan.patnaik
May 19, 2020||Aurangabad||Over 3k attend seminar on stress management||Aurangabad: Around 3,650 students took part in the special online seminar organised by Swami Ramanand Teerth Marathwada University (SRTMU) on stress management amid the outbreak of Covid 19. The two-day event, which ended on May 15, saw resource people advising students on how to cope with pandemic-induced stress while studying and made recommendations for having a healthy mind and body. “The event also saw guidance on health-related topics with students advised to do Yoga and practice meditation,” said Ashok Kadam, the university public relations officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/over-3k-attend-seminar-on-stress-management/articleshow/75812607.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Aurangabad||Maharashtra: Beed sees its first Covid-19 casualty||AURANGABAD: A 65-year-old woman succumbed to Covid-19 at the Beed district civil hospital on Monday, marking the first death due to the contagion in the district. Meanwhile, two more people tested positive in Majalgaon on Monday, taking the tally to 11 in Beed district. The woman (65) was a native of Pimpalgaon in Ahmednagar and had travelled to her relative’s house at Sangvi Patan in Ashti taluka in Beed district from Mumbai on May 14. According to Beed district health department officials, the woman had tested positive for Covid-19, along with six relatives, on Sunday. Beed district has sent 77 swabs for testing to the Government Medical College and Hospital, Ambejogai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/beed-sees-its-first-covid-casualty/articleshow/75812637.cms||Arpita Sharad
May 19, 2020||Visakhapatnam||1,000 hotel rooms ready for foreign returnees in Visakhapatnam||VISAKHAPATNAM: With special Air India flights arriving in the city from May 19 to 22, carrying Indians who were stranded abroad, the district administration has identified 27 city hotels of different categories that will function as paid quarantine facilities. At least 1,000 rooms have been made available for foreign returnees in the selected hotels. The package cost, including food and medical facility for 14 days, has been fixed at Rs 35,000 for five-star hotels, Rs 28,000 for three and four-star hotels and Rs 15,000 for budget hotels. Speaking to TOI, Dr P V Sudhakar, member of the district Covid-19 control committee and principal of Andhra Medical College (AMC), said, “The government has negotiated a reasonable price with the hoteliers’ association and accordingly fixed the price for star and budget category hotels. There are three five-star hotels, four three-star and four-star hotels and 20 budget hotels. Each person will be allotted a single room with attached bath and they have to follow the usual quarantine rules. The medical team will visit the guests daily and if any of them are found to be symptomatic, they will be immediately shifted to the designated Covid hospitals depending on the severity of the case and comorbidities.” Singu Prasanth, president (HR) of AP Hotels and Restaurants Association, said, “We have roped in The Park, Taj Gateway, Four Points Sheraton, Keys Hotel, Marriott near the airport, Green Park and Daspalla Executive Court. Together they comprise 400 rooms and will have television, wi-fi, AC and vegetarian food. “Fresh linen will be provided every four days. However, no housekeeping or visitors will be allowed to enter the rooms and food in disposable utensils and linen will be placed outside the rooms for the guests to take by themselves. “ Children between five and 11 years of age can stay with one parent and will be charged only for food.” Speaking about the budget hotels facility, ex-president of AP Hoteliers Association, Vizag chapter, M Sitaramaiyah said, “At least 600 rooms have been provided in 20 hotels at Rs 15,000 for the quarantine fortnight. Hotels are situated in areas such as Dwarkanagar, RTC Complex, Railway Station Road, Dabagardens and Gajuwaka.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/1k-hotel-rooms-ready-for-foreign-returnees/articleshow/75813762.cms||Sulogna Mehta
May 19, 2020||Dehradun||HC seeks reply from Uttarakhand on implementation of anti-spitting Act||NAINITAL: Uttarakhand HC Monday directed the state health secretary as well as secretary urban development to explain what steps have been taken to enforce and popularise the provisions of the Anti-spitting and Anti-Littering Act 2016 among the Urban Local Bodies of the state. The direction from the bench of Chief Justice Ramesh Ranganathan and Justice Alok Kumar Verma comes while it was hearing a PIL that has said that there is enough scientific material to prove that novel coronavirus spreads through nasal droplets and therefore spitting in public places can be dangerous. PIL argues the enforcement of Act will help prevent the spread of the virus. Though a detailed written order will be made available on Tuesday, Abhijay Negi, who appeared in person to argue the case through video conferencing told TOI that the court has given both the secretaries time till May 26 to file their replies. “We have requested the honorable court to issue directions to the state government to assist all ULBs in strictly implementing the provisions of the Act. Our prayer also requests the court to issue directions to the government to help these ULBs in capacity building measures so that public health and hygiene is maintained in times of the Coronavirus pandemic,” Negi said. The PIL also cites an RTI filed by an activist, Adarsh, of a Dehradun-based NGO named MAD. The RTI showed that as many as 39 ULBs have collected zero challans even three years after the Act came into force. The RTI also revealed that there are only nine ULBs that have collected fine amounting to more than Rs 50000. With such data of ULBs, it can be said that the state of Uttarakhand’s rural local bodies may not be any better. Abhijay Negi is the founder of MAD. He adds that the state’s Act is very strict and its strict implementation by the government can lead to significant decrease in the spitting and littering activities. “The Act gives the ULBs power to impose fine of upto Rs 1000 for spitting and Rs 500 per day for the repeated offence. It even gives the power to the concerned official to arrest people for violation of rules. All these provision, if implemented, can be very helpful in containing the virus,” Negi said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/hc-seeks-reply-from-state-on-implementation-of-anti-spitting-act/articleshow/75813752.cms||Prashant Jha
May 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana man fined Rs 2 lakh in Saudi||HYDERABAD: A man from Telangana has been fined Rs 10,000 riyals (Rs 2 lakh) for violating the lockdown rules. Amaragonda Srinivas, who hails from Mudumadugu village of Mancherial district had arrived in the land of Sauds seventh months back and has been looking for employment since. According to Mameti Komaraiah, secretary, Gulf Welfare and Cultural Association, Srinivas was crossing the road to buy rotis when the police spotted him. After ascertaining his nationality, they handed him the penalty receipt. “I am told that I will not be able to leave Saudi Arabia because of the fine. I have no means of paying the money. I request chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao to help me,” Srinivas said, adding that he came to Saudi as he neither had no source of income in Telangana.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-man-fined-rs-2l-in-saudi/articleshow/75814916.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
May 19, 2020||Bareilly||Six new cases take Rampur’s tally to 48, district a Red Zone now||Rampur: Six migrant labourers, who arrived at Rampur from Gujarat and Punjab on shramik special trains on May 11, and were immediately quarantined, have now been found Covid-19 positive after results of their tests arrived on Monday. With this, the number of positive cases in the district has risen to 48. All six are residents of different villages in the district. The district has been declared a Red Zone, with 18 localities in it declared hotspots. Authorities have sealed all roads leading to these areas. Speaking with TOI, Rampur district magistrate Aunjaneya Kumar Singh said, “The number of cases in the district has seen a jump after the migrant labourers from Gujarat and Punjab arrived at Rampur. We’ve identified them and put them under quarantine at the centre in Jauhar University.” “We’ve also appealed to public that there is nothing to panic, as all 48 positive cases were detected at initial stages, as soon as they reached Rampur,” Singh added. The DM also said 9,000 migrant labourers have so far returned to Rampur, and they will all be provided employment at local industries soon. “I had a meeting with local industry owners regarding offering migrant labourers employment in their factories based on their skills,” he said, adding that all returning labourers who have spent 21 days in quarantine and have been found Covid-19 negative, have been sent home.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/six-new-cases-take-rampurs-tally-to-48-district-a-red-zone-now/articleshow/75813778.cms||Nazar Abbas
May 19, 2020||Kozhikode||Kerala: Cops dissuade Odisha labourers’ 1,800km cycle trip||KOZHIKODE: Police dissuaded a group of guest workers from Odisha who were planning to return to their native place, 1,800 kilometres away, on bicycles. The Medical College police on Monday locked 17 bicycles with chains to avoid any chance of using them. “We came to know about the plan when a person noticed several bicycles at the camp of guest workers at Govindapuram. He informed us thinking that it was a case of theft,” said Dhananjaya Das, sub-inspector of Medical College police station. The workers didn’t hide their intention when confronted by the police. “They said they were planning to cover 1,800km in 15 days. They bought the bicycles for the purpose,” the SI said. The police convinced them that they will be given a chance to return to Odisha in the next available train. All of them are registered labourers engaged in construction works. “We will also find out that whether it is possible to return the bicycles as all of them were purchased from the same shop,” the SI said. “We intervened to provide better transportation. Moreover, the interstate journey is regulated now and the workers will be blocked at state borders,” he added. The 17 workers had collected provisions like rice and sugar for the journey. They planned to ride for about 130km a day and take rest before proceeding further. Most of them are from Nayagarh district in Odisha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/cops-dissuade-odisha-labourers-1800km-cycle-trip/articleshow/75812753.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Ludhiana||11 more spl trains leave with 12,000 migrants||Ludhiana: The railway authorities have increased their efforts to run more special trains from the city railway station with 11 trains laving the city station with more than 12,000 migrant labourers on board for Bihar and Uttar Pradesh, on Monday here. The authorities are managing these coaches by arranging it from different railway stations of the division. With the rising number of passengers, the Railways have to pitch in most of its ticket checking staff for the work of issuing tickets to passengers and provide them proper seating arrangements after following all standard protocols. But on the other hand, migrant labourers raised serious allegations against the working of the railway ticket staff by claiming that they were charging money from their co-workers who had travelled in specials trains to Bihar and Uttar Pradesh in the past. One of labourers, Joginder Yadav, said, “Officials of the Railways as well the local administration had charged money from different co-workers of our locality for giving them permission to sit in the special trains, which is totally against the law. In these tough conditions, they are taking advantage and earning money from the poor.” As per information, the 78th train left Ludhiana railway station for Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Jharkhand. On Monday, the first train left the city station at 11.45pm for Gaya (Bihar) railway station with more than 1,200 passengers on board. After that the next train with 22 coaches left for Sita Marhi (Bihar) in the evening. Another special train left the city railway station around 3 pm with around 1,188 passengers. Railway authorities managed another 22-coach train for ferrying the migrants to Akbarpura railway station (Uttar Pradesh) during evening hours. After this seven more trains to different district of Uttar Pradesh and Bihar left the railway sttaion. One left for Azamgarh railway station, while another left for Gokarhpur railway station. The sixth train left for Hardoi, seventh train for Basti station, eighth for Unnao station and the nine train left for Sultanpur. The last two trains left for Gonda and Hardoi railway stations in the evening hours of Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/11-more-spl-trains-leave-with-12000-migrants/articleshow/75813796.cms||RAHUL TAWAR
May 19, 2020||Dehradun||Pauri reports 2nd death at quarantine centre in last 48 hours, 4 new Covid-19 cases found in Uttarakhand||DEHRADUN: A 35-year-old man died at a quarantine facility in Pauri Garhwal’s Birgana village on Monday. The man was suffering from asthma and other lung-related ailments, officials said. Dr M Bahukhandi, chief medical officer of Pauri Garhwal, told TOI that the body of the man was sent for postmortem and his sample was being collected for Covid-19 testing. This is the second death at a quarantine facility in the district in the last 48 hours. On Sunday (May 17), an 80 year-old woman had also died at a quarantine centre in Pauri but her sample wasn’t taken for Covid-19 test. The reason for her death was said to be nasal bleeding. Meanwhile, four new cases of novel coronavirus were reported from Uttarakhand on Monday taking the state’s tally to 96. According to the health department, a 60-year-old woman from Dehradun’s Vasant Vihar area was tested positive for the virus. She had returned to the city from Mumbai with her husband on May 15. Eight others, all headed for Uttarkashi, were also accompanying this couple in their journey. Now, these people have been kept in isolation in a hospital there. “A 35-year-old man, who had returned from Mumbai recently, also tested Covid-19 positive on the day. Another positive case was reported from Nainital. The patient is a 20-year-old girl and she had come to the city from Delhi. The fourth positive case is of a 23-year-old man who had come to Uttarkashi from Gurgaon,” said Yugal Kishore Pant, additional secretary (health), Uttarakhand. On Monday, the health department sent 586 samples for Covid-19 test and reports of 1,087 samples are still awaited. At present, the recovery rate of Covid-19 cases in state is around 55% and more than 60,000 people are under quarantine at their homes or in different facilities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/pauri-reports-2nd-death-at-quarantine-centre-in-last-48-hours-4-new-covid-19-cases-found-in-state/articleshow/75812670.cms||Ishita Mishra
May 19, 2020||Kolhapur||Wrestler held for attacking tehsildar||KOLHAPUR: Vita police on Sunday arrested national-level wrestler Chandradhar Patil and his friend for assaulting a tehsildar over the issue of illegal sand hoarding. The incident took place on May 3 and since then the duo had been absconding. The second accused has been identified as Srimant Survase (19), a resident of Kandari in Osmanabad district. They have been booked under sections 353, 332, 323, 504, 506, 188 of the Indian Penal Code.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/wrestler-held-for-attacking-tehsildar/articleshow/75812681.cms||Vivek Waghmode
May 19, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Back from Jammu, last mile is one too many||NEW DELHI: A group of 50 labourers from Jammu kept looking over their shoulders as they walked along National Highway 24, hoping for a bus to take them home in Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh. The labourers had reached Delhi on Monday morning by train. A bus carried them to Ghazipur but refused to take them across the state border. Left with no choice, they wandered on the highway, their children on shoulders, hoping to catch a bus to their villages. Police said on Monday that several others had reached the border from the railway stations, but there was no transport for proceeding into Uttar Pradesh. “They shouldn’t have given us tickets and put us on the train if there was no means of sending us back home,” said a stressed Ashok Pal, who is from Jhansi. “We were dropped near the border and we have been walking since then. We also went to Anand Vihar Railway Station but were turned away. We were also turned back from Ghazipur, though someone suggested we should try entering Uttar Pradesh from Noida.” The train from Jammu Tawi reached New Delhi around 7am, the passengers having been told that buses and other means of transport would be available in the capital. Children as young as three and five years were part of the group. Sheela Devi and her husband have been earning a living as daily-wage workers in Jammu for the last six years. Her children are at home in Mahua, Madhya Pradesh. “I am unable to understand why we were sent here from Jammu if there was no way we could travel from here to our homes,” said Devi. “What will we do in Delhi? We arrived in the morning, and it is now 3pm. Yet we still don’t know how to go home. Since morning, we have only been walking. Someone says go to Anand Vihar, someone says Noida. Where are we to go?” Devi’s husband, Ashok, was struggling on the highway. “He has a disability in one of his legs, but what else can we do but walk even in this condition,” she said. “When we ask the children to try and walk, they start crying so we have to carry them on our shoulders and keep going.” The migrant workers said they would take shelter under a flyover when they were tired and then try to cross the border at night. Bottles wrapped in sack cloth kept their water cool, and bananas and some food offered to them gave them the strength to continue their desperate walking.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/back-from-jammu-last-mile-is-one-too-many/articleshow/75814920.cms||Sakshi Chand
May 19, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Cops told to stop migrants from advancing on foot, cycles||Bhubaneswar: The state government has asked police to prevent movement of migrants on foot and on cycles in view of the impending super cyclone Amphan. The police personnel have also been asked to trace migrants taking shelter under trees and in dilapidated structures and to move them to safer places. Although the government mobilised vehicles three days ago to transport migrants to interstate border checkpoints, many have literally missed the bus. “We fear a threat to the lives of migrant workers who are still walking to return to their homes in other states. As we expect heavy rain and gusty winds from Monday evening under the impact of Amphan, their movement should be stopped. Police and district administrations should rescue them and arrange temporary shelter for them,” a senior officer of the revenue and disaster management department said. The movement of Shramik Special trains, carrying migrant workers from other states to Odisha, has been temporarily suspended in view of the advancing super cyclone. The government has alerted the SPs of coastal districts like Bhadrak, Balasore, Kendrapada and Jagatsinghpur to dissuade migrants from travelling on foot and cycles. These four districts are likely to bear the brunt of Cyclone Amphan on Wednesday. “Since West Bengal is likely to be badly hit, steps should be taken by the administrations in Balasore and Mayurbhanj to stop the movement of migrants from Odisha to the neighbouring state till Wednesday or Thursday,” the officer said. DGP Abhay, who took stock of Amphan preparedness and Covid-19 management in Balasore and Bhadrak on Monday, said his force was taking steps to protect migrants moving on foot and cycles. “We are alert to the dangers. Police continue to transport migrants in buses to mitigate their pain. SPs are working in coordination with other departments for the safety of migrants during the super cyclone,” Abhay said. Civil society organisations have also come forward to alert the government about the unsafe shelters migrants have been forced to rest in. “We spotted around 80 migrants living under a parking lot shed behind Khandagiri complex in Bhubaneswar. With the impending cyclone, we would humbly like to bring their plight to your (the government’s) notice for action,” read a tweet by Project Rahat, a voluntary outfit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/cops-told-to-stop-migrants-from-advancing-on-foot-cycles/articleshow/75813799.cms||Debabrata Mohapatra
May 19, 2020||Bareilly||Stranded migrant workers pedal 380 km for three days from Uttarakhand to Moradabad||Bareilly: Desperate to reach home, a group of migrant workers - with no food and money - peddled around 380 km for three days from Uttarakhand to Moradabad in Uttar Pradesh. With nationwide Covid-19 lockdown still in effect, the daily wagers were stranded in Uttarkashi district of Uttarakhand and were left without any work. Narrating their ordeal, the migrants, who were working at construction sites in the neighbouring state, said they left Uttarkashi for their respective home towns on bicycles and reached Moradabad on Sunday morning, where they were intercepted by the police. Nine such workers, identified as Ashok, Raman, Rajesh, Rajan Sahani, among others, were sent to a shelter home located in the area by the Moradabad police who found them cycling at 6am on the highway near zero point in Mundha Pandey. Besides the usual hardships during the journey, they were also often stopped by police, claiming that some cops at a checkpost near Bijnor district misbehaved with them. “We somehow managed to survive at our workplace. Then left with nothing at all we decided to leave for home on bicycles. We had to pedal for around 380 km and it took us three days to reach Moradabad. We are now totally exhausted and request the authorities to assist us in reaching our homes,” Rajesh, one of the migrants, said. Moradabad's SP city Amit Anand told TOI, “A number of migrants were arriving at our district border on a daily basis. We are providing them assistance, especially those on foot or on bicycles. The migrants are being sent to shelter homes in the nearby areas where they are undergoing screening, and given food. We will ensure that they reach their destinations. For the purpose, UPSRTC buses have also been arranged.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/stranded-migrant-workers-pedal-380-km-for-three-days-from-uttarakhand-to-moradabad/articleshow/75813800.cms||Maria Khan
May 19, 2020||Bareilly||Two local cybercriminals linked to Nigeriangangs based in Delhi & NCR held in Bareilly||Bareilly: After arresting two local cybercriminals, who used to work as a facilitator for Nigerian gangs based in Delhi and NCR, police are now searching for other gang members at various locations. The police seized Rs 4 lakh in cash and banking details of several people in Bareilly from them. Police said after a thorough investigation, it came to the fore that both the accused used to help gang members said to be from Nigeria by providing them account details of people - which were then misused for transferring the "duped money". After receiving money in the account, the men used to deliver it to the gang members in Delhi and NCR and get 20 percent commission in return, the police added. The accused, who were arrested by police, belong to Udla Jagir village in Izzatnagar area of Bareilly. An FIR has been registered against them at Baradari police station. Police are now trying to find out if any other resident of the village is part of the gang. On Monday, SP (crime) RK Bhartiya explained, “The accused used to open account in the name of people with poor economic background by paying them a one time amount of around Rs 20,000. Thereafter, the account details were shared with the Nigerian gang operating from Delhi for transferring the stolen money from the bank account. We are using all our sources to catch the main accused behind the racket.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/two-local-cybercriminals-linked-to-nigeriangangs-based-in-delhi-ncr-held-in-bareilly/articleshow/75813806.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
May 19, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: On a roll, 20-year-old stopped in his tracks||NEW DELHI: Vivek Kumar Mishra woke up on Monday with a message on his phone asking him to reach a government school in East Vinod Nagar for his journey back home to Gonda in Uttar Pradesh. Delighted that his nine-day wait for a response was over, he pulled on his roller skates and started out from his Sarai Rohilla room. Mishra’s elation, however, dissipated at the school. With no transport available, the young man though there was nothing better than to skate his way to the rendezvous point. Many people recorded him gliding on the way to the East Vinod Nagar school in east Delhi. Police, however, did not take kindly to it. Mishra was stopped at a picket on Vikas Marg. “I halted twice when it got tough to ride up the flyovers. But when the cops stopped me, I had to remove my skates and take an autorickshaw to reach the school,” the 20-year-old said. “They also told me the message I got was fake, but I continued on my way.” The message said the train to Basti district was available, and that it would make a stop at Gonda. “The arrangements for your food have been made, you don’t have to pay for your journey. On May 18 please reach the government school along with your family in East Vinod Nagar with your identity card. Please do not forward this message to anyone,” it read. With his skates hanging on either side of his bag, Mishra loitered near the school gate. “I had registered online on May 9. The message said after screening, we would be sent home without having to pay anything,” said a doleful Mishra. “But here, they are refusing to even let me enter the school compound.” Mishra, son of village doctor who studied up to Class XII, works as a cashier at a Karol Bagh restaurant at a salary of Rs 15,000 a month. “My employer hasn’t paid me my full salary, but asked me to accept Rs 1,500. I could not pay my rent, so my landlord cut my water supply,” the youth said, underlining his desperation to go home.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/on-a-roll-20-year-old-stopped-in-his-tracks/articleshow/75814933.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Vijayawada||After a day’s lull, 15 +ve cases put Vijayawada officials on their toes||VIJAYAWADA: Fifteen positive Covid-19 cases were registered in Vijayawada on Monday, putting the district administration on high alert. The number of positive cases in the district touched 382, however, only 104 cases are active and under treatment. Ten out of 15 cases registered on Monday are from Krishna Lanka, an area that continues to worry officials. Despite geographical containment and a complete lockdown, the number of positive cases in the area has increased due to density of population and congested streets. Sanitation activities by the VMC have been intensified at Krishna Lanka and the civic body has urged locals to not leave home for trivial reasons. As part of measures, health workers and volunteers have gone door-to-door, requesting persons with fever and other Covid-19 symptoms to come forward voluntarily for treatment. District collector A Mohammed Imtiaz has directed authorities of the health wing to start testing at the community level in Krishna Lanka. Three cases were registered at YSR Colony Jakkampudi and two at Kothapet. Meanwhile, a VMC contract worker receiving treatment at a city Covid hospital died on Monday. It is yet to be announced whether the patient died of Covid-19 or comorbidities. VMC authorities have directed sanitation workers and ground level staff to focus on personal safety while on duty.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/after-a-days-lull-15-ve-cases-put-vij-officials-on-their-toes/articleshow/75813810.cms||Venu Lanka
May 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Now, Covid-19 diagnosis with Artificial Intelligence system||HYDERABAD: Faculty members of VNR Vignana Jyothi Institute of Engineering and Technology (VNRVJIET), Hyderabad, have developed an Artificial Intelligence-based diagnostic system for Covid-19. The system, which is said to predict the infection with over 99% accuracy, studies chest X-ray or CT scan images of the suspected patients to detect a potential viral infection. Dby a team led by Radha Krishna Vangipuram, an assistant professor with the department of IT, uses AI and image processing techniques to study chest X-ray or CT scan images. It is currently being patented in India and the USA by these inventors. Researchers said that team has been collaborating remotely during the lockdown and has developed this cost-effective testing system with high accuracy of 99.5% to predict Covid-19. “The same diagnostic system can be used to predict numerous other diseases pertaining to the respiratory system,” said Vangipuram adding that the use of AI enables much higher precision than what radiologists can achieve. They said that this testing system will be really useful in any country where there is a shortage of test kits, radiologists, and affordable diagnosis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/now-covid-19-diagnosis-with-ai-system/articleshow/75814939.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Ludhiana||Migrants breach security at unmanned crossings||Ludhiana: In a major breach in security arrangements of special Shramik trains crossing through the city railway station carrying thousands of migrants, several unauthorised labourers entered different coaches of a special train when it was passing through several unmanned railway crossings at slow speed in the afternoon hours within the city limits. Due to lack of patrolling by railway security forces along railway tracks passing through areas where these labourers live, many migrants while taking advantage of the present situation try to enter the bogies of special trains which were crossing through several unmanned crossings. After getting inputs from railway sources about regular attempts being made by migrant labourers for getting entries into the coaches of the special trains passing through the city limits, a team of TOI visited some railway crossings and was shocked to see that several migrants labourers were getting easy entry into different coaches of special trains to Bihar and Uttar Pradesh when these were passing through one unmanned crossing (near Gurdwara Dukh Niwaran) at slow speed due to technical reasons. The TOI team noticed that almost 10-15 migrant labourers entered different caoches of a special train which left the city station during afternoon after carrying thousands of migrants who had registered themselves on government portals for availing benefits of the government scheme. Sources in the railway department have revealed that “for the past two days the menace of getting entries into special trains on the move has increased to a great extent as migrant labourers were getting impatient and looking for every possible measure to reach their home states in these special trains”. “Moreover, due to a large number of registration on government portals by migrants labourers, it has become difficult for the Railways to manage the large number of trains in a single day to help thousands of labourers return to their native places. This has forced them to jump on to these trains when these are at slow speed,” sources said. Speaking to a migrant labourer, Subhash Kumar, who was standing along a railway tracks wanting to jump on to a train in an illegal way, said, “Migrant labourers are fed up with waiting for their turn to come for catching the special train heading towards Bihar and Uttar Pradesh after doing registration on portals. For the past 15 days they didn’t received any confirmation message from the government about the departure timing of the special train, which forced us to take such a step as we are facing huge crises in managing the daily essential items for survival here.” “There is a large number of migrants who were risking their lives for catching the trains in the same way. We want to return home fast as we have lost our jobs and ran out of money for buying essentials items for survival,” some labourers told TOI. Director of Ludhiana railway station Tarun Kumar said, “We have already given directions to the local railway security forces to conduct patrolling round the clock around unmanned crossing for keeping tab on such wrong practices. But if there is still something wrong going on, then more security forces will have to be deployed at such crossings to ensure smooth plying of all special trains” On the other hand, DSP (administration) Pardeep Sandhu said, “We have already deployed proper security forces around the railway station to restrict such activities of migrant labourers. But I will personally go and check all security arrangements at different crossings for proper enforcement of law and order.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/migrants-breach-security-at-unmanned-crossings/articleshow/75813817.cms||RAHUL TAWAR
May 19, 2020||Kolhapur||Allow shops to open: Traders||Kolhapur: The city traders have urged the administration to open all shops in residential complexes along with 50 percent in commercial complexes with immediate effect. They have also asked to continue the ban on e-commerce websites for non-essential goods. On Sunday, the central government gave relaxations for business activities in green and orange zones. The traders have sought meeting with district administration on Tuesday to discuss on the issue. Ajit Kothari, director of Kolhapur Chamber of Commerce and Industries, said, "Since centre issued new guidelines, many traders have raised the concerns. The shops in commercial markets are closed, however, the traders owing shops in the residential complexes too have been asked to shut. We are demanding to open all shops in the residential complexes and we have voluntarily decided which shop from the commercial complexes will open on odd days and even days."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/allow-shops-to-open-traders/articleshow/75812694.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Lockdown hits livelihood of Sambalpur bidi rollers||Sambalpur: The lockdown imposed to prevent the spread of Covid-19 has hit the bidi rollers in the district. While there are 27 registered bidi companies in the district, only around five are running now, affecting livelihood of a large section of 1.45 lakh bidi makers. Mitrabhanu Podh, general secretary of Sambalpur Zilla Bidi Shramik Union, said all the bidi companies in the district have shut shop due to the lockdown on March 25. “This remained so till May 3 when five bidi units started operation after the government gave some relaxation. But majority of the bidi companies in the district are still closed,” he said. The bidi units provide kendu leaves, thread and other material to the bidi rollers who make the bidis at home. The workers get Rs 142.62 for rolling 1,000 bidis. “But since the bidi companies have stopped operation, the rollers are suffering a lot,” Podh added. Majority of the 1.45 lakh bidi rollers in Sambalpur district are women belonging to the ST/SC community. Bidi is rolled in houses in around 17 districts in the state. There are around 6 lakh bidi rollers in Odisha. Podh said, “The imposition of 28% GST on bidi had hit the companies hard. Because of the high GST, the sale of bidis has come down, affecting the livelihood of many bidi rollers. And now the lockdown has compounded problems. The government is declaring assistance for various sections of workers but has completely forgotten the bidi rollers.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/lockdown-hits-livelihood-of-sambalpur-bidi-rollers/articleshow/75813827.cms||Subrat Mohanty
May 19, 2020||Ludhiana||Health dept raids grocery stores in Civil Lines to check adulteration||Ludhiana: Acting on a tip-off, a health department team raided a sweet shop in Civil Lines and took samples of several milk food items to check for adulteration. The food safety team also carried out raids in several departmental stores located in Industrial Area (B) and Gill Road and collected samples of several food items like salt, ghee and wheat grains, which were suspected to be either adulterated or expired. District health officer (DHO) Rakesh Garg said, “As a preventive measure, food safety team conducted inspection at several departmental stores in city limits on Monday and sealed several food items for laboratory testing.” According to him, during the drive, the team has seized a huge stock of food items, including mustard oil, fruit beverages and pulses, among others, for further testing. “We inspected after we were ‘informed’ that these shops owners were not following health safety norms and selling adulterated food items. The laboratory reports of seized items will come in next 15 days after that we will take appropriate action against them,” said the DHO.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/health-dept-raids-grocery-stores-in-civil-lines-to-check-adulteration/articleshow/75813829.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Delhi||Delhi's air turns poor for first time in 2 months as cars return||NEW DELHI: The capital’s air turned ‘poor’ for the first time in over two months on Monday, with the overall AQI being recorded at 206, according to the Central Pollution Control Board’s daily bulletin. Track the pollution level in your cityThis was also the first ‘poor’ air day during the anti-coronavirus lockdown, with Delhi’s air quality largely remaining in the ‘satisfactory’ to ‘moderate’ category during this period as a result of vehicles going off roads, industries shutting down and reduced human activity. Experts said the spike is largely due to a rise in dust pollution, arising from strong dusty winds coming from west Rajasthan. Delhi has also seen a rise in vehicular pollution from May 4, after the lockdown relaxations came into effect. The System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (SAFAR) — a body under the Union ministry of earth sciences said dust transport from Rajasthan was likely to keep the PM 10 levels in the high range until Monday evening, after which some improvement could be expected. “AQI is likely to improve marginally thereafter but will remain within the moderate category tomorrow. Dust is likely to be a dominant factor in contributing to particulate pollution for the coming days,” SAFAR stated in its report. Delhi last recorded a ‘poor’ air quality day on May 3, when the overall AQI touched 205. Since the lockdown came into effect, the city even recorded a ‘good’ air day — last recorded in August 2019. Air quality is considered ‘good’ when the AQI falls below 50 on the index. Met officials forecast dry conditions to continue for the next two days before a spell of rain hits Delhi around May 22.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/air-turns-poor-for-first-time-in-2-months-as-cars-return/articleshow/75814948.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
May 19, 2020||Vijayawada||Covid-19 cases continue to surface in Andhra Pradesh's Chittoor||TIRUPATI: As the nation entered lockdown 4.0, Chittoor district on Monday continued to register a spike in Covid-19 cases. Fifteen cases were reported in the district, taking the tally to 192. Of 192 cases, 82 have been discharged and 110 are active cases. Of the 15 new cases reported in the district, seven are from Nagalapuram, three in Satyavedu, one case each in Tirupati rural, Srikalahasti, V Kota, Ramakuppam and Pichatur. State government whip Chevireddy Bhaskar Reddy and district collector Narayana Bharat Gupta inspected the red zones at Tummalagunta in Tirupati rural mandal where one fresh case was reported on Friday. Bhaskar Reddy assured the locals that the district administration will enforce all necessary measures in the red zone to prevent further outbreak of the virus. He appealed to the people to not venture out unnecessarily. Meanwhile, two fresh cases were reported in Kadapa district. The total number of cases in the district now stands at 104. In Kurnool district four fresh Covid cases were reported and 11 patients were discharged. 19 deaths have been reported in the district so far. District collector G Veerapandian told reporters that 444 patients, who constitute 73% of the total 615 Covid-19 cases reported in the district, were treated successfully and discharged. “Now only 152 patients are undergoing treatment at the Covid hospitals in the district,” the collector said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ncov-cases-continue-to-surface-in-chittoor/articleshow/75813828.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
May 19, 2020||Ludhiana||Straw burning to earn farmers red pen entry, depriving them of govt benefits||Ludhiana: Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) has directed the deputy commissioner’s (DC) office to make red pen entries in the revenue record of farmers who burn wheat straw/stubble, said DC Pradeep Kumar Agrawal. According to him, one entry has already been made. He said also in 45 cases, a fine of Rs 1.55 lakh has been imposed to the farmers who have burnt wheat straw. The DC said PPCB is being strict this time and directions about red pen entry have already been issued to all the patwaris concerned. He said since it will be mentioned in the record that the farmer has burnt “wheat straw”, it will remain a permanent record and could influence future decisions as well. He said farmers with such an entry will not be able to avail government benefits. PPCB superintending engineer Sandeep Behal said till May 16, 178 cases of wheat straw burning have been reported in the district and the sub-divisional teams were immediately rushed to the spot for checking. Out of these, the team had ascertained that in 10 cases, the cause of fire was something else, he added. He said an FIR under Section 188 of IPC has been registered against one farmer. Agrawal urged the farmers to act responsibly. He said burning of wheat straw reduces the soil fertility, besides polluting environment. He said several officials have been deputed to check the menace and also appealed to the residents to bring it to the notice of the officials concerned if they know any residue burning so that action be taken against the culprits.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/straw-burning-to-earn-farmers-red-pen-entry-depriving-them-of-govt-benefits/articleshow/75813840.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Delhi||AAP, BJP cross swords again on migrants||NEW DELHI: Leader of opposition in Delhi Assembly Ramvir Singh Bidhuri on Monday claimed that AAP government had failed to provide ration to the poor workers. AAP, on the other hand, accused BJP for the migrant crisis. “The central government is providing free ration to 72 lakh people of Delhi for three months, but it is not reaching the beneficiaries. In absence of food, migrants are going back to their hometowns,” Bidhuri claimed in a press statement. The BJP leader alleged that the Delhi government’s website where the migrant workers were supposed to register themselves had not been working for several days. “Delhi does not have to pay a single penny. It has still failed to make arrangements for their travel.” Senior AAP leader and Rajya Sabha MP, however, blamed BJP for being “blind” towards the exodus of poor migrant labourers, which he said was happening across India. “The only way to solve this issue is by running more trains. Railways can carry 2.3 crore people every day. Sometimes they say they are running 100 trains and sometimes they say 15. We expected a proper vision from Centre on the issue,” Singh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/aap-bjp-cross-swords-again-on-migrants/articleshow/75814962.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Jaipur||11 dists bordering MP & Guj to have isolation facilities||Jaipur: Expressing concern over rising Covid-19 cases among migrants, the state government has directed 11 districts bordering Madhya Pradesh and Gujarat to arrange quarantine facilities for all inbound migrants. The state fears that the entry of 16 lakh migrants to the state can turn several districts into hotspots. The authorities have been asked to follow a three-tier monitoring system to prevent any migrant escape the 14-day quarantine period. Since the migrants have started arriving in Rajasthan from 8 to 10 states from April 26 through the Ratanpur border, the number of cases have shot up drastically in the bordering districts. All 124 Covid-19 cases in Dholpur district are either migrants or directly related to migrants. Most of these cases were from those have crossed over without permission. “Majority of the Covid-19 cases are from those who have returned from Mumbai. We are on high alert and have activated all our resources in containing the number of cases,” said Dungarpur collector Kana Ram. He informed that they were keeping every migrant under geo-fencing during their quarantine period. “It has helped us in nabbing those who tried to move away from the designated quarantine area,” said Ram. Geo-fencing is a tracker installed in phones of those serving quarantine. The moment they move 300 metres away from their location, the information is shared to Covid-19 war room. The districts include Jalore, Dungarpur, Banswara, Pali, Sirohi, Udaipur, Pratapgarh, Chittorgarh, Rajsamand, Dholpur and Karauli. Four among these 11 districts are likely to receive a sea of migrants making the fight tougher and difficult. “The entire boundary has been sealed and only those with no ILI symptoms are allowed for home quarantine,” said Parwat Singh Chundawat, SDM, Banswara. Sources said that the government was monitoring the number of cases related to ariving migrants. If the number of cases see a rise, the state can revise or tweak its rules for the migrants.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/11-dists-bordering-mp-guj-to-have-isolation-facilities/articleshow/75815516.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Dehradun||Man, 60, murdered in Mussoorie, police apprehend neighbour||MUSSOORIE: A 60-year-old man was found dead in a forest near Shiv Colony in Mussoorie on Monday morning. Police suspect he had been beaten to death by his neighbour, who has been apprehended, based on a police complaint filed by the deceased’s family. The body of Uday Pal, a resident of Shiv colony, was discovered by his family members in the forest adjoining their house on Monday morning. Pal’s family said that he used to frequent the house of a neighbour, Surjeet, 26, who they accused of beating him to death. When police reached the spot of the crime of Monday morning, Surjeet jumped off a high cliff in an attempt to escape, but was apprehended by police and has been admitted at a hospital. “It seems the deceased had been assaulted with a hard and blunt weapon, which could have been the stones lying on the hill side. We are investigating the matter,” said Mussoorie station officer Vidhya Bhushan Negi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/man-60-murdered-in-mussoorie-police-apprehend-neighbour/articleshow/75812721.cms||Anmol Jain
May 19, 2020||Bengaluru||Only two in 10 patients in Karnataka show Covid-19 symptoms||BENGALURU: A government analysis of all cases in Karnataka up to Monday shows only two of every 10 patients exhibit symptoms of Covid-19, while each positive patient spreads the infection to at least seven others. Of the 1,246 cases as on Monday, 1,018 or 82% of patients were asymptomatic, and they have been found positive after mandatory tests because they either entered the state from outside, or were contacts of other positive patients. When TOI last reported on this analysis on April 28, 369 or 73% of the 512 cases were asymptomatic on that day. This means that a majority of the cases added to the tally since then have been patients without any symptoms. Experts, while stating that such a huge percentage of patients being asymptomatic is indicative of the virus’ presence across the state, however, said that there’s a silver lining. "What such a high percentage of asymptomatic cases shows is that the immune system of the majority, especially healthy, young adults, is robust enough to overcome the virus. This means that we can now focus more on the vulnerable population," said Dr MK Sudharshan, a public health expert and member, Karnataka’s special Covid committee. Another doctor said the virus is here to stay and while the overall positive cases are bound to increase, the fact that most people are recovering means the strategy must be to aggressively treat those patients who have other conditions too. Results of another analysis conducted by the government show that as of Sunday morning (May 17), nearly 12% of all active patients in the state were categorised as high-risk. However, some districts like Gadag (43%), Chitradurga (37.5%), Dakshina Kannada (32%) and Kalaburagi (22.5%) had more high-risk patients than the state average. "Yes, there will be some high-risk cases, those with respiratory disorders or influenza among other things. And we will need to start treating them aggressively and keep the number of deaths under control, which will be the priority," Sudharshan said. "But even the number of high-risk patients is within acceptable limits. For instance, of the 550 beds in Victoria hospital, only about a 100 are occupied. This shows that most people are recovering without complications." Further, an analysis by the state war room shows that on average, a single root patient infects about seven others, while those Covid patients with severe acute respiratory infection (SARI) and influenza like illness (ILI) infect nearly 10 others. And, those patients with domestic travel history infect about six people compared to the two patients with international travel history are infecting. As per the analysis, just 62 root patients from across the state spread the disease to 426 others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/only-two-in-10-patients-in-karnataka-show-covid-19-symptoms/articleshow/75813854.cms||Chethan Kumar
May 19, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Now, HSC answer sheets evaluation to start from May 21||BHUBANESWAR: In the wake of cyclone Amphan, the Odisha government on Monday rescheduled the date of evaluation of matriculation examination answer sheets. The evaluation process, which was scheduled tostart from May 20 will now begin a day after on May 21, official sources said. Since cyclone Amphan will move along the state coast and will cause heavy to very heavy rainfall in the coastal districts from Monday evening, the evaluation will now start from May 21 at 60 centres, said school and mass education minister Samir Ranjan Das. The government took the decision in view of the difficulties faced by teachers in travelling. However, the government has asked the department to allot centres to teachers within 10km range of their homes due to the lockdown restrictions and consequent inconveniences. On the pending annual Plus II examinations, Das said the Council of Higher Secondary Education (CHSE) has decided to conduct it between July 1 and 15. The exact dates of the examinations have not been decided yet. However, the evaluation of the answer sheets of examinations already completed will start from June 1, he informed. The HSC answer sheets evaluation had started on March 17 but the process got disrupted from March 18 after teachers expressed fear and apprehension about the spread of the virus as they were evaluating the answer sheets sitting in groups and one answer sheet moves from one hand to another. Around 23,000 teachers will be engaged in the evaluation of matriculation answer sheets. A total 5, 60, 891 students appeared the exam this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/now-hsc-answer-sheets-evaluation-to-start-from-may-21/articleshow/75813838.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Kolhapur||Solapur reports 50 new cases, 22-day-old discharged||Kolhapur: Solapur registered 50 fresh Covid-19 cases on Monday taking the tally of patients to 435. The positive cases include reports of three deceased as well, who passed away on May 15, 16 and 17. On Monday, the cases were reported from 24 different areas in the city. Meanwhile, an infant, born on April 26, was discharged from the Solapur civil hospital on Sunday, after she tested negative for the contagion. The baby’s mother, who resides in the Rahul Gandhi slum area, however, had come in contact with a positive Covid-19 patient. “After tracing the close contacts of the earlier positive patient, we came to know that the mother and the infant both were positive for the contagion and they were shifted to the Solapur civil hospital on May 5,” said medical superintendent of Solapur civil hospital Audumbar Maske. — With inputs from Suryakant Asabe in Solapur||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/solapur-reports-50-new-cases-22-day-old-discharged/articleshow/75812734.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Madurai||‘Hand over infants to us if parents don’t want them’||Madurai: Madurai district Child Welfare Committee (CWC) has urged people to hand over infants to the committee if they don’t want to raise their newborn. The announcement has come close on the heels of a suspected female infanticide reported at Sholavandan in Madurai district.A four-day-old girl child was allegedly killed by the child’s father and grandmother as she was the fourth daughter in the family. They had beaten the baby to death before feeding her cactus milk. The two have been arrested by Sholavandan police on Sunday after the postmortem report suggested that the baby was murdered.At least three more bay girls have died under mysterious circumstances in Madurai and Theni districts in the last three months.In this backdrop, chairman of Madurai district CWD Dr K Vijayasaravanan said that it is sad that female infanticides are happening in the area. He requested people to hand over the children to CWC.Officials from CWC said that at least seven babies have been handed over to Madurai CWC this year so far. The children have been handed over to adoption centres and are under the care of child protection officials and CWC.B Pandiarajan, member, CWC, said that parents can take back their kids for two months once the baby is handed over to them. After that the child will be made available for adoption through Central Adoption Resource Authority and State Adoption Resource Agency. The committee and child protection unit will ensure that children are adopted by safe hands. There is also a continuous mechanism to ensure that children are well taken care off, he said.Pandiarajan said that parents can hand over children if they do not want to raise them. They can do it through hospitals, cradle baby scheme, village health nurse and directly approaching adoption homes and CWC, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hand-over-infants-to-us-if-parents-dont-want-them/articleshow/75815517.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Tech-savvy lawyers shine in virtual court||AHMEDABAD: After the courts have assumed a new avatar in the nationwide lockdown and court proceedings have become virtual, lawyers who are well versed in handling electronic gadgets and have good internet connectivity are proving to be the smart lawyers. With the Gujarat high court switching over completely from the courtroom proceedings at its Sola campus to video conferencing through Zoom and insisting on only urgent matters, learned lawyers have little scope to stretch law points to buttress their arguments. Lawyers’ efficiency is dependent more on how tech-savvy s/he and how better data connectivity the lawyer has. The lawyers make submissions in virtual courtroom through their computers, laptops, tablets and mostly through their smartphones. A PASA detainee in Sabarmati central jail, Umarkhan Pathan could not get temporary bail earlier this month only because his advocate did not have a smart phone. “…learned advocate for the applicant could not be connected through video conference as he does not have smartphone,” the HC order mentions before adjourning the matter. Similarly, Mohammed Afzal Pathan’s wait for bail got longer because his advocate’s phone was switched off. The HC registry tried him twice before the case was adjourned. The issue of connectivity plagued the proceedings a little in initial couple of days. But, the problem was soon resolved. On this issue, the registrar general said, “The only challenge faced some time by very few participants and that too very rarely, was the slow internet speed on their networks. There is no major requirement of technical gadgets or expenditure on the part of the participants, as a normal smartphone with camera, which is possessed by almost everyone in the Bar, is sufficient to join the Zoom Cloud Meeting VC session being used for hearing of matters by the high court.” However, joining the court proceedings is sometimes a problem for lawyers. Last week, senior Congress leader and advocate Shaktisinh Gohil waited to make submission in a case, but he did not get the link connecting him to court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/tech-savvy-lawyers-shine-in-virtual-court/articleshow/75815041.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Jaipur||‘Indira Priyadarshini Baby Kit’ scheme launched||Jaipur: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Monday launched the ‘Indira Priyadarshini Baby Kit’ distribution programme to newborn girls born in state hospitals. He handed the pink kits to newborn girls of Sonam and Meenakshi, who delivered at the Zanana Hospital, Jaipur. Girls born in state medical hospitals of Jaipur district started receiving the baby kit from Monday. The scheme will also be launched in other districts in the next few days. Gehlot had announced about the scheme in the state budget of 2019-20 to prevent the risk of infection from wrapping infants in old clothes and to protect newborn from hypothermia. Blue kits will be distributed to newborn boys from July. Under the scheme, 11 lakh newborns in government medical institutions will get the kits every year. It will cost the exchequer around Rs 10 crore per year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/indira-priyadarshini-baby-kit-scheme-launched/articleshow/75815518.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Delhi||Delhi Congress chief promised buses for migrants: FIR||NEW DELHI: Delhi Congress chief Anil Chaudhary lied on Sunday about providing bus services to take migrant workers to UP and Bihar from the Ghazipur border, Delhi Police has alleged. According to the FIR filed against Chaudhary, no service was permitted from the area by Delhi Police. The cops also claimed Chaudhary had promised workers free food and travel without making any arrangement. The FIR was registered on the basis of a sub-inspector’s complaint after migrant workers started gathering at the border after this alleged promise, leading to chaos on Delhi-Meerut Expressway. Chaudhary has been booked for allegedly disobeying government orders. He was arrested but has got bail. “We had gathered here on the basis of a promise made by Congress leaders... Thousands of us had travelled to Ghazipur border on foot after believing in this promise,” the FIR quoted a migrant labourer as saying. Cops eventually had to make arrangements for most workers at shelter homes in UP and Delhi as they had vacated their rented houses to head back home.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/city-cong-chief-promised-buses-for-migrants-fir/articleshow/75814971.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: UN warns of bigger locust attack than last year, says agriculture minister||JAIPUR: Agriculture minister Lal Chand Kataria said that the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations has warned of a large scale locust outbreak this year with two to three times more impact than the previous year. Locusts are expected to spread to other districts besides the 12 districts affected last year. Agriculture minister Kataria said, “We controlled locusts in a very effective way last year, but this year, there is a need to adopt a more effective survey and control system.” Kataria was reviewing locust control with officials of agriculture department through video conferencing from his residence on Monday. Kataria said that the state government is making all necessary arrangements for locust control by establishing complete coordination with the Centre. He directed to complete all the preparations through a committee constituted under the chairmanship of the district collectors. Officials would ensure availability of adequate pesticides on the spot. It has been directed to create a WhatsApp group and connect all the public representatives from panchayats to MPs, so that locusts could be reported immediately and effective control can be done. He informed that personnel from other districts have been appointed on vacant posts in locust-affected districts and soon, new recruitment will be made for the selected assistant agriculture officer and agriculture supervisors with no shortage of personnel. Principal secretary Nareshpal Gangwar said that last year, 12 districts were affected by locusts, for which a contingency plan had been prepared long back. Due to possibility of new districts to be added this year, the remaining districts should also send a contingency plan prepared by the district collector to the headquarters. He said drones will be used to spray pesticides for locust control where it is difficult for vehicles to reach. For this, the tender process will be completed soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/un-warns-of-bigger-locust-attack-than-last-year-says-agri-minister/articleshow/75815525.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Ludhiana||Videos showing marshals in poor light go viral||Ludhiana: While the Ludhiana police administration is applauding volunteers associated with them for working as a supporting pillar amid pandemic, some of the videos showing them indulging in acts of indiscipline and arrogance seem to convey otherwise. Some Tik-Tok videos made by a traffic marshal are catching attention in social media. In these videos certain marshals are seen using sticks to threaten migrants to move fast in the queue inside Guru Nanak Dev Stadium while using the lyrics of a racist song, lie in the lap of each other on the background music of ‘kaali rifle donali’ and also making a man do sit-ups on the song ‘jehra dhake chad gya yaaran de, Punjab police sardaran de’. In one recent video on his Tik-Tok account shows that the migrants are walking in a queue in the stadium and two volunteers are guiding them. One of the volunteers is holding a stick. He picks up the stick to hit one migrant, who was walking slow. The background music of this video is ‘bade chete aaunde ne, jattan nu bhaiye, modhe te kahi ae, mod te lage si vad de pathe, chakki jan fatte, UP nu nathhe’. Another video captured on song ‘kaali rafal (rifle) donali’ shows a group of marshals seen lying on lap of each other even without mask. In another video again same marshals are seen sitting in a group, sans mask, showing swag on song ‘karlo dawai da koi hal Modi ji, mombatiya nal rog kithe taal hunde aa’. (Modi ji, get some medicine invented, lighting candles won’t avert pandemic). Yet another video, which has also been shot in Guru Nanak Dev Stadium, shows some traffic marshals sitting together in a group posing for a song, again without masks. In fifth video, two marshals are making a man do sit-ups with background song ‘Jehra dhakke chad gya yaaran de, Punjab police sardarran de’. Fourth and fifth video seems to be old and in these videos marshals are wearing old uniform. Meanwhile, DCP (traffic) Sukhpal Singh Brar said, “Earlier, also we have removed some volunteers as they were indisciplined. I am unaware of these videos, but will get these inquired into. Such indiscipline will not be tolerated:”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/videos-showing-marshals-in-poor-light-go-viral/articleshow/75813853.cms||Payal Dhawan
May 19, 2020||Kozhikode||Wayanad: No fresh cases for 3rd day||Kozhikode: In a day of relief for Wayanad, no new cases were reported in the district on Monday, making it the third consecutive day without fresh cases. Vellamunda panchayat was removed from the list of containment zones bringing down the number of zones to eight. However, the district is maintaining high alert in the four vulnerable tribal colonies near Panavally in Thirunelly where over 30 tribesmen are in the contact list of a shopkeeper who tested positive for Covid-19 last week. Wayanad has 17 patients under treatment and 13 others under observation at the district hospital, including seven persons admitted on Monday. As many as 180 persons were added to the list of persons under observation, taking the total number of persons to 2s054. In another development, district police chief R Ilango, who was under observation at home for the past four days, tested negative on Monday. He was put under observation after becoming a primary contact of one of the three policemen attached to Mananthavady station who tested positive last week. Around 30 personnel of the police station, including a sub inspector, tested negative as per results obtained on Monday. Police shifted a person who violated home quarantine under Thalappuzha police station limits and shifted him to institutional quarantine. Border residents cross over to TN to buy liquor After liquor shops were reopened in Tamil Nadu, people from Kerala residing in areas bordering the neighbouring state are crossing over through byroutes to buy liquor. In areas like Meenakshipuram in Chittur taluk in the Kerala-Tamil Nadu border, people in two-wheelers cross the border through byroutes to avoid checkposts where there is intense checking.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/wayanad-no-fresh-cases-for-3rd-day/articleshow/75812786.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Mumbai||Top B-schools not to insist on GMAT, some will even waive application fees||MUMBAI: No GMAT score? No problem. Student applicants who have no GMAT score to show are now being considered by elite world institutes such as Oxford, Imperial, Insead, London Business School, Wharton, Kellogg and Carnegie Mellon. The Covid-19 pandemic has forced several universities around the world to suspend their standardized testing requirements for 2020 and spring 2021 entry. While most universities don’t expect students to take the GMAT, some such as Oxford and LBS have said admission would be contingent on submission of the missing test scores at a later date. Universities have also extended their deadlines for receiving applications in round four; some have even introduced a fifth round to fill class capacity. Many have announced acceptance of applications on a rolling basis and quite a few have decided to waive off application fee. “Universities abroad are making all possible concessions to get quality students to join their courses for the August and January terms,” said education counsellor Karan Gupta.“The Covid-19 pandemic has affected enrolment numbers of all universities and they are now making an active effort to bring in qualified students,” Gupta said. Management schools are pushing their deadlines for late-round MBA applications. Whether it is delaying deadlines for rounds three and four, reviewing applications without standardized test scores or, in some cases, even cancelling application fee entirely, admission to business schools around the world has never been so welcoming. A statement from the Carey Business School read: “Johns Hopkins Carey Business School has made changes to its MBA admissions process to reflect the impact of Covid-19. Carey will accept incomplete applications for our Round 3 deadline and will work with applicants individually to complete their applications. Carey has added a Round 4 with a deadline of June 1. Following Round 4, applications will be accepted on a rolling basis through July 15. Carey is offering GMAT/GRE waivers moving forward.” UC-Berkeley is now admitting last year’s undergraduate students from its own university into MBA programs without GMAT or GRE or work experience—an unprecedented move by a major top league university. Harvard Business School has been holding discussions about increasing the size for the 2021 incoming class, given that many students will defer their acceptance and seek admissions for next year. Penn State Smeal College of Business is waiving off the exam requirement for candidates with strong quantitative educational backgrounds, regardless of work experience. Those with an active GME or GMAT scores are eligible for an application fee waiver. Education consultant Pratibha said Bath, too, has waived the application fee and does not require GMAT, which was never mandatory but recommended. In the same category, Aston, Exeter and Nottingham do not require GMAT for their MBA programs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/top-b-schools-not-to-insist-on-gmat-some-will-even-waive-application-fees/articleshow/75815520.cms||Hemali Chhapia
May 19, 2020||Madurai||1,600 return to UP by Shramik special train from Madurai||Madurai: About 1,600 guest workers, families and students from Madurai (1,181), Theni (174), Virudhunagar (125) and Dindigul (120) districts started back to their native places by the Madurai -Maunath Bhanjan Junction (Uttar Pradesh) ‘Shramik special’ train on Monday. They were taken to World Tamil Sangam premises where a medical checkup was conducted before being taken to the Madurai Junction by buses. They are expected to complete the 2,300km journey on Wednesday evening. The passengers were provided with food, water and other essentials needed during the journey. Madurai district collector T G Vinay, city police commissioner S Davidson Devasirvatham, additional divisional railway managers of Madurai division Lalit Kumar Mansukhani and O P Shaw and other railway officials were present when the train was flagged off. It is the 5th Shramik special train from the southern districts - two from Tirunelveli and one each from Tuticorin, Nagercoil and Madurai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/1600-return-to-up-by-shramik-special-train-from-madurai/articleshow/75815519.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Kolhapur||New home quarantine guideline to be implemented in Shahuwadi-Panhala||Kolhapur: Migrants returning to their villages in the Shahuwadi-Panhala taluka from red-zone areas have been asked to quarantine themselves at their own homes, while their family members (the ones who had stayed back in the village) will have to move in with the neighbours or other relatives for 14 days. The aim is to reduce pressure on the available institutional quarantine facilities. After getting the new home-quarantine guidelines from the state, the district administration is going to implement it in the Shahuwadi-Panhala taluka, said a media brief from the district information office. It added that MP Dhairyashil Mane has advised creating a new ‘Kolhapur pattern’ of home quarantine. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/new-home-quarantine-guideline-to-be-implemented-in-shahuwadi-panhala/articleshow/75812766.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat police’s first Covid death, constable succumbs||AHMEDABAD: Bharatsinh Somaji, 54, a head constable deployed at Krishnanagar police station in Ahmedabad succumbed to Covid-19 on Monday morning at Gandhinagar civil hospital. Bharatsinh is the first policeman in Gujarat to die from the novel coronavirus. On Sunday, another cop, Govind Dantaniya, 56, who was posted at police headquarters and had been deployed in lockdown bandobast, was shifted to the ICU of Civil Hospital for treatment of Covid-19. Senior police officials said it has been taken that policemen older than 55 years and with co-morbidities will not be deployed in enforcing the lockdown to minimize their risk of catching the virus. DCP Neeraj Badgujar said Bharatsinh tested Covid-19 positive on May 16, and was shifted to Gandhinagar Civil Hospital, which was close to his Noblenagar residence. “We were informed of his death on Monday morning,” added Badgujar. Krishnanagar police sources said that two woman constables have been home quarantined as they had come in contact with Bharatsinh, as he was the police station officer (PSO). According to police sources, another Krishnanagar cop, ASI Kishansinh, deployed in the surveillance squad, was found to be Covid-19 positive, but was asymptomatic and has been kept in home isolation. Badgujar said seven policemen who had come into contact with Kishansinh have also been home quarantined. Meanwhile, Chetan Chaunsle, a constable with Meghaninagar police station died of cardiac arrest on Monday. “He was not Covid-19 positive,” said a senior police official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gujarat-polices-first-covid-death-constable-succumbs/articleshow/75815015.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Kolkata||S Kolkata now has more high-risk Covid zones than north & central||Kolkata: Vast areas between Tiljala and Patuli — off EM Bypass in south Kolkata — are throwing up fresh challenges for Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC) and Kolkata Police. The sudden spurt in cases in these parts of Kolkata, coupled with several fresh cases reported from Bhowanipore-Tollygunge and Naktala, have now raised the total number of containment zones in the south to 151. This is the first time that south Kolkata (84 wards) has reported more containment zones than north and central Kolkata (60 wards), which now have 131 zones. Two wards — 108 and 109 — that cover areas of Uttar Panchanna Gram (Martin Para-Gulshan Colony), Chowbaga, Bantala, Nonadanga and East Calcutta Township (Ruby-Anandapur-Nazirabad-Urbana-Hussainpur-Madurdaha), Nayabad, Mukundapur and parts of Kalikapur, Panchasayar and Ajoy Nagar now have more micro-containment zones than the entire Park Circus-Tiljala-Topsia region (ward 65-66). The latter had recorded up to 13 containment zones. In contrast, only two wards (108 & 109), which initially had three containment zones, now have as many as 13 containment zones. Of the Bypass neighbourhoods, Mukundapur throws a stiff challenge for the civic officials and the cops. The challenge at Mukundapur, said a senior police officer, lay in the fact that almost every section of residents has been affected — while it is an apartment like Purbalok, standalone buildings at Ajoy Nagar or a slum like Shahid Smriti Colony. According to a KMC health department official, the civic workers find it an uphill task to continue anti-Covid activities in areas across the ward, which is the largest along Bypass. “The entire area the ward covers is huge. We have positive cases from as deep as Mukundapur and also from Shahid Smriti Colony. Our health workers are finding it really difficult to cover the entire length and breadhth of the ward,” said a civic official. Police said that compared to other areas, the flow between the slums and affected apartments could not be stopped effectively. “We had virtually shut Shahid Smriti Colony in, but a section of dwellers eventually took unfair advantage of certain relaxations provided. At Aholla Nagar, people removed barricades and kept moving in and out of the locality,” said the officer. The cops are also keeping a vigil on “certain zones on Panditya Road and Bhowanipore (Bishop Lefroy Road and Lee Road) that had managed to turn into non-Covid zones are back in the red again,” said a KMC official. But there is some good news too. When compared to central and north, where merely one ward presently has no active Covid cases, there are 18 such wards in Tollygunge, Jadavpur and Behala West that have not a single active case. Four more wards — one in Parnasree, which had reported initial cases of Covid in southwest Kolkata — is now Covid-free.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/s-kolkata-now-has-more-high-risk-covid-zones-than-north-central/articleshow/75814994.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
May 19, 2020||Patna||10 more council seats set to fall vacant on May 23||PATNA: With 10 more MLCs of nomination quota completing their six-year term on May 23, the number of vacant seats in 75-member state legislative council will increase to a record 29 by the next week. Altogether 19 seats are already vacant in the council. Of these, 17 seats fell vacant on May 6 this year while other two (of nomination quota) have been vacant since the last one year. The 10 members, who are completing their six-year term on May 23 are Ram Lashan Ram ‘Raman’, Vijay Kumar Mishra, Rana Gangeshwar Singh, Javed Iqbal Ansari, Shiv Prasann Yadav, Sanjay Kumar Singh alias Gandhijee, Ram Bachan Roy, Lallan Kumar Sarraf, Ranbir Nandan and Ramchandra Bharti. These 10 members and other two were nominated by the governor in May 2014. As per the constitutional provisions, 12 members of the council are nominated by the governor at the advice of the state government. The two seats of nomination quota are vacant since May, 2019 after resignation of former minister Pashupati Kumar Paras and JD(U) leader Rajiv Ranjan Singh alias Lalan Singh. Both the leaders resigned from the membership of the council in May 2019, days after their election as member of the Lok Sabha from Hajipur and Munger parliamentary seat, respectively. “As the state government is busy in providing necessary assistance to the returning migrant workers and day-to-day monitoring of the Covid-19 epidemic, there is little chance of it sending names of 12 people to the governor for being nominated as the MLCs,” a senior NDA leader, who did not want to be identified, told TOI on Friday. He said CM Nitish Kumar would never like to be recalled in the history as a CM who preferred to send names of political leaders to the governor for appointment as MLCs when the state was facing Covid-19 pandemic. Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) state president and Samastipur MP Prince Raj too echoed a similar view. “Right now, lockdown is in place and migrant workers are returning to the state. Our priority is on helping the migrant workers in these difficult times. As far as nomination for the council seat is concerned, Chirag bhaiya (Chirag Paswan, the party national chief) will take a call on it,” Prince said. A council official said if the state government does not send names of 12 nominees from nomination quota by May 23, the number of vacant seats in the council will rise to 29 or more than 38% of the total seats in the Upper House.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/10-more-council-seats-set-to-fall-vacant-on-may-23/articleshow/75793940.cms||Madan Kumar
May 19, 2020||Bengaluru||Over 70 from Karnataka stuck for more than 50 days in Dhaka||BENGALURU: Over 70 people from Karnataka, including two pregnant women and eight children, have been stranded in Dhaka for over 50 days. Interestingly, Indians from Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, Delhi and Kashmir are returning home on Vande Bharat flights. The stranded people are from Bengaluru, Hassan and North Karnataka, among others, and include businesspersons, techies and students. “I came to Dhaka on March 13 and was to leave on March 24. But the lockdown left me stranded. Many like me are stuck here, some without jobs and money. I’ve exhausted all my money on food and accommodation. I’m still hopeful the Karnataka government will get us out of here,” Bommegowda GN, manager, clothing line, told TOI. This Bengalurean drove 13 hours from Chittagong to Dhaka on Monday hoping Indian authorites would arrange a flight to Bengaluru. The stranded people have registered with the Indian high commission in Dhaka, seeking help to get home. Over 70 Bengaluru-bound passengers hoped to return on an Air India flight on Thursday but were clueless about the schedule. “We received an email in the first week of May which said we could fly to Chennai. We were overjoyed, but there was no communication after that. The high commission was supposed to send us all a link for the flight ticket booking and payment mode,” software consultant Srujan Reddy, said. Some like Reddy personally went to the high commission in Dhaka but returned empty-handed. Ramesh NS, businessman and president of the Akhila Karnataka Kannada Dhaka Sangha, is mobilising the group’s return to Karnataka. “We were kept in the dark about the flight to Chennai. Only four people from Karnataka, including a woman, managed to get seats on that flight.” To the dismay of those stranded there, the second leg of Vande Bharat mission doesn’t include a flight to Bengaluru. “There were many people from West Bengal also stranded with us. On Monday morning, following the intervention of chief minister Mamata Banerjee, they were all flown out. We’ve been pleading with the Karnataka government through phone calls, emails and social media posts, but no one seems to be bothered,” Bommegowda said. TOI’s repeated calls to two helpline numbers of the Indian mission in Dhaka went unanswered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/over-70-from-karnataka-stuck-for-more-than-50-days-in-dhaka/articleshow/75813876.cms||Petlee Peter
May 19, 2020||Coimbatore||Govt offices resume functioning||Coimbatore: A semblance of normalcy returned to the government offices as they resumed functioning albeit with partial staff on Monday.The employees were ferried from across the district in government buses operated on specific routes. They were dropped back in the evening. After more than 50 days, government employees stepped out for work, wearing masks and maintaining physical distancing during the travel as well at the workplace.“Though we are still concerned about Covid-19, it is a relief that we were asked to come to offices, since we were stuck in our houses for more than 50 days,” said a senior employee at the collectorate.On the first day of resumption of work, they dedicated much of their time in organising the office, assessing the extent of work left half way when the lockdown was imposed and making preparations to resume operations in full swing.District administration officials said that they instructed the staff to adhere to social distancing norms strictly while keeping the work pace fast to make up for the lost time.Senior officials said that there was 50% attendance as instructed and all those scheduled to come on Monday were present. Some did have apprehensions, particularly the aged staff, but were assured of proper safety measures.However, some of the workers depending on public transport had difficulties in accessing the buses.The buses were operated from Mettupalayam, Annur, Karumathampatti, Pollachi, Vadavalli and Theethipalayam. Those from other localities had to depend on private vehicles.District administration officials said that they would increase the buses and routes in the coming days. The buses are for the government staff and general public are not allowed to board.Meanwhile, collector K Rajamani said that there are no containment zones in Coimbatore as the district has completed 14 days without any fresh cases. There were 26 containment zones in the district out of which 23 were removed over the past few days. Restrictions on the remaining three were lifted on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/govt-offices-resume-functioning/articleshow/75812775.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Goa||PWD, WRD hike registration, renewal fees for contractors||Panaji: The state government has revised the rules for enlisting contractors for the public works (PWD) and water resources departments (WRD), hiking the fees by 40% for contractors of different classes to register or renew their listing with the departments as contractors. The fees are non-refundable. In AA (super) class, the contractor will have to pay a fee of Rs 1lakh for new registrations and Rs 50,000 for renewing existing registrations. “In the AA (super) class, for instance, the earlier fee was around Rs 30,000. The validity of all registrations and renewals for contractor enlistment will be for a period of five years in all the different classes. The fees had not been revised for a long time,” said an official. In the AA registration class, the contractor will have to pay Rs 75,000 for fresh registration and Rs 37,500 for renewal of existing registration. “The existing enlisted contractors in PWD/ WRD, will be issued new enlistment in the respective classes by raising the tendering limit on payment of difference in fees as per the new rules. The old registration files and registers being voluminous in nature will be weeded out to generate new files/registers,” the notification states. Officials said that earlier the application forms for contractors were processed without a charge. From now on they will have to pay Rs 500 for the application forms. There will also be cap on the number of application forms, said an official. For Class A and B registration, the contractor will have to pay Rs 60,000, and Rs 50,000 for new registration. Similarly, contractors will be charged Rs 30,000 for renewal of Class A and Rs 25,000 for renewal of Class B registrations. To register afresh under Class II, the contractor will be charged Rs 30,000 and Rs 25,000 for Class III. Similarly contractors will be charged Rs 15,000 under Class II and Rs 10,000 under Class III for renewal of registrations, as per the notification. “The contractors listed under Class IAA (super), I-AA, I-A and I-B shall be issued a contractor card. They are required to produce all the documents listed to get the contractor card revalidated every year in the month of December,” the notification states. In cases where the application is received after the expiry date of enlistment/renewal, but within three months of expiry, the application can be accepted with late fee of 50% of the normal renewal fees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/pwd-wrd-hike-registration-renewal-fees-for-contractors/articleshow/75815585.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Coimbatore||3 arrested for killing labourer||Coimbatore: A day after a construction worker was found dead at Ondipudur, police on Monday arrested three men in connection with the case.The Singanallur police identified them as S Rajan, 34, a wall painter, his friends G Selvakumar, 28, a private company employee and S Aravindkumar, 29, a sanitary worker, residents of the slum clearance board apartment at Vellalore.The trio had killed U Chithiraivel, 28, a native of Papanasam in Thanjavur district, police sources said. “He was staying in a rented room at Vadakke Gounder Street at Ondipudur. His elder brother Siva was also staying in the locality with his family. Siva’s wife was in a relationship with Rajan and had eloped with him a year ago. Chithiraivel had advised Rajan to quit the relationship. Meanwhile, the woman ended the relationship and returned to Siva two months ago,” a police officer said.Chithiraivel used to speak to Rajan over phone and reprimand him for ruining his brother’s life. “On Sunday morning, the duo had a heated argument over phone. An enraged Rajan visited Chithiraivel at his house along with Selvakumar and Aravindkumar. The trio attacked him and smashed his head on the wall. Chithiraivel died on the spot,” the officer added.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/3-arrested-for-killing-labourer/articleshow/75812790.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Coimbatore||Drunkard attacks cop, held||Coimbatore: The city witnessed three assault cases due to drunken brawl on Saturday and Sunday. In the first incident, Podanur police sub-inspector Udhayakumar was assaulted by B Madankumar, 30, from Police Quarters at PRS Campus, on Sunday evening. Madankumar and his friend were consuming liquor in an agriculture field off Nanjundapuram road, when Udhayakumar and his team confronted them. Madankumar argued with police and assaulted the SI. However, the police team arrested Madankumar and booked hunder sections 294 (b), 332 and 506 (ii) of the Indian Penal Code. Traffic constable Amsaveni was regulating traffic at Olympus junction on Trichy road at Ramanathapuram when R Dineshkumar, 29, of Sundarapuram, abused her. He was under the influence of alcohol. Based on Amsaveni’s complaint, the Ramanathapuram police registered a case and arrested Dineshkumar. In the third incident, Ramanathapuram police inspector Murugesan and his team arrested a six-member gang for stabbing a man during drunken brawl at Savithiri Nagar at Ramanathapuram on Saturday.C Prabhakaran, 30, R Santhoshkumar, 29, both from Ramanathapuram, J Mathesh, 30, R Nandakumar, 27, G Krishnamurthy, 28, from Kallimadai near Singanallur and P Prithviraj, 28, from Ramalingapuram, were arrested for assaulting their friend K Ayyappan, 32, of Olympus at Ramanathapuram. All of them were consuming liquor when the incident took place. Ayyappan was stabbed by Prabhakaran.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/drunkard-attacks-cop-held/articleshow/75812785.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Trichy||Hairdressers seek permission to resume business||Trichy: Hundreds of hairdressers in Trichy on Monday sought the Tamil Nadu government’s permission to resume their work for at least five hours daily. With no relaxation provided to resume their business in urban areas, hairdressers from various parts of Trichy city had thronged the district collectorate following social distancing norms to submit a petition “We welcome the announcement from the state government that allows functioning of salons in rural areas but a majority of us work in towns and cities. We request the state government to let us open our shops for at least five hours a day,” said T Thiruvaikumaran, a barber. Hairdressers said they would adhere to social distancing norms and wear personal protection gear to avoid the contracting coronavirus. They also demanded that the state government pay them Rs 15,000 as compensation for the losses they suffered during the lockdown. The hairdressers pleaded that they can operate between 7 am and 12 pm every day to earn income after 50 days. Though the state government recently announced Rs 2,000 as financial assistance, hairdressers claimed that the process is tedious to avail the sum.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/hairdressers-seek-permission-to-resume-business/articleshow/75815527.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Kolkata||Amphan to hit Sunderbans at 230km/hr||Kolkata: Cyclone Amphan intensified into a ‘super cyclone’ on Monday and approached the West Bengal-Bangladesh coast with a wind speed of 220-230km/hr. It is set to hit land at the Sunderbans on Wednesday afternoon or evening as an extremely severe cyclonic storm. According to the Met office, it will cross the coast between Digha and Hatiya in Bangladesh. South Bengal could receive very heavy rainfall on Wednesday even as Kolkata is expected go under a cloud cover from Tuesday afternoon, with a few spells of shower in the evening. The cyclone will lose some intensity before hitting land but will still have a wind speed of 165-175km/hr on landfall, with gusts of wind reaching a speed of 195km/hr. Coastal districts of Bengal — East Midnapore, North and South 24 Parganas — are set to receive extremely heavy rain. Howrah, Hoogly and West Midnapore will receive heavy to very heavy showers as well. In Kolkata, heavy showers on Wednesday could be accompanied by a wind speed of 100-110km/hr. “The showers could be very heavy and intense in Kolkata along with wind that is expected to blow at a high speed. We apprehend extensive damage across south Bengal due to the high wind speed,” said Regional Meteorological Centre (RMC) director GK Das. Amphan moved northwards till Monday afternoon. It is likely to recurve north-northeastwards and move rapidly across northwest Bay of Bengal and cross the coast between Digha in East Midnapore and Hatiya in Bangladesh. A red alert has been sounded along the coasts of Bengal and fishermen have been warned not to venture into the sea. State government officials and agencies have held a series of meetings to work out strategies to counter the threat. “We are expecting a lot of damage to kuchcha houses, badly maintained pucca houses, communication poles, trees, leading to disruption of rail and road transport. Damage to ships, boats and standing crops are also feared. The weather department has advised a complete suspension of all fishing, tourist and outdoor activities along the coastal areas,” said RMC deputy director-general of meteorology Sanjib Bandopadhyay. Forest minister Rajeev Banerjee held a meeting with senior foresters at Aranya Bhavan on Monday to take stock of preparedness in the Sunderbans. An official said rescue teams have been formed and two controls rooms have been opened in Jharkhali and Aranya Bhavan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/amphan-to-hit-sunderbans-at-230km/hr/articleshow/75815001.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Ludhiana||PPE suit prices crash as low-grade products flood market||Ludhiana: Trouble seems to be brewing for the garment manufacturers of Ludhiana — who over the last one month drifted away from their routine garment products to manufacturing PPE (personal protective equipment) suits — as the prices of PPE suits have crashed.According to them, prices crashed due to the entry of a large number of unapproved manufacturers and traders in the market. As on date, there are 51 approved PPE suit manufacturers in Ludhiana, while the combined number of unapproved manufacturers and traders is four times more, who are selling these suits at throwaway prices.In the recent supply orders worth nearly Rs 100 crore from various government agencies to 16 approved manufacturers of Ludhiana, the rate per suit was fixed at Rs 635. But, the unapproved manufactures and traders have started selling those for as low as Rs 300-350, thereby causing the crash.The approved manufacturers are now demanding that action be taken against the unapproved manufactures and unauthorised traders and they be barred from selling such suits, where compromise on quality could threaten the user’s life.Speaking to TOI, Harish Dua, president of Knitwear and Apparel Exporters Organisation, whose firm is an approved manufacturer of PPE suits, said, “Our sales have been impacted for sure, but our bigger concern is that they are playing with the lives of people by supplying unapproved and inferior quality PPE suits, which have not been tested by any government laboratory for their effectiveness to stop spread of virus to the users. Therefore, we are going to take up this matter with the government through Ludhiana deputy commissioner, and seek a complete ban on unapproved manufacturers and unauthorised traders.”Similarly, Narinder Mittal, general secretary of Ludhiana Business Forums and another approved manufacturer of PPE suits, said, “Besides the unapproved manufacturers, there is also a large number of traders, who are selling PPE suits procured from unverified sources and without any proof of those being approved by the government of India-notified labs. In a hurry to make some quick bucks, such manufacturers are dumping their products in the market at prices for which manufacturing of genuine PPE suits is not at all possible.”Therefore, he added, in the interest of industry and for saving human lives, the government should issues orders for one and all to buy PPE suits only from approved manufacturers. Speaking to the TOI, additional chief secretary, Punjab, Vini Mahajan, said, “All government purchases of PPE suits and allied equipment are taking place only against the certifications. I am sure that all the private hospitals that are dealing with the Covid-19 patients are taking care of this as there already has been enough publicity about these guidelines. Somebody who does not actually needs PPE but still wants protection they can use the kind they like, there is no harm in it.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/ppe-suit-prices-crash-as-low-grade-products-flood-market/articleshow/75812803.cms||Mohit Behl
May 19, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Lack of kits forces govt to drop 1st round of tests on returnees||BENGALURU: The state government which has taken thousands of people returning from other states to institutional quarantines much against their wishes has now gone back on its decision to test them for Covid-19 on arrival. The reason: lack of testing kits. “The health and family welfare department had plans to conduct two rounds of testing on them: one on arrival and again on the 12th day. But now, the tests will be conducted only on the 12th day,” said M Lokesh, a BBMP special commissioner incharge of surveillance. “Only one test will be conducted citing that it’s unnecessary. But in reality, there are no testing kits,” a health official told TOI. The plan is to test only pregnant/lactating women, infants, people above the age of 60 and those with co-morbid conditions on arrival. “Swab testing is free for those in institutional quarantine. The government does not want to spend money on these passengers,” a senior bureaucrat admitted. However, the health officials said there are enough kits. “We’re procuring kits as and when required. The Karnataka drug and logistics department is supplying them and it hasn’t complained of any shortage till date,” said an official. The testing mode for those in institutional quarantine will also change. “We’ll conduct pool-sample testing for them. Testing every individual could be a logistical nightmare,” he said. In pool-sample testing, samples of five individuals will be tested in one go. If the test is positive, it’ll be repeated for each one separately. If it’s negative, all five will be considered not infected. Meanwhile, those quarantined in hotels alleged that no medical officer visited them or checked them. Pulvindar Kaur, who came from Secunderabad on Thursday, said it’s been five days since she arrived in the hotel, but no check-up was done. “The day we came to Bengaluru, they checked our temperature and forced us to go to hotels. After that, nobody has called us or done any test,” Kaur said. “If they are not interested in our health, let us go home. They do not conduct tests, yet are forcing us to stay in hotels only to drill big holes in our pockets,” another passenger said. Asked why the testing was limited to only these categories while the rest were being forced to stay under institutional quarantine, a health official said: “These people are travelling from other states, where the cases are high and they could be potential asymptomatic carriers of the virus. Taking chances isn’t advisable.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/lack-of-kits-forces-govt-to-drop-1st-round-of-tests-on-returnees/articleshow/75813902.cms||Nithya Mandyam
May 19, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: 1916? Hello, hello. Sorry, can’t help you||MUMBAI: When Girgaum resident Jitendra Atre (54) tested positive for Covid-19 on the morning of May 11, his family assumed the civic body would take charge. The ground reality was different though. While they found a bed at B Y L Nair Hospital a few hours later, they couldn’t get an ambulance till 9pm. That’s around the same time Atre breathed his last. The family said they were redirected to others when they called the 1916 helpline, and more than 50 calls to the local ward office landline went unanswered. A 44-year-old vegetable vendor from Mahim went through a similar ordeal when he tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday. The man, already admitted in a Kurla hospital, was asked to shift to a Covid-19 facility. Despite multiple calls to 1916, a hospital bed could be arranged after nearly 24 hours. An ambulance could never be arranged for and the man had to shell out Rs 13,000 for a ride from Kurla to ESIC Hospital in Kandivli. He said they made more than a dozen calls to the helpline, disaster management cell and even ward offices, but to no avail. Helpline directs patients’ calls to us: Ward officialsThe civic body may have designated the helpline 1916 as a one-stop kiosk for seeking ambulances or hospital beds, but citizens complain the system is anything but seamless. A Dadar man said he was asked to get in touch with ward officials after he made multiple calls to the helpline for an ambulance. “I spoke to a doctor and discussed my condition. I didn’t have any symptoms, except a sore throat but I do have comorbidities. The doctor said I will be allotted a hospital but that happened only the next morning,” the 55-year-old said, adding he paid Rs 3,500 for a private ambulance arranged by his friends. Civic officials working at the ward level said the lack of a real-time system to check availability of beds and ambulances has resulted in several calls made to the helpline being directed to them. “Every ward has been allotted a few ambulances to ferry positive patients. But whenever any suspect patient develops symptoms and wants to visit a hospital, all those calls too are directed to us. Where are we going to arrange ambulances from?” said a civic official. Another said he has been struggling to find beds for two cancer patients since the past 24 hours, but the helpline has only passed him more landline numbers of hospitals. “If the helpline cannot provide that last mile information, how is it of any help?” rued another official, adding the civic body must pump more manpower into the service. Helpline volunteers say they are swamped with over 2,000 calls a day and with no access to real-time details of beds. “We never share numbers of ward officials. A lot of people themselves call ward officials. We have a clear protocol where our volunteers speak to callers and those in need of medical advice are directed to doctors on the panel. We have three of them,” said Mahesh Narvekar, helpline in-charge. He said hospitals must update the bed status every half hour on an app but have been unable to do so under crushing workload. (Inputs by Vinamrata Borwankar)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/1916-hello-hello-sorry-cant-help-you/articleshow/75815530.cms||Sumitra Debroy
May 19, 2020||Coimbatore||Labour shortage, raw material cost drag MSMEs to morass||Coimbatore: Though it has been more than a week since they reopened, operations have still not picked up in most of the micro, small and medium industrial units in the city.The industrialists blamed it on the cost of raw materials and non-availability of labour.Price of materials such as steel, cast iron and copper has been hiked by 10% to 15% by local traders who say they have not been getting stock from other states due to the transport restrictions. A big section of guest workers from northern states have left for home and those who remain are also keen on leaving. In addition, big industries that have been permitted to function with half of the workforce have not started operations fully and have not started buying from smaller units.MSME representatives said operations in only 30% of the units are progressing, that too at a slow pace.There were no major production activities in industrial units in the city, said J James, district president of the Tamil Nadu Association of Cottage and Tiny Enterprises (TACT). “Raw materials have to come from other states. Meanwhile, local traders have hiked the price of all essential raw materials such as stainless steel, mild steel, steel sheets and rods. This has caused distress to an already distressed sector.”While the price of mild steel has been hiked by Rs 2,000 per tonne, that of stainless steel has been hiked by 5,000 per tonne, said industry representatives. Copper price has gone up by Rs 15,000 per tonne.G Selvaraj, general secretary of the Coimbatore Tirupur District Micro and Cottage Entrepreneurs Association (Cotma), said raw materials such as steel and copper have to arrive from Maharashtra and Kolkata. “Due to the transport restrictions, there is no inflow of raw materials. Only if transport resumes across the country, this issue would be solved,” he said.Workers from other districts are stuck in their hometowns, said C Sivakumar, president of Cotma. “Even local workers, who depend on public transport, can’t commute to workplaces as there are no proper bus facility.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/labour-shortage-raw-material-cost-drag-msmes-to-morass/articleshow/75812802.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Odd-even opening for shops in Hyderabad, business gets a breather||HYDERABAD: The ongoing lockdown in Telangana has been extended till May 31 in line with the nationwide lockdown. While announcing this, chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao on Monday opened the door for resumption of business and administrative activities and relaxed the lockdown guidelines across many sectors but in city all shops will be opened as per odd-even rule. Fifty-six days after a total lockdown was imposed to stop the spread of novel coronavirus, the CM said all 33 districts of the state, including Greater Hyderabad, are now green zones. Most of the containment zones, which are in Hyderabad will however continue to have red-zone like restrictions. The move comes following a decision of the Centre empowering the states to draw up the list of zones. Telangana had earlier announced the lockdown till May 29. The CM also announced that all shops can reopen to resume business activity and all government and private offices and institutions can function normally while adhering to Covid-19 guidelines. In Hyderabad, these relaxations will be implemented following the ‘odd-even’ system. Stating that over 90% of active cases are in Greater Hyderabad, the CM said the municipal commissioner would soon decide on containment zones based on the number of positive cases. He said 1,452 families in the containment areas would continue to be in the red zone with police protection. Supply of essentials to these families would continue at their doorsteps. The state-run RTC has been permitted to resume bus services across the state with the exception of Hyderabad where no city buses will be allowed to run. However, taxis and autorickshaws will be allowed to operate in the city with restricted seating capacity in tune with Covid-19 guidelines. Addressing reporters after the cabinet meeting, the CM said: “RTC bus services will resume from 6 am on Tuesday. Metro services and inter-state bus services will remain shut during the lockdown. RTC buses will be allowed till Jubilee Bus Station and not allowed to Imlibun Bus Station. The buses will have to reach the destinations before 7 pm except in special cases.” While taxis would be allowed to operate with a driver and three passengers, autorickshaws would ply with 1+2 configuration. The CM said all private vehicles and stage carriers will also be allowed. “Hair saloons and e-commerce will be allowed to open in all the districts, including Hyderabad,” he said. As per the guidelines of the Centre, night curfew would be enforced from 7 pm to 7 am. He said the government cannot stop opening up of economic activity. “All the government offices and private offices, except in the containment areas, can function with 100% workforce. Industries can also run with full manpower,” the CM said. However, he said curbs on opening bars, clubs, educational institutions, religious places, congregations, function halls, shopping malls, cinema theatres, gyms and parks would continue. They would not be permitted till May 31. Stressing on social distancing and sticking to lockdown norms, KCR said: “All the shopkeepers, establishments, offices and industries have to provide hand sanitisers and take preventive measures such as physical distance. If anybody found not wearing masks, Rs 1,000 penalty will be imposed.” Since the Centre has given relaxations and some states have opened up economic and business activities, Telangana has also fallen in line, he said. Asserting that the state won’t let the guard down in combating the coronavirus, he said: “Since it is a dangerous virus, the state government is fully geared up to continue in its fight against the pandemic. As many as 17,000 beds are ready. If the situation worsen, we will review it and go back to imposing restrictions on some activities.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/odd-even-opening-for-shops-in-city-biz-gets-a-breather/articleshow/75815570.cms||Koride Mahesh
May 19, 2020||Jaipur||Jaisalmer: Sonar Fort’s entry gate uprooted in dust storm, power lines snapped||JAISALMER: Sunday evening’s dust storm that hit Jaisalmer damaged the door of the first entry gate of the Sonar Fort while in rural areas power supply got snapped as electric poles were uprooted.  The power department has started restoration at the war footing. Along the Indo-Pak border, there’s no power supply as electric poles have been uprooted at many places. With no power supply, jawans are facing problems at BSF posts. On Sunday evening, a 40kmph dust storm engulfed Jaisalmer and Barmer districts in darkness. Ravi Sharma, an eyewitness, saw the Sonar Fort door falling down. Since it was lockdown, there were no tourists at the fort. Historian Nand Kishore Sharma said Sonar Fort has total four doors which were so strong that even elephants could not break those. There have been several attacks on this fort, but no enemy could not break the doors. But over time, the doors have weakened and Sunday’s dust storm damaged one of the doors. Discom Jodhpur SE Narendra Kumar Joshi said power department had suffered losses worth lakhs of rupees due to the storm. In many places of the district like Ramgarh, Mohangarh and Myazlar, electricity poles fell in dozens. Restoration of 33kv poles, 45 poles of 11KV, LT line and other lines were going on a war-footing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/sonar-forts-entry-gate-uprooted-in-dust-storm-power-lines-snapped/articleshow/75815644.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Trichy||Garbage generation stays low even after curbs are lifted||Trichy: Poor business in commercial outlets and the complete closure of bulk waste generators in the four corporation zones have kept garbage generation low in Trichy city even after the government has relaxed lockdown norms.While Trichy was generating 435 MT of waste a day before the lockdown, it has dipped to 315 MT in early April. As commercial shops were permitted to resume business for a stipulated time, the Trichy Corporation had anticipated a surge in waste generation. But, the increase was only meagre after the relaxations as it has increased to 323 MT from 315 MT in April 2020. “Even small eateries are permitting only takeaway food. A majority of textile outlets are yet to open, so waste from commercial outlets did not increase after the relaxation as we anticipated,” a sanitary official said. The civic body said that the absence of weddings and events in the city was also a reason for the low generation of waste. The 25% fall in waste generation has eased the pressure of 31 micro compost centres (MCC) that recycle waste. “Trucks used in the solid waste management process were used to disinfect places where people gather most. Perhaps, after the lockdown was completely lifted, waste generation may return to normalcy,” a corporation official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/garbage-generation-stays-low-even-after-curbs-are-lifted/articleshow/75815538.cms||Deepak Karthik
May 19, 2020||Trichy||Lockdown relaxation pushes power consumption up by 10%||Trichy: The lockdown relaxations introduced for commercial establishments has led to 10% increase in power consumption in the city from what it was during the initial days of the lockdown. The delay in conducting periodical maintenance at substations is a cause of concern as people oppose power shutdown while staying indoors, which has forced Tangedco to postpone the mandatory maintenance work. While major commercial streets in the city are covered by Trichy urban division of Tangedco, Trichy East covers industrial localities and a section of the residential settlements. Both the divisions have reported a 10-11% spike in the consumption post the relaxations introduced on May 4. Trichy Urban, which had daily electricity consumption of 40 MW during normal days, witnessed a fall to 35 MW during the lockdown as major commercial outlets were shut. After the relaxation, the consumption has increased to 38 MW per day. The electricity consumption in Trichy East dipped from 63 MW to 52 MW in the lockdown. As the MSMEs started functioning, the consumption has increased to 58 MW. “Consumption has increased by 10% post the relaxation. Since major textile showrooms are closed, the demand has not returned to normal,” a senior official with Tangedco told TOI. Meanwhile, there is a concern over the delay in undertaking the routine maintenance work that was previously carried out in February 2020. Scheduled shutdown is difficult as people staying indoors could not manage power cuts during summer, an official said. “It has been two months since we took up the scheduled maintenance. If there is an issue in transmission, we go for temporary power cut to rectify the problem,” another Tangedco official said. The increase in ambient summer temperature is also a worry for the proper working of electrical components including jumpers. Power stats Trichy Urban division Normal power consumption: 40 MW Power consumption during lockdown: 35 MW Power consumption after relaxation: 38 MW Surge after relaxation: 10% Trichy East division Normal power consumption: 63 MW Power consumption during lockdown: 52 MW Power consumption after relaxation: 58 MW Surge after relaxation: 10% Maintenance to be done Trimming tree branches touching live wires Electrical bus-bar maintenance in substations Maintenance of jumpers||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/lockdown-relaxation-pushes-power-consumption-up-by-10/articleshow/75815532.cms||Deepak Karthik
May 19, 2020||Goa||Reckless tourists damaging Malvan’s coral reefs, finds NIO study||Panaji: Recreational scuba diving activities and other key assets of cuisine and pilgrimage have spurred a tourism boom, uplifting local communities in nearby Malvan. But unsustainable tourism is inflicting physical damage to corals surrounding the beach destination, a study says.While similar injury to Goa’s coral reefs near Grande island due to scuba diving and snorkeling is yet to be assessed, the study conducted by National Institute of Oceanography (NIO) scientists, led by Baban Ingole, has recorded increasing degradation in the Malvan marine sanctuary.Backed by Maharashtra’s science and technology commission, Ingole’s team studied the four sites where tourists are taken during the October-May annual season, between 2016 and 2019.“The prevalence of coral physical damage in the MPA has increased from 4.83% in 2016 to 11.58% in 2019, which has resulted in cumulative physical damage of 33.08% in the last four years,” the paper published in an international scientific journal, Marine Pollution Bulletin, says.PhD research scholars Kalyan De, Sambhaji Mote and Mandar Nanak, a NIO scientist comprised Ingole’s team, and the study is still in progress.Coral reefs attract thousands of tourists for their exotic, complex and diverse nature of organisms. In Malvan, tourists who can access underwater biodiversity at a price cheaper by around Rs 500 to Rs 1,000 than other dive centres on the peninsula hardly show any concern to the beautiful ecosystem.“Using public video content in a novel way, we analysed the videos posted by scuba divers on a videolog site (you tube), and realised that in 98.41% of the video clips, the divers had body contact and fin contact with corals,” Ingole said.The media-crazy tourists were seen clicking photos, touching, sitting on and even walking on the coral colonies to balance themselves underwater. With four patch reef sites, including two high-density sites near Sindhudurg island, Malvan’s marine protected area (MPA) sprawls over a 29.122 sqkm swathe.“The ecologically sensitive habitat is being incrementally damaged due to tourism and other human activities, and the rich biodiversity, including fisheries, is at stake. Though the forest department and state biodiversity board are trying hard to conserve it, lack of scientific data on carrying capacity makes it difficult to implement good management practices,” said Ingole, retired chief scientist, biological oceanography, NIO- Goa.Degradation of coral reefs due to human and environmental stressors is a global problem. This could have been a lesson for policy-makers at Andaman and Nicobar Island, Lakshadweep, Gulf of Mannar and even Goa.But the various factors and economic compulsions pushing fishermen to turn to tourism in Malvan seem to override environmental or sustainablility issues. Tourist footfalls in Sindhudurg district are projected at 6,41,427 for 2021-22 .Despite degradation of coral habitats caused by tourism, managers, as in the Great Barrier Reef in Australia, have put in place sustainable practices. Ingole said proper regulation and sensitisation of stakeholders is important. “Or else, the integrity of the coral habitat may be in grave danger,” he concluded.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/reckless-tourists-damaging-malvans-coral-reefs-finds-nio-study/articleshow/75807680.cms||Paul Fernandes
May 19, 2020||Ludhiana||2 civil hosp attendants among 23 test positive for Covid-19||Ludhiana: Twenty-three more persons tested positive for Covid-19 in Ludhiana on Monday. They include two attendants of civil hospital — a 36-year-old woman and a 42-year-old man — deployed at the isolation ward.The woman, a resident of Kartar Nagar, said, “I used to serve food to the patients and would take all the precautions. I stay here with my daughter, husband and in-laws.”Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said, “As many as 69 pending samples of Sunday were tested on Tuesday. Of them, 22 were positive. Their reports were received from Rajindra Hospital, Patiala. Another positive report was received from DMCH virology lab. The 22 include two RPF men, six jail inmates, two rape and drug cases’ accused, two civil hospital employees, four civil hospital patients one traveller, and four untraced cases.”A 22-year-old sex assault case accused, who has caught the virus, is being put up at the police post near bus stand.A 27-year-old woman of Noorwala Road, who has tested positive, said, “I had visited the civil hospital on Saturday with complaints of breathlessness, fever, cold and cough from the past 10 days.”A body, too, tested Covid-19 positive at the civil hospital a day after the authorities stated, “The sample of a body should be taken only in very suspicious cases with the prior permission of Dr Avneet Kaur, director, health services.” The 27-year-old man of Bhattian Colony had died on May 15. His sample was taken on May 16 and sent to Rajindra Hospital, Patiala. He had complained of cough, fever and cold from the past six days. He died due to Covid-19, his report suggested, said the civil surgeon.These directions have put the staff in a catch-22 situation. These can put at risk the healthcare workers, mortuary staff and policemen. The civil hospital, which is the only hospital catering to such deaths, receives about two unidentified bodies daily and in such cases it is difficult to claim suspicion. Prior permission from higher authorities takes two to three days. After about three days, the chances of getting positive reports will be lower. On the other hand, if sampling is skipped due to this tedious protocol, it will increase the chances of staff getting infected as post-mortem is mandatory before cremation of unidentified bodies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/2-civil-hosp-attendants-among-23-test-positive-for-covid-19/articleshow/75812796.cms||Mehak Jain
May 19, 2020||Coimbatore||Exporters seek extension of moratorium on loan||Coimbatore: Textile exporters from Tirupur have sought extension of loan moratoriums from the Centre, as the sector has still not got back on its feet. Representatives of Tiruppur Exporters Association (TEA) have written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi seeking extension for loan moratoriums.Raja M Shanmugam, president of TEA, in a communication on Monday, said the Centre had announced a three-month moratorium for outstanding loans and working capital credit on March 24. He said the deferment period would get over on May 31 and they would have to pay the accumulated interest after that time. The commencement of repayment starts by June 1, including the compounded interest calculated for the moratorium period, he said.With zero industrial activity, MSMEs cannot repay interests, said Shanmugam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/exporters-seek-extension-of-moratorium-on-loan/articleshow/75812798.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad hub for testing new Covid-19 procedures||AHMEDABAD: Civil Hospital in Ahmedabad has started drug trials of remdesivir, lopinavir, hydroxychloroquine and interferon for the treatment of Covid-19. State health department officials said that the stock of the drugs has arrived as part of WHO’s Solidarity Trial and the patients have also been identified for the purpose. A city-based expert said the world has now been living with the virus for over six months and treatment protocols are changing globally, based on results and reactions to various drugs which are being repurposed to fight Covid-19. “Eyes will be on the state trials as Gujarat has the highest mortality rate of Covid-19 patients among Indian states,” he added. As on Thursday, Gujarat had recorded 586 deaths including 465 from Ahmedabad district alone. On Tuesday, a pharma major announced that HCG Hospital in Ahmedabad will be conducting a trial of Favipiravir, making the country’s pharma hub also a testing hub for new medicines. The state health department said that they are also getting tocilizumab injections after approval from the top committee on Covid-19. Several city-based pharma firms are also at forefront of identifying possible cures for the infection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/city-hub-for-testing-new-covid-19-procedures/articleshow/75815033.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Kozhikode||Nurse who had beaten Covid turns +ve again||Malappuram: A pregnant 34-year-old who had returned from Kuwait after recovering from Covid-19, tested positive for the viral infection once again at the government medical college hospital (GMCH) Manjeri on Monday. According to the medical authorities in Malappuram, the woman from Alappuzha district was working as a nurse in Kuwait. She landed at Karipur in a special repatriation flight on May 13. Earlier, she had tested positive in Kuwait and had travelled to Kerala after recovering. Upon arrival, she had informed her history of infection to health authorities and they shifted her to GMCH where the infection has yet again been confirmed. The relapse, reportedly the first in the state, has caused concern for the authorities. District medical officer of Malappuram K Sakeena said that the woman had returned after testing negative and she was instructed to report again for testing after 14 days. "As she got a chance to return to India in between, and she came here and reported it here,” Sakeena said, adding that the woman was in an isolation centre. Such cases have been reported elsewhere in the country. In April, a member of Tablighi Jamaat, had a relapse within a week of testing negative. Three Chithradurga, Karnataka tested positive three weeks after recovering from the infection. There have also been reports of patients dying after recovering as in Keezhattur in the district mid-April when an 85-year-old man died within days of recovering. Medical experts say that if the immune system of the cured patient is weak, there are chances for a relapse. Those infected develop a protective antibody, though it is not clear how long the protection lasts. A Malappuram native also tested positive on Monday. The man, aged 37, from Kolakkatuchalil near Chelembra, had returned home from Chennai on May 7, with the permission of government authorities. After developing symptoms of viral infection he was shifted to GMCH Manjeri on May 16. A total of 45 cases have been reported in the district to date and 23 of those, including the pregnant woman from Alappuzha, are active. Another 416 were brought under observation in the district on Monday taking the tally to 4501 persons. An Air India Express repatriation flight from Doha arrived at Karipur International airport on Monday night with 183 NRKs. Of them, 105 were women. The passengers belong to the districts of Malappuram, Alappuzha, Ernakulam, Kannur, Kasaragod, Kozhikode, Palakkad, Thrissur and Wayanad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/nurse-who-had-beaten-covid-turns-ve-again/articleshow/75812833.cms||T P Nijeesh
May 19, 2020||Trichy||292 TJ delegates among 558 to arrive in Trichy||Trichy: A special train from Delhi carrying 558 passengers, including 292 Tablighi Jamaat (TJ) delegates arrived at the Trichy Junction railway station on Monday. While the TJ delegates have been quarantined at the Jamal Mohammed College in Trichy, the remaining 266 passengers were sent to their native districts in TNSTC buses. According to officials, the Tablighi Jamaat delegates were stranded in Delhi following the lockdown announcement. After their arrival, they were taken to the college at Khajamalai in a special bus arranged by the district administration. All of them were screened and isolated at the college for the next 14 days, officials said. Since they are hailing from various districts from across the state, they would be sent back after only completing the quarantine period. However, coordinator of the Tamil Nadu Muslim Munnetra Kazhagam (TMMK) A Muzammil Khan told TOI that out of the 292, less than 100 had gone to Delhi to participate in the conference. The remaining passengers, who were not TJ delegates, were stranded there for the last four months, he said. “Among the 292 people, a few had tested positive for Covid-19. However, all of them had completed triple quarantine in Delhi. Now, all of them are normal. The Delhi government had made very good arrangements for their accommodation and food,” he said. Meanwhile, out of the remaining 266 passengers, 202 people from Pudukottai, Sivaganga, Ramanathapuram, Dindigul, Madurai, Theni, Karur, Erode, Tirupur, Coimbatore, Nilgris, Salem, Namakkal, Thanjavur, Tiruvarur, Nagapattinam, Ariyalur, Perambalur, Villupuram, Kallakuruchi, Thiruvannamalai and Cuddalore districts have been sent back in five special buses. They would be screened for Covid-19 at their districts. The remaining 64 passengers, including a resident of Trichy, were taken to the Government Engineering College in Sethurapatti, where a facility has been established for isolation. Health workers screened all the passengers and put them in isolation for the next 14 days, district collector S Sivarasu said. It may be recalled that a total of 962 Tamils stranded in Maharashtra had arrived in Trichy last week by a special train.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/292-tj-delegates-among-558-to-arrive-in-trichy/articleshow/75815544.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Madurai||Govt offices buzz with activity as 50% employees report for work||Madurai: Various government offices and institutions were visibly brisk with activities as occupancy of employees increased following a state government’s order allowing 50% of staff to work from office. Meanwhile, people visiting government offices for various purposes also went up.Some of the employees had difficulty in reaching their offices on time due to unavailability of public transport. Many of them had to rely on family members and relatives to drop them. A woman employee from the education department said, “We have been asked to report to duty from Monday onwards, but absence of transport facility was a handicap. I managed to reach my school, which is 15km away with the help of my relative.”In Chennai, transport facility was arranged for employees and people in essential services with the help of the Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation (TNSTC), but no such arrangements were made in Madurai district.A Madurai Corporation official said that most of their employees have been working even during the lockdown since it was essential. Hence, the order to increase number of employees to 50% did not make any difference. “Last two months have been difficult since we had to work seven days a week and more than 10 hours each day. We will be relieved only if Covid-19 pandemic is over,” said an official from the engineering wing.An official from Madurai TNSTC said they are operating around 25 buses for more than a month now for those involved in government hospitals and sanitary employees. “We are ready to operate vehicles for government employees by increasing the services. Departments are in the process of sending their requirements and preferred timings to the district administration. We will start services once we got a nod from the collector,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/govt-offices-buzz-with-activity-as-50-employees-report-for-work/articleshow/75815539.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Coimbatore||Kiosk for Covid-19 sample collection||Coimbatore: The Podanur Urban Primary Health Centre has acquired a mobile Covid-19 testing kiosk, which allows no-contact testing, making staff nurses and doctors feel more comfortable.It was donated by Rotary Club of Coimbatore Central. As many as 30 people were tested on Monday. Mobile testing kiosks are also present at the ESI Hospital and the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital (CMCH). The public health department is insisting on testing all those with flu symptoms.“We are getting 250 samples a day, including people coming to the city from abroad and from other states,” said deputy director of public health Dr G Ramesh Kumar. The district last recorded a Covid-19 case on May 2. It will be designated a green zone on May 23 if it continues to record no new case. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/kiosk-for-covid-19-sample-collection/articleshow/75812812.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Ludhiana||Completion of Ludh-Chd highway not possible before Sept: NHAI||Ludhiana: The Ludhiana-Chandigarh national highway is likely to be delayed by two more months, with the exodus of the migrant workers, which has resulted in shortage of construction workers. The National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) was planning to complete the project by September end, but given the circumstances, they estimate a delay of two months.A senior officer of the NHAI, on condition of anonymity, said they are facing nearly 40% shortage of workers ever since they had resumed the work about 20 days ago. According to the officer, at present work is pending near the Samrala bypass section in Ludhiana district, as they are still awaiting permission to cut 70 trees to facilitate the project. He also said the NHAI has deposited the compensation for cutting the 70 trees and once the permission is granted, work will start there. NHAI officials said flyover work near Baini Sahib is also pending, due to delay in land acquisition. They added once the sub-divisional magistrate office award the 0.7 hectare land to be used in the project there, they will deposit the compensation to the land owners. The work near Sanghol in Fatehgarh Sahib, where Buddhist stupa is near the road, and Khanpur and Baggo Majra is also pending, as the high court is hearing a petition regarding the compensation.Project director of NHAI, K L Sachdeva said 91% of the work is completed — of the 76km planned, 71km has been constructed. He acknowledged that they are facing labour shortage. Meanwhile, locals living along the road said they are waiting for the project to be completed. “Once completed, the road will open floodgates of economic activity in our villages, as the time to reach Ludhiana and Chandigarh is reduced significantly. We can sell our produce in the markets of Ludhiana or Chandigarh in the morning and return home by afternoon. It will improve our economic and social status,” said Avtar Singh, a resident of a village near Samrala.BOXPending workNHAI officials said work on the one-and-half kilometres stretches in Baggo Majra and Khanpur of Mohali has not been started because of disagreement over compensation to farmersWork on about 100m road stretch near Hedon where pipe factory is located is also mired in land dispute 70 trees belonging to irrigation department need to be cut near SamralaFor Bhaini sahib flyover construction work, land is still being acquiredWork pending on about 1.5 km stretch each in Baggo Majra and KhanpurWork pending near Sanghol on 600m stretch 2 tolls along the highwayA toll plaza near Ghulal village and other toll plazas at Baggo Majra near Mohali are in the worksDelay imminentIn March, after a meeting with state government officials, NHAI officials had claimed that if all bottle necks are cleared by March 31, NHAI will get work in Ludhiana district completed by June end. And the pending work till Mohali by August end and till Chandigarh by September 30. NHAI officials now said given the curfew and the lockdown, it may not be possible for the agency to get the work completed before November.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/completion-of-ludh-chd-highway-not-possible-before-sept-nhai/articleshow/75812807.cms||Shariq Majeed
May 19, 2020||Kolhapur||Steps taken to vacate crowded quarantine centres||Kolhapur: As many as 6,000 quarantined travellers, who have spent more than a week in the Covid-19 facilities, are yet to get their swab reports. On an average 2,000 samples are added daily to get their testing done. So far swab reports of 11,000 people have been collected and sent for testing. One such traveller, who is currently quarantined in Shivaji University since May 12, is still awaiting for his swab report. "There were just 30 travellers in the facility when I was taken here. Now more than 500 people are here. None of us who were bought here have received the test reports without which we are not allowed to go back to our home," said the man, who also alleged that people who came late have been turned back. To ease the pressure on the over occupied quarantine centres, the district authorities have decided to take an undertaking from the travellers to stay at the village-level quarantine centres for some days or get quarantined at home. If the travellers jump the quarantine they have to face police complaint from village administrations. On Friday, district collector Daulat Desai wrote to state police to restrict the entry of travellers from Pune and Mumbai, which are declared as hotspots. Satej Patil, district guardian minister, said, "I myself have spoken to police officials asking them not to allow people to travel. The number is expected to come down. I have however asked the village level and ward level committees to be vigilant and isolate people arriving from red zone areas. We have contained the spread of the covid only because we are quarantining travellers."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/steps-taken-to-vacate-crowded-quarantine-centres/articleshow/75812809.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Trichy||Wedding planners, halls stare at losses||Trichy: The extension of lockdown and restrictions in place to prevent public gathering has made wedding planners, music troupes and marriage halls stare at a heavy loss with people cancelling weddings. Sources in the registration department said the number of marriage registrations in Trichy has drastically come down to one or two per sub-registrar office since April. With relaxation given for a maximum of 50 people to attend a wedding, hall owners said that at least 3-4 marriages booked per hall during May-June have been cancelled so far. “Why would people spend lakhs to host just 50 people? Vaikasi is one of our busiest months, but the lockdown has made people either to cancel or postpone the weddings,” said N S P Kumar, secretary, Trichy district wedding hall owners association. Out of the 50 weddings conducted per wedding hall annually, May-June period witnesses maximum weddings next only to January-February period, owners said. “In April alone, three families cancelled their weddings and sought the repayment of advance. Food for 25 or 50 people can be ordered from hotels, due to which catering business is heavily hit. Our business may be revived only next year,” Raghuram Nallathambi, a wedding planner said. People who do not postpone the weddings are keeping the events a low-key affair by restricting the expenses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/wedding-planners-halls-stare-at-losses/articleshow/75815540.cms||Deepak Karthik
May 19, 2020||Jaipur||Heat wave aggravates||Jaipur: Heat wave conditions aggravated in the state on Monday with majority of the places witnessing a rise in temperature. Churu remained the hottest clocking a maximum temperature of 43.3°C. Jaipur Met office said the dry spell in the state would continue for next couple of days. Attributing the rise to the active northerly winds and vanishing of upper air cyclonic circulation, Jaipur Met office said that many places in the state would witness rise in the temperatures. People in Jaipur woke up to a warm morning when a minimum temperature of 27.5°C was recorded. Even in the afternoon a maximum temperature of 40.3°C was recorded. In this season so far Jaipur has witnessed rainfall, dust storm and hailstorm that guided the mercury to take a dip. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/heat-wave-aggravates/articleshow/75815542.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Bengaluru||Size of containment zones to shrink in Karnataka||BENGALURU: Under the latest lockdown norms, containment zones in Karnataka will be much smaller in size, but rules and loopholes will be tightened and action against violators will be stringent in order to check the spread of the disease. Revised guidelines issued by the Centre to the state, reveal containment zones are delineated based on mapping of cases and contacts. Intensive action will be carried out in these areas with the aim of breaking the chain of transmission. Therefore, the area of a containment zone should be appropriately defined by the district administration/local urban bodies with technical inputs at local level. The health department is considering shrinking the size of containment zones from the existing 100 metres to open up more space for economic activities. Medical education minister K Sudhakar, also a member of the Covid taskforce, said additional chief secretary (health department) Javed Akthar will issue a new definition of a containment zone after the Covid-19 taskforce holds its next meeting. “We are planning to further shrink it and restrict containment zones to an apartment complex, independent house or even a lane where the Covid-19 patient resides,” Sudhakar said. He went on to say bigger containment zones will impede businesses and normal activities in the vicinity, something which the government wants to avoid. The minister said Karnataka will also do away with colour-coding districts. “With restrictions being relaxed for almost all activities, it does not make sense to pursue with colour codes. It is either containment zone or outside containment zone,” he said. In rural areas, the minister said containment zones will be identified by the taluk heads. Government sources say it is difficult to restrict activities to certain areas or smaller location in rural areas as farmers and people will have to travel to the outskirts of their villages for their livelihood. An official said, a containment operation (large outbreak or cluster) is deemed successful when no case is reported in 28 days from the containment zone||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/size-of-containment-zones-to-shrink/articleshow/75813941.cms||Sandeep Moudgal
May 19, 2020||Madurai||Mendicant donates Rs 10,000 towards CM relief fund||Madurai: A mendicant, who has been staying at a temporary shelter by the Madurai Corporation for the last two months, has handed over Rs 10,000 to district collector T G Vinay on Monday as his contribution towards chief minister’s relief fund. Clad in saffron dhoti and towel, M Poolpandi, a mendicant, who is in his mid-60s, came to the district collector’s office on Monday with currency notes in various denominations including Rs 500, Rs 10 and a few coins. Poolpandi, a native of Tuticorin district, has three children— two sons and a daughter. After his wife’s death few years ago, he left the house as his children refused to take care of him. He has been a mendicant at places of worship and crowded areas in various southern districts for the last few years. Poolpandi said that he came to Madurai in March and was staying on the roadside at MGR Bus Terminal at Mattuthavani when he was shifted to temporary shelter homes with the help of various NGOs. He said that he has been getting food at the shelter, which is his only requirement. He does not need the money as he does not have any expense. He said that he has been donating the money eked through begging towards various causes. Previously, he has contributed money for purchase of furniture and installation of reverse osmosis treated water facility in government schools. “As I was shifted to the shelter, I decided to donate money towards chief minister’s relief fund. I communicated to an official in the shelter about my wish and he helped me by approaching the district collector,” Poolpandi said. He also added that he wishes to make such contribution to various other southern districts as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/mendicant-donates-rs-10000-towards-cm-relief-fund/articleshow/75815541.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Jaipur||64% fresh Covid-19 infections in Rajasthan among migrants||JAIPUR: With migrants arriving in the state in large numbers, the number of positive cases has seen a spike in the last few days. Out of 305 Covid-19 cases reported on Monday, 196 were migrants, which accounts for 64% of the total cases. The worst-affected district was Dungarpur where 64 persons tested positive taking the number of infected migrants to 116. Bhilwara, which came to light for its ruthless containment model, reported 25 cases on Monday and all of them were migrants. With the new 25 cases, the number of positive cases has risen to 80 cases in Bhilwara. Out of the 80 cases, 42 are migrants. Over the past few days, a large number of migrants entered the state from Maharashtra and parts of Gujarat such as Ahmedabad, Surat and Vadodara. Health department officials claimed that they were keeping a watch on the health of all migrant workers entering the state especially those who travelled from hotspots such as Indore, Surat, Ahmedabad and different parts of Maharashtra including Mumbai. In Jalore, out of 25 coronavirus cases, 23 are migrants. All the 10 cases in Rajsamand are migrant workers. A health department official said since May 1, they have detected 656 migrants infected with coronavirus. Almost all of them are asymptomatic or have mild symptoms. They have been sent to quarantine facilities where they are undergoing treatment. The worst affected districts due to migrants who tested positive are Dungarpur (116), Jalore (86), Pali (54) and Rajsamand (49). The health department has stepped up measures for contact tracing of all the migrants reaching different parts of the state. The job is challenging as many of those travelled by buses and they have to search for other co-passengers for testing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/64-fresh-infections-in-state-among-migrants/articleshow/75815549.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Madurai||Bail denied to man in tobacco case||Madurai: The Madras high court has dismissed the anticipatory bail plea of a man who was in possession of banned tobacco packets illegally during the lockdown period at Virudhunagar district. The petitioner, M Muthukumar is apprehending arrest in the case registered against him by the Sivakasi Town police. The petitioner was in possession of tobacco packets worth Rs 1.20 lakh and distributed the same to two petty shops during the lockdown period. The petitioner’s counsel submitted that police have registered a false case against the petitioner and hence he sought anticipatory bail. The additional public prosecutor submitted that there are few more similar cases against the petitioner with regard to illegal distribution of tobacco packets causing health hazard to the public.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/bail-denied-to-man-in-tobacco-case/articleshow/75815545.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Disease control centre plan was neglected||AHMEDABAD: For the past two years, a crucial proposal for setting up a regional base for the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) has been gathering dust. Had this centre come up in time, it could have helped Gujarat in its crucial battle against infectious diseases. A 2.5 acre plot just besides NIPER campus in Gandhinagar was identified for setting up the NCDC regional centre. The NCDC had signed an MoU with the Gujarat government on July 23, 2018. Such centres have already come up at Alwar, Kozhikode, Patna, Rajahmundry, Varanasi, Jagdalpur, Coonoor and Bengaluru. As stated in the MoU, the NCDC was to provide a state-of-the-art laboratory with sophisticated equipment for diagnostic support to the Gujarat government. “The support group was to include experts in public health, microbiology, entomology. Paramedics and technocrats were to be part of the initiative as well,” says a senior state health department official. He adds, “This could have enhanced the capacity and capability of disease surveillance, outbreak investigation and rapid response to combat outbreaks in Gujarat.” Kerala and Bihar have already moved ahead with implementing the project. Another major advantage of having an NCDC regional wing is the capacity for 24-hour disease surveillance. In a recent research paper by National Institute of Virology, Pune, Gujarat has been mentioned as one of the states that is prone to viral outbreaks. “In this light, a NCDC centre can help the state identify and fight diseases early,” says the senior health official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/disease-control-centre-plan-was-neglected/articleshow/75815083.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Goa||Cong: Redo budget, focus on agri, jobs||Panaji: In light of the state’s precarious financial position and the economic impact of Covid-19, Goa needs to prepare a fresh budget for 2020-21 with a focus on agriculture, animal husbandry, fisheries and rural employment, said Congress in a letter to CM Pramod Sawant. “You must accept the fact that unless a White Paper is released and expert opinions are sought on the financial crisis, it is not possible to find solutions to the economic disaster of Goa,” said state Congress president Girish Chodankar. In the letter, the party has asked the government to restart sustainable mining, curtail unnecessary expenditure and permit capital spending only for essential projects. The party also demanded a stimulus package for Micro, Small & Medium Entrepreneurs (MSMEs), farmers, labourers, traders, small vendors and commercial vehicle operators. He said that the BJP’s administrative mismanagement since 2012 led to huge borrowings, mass corruption and economic bankruptcy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cong-redo-budget-focus-on-agri-jobs/articleshow/75986096.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Kolhapur||Kolhapur: Water supply to resume from Tuesday||KOLHAPUR: Due to two-day water cut in most parts of the city, many locals were seen violating social distancing norms to get water from the water tankers. Pumping stations at Puikhadi and Aptenager were closed due to electrical and pipeline work at Rege Tickti. The demand to replace the old pipeline was made since the last few months owing to constant water loss. The work is expected to be completed by Tuesday evening. A water supply official said that the pumping of water will resume by early Tuesday morning and by afternoon the water supply will resume. At Salokhenagar, the people were seen gathered around the water tanker. The staff with the tankers tried to ensure social distancing is followed, however, the locals seemed were in rush. One of the water supply staffs said that despite the assurance of deploying additional tankers the locals were seemed to be in a hurry to draw the water.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/water-supply-to-resume-from-today/articleshow/75812839.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Jaipur||Institutional quarantine must for those flying from abroad||Jaipur: Passengers travelling by international flights landing at any airport in the state in coming days will be compulsorily kept under institutional quarantine for 14 days. Taking lessons from the past, the state government has decided that such passengers will be allowed to go to their houses only after spending 14 days at institutional quarantine facilities. The health of the people arriving in the state will be monitored regularly and samples will be taken accordingly. Health minister Raghu Sharma said that those students, tourists and NRIs stuck in different countries will start to arrive in the state. The airports, which have been identified, where the flights will land are Jaipur, Bikaner, Jaisalmer, Jodhpur and Udaipur. Sharma said, “The passengers will be quarantined at the same city where they will land as per the Centre’s guidelines.” The state government has identified hotels and other places near the airport, where they will be quarantined. Ever since migrants have started arriving from other states, the state has been witnessing a spike in Covid-19 cases. There are 20 lakh people who have registered for arriving in the state. On the other hand, 20 lakh have also registered to go out of the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/institutional-quarantine-must-for-those-flying-from-abroad/articleshow/75815563.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Coimbatore||Caterers shift to food subscription biz to survive||Coimbatore: With largescale weddings and events unlikely to be allowed for at least a couple of months, a growing number of catering services in the district have now begun launching food delivery services. Unlike restaurants with a set menu, these caterers have launched food subscription models where orders can only be placed for an entire meal or a combo at least 16 hours in advance. A few caterers have launched Sunday-only lunch combos.Customers can choose from vegetarian north Indian meals, south Indian meals, daily non-vegetarian combos, continental meals or just a bowl of healthy salad. “I have now stopped catering to schools and movie theatres, and just do salad bowls. I encourage weekly and monthly subscriptions from my clients, and now limit my orders to 30 salad bowls a day,” said Yegammai Annamalai of Incredibowl. A popular wedding and event caterer, especially for North Indian items, Edayarpalayam-based Bombay Ananda Bhavan on Friday sent a list of four vegetarian combos to its clients. Each combo was priced at Rs 150 to Rs 180 each. “As a promotional offer, we are offering free delivery across the city, because we want the word to spread,” said owner Sunil Goel. However, orders must be placed before 9 pm the previous day.Another popular catering brand Madhampatty recently launched a new brand called Madhampatty Virundhu, which has begun taking orders for Sunday-only mutton and chicken biriyani combos for the last three weeks.T Rangaraj, CEO of Madhampatty Thangavelu Hospitality, said his firm also took a survey of apartments and gated communities within a 3 km radius around their central kitchen to guage the need for a food subscription service. “We are working on creating a new business model like lunch boxes or something like the dabbawalla model,” he said. “However, how much revenue it can generate or if it can keep us afloat is yet to be seen,” he added.Caterers admit they have been forced to come up with new models and ideas for survival. A caterer from Perur who recently launched another subscription service, Maami’s Home Foods, offering vegetarian breakfast and lunch, said the catering industry here employs at least 10,000 people directly and 1 lakh people indirectly. “Though we had work only for 125 days a year, the industry supports that many people. Now with no orders coming and absolutely no income, we have to find a way to keep our people employed and companies afloat,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/caterers-shift-to-food-subscription-biz-to-survive/articleshow/75812822.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Trichy||Families wanting to return for exam face trouble in getting e-pass||Trichy: People who want to return to the district with their children for Class X state board examination are complaining about difficulty in getting e-pass for their travel. They say that their applications are getting rejected.Many families have been spending the lockdown period away from their place of residence and need to travel back for the board examination. There are four reasons for which an e-pass can be availed by applying on the Tamil Nadu government’s dedicated website for the same. There are four reasons mentioned for which pass can be applied - death, marriage, medical emergency and return of stranded people. Since there is no specific option for parents who want to return to their native districts with their children for board examination, there have been instances of applications are getting rejected. “I received a message saying that my e-pass request was cancelled when I applied through the website by clicking fourth option in the reason for travel, that is, return of stranded people,” said S Shakuntala from Namakkal. K S Jeevanandhan, headmaster of Subbiah Memorial Middle School in Trichy, said the government needs to add an option for parents who want to take up travel for their children’s board examination. “While teachers have been asked to report to their respective schools by May 21, some teachers who started moving to their districts were stopped at the check posts for want of mandatory pass,” he said. Trichy district chief educational officer S Santhi said that parents and children will not be have any issues if they carry school identity card till the government makes an alternative arrangement for passes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/families-wanting-to-return-for-exam-face-trouble-in-getting-e-pass/articleshow/75815566.cms||Sampath Kumar
May 19, 2020||Trichy||Central districts record three new positive cases||Trichy: Three new cases cases were recorded in the central region in Ariyalur and Karur districts, while 17 people including 12 women and 5 men were discharged from Trichy, Ariyalur and Thanjavur government hospitals. With this the number of cases in Ariyalur district is 355, with 329 discharged. They include a 32-year-old man returning from Maharashtra and a 55-year-old man from Periyathirukkonam who was in contact with Koyambedu market workers. Both of them were admitted at the government hospital in Ariyalur. In Perambalur, 16 people including 5 pregnant women were discharged. So far 113 people from Perambalur district have been discharged. In Karur district, a 40-year-old man tested positive, the 73rd positive case in Karur district, of which 18 patients are undergoing treatment at the Karur government medical college hospital. He had returned from Maharashtra and was intercepted at the check post. In Trichy two patients were discharged from the Mahatma Gandhi memorial (MGM) government hospital on Monday, bringing down the number of active cases to three in the district. MGM is also provided treatment to several patients from Ariyalur, Perambalur, Karur and Pudukottai district with 14 patients from Ariyalur and two from Perambalur. A patient from Pudukottai was also discharged from MGM on Monday. Two patients from Papanasam and Peravurani were discharged from the government medical college hospital in Thanjavur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/central-districts-record-three-new-positive-cases/articleshow/75815552.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Kolhapur||KMC to train youths in flood rescue||Kolhapur: The fire department of Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC) is going to impart rescue and life saving training to the youths from the residential societies located in areas that usually get flooded during monsoon. The KMC has made it mandatory for residential societies with more than 20 families to have life jackets and rescue boats.Currently, the civic body has three boats which are inadequate to tackle flood situation. Ranjit chile, chief fire officer of KMC, said, “We have been assured by the residential society operators to get a list of the youths and guards who will be trained. So far, no one has approached us. Once we get the list we will start the training.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/kmc-to-train-youths-in-flood-rescue/articleshow/75812866.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Madurai||HC denies bail to woman maoist||Denying bail to an alleged woman maoist who wanted to take care of her parents due to the lockdown, the Madras high court has directed a trial court in Dindigul to complete the trial and pass orders in the case expeditiously. Justice G R Swaminathan passed the order while hearing the bail plea of Sivasakthi alias Shenbagavalli, a resident of Krishnagiri district. She stated that despite a high court direction to complete the trial before March 31, police have not cooperated, due to which it is still prolonging.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-denies-bail-to-woman-maoist/articleshow/75815558.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Ahmedabad||Bar wants access to chambers at Gujarat HC||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat High Court Advocates’ Association (GHAA) on Monday requested Chief Justice Vikram Nath to open the high court campus and allow advocates to work from their chambers. In a letter, GHAA president Yatin Oza has urged the CJ to start judicial function from courtrooms too and continue to hear cases through video conferencing and allow lawyers to address the court from their respective chambers and offices. “It is almost two months by now that advocates have not been able to visit their chambers. A large number of advocates operate from their chambers since they do not have independent offices. Many of them have not been able to circulate their urgent matters only for the reason that their files are in their chambers.” Citing relaxation in Lockdown-4, the Bar president has requested the CJ to allow lawyers to use their chambers on HC campus for two hours in a day. He mentioned that the Supreme Court and the Bombay high court have started functioning and judges there heard cases in courtrooms also. The Bar has also requested the HC to increase the registry’s staff strength to manage the flow of news cases as well as old matters. Advocate Oza also said that the current online system which the HC has adopted to conduct cases “is likely to be crashed in no time”. He suggested the CJ work out some new device or formula for smooth functioning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/bar-wants-access-to-chambers-at-hc/articleshow/75815077.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Mumbai||With 2,000+ cases again, Maharashtra tally tops 35,000; Mumbai has 21,335||MUMBAI: For the second consecutive day, the state reported over 2,000 Covid-19 cases. With 2,033 new cases registered on Monday, its second-highest in a day, the state’s tally reached 35,086. Mumbai reported over 1,000 cases for the second day in a row (1,185), its second-highest count in a 24-hour period, to breach the 21,000 mark. The city now has 21,335 cases. Both the state and city witnessed a marginal dip in the number of deaths. A total of 51 deaths were recorded across the state, 23 from Mumbai. With that, 1,249 people have lost their lives to the infection since the past 71 days. May has been particularly bad, with an average of 43 people falling victim to the infection every day. Mumbai’s death toll is now 757. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Monday said the lockdown had been helpful in slowing down the spread of the virus. “We have managed to slow down the spread. Taking into account the estimates for cases in the state till June, we have started augmenting our health facilities as well,” he said. He added that the state had a total of 1,484 Covid care centres with a bed capacity of 2.5 lakh. Thackeray also appealed to trained medical practitioners to come forward and help the state. “Just like the police, even doctors and paramedical staff are getting tired and need to be rested adequately. We want more people to come ahead and help us in this fight,” he said. Six districts from the state will now be part of a sero-surveillance study to be carried out by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) to gauge the spread of the infection in the community. The community-based survey will be carried out in 69 districts of 21 states. Ahmednagar, Beed, Jalgaon, Parbhani, Nanded and Sangli have been included in the survey that will include testing blood samples from random selections of 40 people each from 10 clusters (total 400) using ELISA technique that has been developed by the National Institute of Virology (NIV). “It will help detect the antibodies from blood serum and throw light on whether the community at large has been exposed to the infection,” said a state official. So far, the state has officially maintained that the spread is localised and there is no evidence of community transmission. In Mumbai, civic officials said that of the 1,185 cases, 300 had tested positive between May 12 and 16. Civic officials said the average cases detected in the city every day now was in the range of 800-900. Dharavi reported 85 new patients, taking the count from the area to 1,327. Mumbai’s neighbouring Thane’s tally of cases too has reached 1,269 patients, but no deaths were recorded there in the last 24 hours. The state also said that of the 51 deaths, 23 were recorded in Mumbai, eight each in Navi Mumbai and Pune, three in Jalgaon, two each in Aurangabad, Ahmednagar and Nagpur city and one each in Bhiwandi and Palghar. A Bihar resident also passed away in Mumbai. 35 out of the 51 dead (68%) had co-morbidities such as diabetes, hypertension, heart disease, etc. Gadchiroli district, which had been a green zone, turned into an orange zone on Monday as 5 people who went back there from Mumbai and who had been quarantined tested positive. Currently, over 3.66 lakh people are under quarantine in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/with-2k-cases-again-maha-tally-tops-35k-city-has-21335/articleshow/75815560.cms||Sumitra Debroy
May 19, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Covid-19 outbreak: Centre shares containment plan||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The Union health ministry issued containment plan to all state governments to prevent a large outbreak of Covid-19. The ministry asked states to expand their lab capacities and test all suspect samples. As per the advisory, a large outbreak is ‘deemed to be present when there are 15 or more cases in a village, city or town’. The plan also suggested that people with influenza-like illness should be tested even if they do not have a travel history. It also directed that all health workers and contacts should be given hydroxychloroquine. It stressed on the need for expanding lab capacity to test all suspect samples, close contacts and people with symptoms of influenza-like illness (ILI) and severe acute respiratory infection (SARI). "Testing all suspect cases, symptomatic contacts, asymptomatic direct and high-risk contacts of a confirmed case and ILI/ SARI cases are necessary," states the containment plan. Experts had pointed out that it is high time that Kerala increased its testing. "At present, Kerala stands much below the national average in testing samples. Apart from this, all people coming with ILI symptoms at the primary level should be tested. Only those with travel history and ILI symptoms are being tested now. We have to increase testing among people with ILIs at the primary level to prevent the spread," said internal medicine expert Dr Arun NM. The advisory on large outbreak containment said that a large area of operation must be defined and strict perimeter control has to be implemented. Active search of cases, early isolation, contact listing and tracking, quarantine and follow up of contacts are essential. A large outbreak is defined as localized increase in the incidence of Covid-19 cases occurring within a defined geographic area; say a village, town, or city. This could also imply progression of a small cluster (earlier noticed for which cluster management action is under implementation) into multiple clusters. The cases may or may not be epidemiologically linked, said the advisory. It also stressed on the need for geographic quarantine strategy for near-absolute interruption of movement of people to and from a relatively-large defined geographic area where there is single large outbreak or multiple foci of local transmission. A barrier should be erected around the focus of infection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/centre-shares-containment-plan/articleshow/75812935.cms||Rajiv G
May 19, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal: Confusion over lockdown relaxations, people prefer to wait and watch||BHOPAL: District collector Tarun Pithode, late on Sunday night announced some major relaxations for residents in areas under six zones, which are relatively “free” from coronavirus infection. Opening of private offices, construction activities both by government agencies and private builders, home delivery facility from a variety of shops, not only grocery and milk shops, and “take-home” facility from hotels and restaurants were supposed to infuse some life in city markets and commercial areas. But on Monday, the first day of lockdown 4.0, it didn’t happen. Ahead of the lockdown 3.0, too, Pithode had announced some relaxations like enlarging the scope of home delivery from grocery to vegetables, fruits, stationary, electronics and optical shops but even at that time, it didn’t have any palpable impact on the city markets. “The manner in which relaxations are being announced will have no impact. You need not put so many ifs and buts while announcing what would open and what not and where. The same administration announces ‘petrol pumps will remain open’, you find them open the next day. The government announces ‘banks will remain open from tomorrow’, you fund them open the next day. But, if you put so many ifs and buts and expect a merchant or a professional to risk ‘abrasive’ police inquiry on the way as to where you are going and for what purpose, I don’t think you are being realistic”, said a chartered accountant in Kolar area, who did not open his office on Monday despite Kolar being in the zone, where private offices can open with 33 per cent presence. A hotel in M P Nagar, which for the past few days, had been sending messages to its patrons announcing it was back to serve them in “take home” form, had orders from the customers, but not the order from the district administration to open the kitchen and deliver ‘take home’ orders. Pithode, while talking to TOI, on Sunday, had said that M P Nagar would remain closed for now because of its proximity to coronavirus hotspot, Jehangirabad. But, some big names in the food industry at Bhopal including Manohar Dairy in M P Nagar, Coffee House at New Market and near the Board Office has started the "take-home” service. At Manohar Dairy, only packed sweets, bakery items, namkeens, and other edibles were being served on Monday while the Coffee House at the Board Office was serving south Indian dishes like dosa, idli besides chicken dishes. Standalone shops or neighbourhood shops (shops in residential complexes), which were allowed to open shutters in the third lockdown itself and in 4.0 as per the district collector order on May 17, didn’t open their shutters then nor did they start operating on Monday. “Standalone shop is a very confusing word at times. For example, Lotus showroom in Arera Colony is a perfect “standalone shop”, there are no shops around it. Would it be allowed to operate? I don’t think so. What they mean by standalone shops is a small grocery shop in your colony or just outside. Many of them are operating, but such shops are more among shanties than upmarket areas”, said the owner of an electronic showroom in Gulmohar market. The condition that whosoever goes to work in any of the six zones of Bhopal for work should be from that zone itself has also added to the confusion. “How it is possible that everyone employed at a factory in Govindpura industrial area or Mandideep would be from that area itself?” asked an industrialist at Mandideep, on the condition of anonymity. Spokesperson for the district administration, Arun Rathore, when asked about it, said “Anyone who has his own identity card and card from the factory where he works would be allowed to go, but ideally, factory owners should arrange for his stay in the proximity to the workplace, so that he doesn’t have to change zones or go from Bhopal to Raisen district every day. But, more important is the fact that worker should not be from any of the “containment area” of any of the cities.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/confusion-over-lockdown-relaxations-people-prefer-to-wait-watch/articleshow/75813982.cms||Ashutosh Shukla
May 19, 2020||Jaipur||RSRTC services to begin in green zones after Rajasthan government approval||JAIPUR: Rajasthan State Roadways Corporation (RSRTC) is awaiting directions from the state home department to begin its operations in the green zones. In its order on Monday, the home department said private and RSRTC buses would have to take approval for buses for its routes. With a possibility to start even inter-state bus services in green zones, the state transport department is also in touch with neighbouring states such as Delhi, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh. The Union ministry has already given a nod to start inter-state bus operations especially between green city or a state to green city of another state. However, the state transport department is awaiting clearance from the state home ministry to chalk out modalities. “First, we will start intra-state bus services between one green zone to another. Second, we are in touch with neighbouring states to discuss on areas through which we can start services,” said transport commissioner Ravi Jain on Monday. He said that transport department will abide the orders of home department and take its approval before deciding a route. However, sources said a bus can’t directly go from green city to green city within a state or outside the state. “Suppose we have a district like Hanumangarh which we consider to be green and we need to send a bus to another green zone city say Baran. Thus, the bus will have to pass through the districts including Bikaner, Churu, Jhunjhunu, Jaipur and Kota to reach Baran. And in the course the bus will have to pass through red zone cities and districts. So, things are very vague at this point of time. Nothing conclusive can be said,” said Naveen Jain, CMD, RSRTC. He added that initially bus movement will be very restricted and RSRTC will have to follow SOPs. “Buses will be sanitised while going out from a depot. Bus conductors are likely to be given thermal scanners to screen the passengers at the time of boarding the bus. In case a passenger has Covid-19 symptoms the medical and health team of the originating bus depot would be alerted. Also buses would run with 50 per cent capacity to start with,” said transport minister Pratap Singh Khachariawas. According to sources, in Jaipur too there is a possibility of changing the originating place. “We are thinking of changing the originating bus stops for various buses in Jaipur. For example, buses to Kota are likely to be operated from Tonk Road and those to Sikar, Bikaner and Jhunjhunu would be operated from Sikar Road,” an RSRTC officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rsrtc-services-to-begin-in-green-zones-after-states-approval/articleshow/75815590.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Madurai||HC directs govt to reinstate school edu dept staff||Madurai: The Madras high court has directed the state government to reinstate a school education department staff back in service, who was wrongly relieved from duty though she was entitled to continue till August 31. A Brinda, a resident of Kanyakumari district and personal assistant (higher secondary) to chief educational officer stated that she was appointed as PG assistant in 1999. Since her date of birth was mentioned wrongly in her education certificates and service records, she had applied for correction. She had sent a notice to the authorities concerned for rectification of her date of birth in the records in 2001, which is three years from the initial date of appointment. Since there was no response, she had filed a suit. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-directs-govt-to-reinstate-school-edu-dept-staff/articleshow/75815550.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Trichy||Auto drivers want to resume services||Around 750 autorickshaw drivers staged a dharna on Monday in front of the Trichy collectorate to allow them resume services. “It has been 53 days since we earned a penny. Abiding by the restrictions, we stayed indoors bearing the brunt. Now that the restrictions are being lifted, we appeal the government to allow us to operate,” said state deputy secretary of CITU autorickshaw labourers’ federation A L Fakruddin Babu in Trichy. The association claimed that there are over 10,000 autorickshaw drivers under various associations in Trichy district with own or hired vehicle. They demanded a compensation of Rs 15,000 to save their families from poverty. “We have no other option than operating the autos to repay the loans to finance companies to avoid their persistent calls,” said Trichy district president of the association, Chandran.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/auto-drivers-want-to-resume-services/articleshow/75815588.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Trichy||111 stranded Malaysians airlifted from Trichy||Trichy: About 111 Malaysian nationals, who were stranded in Tamil Nadu following the cancellation of international flights in the wake of Covid-19 outbreak, were airlifted to Kuala Lumpur by a special rescue flight operated by Malindo Air on Monday. The rescue flight via Chennai took off from the Trichy International Airport at 11.15am with 111 passengers, including women and children. Passengers expressed their gratitude to the government for taking care of their arrangements and their safe stay in Tamil Nadu. Earlier, the Malindo Air flight arrived here from Kuala Lumpur at 10.15am to carry the Malaysian nationals. It may be recalled that the Malindo Air had already airlifted 512 Malaysians who were stranded in various cities in Tamil Nadu by operating rescue flights on April 1, 2 and 4. Air Asia had also airlifted 556 stranded Malaysian nationals in three flights on March 21 and 24.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/111-stranded-malaysians-airlifted-from-trichy/articleshow/75815609.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Ahmedabad||Tale of two cities: West gets some respite, not East||AHMEDABAD: After a two-month hiatus, Amdavadis will finally wake up to some noise on the streets, as some people and vehicles begin their usual commutes on Wednesday. The lockdown relaxations now come with cautions, just as Covid-19 numbers have begun to head worryingly north, in both in the western and eastern parts of the city. Chief minister Vijay Rupani was heard clearly, as western Ahmedabad residents were granted a little more relaxation than their eastern counterparts. Presently, areas such as Danilimda, Behrampura , Maninagar, Saraspur, Jamalpur, Khadia, Dariapur, Shahpur, Asarwa and Gomtipur have been placed in the red zone, and have been declared containment zones. In the western part of Ahmedabad, the state government has allowed private offices to resume operations with 33% staff, shops and establishments can open on an odd-even basis for alternate days, plying of cabs and cars with two passengers and a driver and plying of two-wheelers with a rider only have been permitted. Moreover, salons as well as paan and cigarette shops have also been allowed to reopen. However, none of these relaxations have been extended to the eastern part of the city. Can you go about your daily business in western Ahmedabad? There is a word of caution, the Covid-19 trends are not encouraging in most western municipal wards. Over the last 10 days in western Ahmedabad, 22 people have died of the viral infection of which 10 died in the last two days. Vasna, Navrangpura and Maktampura wards in western Ahmedabad have registered a total of eight deaths already. The number active cases in the western zone has also increased to 446 cases till May 18. This was 214 cases till April 28. Similarly in the North West Zone, that is areas such as Bodakdev Thaltej, Gota Chandlodia and Ghatliodia, Covid-19 cases have increased by almost 155% between April 29 and May 18. The number was only 32 on April 25. In the South West Zone areas of Jodhpur, Vejalpur, Sarkhej and Makarba, cases increased by 240% in the same period. The number of active cases in these areas was 54 on April 29 which increased to 184 as on May 18. Outside Ahmedabad city, the district collector is yet to declare containment zones.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/tale-of-two-cities-west-gets-some-respite-not-east/articleshow/75815108.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Bhopal||Auto sector takes time to get into gear after eight-week shutdown in Bhopal||BHOPAL: Automobile workshops and spare parts shops remained closed on Monday, day one of lockdown 4.0, despite several relaxations announced by the district administration. Automobile association said that they may think of opening shutters from Tuesday. District administration had stated in the new Covid guidelines for Bhopal that automobile and spare parts shops could be opened in limited numbers in six zones, with the permission of the concerned authorities. These designated areas are - Kolar, Hoshangabad road, Ratibad, Govindpura industrial area, Bairagarh and BHEL township. Bhopal automobile dealers association (BADA) said that guidelines issued, are quite confusing, due to which they could not resume work on Monday. “There was no clarity about resuming of work. I hope we will get a clear picture by Tuesday,” said BADA vice president, Vishal Johri. He claimed that automobile sector is in very bad shape due to past two months of total lockdown. “Don’t even ask about our losses. We have incurred such huge losses that people in this sector are afraid to calculate them,” said Johri. He added that automobile sector is completely neglected. He also said that government should give support to help the sector bounce back. Even spare parts shops remained closed. “It was the first day and nothing was clear about how to commence work,” said a spare parts dealer, requesting anonymity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/curb-hurdles-go-in-lockdown-4-0-but-auto-sector-refuses-to-hit-pedal-on-day-1/articleshow/75814036.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Nagpur||Jawans fought Maoists with injured colleagues on shoulders||Nagpur: The commandos of Bhamragarh’s Quick Response Team (QRT) and C-60 unit, despite losing sub-inspector Dhanaji Honmane and jawan Kishor Atram, bravely countered the multiple ambushes of Maoists in the forests of Poyarkothi and Koparshi on Maharashtra-Chhattisgarh border in south Gadchiroli on Sunday. Some of the jawans fought while carrying their injured colleagues on shoulders after Maoists took them by surprise with a claymore mine blast, followed by heavy firing. Two commandos were martyred while three jawans were injured. Sources in Gadchiroli police said the jawans not only fought the Maoists but also simultaneously carried out rescue operation across the undulated terrain of around 10km through forested stretches and steep hillocks. Before getting on to the chopper at the helipad, they continued fighting the red guerrillas while carrying their injured colleagues and heavy rucksack on their backs. The combined police party had ventured into deep forested stretch on fringes of Abhujamadh, considered as the headquarter of the rebels, for combing operations following input of heavy Maoist presence. The police party was ambushed on their way back. SP Shailesh Balkawade said that police managed to strike back at the Maoists but could not conduct a search operation because they had to rescue injured jawans. “There was heavy firing from both sides. We feel few Maoists have been neutralized. Reds managed to flee with the bodies as jawans got busy in rescuing their injured colleagues,” said the SP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/jawans-fought-maoists-with-injured-colleagues-on-shoulders/articleshow/75815090.cms||Soumitra Bose
May 19, 2020||Trichy||Heavy rain destroys banana, paddy crops in Trichy, Thnjavur||Trichy: Heavy rain accompanied by gale destroyed hundreds of banana palms in Trichy and paddy crops in Thanjavur district on Sunday. The crops were ready for harvest. Meanwhile, officials from the horticulture department began to assess the damage. Heavy rains with strong winds lashed many parts of the district causing damage to hundreds of banana trees in Vayalur and Kuzhumani, Somarasampettai and Thottiam. The rain continued for more than an hour in the night on Sunday. Farmers have cultivated Poovan and Nei Poovan variety on hundreds of acres. Though people in the district had been expecting summer rain, the sudden rain with the gale caused trouble to the banana farmers. However, as almost all the banana bunches were ready for harvest, they could sell them, the officials said. Meanwhile, revenue officials visited the area and assured them help. Deputy director of horticulture department, Trichy, told TOI that they have begun field visit to assess the extent of loss. “Our officials along with revenue officials visited the area and began to assess the loss. Around 50 acres have been assessed on Monday. The process would continue on Tuesday also. Definitely it would come around 200 acres. We submit our reports to the district administration,” she said. The wind did not spare standing paddy crop also. Peravurani, Pattukottai, Orathanadu in Thanjavur district received heavy rain damaging summer paddy crop. Rainwater inundated paddy crops on around 500 acres, the farmers said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/heavy-rain-destroys-banana-paddy-crops-in-trichy-thnjavur/articleshow/75815582.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Bhopal||Govindpura cheers; Mandideep industries wait for passes||Bhopal: After prolonged delay, the Govindpura Industrial area (GIA) finally got the permission to resume production. With about 1100 units, the industrial area has been given permission to work with 50 per cent staff. However, in Mandideep industrial area, it was business as usual on the first day of lockdown 4.Handful of industries, which were running during the earlier editions of lockdown, continue to work in Mandideep as many entrepreneurs still have to get the administration nod for more “passes to increase the staff in the factories”. The administration had asked the industrialists to “apply for the passes”.On Monday, the entrepreneurs of GIA were busy completing the formalities for resuming the work from Tuesday. Its president Amarjeet Singh said, “On Monday, we received a signed copy of the order from the administration to resume work. People will visit their factories for the first time after a long gap. We have been asked to work with 50% capacity of workers. People who live in the zones opened for the work in Bhopal will be allowed to reach the factories.”It hasn’t been a cakewalk for them; owners of the GIA units didn’t have the permission to start the activities “despite repeated requests”. “This had happened despite orders of the industry department that the industries don’t need permission to resume work”, said some of the members of GIA, requesting anonymity. After prolonged wait for government nod to resume production, the industrialists had earlier this month even talked about “locking their units to hand over the keys to the government.”Meanwhile, the association of all Industries of Mandideep general secretary CB Malpani said, “We need some more staff in the factories and for that we have been applied for passes and permissions, we are waiting for these.”GFX...LIFE BACK IN FACTORIESAfter 2 months of lockdown, most factories in Govindpura & Mandideep openIn Mandideep, workers from Bhopal could not make it. Stopped at border without passesIndustries to function with 50% staff strength||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/govindpura-cheers-mandideep-industries-wait-for-passes/articleshow/75814007.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Nashik||Oxford college mag hails Beed SP||Aurangabad: Beed superintendent of police Harssh Poddar has been featured in this year’s ‘Floreat Domus’, the annual magazine of Balliol College, University of Oxford. Poddar, an IPS officer of 2013 batch, did masters in law constitutional law and international law from this college in 2009. When contacted, Poddar said, “Being featured in this year’s ‘Floreat Domus’ felt like coming full circle. The word gratitude fails to do justice to the lessons of public service, law and governance that this great institution has taught thousands of impressionable minds, such as myself.” The article ‘Law enforcement in the world’s largest democracy’ penned by Balliol alumni office, talking about Poddar said: “His work in public governance has been widely recognized as making him of the most impactful civil servants in India of his generation.” The article specifically lauded Poddar for working extensively on youth deradicalisation programme under the community policing initiative between 2015 and 2018, and creating large scale awareness amongst rural youths against crime and terror.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/oxford-college-mag-hails-beed-sp/articleshow/75982283.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Ahmedabad||No Ramzan E’tikaf at Roza this year||AHMEDABAD: For the first time in five centuries, one of the largest community gathering in Gujarat, the E’tikaf during Ramzan at the Sarkhej Roza, will not be held due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Believers were allowed earlier to retreat to the mosque after the fifteenth Roza during the Ramzan month till Eid at the mosque within the premises. Believers did not go home during this period. One of the largest community dinners and celebrations was held during these days. Sarkhej Roza committee members were cautious this time and denied permission to community members to hold the E’tikaf. “This was required as the Covid-19 numbers were rising in Ahmedabad city and this decision was in the interest and safety of all,” said Sarkhej Roza committee member Abrar Ali Saiyed. He says that the practice was revived in a big way a decade ago. “Earlier, very few people used to sit in the E'tikaf prior to this period. We allowed large gatherings almost a decade ago and never expected to stop it,” says Saiyed. He added that committee members will also meet to discuss the future of the ceremony in the coming years and how it should be organised the wake of social distancing norms. “The registration process used to begin early. Now we have stopped all registrations due to the pandemic,” Saiyed said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/no-ramzan-etikaf-at-roza-this-year/articleshow/75815084.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Agra||First day of lockdown 4.0: People flout social distancing norms in Mathura||Agra: Heavy rush was witnessed in many markets in Mathura, especially in the rural areas, as people flouted social distancing norms after the shops opened on the first day the fourth phase of nationwide lockdown. Though there was no vehicular movement on the highways, a large number of people thronged the local markets without masks and failed to keep the mandated one-metre distance from each other. Till now, 50 people have been tested positive for novel coronavirus (Covid-19) in Mathura and four have succumbed to the disease. Health officials said 23 people have recovered and reports of 162 people are still awaited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/first-day-of-lockdown-4-0-people-flout-social-distancing-norms-in-mathura/articleshow/75814029.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Mangaluru||Villages in Uttara Kannada moving towards self-sustenance||Mangaluru: The lockdown has forced Umbalamane and Bidramane villages in Siddapur taluk of Uttara Kannada district to develop a self-sustenance model. With vegetables being in short supply, ecologist Balachandra Hegde Sayimane has taken the lead to encourage farmers to sell their produce to fellow villagers through a weekly market. The initiative has been well received by the villagers, thanks to support by Balachandra Hegde Hoodlumane, presidnet of Analebail panchayat, and progressive farmer Mahesh Hegde Mukramane. Nearly 20 farmers from both the villages are selling their produce to around 200 buyers. This has encouraged people to take a re-look at the traditional vegetables grown in villages. Some of the traditional vegetables grown here include tubers, mogekai (native cucumber), leafy vegetables (locally called ‘Vitamin Soppu’) and brahmi. Ecologist Balachandra told TOI: “The weekly market — for villagers and by villagers — is held at the premises of a government school in Hoodlumane between 4.30-5.30pm on Thursdays, and with complete adherence to social distancing norms. It has been two weeks since the market is being organised. At least 30 varieties of home-grown traditional vegetables are sold there. Since the dependence of vegetables from other districts and cities has increased, people had forgotten traditional vegetables. This is the time to encourage them to grow and consume them. Interestingly, most of the growers participating in this market are women,” he said. Shree Padre, editor of a Kannada agricultural magazine, said: “This is an opportunity to create a win-win situation of producers and buyers. There have been several campaigns like ‘buy local, eat local’ the world over with success here and there,” he said. Stating that Kerala has initiated similar practices and many villages across India are experimenting with similar self-sustenance models, Padre said: “Health consciousness should not be overlooked. This should not be a stop-gap experiment — it should be practised even after the corona crisis. People facilitating such markets should implement rules and minimum discipline practices, including hygiene, to be followed. If strengthened, the system benefits the country. Local farmers too must grow vegetables based on local taste and demand,” he said, adding that ensuring a market sans middlemen has its own advantages.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/villages-in-uttara-kannada-moving-towards-self-sustenance/articleshow/75813889.cms||Deepthi Sanjiv
May 19, 2020||Trichy||Monkey menace haunts city residents in many places||Trichy: Incidents of Monkeys venturing into residential areas in Trichy city has become a regular affair over the last few days. Residents complain that monkeys take away food materials from houses after damaging tile roof. The forest department has done nothing to address the issue despite repeated complaints from the resident. K C Neelamegam, a resident of Ponmalai, said that a troop of monkeys have become real menace for the residents. They are entering houses and run away with edibles. Residents are forced to keep their windows and doors shut in the summer heat because of the monkey menace. Families having infants and children are worried over the movement of monkeys, he said. Ramakrishna Nagar in Kallukuzhi too was hit by monkeys where a troop has entered the houses in search of food. Forest department has initiated rescue operation and rescued seven monkeys with the help of volunteers since the beginning of this year. Three rescue operations happened during this lockdown period. The monkeys that are released into the nearby forest return in search of food and water during summer vacation. Between Trichy city and Thuraiyur, monkeys are found in groups in many places such as Pulivalam, Peramangalam, Karathampatti and Manachanallur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/monkey-menace-haunts-city-residents-in-many-places/articleshow/75815573.cms||Sampath Kumar
May 19, 2020||Ludhiana||New test rule delays police probes||Ludhiana: The new orders of the health department of conducting Covid-19 test for “very suspicious death cases” with prior permission, are affecting the working of the police department and delaying investigations. According to the police, every death case is suspicious for them, therefore they have to get the autopsy done. However, without corona test, the medical officials do not even touch the body to perform autopsy. On Sunday, Akash, 25, of Sunet village was found hanging at a mesh installed on Sidhwan Canal bridge near Gurdwara Nanaksar. The police called a medical team, who came wearing PPE kits, to frisk the body and take it to the civil hospital. The police have now given in writing to the civil hospital to conduct the corona test of the deceased so that his post-mortem could be performed. Inspector Paramdeep Singh, PAU police station SHO, said, “We have written to the civil hospital to first test him for Covid-19 and then conduct autopsy. The man had a dispute with his wife, following which she left him two months ago. He had made the last call to her on Saturday night. A beggar on the road had seen him crying and saying that he was alone now. Thereafter, he was found hanging. The police are suspecting it to be a suicide case, but autopsy is a must as per protocol.” SMO Dr Geeta Kataria said, “There are instructions of conducting corona test of only ‘very suspicious death cases’ after taking permission of the health department. Test for Covid-19 will not be conducted in all death cases.” When told that for police every case was suspicious, she said, “We ask for permission for the corona test as safety of medical staff performing autopsy is important. Cases where deceased is identified, we first check medical history and then decide if the test is needed or not. In cases of unidentified bodies, wherein we cannot get medical history, permission is taken from the department to conduct test.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/new-test-rule-delays-police-probes/articleshow/75812916.cms||Payal Dhawan
May 19, 2020||Bhopal||Missed your kid’s vaccine? 10-day drive begins||Bhopal: The health department will undertake a massive 10-day drive to cover for missed immunisations, starting from Wednesday. The drive is expected to catch up with about 7 lakh missed vaccinations across the state in the last three months due to the Covid-19 lockdown. “Zero dose was not affected during the lockdown. Effect of vaccination is being ascertained,” said MP department of health, state nodal officer, immunization programme, Dr Santosh Shukla. Zero dose mainly serves as priming dose, which is administered at the time of birth to the baby for oral polio vaccine, first dose of hepatitis B and BCG vaccines. Interestingly, with no lesser movement of people and most staying at home, immunization coverage utilization has increased in Jhabua (2%), Ratlam (7%), Umaria (19%), Balaghat (24%) and Katni (24%). The percentage drop between February and March was about 12%. It increased to 46% between February and April. However, the situation recovered in March to April with a drop of about 39%, according to trends in vaccine consumption (increase / decrease). Going by the trends’ percentage drop in immunisation between March and April, the worst impacted are 92% drop in Indore, 89% Burhanpur and 85% in Bhopal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/missed-your-kids-vaccine-10-day-drive-begins/articleshow/75814049.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Trichy||111 stranded Malaysians airlifted from Trichy||Trichy: About 111 Malaysian nationals, who were stranded in Tamil Nadu following the cancellation of international flights in the wake of Covid-19 outbreak, were airlifted to Kuala Lumpur by a special rescue flight operated by Malindo Air on Monday. The rescue flight via Chennai took off from the Trichy International Airport at 11.15am with 111 passengers, including women and children. Passengers expressed their gratitude to the government for taking care of their arrangements and their safe stay in Tamil Nadu. Earlier, the Malindo Air flight arrived here from Kuala Lumpur at 10.15am to carry the Malaysian nationals. It may be recalled that the Malindo Air had already airlifted 512 Malaysians who were stranded in various cities in Tamil Nadu by operating rescue flights on April 1, 2 and 4. Air Asia had also airlifted 556 stranded Malaysian nationals in three flights on March 21 and 24.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/111-stranded-malaysians-airlifted-from-trichy/articleshow/75815612.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Trichy||Man held for killing two||Madurai: A 70-year-old man and his son were hacked to death by a 22-year-old man in an inebriated condition at Therku Bommaiyapuram village near Pasuvanthanai in Tuticorin district close to midnight on Sunday. Balamurugam, the accused, and K Kalisamy, 40, of the same village who live in neighbouring streets were consuming liquor when an altercation arose between them. In a fit of rage Balamurugam hacked Kalisamy with a machete. On information, Kalisamy’s younger brother Maharajan took the former to the Pasuvanthanai Primary Health Centre (PHC). Meanwhile Kalisamy’s father Karuppasamy, 70, went to Balamurugan’s house to question the man for his act, but the man attacked the aged man with a machete in front of the house. The man died in a pool of blood and his son Maharajan who had admitted his brother in the hospital was returning home saw his father dead in front of Balamurugan’s house. “Balamurugan murdered Maharajan in a similar manner in front of his house,” Superintendent of Police (SP) of Tuticorin district Arun Balagopalan said. Pasuvanthanai police retrieved the bodies of the father and son and sent it to the government hospital for autopsy. Balamurugan was booked under sections 302 (punishment for murder) and 307 (attempt to murder) among other sections of the IPC. A search was launched for the man who fled the scene. “He was arrested around 11 am on Monday during a vehicle check at a police check post when he tried to escape,” the SP said and added that security has been stepped up by the police to avert retaliation by the victim’s family.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/man-held-for-killing-two/articleshow/75815598.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Ludhiana||Life as usual on city roads, residents ride over rules||Ludhiana: With new guidelines being issued by the district administration after the state government lifted the day curfew, normal life resumed in the city, but without social distancing.Many district offices worked with 50% staff strength. The Punjab government on Monday allowed movement of public transport vehicles, cabs and auto-rickshaws with limited passengers. Besides, barber shops and salons were allowed to open with the condition of zero overcrowding. Apart from allowing OPDs in government and private hospitals to open, the government also allowed shops in rural and urban areas to open. The restaurants were also allowed home delivery and take-aways.The rule for rickshaws and auto-rickshaws with one driver or puller and two passengers was driven over in the city. At Bharat Nagar, Mata Rani Chowk and Ghanta Ghar, The Times of India team found drivers openly floating the norms by packing three to four persons in one vehicle. At Bharat Nagar Chowk and Bhai Bala Chowk, many private vehicles had three to four passengers without masks.Traffic problems also returned to Ludhiana. Kanwaljot Singh, a resident of Model Town, said, “At Jagraon Bridge, Mata Rani Chowk and Ghanta Ghar, there was a rush of vehicles after a long time. Social distancing was not being maintained at Mata Rani Chowk, where people were thronging mobile shops. Cops were seen standing at a distance and not objecting. At Pindi Street, I saw cops acting strict with visitors, allowing only one or two persons inside. They also told off the shopkeepers for not following the norms.”A sizeable percentage of people in markets did not wear masks. Deepak Hans, a businessman from Chawni Mohalla, said, “I found it shocking that despite the pandemic, many people were not wearing masks. I also found many grocery stores, vegetable and fruit stalls’ workers without gloves. The authorities must act strict with them.”Despite the administration’s permission, a few barber shops and salons opened on Monday. Abhay Girdhar, a hair, beauty and makeup specialist, said not many professionals knew about the types of services allowed, but now there was clarity that only haircut work was allowed, so more shops would now open. “We have ensured that our salon is fully sanitised, our staff wears masks and gloves and there is social distancing. We have also told our clients to seek appointment and we don’t allow persons without masks. We have also kept a sanitiser at the entrance and encourage e-payments,” said Abhay.At mini sectt At the mini secretariat that houses many district offices, the staff strength was half and they maintained social distancing. There was a sanitiser stand at one of the entries, but the sanitiser was missing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/life-as-usual-on-city-roads-residents-ride-over-rules/articleshow/75812905.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Kolhapur||21 Tabligh returnees in quarantine||Kolhapur: Twenty-one people, who had attended the Tabligh Jamaat event in New Delhi in March and were quarantined for 45 days by the Delhi government at Narela, returned Kolhapur on Saturday night. However, they were straightaway put in institutional quarantine. “They arrived at the Kini toll plaza on Saturday night and were directly taken to the CPR civil hospital. Their swabs were taken and they were sent to institutional quarantine as a precautionary measure. The swabs have been sent for testing,” said a senior police officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/21-tabligh-returnees-in-quarantine/articleshow/75812908.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Goa||Arrival of sailors from Italy may be staggered||PANAJI: The Airports Authority of India has informed the state government that the three chartered flights bringing 414 stranded seafarers, most of them crew members of cruise vessels, will have to be staggered over two days, said sources. Government officials said that the three flights chartered by Italian cruise line Costa Cruises would have to reschedule their arrival time unless the department of health modified the screening procedure for the returning seafarers. The state government has insisted that the passengers have to be screened and tested for Covid-19 at the airport terminal itself. AAI has instead suggested that the passengers be tested at the quarantine facilities, which would allow all the flights to land on the same day. The flights are supposed to land on May 20, confirmed several officials. However, chief minister Pramod Sawant said that the flights will arrive on May 23. “It takes six hours to collect swab samples and test all the passengers of one aircraft. After that the terminal has to be sanitised. If all this has to be done, all the three flights cannot land around the same time,” a senior government official said. The Union ministry of home affairs on Saturday approved the arrival of the three chartered flights at Goa International Airport from Italy. However, sources said that no-objection certificates from the director general of civil aviation (DGCA) and the Indian Navy have not been issued. Secretary for fisheries P S Reddy has been appointed as the nodal officer to coordinate the arrival of Goan seafarers and non-resident Goans by flights. Meanwhile, AAI officials said that they are ready to handle the passengers whenever they arrive. “The passengers will clear immigration and customs and then go for testing. Since there are no other operations, we will handle the aircraft at the closest parking bay where they can walk to the immigration counters,” an official said. The Goa government has made it mandatory for the arriving seafarers to be quarantined at a paid facility. Since all the seafarers have to be quarantined, AAI officials are wondering why the state government insists on testing the passengers at the terminal. “If the passengers do not have to be tested at the terminal, then we can handle all the aircraft at one time,” an AAI official said. The seafarers panel consisting of GSAI president Frank Viegas and Capt Venzy Viegas visited Airport Director Gagan Malik and discussed with him the preparations for the charter flight coming from Italy. GSAI suggested that extra kiosk could be setup to expedite the Rapid test process. “It seems like that state health department should find a solution to get results for the Covid-19 test within 2hrs maximum, due to which the flight handling capacity of the airport can be increased,” said Capt Viegas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/arrival-of-sailors-from-italy-may-be-staggered/articleshow/75816047.cms||Newton Sequeira
May 19, 2020||Kochi||Demand up for institutional quarantine on NRK influx||Kochi: With non-resident Keralites (NRKs) returning home in large numbers, the demand for institutional quarantine (IQ) has increased manifold. And now some district administrations have written to small and medium private hospitals to reserve 30% of their rooms with attached bathrooms for the purpose. However, cash-starved private hospital managements have raised objections, saying this opens up the possibility of non-Covid patients in their facilities catching the infection from asymptomatic persons in IQ. There are around 1,000 small and medium hospitals in the state, and most of them are now struggling to keep their head above water, with a few already closing shop and another 30% on the verge of closure. Since the lockdown was first announced most procedures have been postponed and OP and IP numbers have declined nearly 60 to 70%. This has hurt earnings drastically and many are struggling to pay staff salaries. Some have reduced or stopped specialist consultant services. “Despite financial woes and as per state government directions, we are still maintaining our facilities to provide care to non-Covid patients and at the same time be the much-needed reserve to combat Covid-19 if the need arises. However, we can’t handle both as it would increase risk of spread of infection,” said Hussain Koya, president of Kerala Private Hospital Association. Kollam, Kottayam and Malappuram are some of the districts where private hospitals have been asked to keep 30% of their rooms for Covid-19 patients even though they lack separate entrance facilities. These hospitals have less than 150 beds and unlike quaternary care hospitals that have set up a separate Covid facility, they have expressed apprehensions. “As a district hospital is kept as a Covid hospital to admit confirmed cases, all those in IQ are being accommodated at different places, including hospitals. We have raised concern that many may be asymptomatic persons and it is not safe. But they insist that I must admit them,” said the owner of a private hospital in Kollam, where seven people who had travelled from other states are in IQ. “It is very difficult to implement the new government rules, especially when patient flow is very less. If I go forward, I will have to borrow money to run the hospital. Therefore, it was decided now’s the best time to close,” said Dr Mohan SR, owner, Cochin Hospital, who has filed for closure with the government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/demand-up-for-institutional-quarantine-on-nrk-influx/articleshow/75812928.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Nagpur||Cases may surge after travel relaxation, but it is okay||Nagpur: As lockdown phase 4 is here, more relaxation in movement and market is on cards. Many citizens from different parts of Vidarbha who were living in Pune and Mumbai are coming back to their respective hometowns. Many of them could be asymptomatic carriers of Covid-19. All returnees are being checked at entry points of their respective districts and tehsils by the authorities. As responsible citizens, many are reporting to government hospitals and getting themselves checked. Due to this, a surge in the number of confirmed positive cases of Covid-19 is expected in coming days. Possibilities of rural and community spread are more now as the returnees reach their villages. Two cases were reported from Yavatmal district on May 18. Both patients are Mumbai returnees. One of them is from Darwha while another is from Pusad, both tehsil places in Yavatmal where no case was reported till date. In Buldhana, corona patients were reported from remote Narvel village in Malkapur Tehsil. These are also Mumbai returnees. Be it Wardha or Gadchiroli, all cases reported on May 18 are of Mumbai or Pune returnees. They are either students or labourers. While this could be a warning bell about rural spread of Covid-19, some epidemiologists claimed that surge is result of people coming from hotspot regions being tested more meticulously when entering green/orange zones. This is resulting in early detection and is good development. “Relaxing travel ban may bring a temporary surge in number of cases, but it will ultimately save many from getting moderate/serious level of Covid-19 infection. Suppose patients who tested positive today had stayed back in Mumbai, it would have been very difficult to identify and test them there,” said Dr Sanjay Ingole from Akola GMCH. A senior official from the department of health services who has been monitoring Covid-19 related services at state-level said that travelers coming from Mumbai/Pune and testing positive in smaller towns can get good medical facilities here. “Hospitals in big cities are already overburdened. Whereas the arrangements in small towns and tehsil places are largely unused. Mild and moderate patients can get care at small towns and get rid of Covid-19 as they don’t need any special treatment. Serious patients can always be shifted to Dedicated Covid Hospitals,” he said. Major responsibility of limiting the rural spread is of the returnees. They should get checked, observe 14-day home quarantine, and should visit government hospitals in case they develop any symptoms. They should avoid meeting people, entertaining visitors, and strictly keep themselves away from the elderly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cases-may-surge-after-travel-relaxation-but-it-is-okay/articleshow/75815146.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
May 19, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: This test could chart the course of our battle against Covid-19||CHENNAI: How many people have been infected by Covid-19 in Tamil Nadu or across India? Are there asymptomatic carriers around? Are we nearing the numbers for herd immunity? The answers, which may influence government policies including lockdowns, lie in the “National Covid Sero Survey”. The antibody tests -- a blood test that determines whether someone has ever been infected with the coronavirus – on samples from across India will be conducted at two central government labs in Chennai. The results will be available by the month-end. “We will be testing samples from 24,000 people across the country -- 400 each in about 60 districts,” said ICMR – National Institute of Research in Tuberculosis director Dr Srikanth Prasad Tripathy. Over the weekend, sample collections have begun in several districts including Tiruvannamalai and Coimbatore. All samples will be tested at the National Institute of Research in Tuberculosis and ICMR-National Institute of Epidemiology laboratories. The labs will use Covid-19 Kavach Elisa kits developed by the National Institute of Virology, Pune. While real time RT-PCR is the frontline test for clinical diagnosis for the viral infection, these antibody tests are critical for surveillance to understand the proportion of population exposed to infection, an official said. “Unlike the imported kits, these aren’t rapid antibody tests. They are highly specific and scientific ELISA tests for testing large numbers,” he said. The tests are being mass produced by major pharmaceutical companies such as Zydus-Cadila. For the survey, the country has been divided into zero, low, medium and high prevalence regions. At least 15 districts will be selected from each of these regions. In each district 10 clusters will be identified along with four random start points for samples from households. “Samples will also be drawn from people in containment zones of 10 cities reporting highest number of Covid-19 cases after the survey in 60 districts is complete,” the official said. More than 20 ICMR Institutions along with surveillance staff from state health departments and WHO, India and National Centre for Disease Control-Integrated Disease Surveillance will be involved in the study. Tiruvannamalai district collector K S Kandasamy said 400 blood samples were collected by a 10-member team from Sanipoondi, Edakhal, Melpallipattu, Melpalur, Pushpagiri, Marudhadu, Devigapuram, Adhanur and Kilnethapakkam villages in the district. “Samples were collected at the door steps of the villagers after their consent. All were wearing PPEs to avoid risks,” he said. On Saturday, blood samples were collected from 10 locations in Coimbatore district -- Kuniamuthur, Pattunool, Ganapathy, Vilankurichi and Avarampalayam in the city, and Periyanaickenpalayam, Sulthanpet, Kinathukidavu, Pollachi and Mettupalayam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/this-test-could-chart-the-course-of-our-battle-against-covid-19/articleshow/75815639.cms||Pratiksha Ramkumar
May 19, 2020||Nashik||State cabinet minister shifted to Mum for Covid treatment||Aurangabad: A day after testing positive for Covid 19, a senior Congress leader and cabinet minister was shifted to Mumbai for further treatment on Monday morning. Health officials said the minister had been confined to home since returning to his hometown from the state capital a few days ago. “He did not show any major Covid-19 symptom as such, but decided to test himself as a precautionary measure. He was admitted to private hospital in his hometown after he tested positive. He was shifted to Mumbai for further treatment,” a senior health department official said, preferring anonymity. Authorities said both high-risk and low-risk contacts of the minister are being traced. Later in the day, controversy erupted over the politician being shifted to Mumbai from his hometown by road. His supporters said the minister should have been shifted to Mumbai using a special given the long distance via road. “The state government had offered to shift him using special flight, but local authorities created obstacles. To save time, he chose to go to Mumbai on a special ambulance,” said the supporters. After an NCP leader and cabinet minister had tested Covid positive, this is the second senior minister from the Maha Vikas Aghadi contracting the infection. The NCP minister has been discharged from the hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/state-cabinet-minister-shifted-to-mum-for-covid-treatment/articleshow/75982293.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Bhopal||Hotspot Covid patients being shifted to quarantine centres in Bhopal||BHOPAL: In one of its kind initiative taken by the Bhopal district administration, even people who have not come into contact with positive patients or been their second contacts are also being shifted to quarantine centres if they wish so, and being taken care of. This is being done in the densely populated Jehangirabad, a major corona hotspot in the city. Close to 300 positive cases have been reported so far from the locality. District collector Tarun Pithode said, “We wanted to break the chain of the disease in Jehangirabad locality and, to an extent, we have been successful in doing so. Apart from the people who had been the first contact of the positive patients or second contacts, we also shifted families who were likely to be first or second contacts”. “Those people who were having more family members, living in densely populated areas and primarily are in such a condition where they could not practise social distancing even if they wish to do so, were motivated and shifted to quarantine centers. Initially there were some issues, but we talked to local public representatives, community leaders, and convinced people. As of now, more than 300 people out of 1,500 who were roughly shifted are those who were not in primary or secondary contact of any positive patient,” he added. SDM Jehangirabad, Jameel Khan, said, “We have been doing it since April 28, but started a campaign to reach door to door for motivating people from May 6 onwards. And till date, more than 1,500 have been shifted. Quarantine centres have been set up, more than 50-60 hotels have been acquired and all arrangements have been made for the people who are being shifted to the quarantine centres.” Police and civic body officials have also been roped in for shifting people from Jehangirabad. Speaking on the police arrangements for shifting people from Jehangirabad, area ASP, Rajat Saklecha, said that police assists district administration teams and helps them shift people from the area. Initially, many people resisted shifting, but the police convinced them that it is for their own safety. Two inspectors, including SHO Jehangirabad, Virendra Singh Chouhan, and ASP, Ashish Khare, are supervising the process and coordinating with BMC and district administration. BMC provides the vehicle for shifting people from the area. He said that many policemen posted in Bhopal district force, PHQ and SAF reside with their families in Jehangirabad. They too are being shifted. Till date, around 450 people, including policemen and their families, have been shifted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/hotspot-covid-patients-being-shifted-to-quarantine-centres/articleshow/75814068.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Agra||3 patients of two pvt hospitals test +ve for Covid in Agra, dist tally 816||Agra: At least nine new Covid-19 positive cases were reported in Agra on Monday evening, taking the district tally to 816. The new cases included three patients who were under treatment at two different private hospitals located in trans-Yamuna and Delhi gate locality. The other six patients were contacts of people tested positive earlier. At least 42 Covid-19 patients were also discharged from the isolation ward on Monday. Out of the 816 cases, 72.18 percent have been declared cured and discharged from hospital. On Monday, the number of active Covid-19 cases in the district dropped to 199. Chief medical officer RC Pandey said, “So far, 589 people have recovered and discharged from hospital. All the people who had come in contact with any Covid-19 patient are being screened. Health department teams are going door to door to check people in hotspot areas. Samples of all the suspected patients are being sent for lab testing.” Meanwhile, Kasganj district magistrate Chandra Prakash Singh confirmed six new Covid-19 cases, taking the district tally to 15.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/3-patients-of-two-pvt-hospitals-test-ve-for-covid-in-agra-dist-tally-816/articleshow/75814054.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Kolhapur||KMC starts biomining of legacy waste||Kolhapur: The Kolhapur Municipal Corporation has started biomining of 4.5 lakh tonne of legacy waste piled up at Kasba Bawda dumping site since the last decade. Bio-mining refers to the separation of the materials from the waste. The inert waste and soil will be dumped into landfill sites and the rest of the materials will be recycled. Currently, the agency appointed by the KMC has set up the biomining machinery with 100 tonne capacity. Mayor Nilofer Ajrekar said, “I have asked to set up another machine with 500-tonne capacity. Though the deadline to clear the waste, given to the agency is for two years, we want the work to be completed as soon as possible.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/kmc-starts-biomining-of-legacy-waste/articleshow/75812919.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Goa||‘Tourists, honeymooners among Delhi train travellers’||Panaji: Congress and MGP on Monday said the state government needed to restrict entry of residents from other states into Goa, including couples on honeymoon that arrive by train.The opposition also demanded that trains coming to the state be halted immediately. It said that with the number of coronavirus cases rising, the state needed to streamline the testing and quarantine process to thwart the spread of the virus. “Half the people who came on the train from Delhi a few days ago were not Goans. Some have come just for a holiday. There were Russian tourists and honeymooning couples,” opposition leader and former chief minister Digambar Kamat, told reporters.Kamat said he could not understand why the Goa government granted permission for trains from Delhi to stop at Goa. “We can see the damage done by the few trains that came to Goa. The cases that have been detected were spread over several compartments on the train. Now all the people in the bogie have to be identified and quarantined,” he said.MGP MLA Ramakrishna Dhavalikar also slammed the government for not putting processes in place to test arriving passengers.“Six youth from Bengaluru who are working in big companies arrived at Pollem at 9am and reached Margao at 3.30pm. What they did in between we don’t know. They were taken for testing at 9.30pm and then taken to the quarantine facility at Farmagudi,” he said.The former deputy chief minister said that the processes should have been ready long ago. “I have heard that people are crossing over into the state at night. There are many people who are quarantined but have been roaming around and meeting people,” said Dhavalikar. Congress MLA Aleixo Reginaldo Lourenco, who was also present at the media briefing, questioned the state government’s motive of allowing residents of other states to enter Goa while Goans remain stranded abroad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/tourists-honeymooners-among-delhi-train-travellers/articleshow/75816051.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Goa||Goa: Ecologists fret over plunder of Zuari’s oysters||PANAJI: When the summer tide ebbed to its lowest for a few days, multitudes of locals and people from outlying villages swooped down on the river bed in the Zuari bay and carried away sackloads and buckets full of kalvam. The Zuari’s southern bank, comprising Sancoale, Chicalim and the adjacent areas, is a rich habitat for bivalves and oysters. The Zuari bay itself is a fish biodiversity hotspot with over 320 recorded species. Discerning onlookers and biodiversity managers were left aghast seeing multitudes of harvesters cart away massive quantities of oysters. The crop plunder has left them pondering about the ignorance about oyster growth dynamics among the general public, and ideating future management strategies. “Carrying away ‘kalvam hadde’ literally destroys the seed and should not be allowed. Earlier, some local fishermen would break the shells and take away only the oysters, but now, people are insensitive and commercial-minded,” Lawrence Fernandes, a Sancoale biodiversity management committee (SBMC) member said. The oyster shells resemble rock pieces, but consist of lime (calcium carbonate), hardened over the years. “The mother shells, alive or dead, are hosts for the floating oyster larvae (spat) to settle down and grow. The spat prefers the mother shells, which are essential for their growth, or else, there will be no fresh recruitment next year,” Baban Ingole, retired chief scientist, biological oceanography, National Institute of Oceanography said. The unsustainable practices have saddened a few onlookers. “The foraging has emptied the riverbed of the precious organism and inflicted serious ecological damage to the waterbody,” Cyril Fernandes, a local human rights activist said. In Ribandar and other estuaries, similar harvesting practices have caused decline in oyster growth, locals said. The ideal way is to break the shell and take away only the oysters. Fried or cooked with masala, kalvam are a delicacy on the dinner table. In Zuari bay, the kalvam crop had flourished after many years due to a relatively clean and quiet environment. Some suggest a few crucial steps to preserve the remaining crop. “Conserving shells is like preserving seed in agricultural terms and a small demarcated area could be sealed off from harvesters to ensure the survival of brood stock,” Ingole said. Concerned citizens want biodiversity managers to prevent another assault during low tide after May 20. “Continuing these unsustainable practices may spell doom for the endangered Zuari bay,” Cyril Fernandes said. The SBMC member said that the panel will seek intervention of higher authorities. “We will also seek professional help from scientists to conserve the resource,” Lawrence Fernandes said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ecologists-fret-over-plunder-of-zuaris-oysters/articleshow/75815663.cms||Paul Fernandes
May 19, 2020||Goa||CM Pramod Sawant has failed to understand Covid-19 impact, says GFP||PANAJI: The spurt in the number of novel coronavirus cases in Goa and chief minister Pramod Sawant’s decision to permit the Hazrat Nizamuddin Express, but not the Rajdhani Express, to halt at Goa, exposes the government’s failure to understand the Covid-19 pandemic, Goa Forward Party GFP said on Monday. GFP said the state’s BJP-led government has adopted two different yardsticks for Goan seafarers who are overseas and stranded people arriving from Delhi. GFP president Vijai Sardesai accused the BJP of trying to create a “false narrative” about non-resident Goans being carriers of Covid-19. “We have trains bringing back not just Goans, but all and sundry to Goa, especially those having connections with the high and mighty affliated with the ruling party in Delhi. Some are also sneaking in here and enjoying themselves,” the former minister said. “Meanwhile, we still don’t have a clear plan from the government as to when exactly the airport or seaport will open for rescue flights or ships,” Sardesai said. Taking potshots at Sawant for saying that the Hazrat Nizamuddin Express will continue to stop at stations in Goa as no coronavirus cases had been detected on those trains, Sardesai said, “This is an expression of hollowness and lack of application of mind by the chief minister of the state. The train isn’t the issue, it’s where it originates from that is the issue, and in both cases, it is New Delhi.” GFP also questioned why seafarers who test negative have to be put up in paid quarantine facilities while those arriving by train are allowed to be home quarantined. Further, they said that the state should not charge any Goan for quarantine facilities and medical tests.  “The government is delaying the repatriation of Goans from around the world, especially seafarers, because it wants the maximum deal possible by arm-twisting their companies, who are resisting,” Sardesai said. And with Covid-19 cases in the state on the rise, GFP has demanded that all tourists and residents of other states be prohibited from entering Goa.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cm-has-failed-to-understand-covid-impact-says-gfp/articleshow/75816053.cms||---
May 19, 2020||India||UP to double Shramik Specials, Bihar nod to 50 trains every day||NEW DELHI: Uttar Pradesh has approved to double the operation of Shamik Special trains and Bihar has given nod for operating 50 such trains daily to transport stranded migrant workers, railway minister Piyush Goyal said on Monday. Railway ministry officials said so far more than 1,400 Shramik Specials have moved approximately 18.5 lakh stranded migrant workers, students and tourists. In a series of tweets, Goyal said he spoke to UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath and Bihar CM Nitish Kumar to discuss the issue of increasing the number of Shramik Special trains to bring quick relief to stranded migrant workers willing to return home. "Spoke to Yogi Adityanath about the transportation of migrant workers and I am glad that he has approved to double the operations of Shramik Special trains for migrant workers. He is serious about safe return of migrant workers to their homes," Goyal tweeted. Mentioning about his discussion with Bihar CM, Goyal said, “Had a fruitful discussion with Nitish Kumar and he gave the nod to operate 50 Shramik Special trains per day for transporting the stranded migrant workers.” He also said in view of the super cyclone Amphan, Odisha is unable to operate these trains in the coastal regions and after the cyclone railways will operate more such trains for the state. The railway ministry has been maintaining that it’s ready to run 300 Shramik Specials a day to evacuate the migrant workers. While interacting with top officials from state governments on Sunday, cabinet secretary Rajiv Gauba had termed the incidents of migrants walking back home, their hardships and some getting killed in accidents as “unfortunate” while appealing them to make district magistrates and SPs responsible for safety and well being of migrant labourers. He also said the Railway Board is ready to run as many trains as required to ferry the migrant workers back home. Stating that the plight of migrants is distressing, Gauba had urged the states to ensure that those found walking were escorted to camps and their movement by Shramik Special trains was facilitated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/up-to-double-shramik-specials-bihar-nod-to-50-trains-every-day/articleshow/75816558.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Jaipur||Shivdaspura greenfield airport land decision soon||Jaipur: A decision on reserved land for the greenfield airport in Shivdaspaura is expected to taken soon by the state government. This would provide relief to farmers near Shivdaspura whose plots have been kept reserved for the past 16 years to build the airport. A senior source at the Urban Development and Housing (UDH) said the proposal would be tabled in the empowered committee meeting scheduled next month. The meeting will be chaired by the UDH minister Shanti Dhariwal. “The proposal has been prepared for discussion and will be tabled in the meeting, likely to be scheduled in second week of next month,” the source said. In 2004, the Jaipur Development Authority (JDA) proposed to acquire land for the airport. A year later, the draft proposal was forwarded to the UDH. Following the announcement, JDA had imposed a ban on land conversion and issuing of lease deeds in Shivdaspura. In 2017, the state government gave a nod to the JDA to acquire 2,094 hectares in 20 villages for the airport. However, as acquiring land requires capital of Rs 4,000 crore, the JDA expressed it helplessness and eyed at Centre’s assistance. A senior official source said, “The chief secretary wrote to civil aviation minister for assistance. The Centre directed to carried out a feasibility report.” A year later in 2018, the developers and locals submitted a memorandum to the UDH department to regularise their land as the new airport still remained on papers. However, the developers were stumped after advocate general (AG) and committee constituted by the then UDH minister Shrichand Kriplani recommended state government not to regularise the reserve land. “As per Section 54 (B) of Jaipur Development Authority Act 1982, there is a provision that land reserved for any project cannot be regularised even if it is not acquired. This was recommended by the AG and the committee constituted by the minister. The committee also mentioned that high court has banned regularisation of such land,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/shivdaspura-greenfield-airport-land-decision-soon/articleshow/75815652.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Agra||Citing HC order, BJP MP urges Aligarhadmin to ‘ban azaan on loudspeakers’||Agra: Aligarh’s MP Satish Gautam on Monday urged the district administration to ban ‘azaan’ (call to prayer) on loudspeakers across the city. The BJP leader cited the recent directions of Allahabad High Court. Talking to media on Monday, Gautam said that the court has permitted ‘azaan’ from mosques but without loudspeakers. He added he had met the authorities for implementation for the same, as many mosques in the city, according to him, were violating the orders and using loudspeakers early in the morning for ‘azaan’. Supporting Gautam’s statement, BJP MLA Sanjeev Raja said that the Allahabad HC order “should be implemented in letter and spirit”. Countering the BJP lawmakers’ remarks, former MLA from Samajwadi Party Zamirullah Khan said that these politicians were raising this issue to only target all the Muslims. “Instead of fighting Coronavirus, they are more concerned about ‘azaan’ on loudspeakers,” he said. Notably, Allahabad HC on Friday had stated that ‘azaan’ can be recited from the minarets of mosque “by human voice without using any amplifying device”, adding that the ‘call to prayer’ “may be an integral part of Islam”, its recitation through loudspeakers cannot be said to be an integral part. When contacted, district magistrate CB Singh cited the Supreme Court guidelines, and said the sound system could be seized and confiscated only if they were found to be creating noise beyond the permissible limits. “If we receive any further order from the state government in this regard, we will implement it,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/citing-hc-order-bjp-mp-urges-aligarhadmin-to-ban-azaan-on-loudspeakers/articleshow/75814146.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Expert panel to study impact of Covid-19 on state economy||Thiruvananthapuram: An expert committee formed by state government with a mandate to study in detail the impact of Covid-19 on state economy has started functioning. The committee would conduct an economic impact study in the state. As part of a survey, questions have been prepared and published by the government to assess the impact of the pandemic in various sectors. Details of the survey and questionnaire are available on eis.kerala.gov.in. “Personal privacy of people who share data will be protected. Data collected by the committee would be used only for public purposes for which the government gives its accord,” a statement said here on Monday. Response of organisations, institutions and individuals would be the basis of the survey. Former chief secretary and CEO of KIIFB K M Abraham is heading the committee that has been given the mandate to go deeper into the impact of Covid-19 on state’s economy. Other members of the committee are additional chief secretary (finance) Rajesh Kumar Singh, Kerala State Planning board member R Ramakumar. Calicut University economics department head D Shyjan would be special invitee. The committee has been asked to submit its interim report in three months and final one in six months. N Ramalingam and L Anitha Kumari of Gulati Institute of Finance and Taxation (GIFT) are resource group members. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/expert-panel-to-study-impact-of-covid-19-on-state-economy/articleshow/75812975.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Delhi||Significant mutation in coronavirus: Jamia Hamdard study||NEW DELHI: The novel coronavirus causing Covid-19 in India has undergone significant genetic changes or mutation, a study conducted by researchers from Jamia Hamdard in collaboration with Hyderabad-based Envirozyme Biotech And BioInception Labs in Cambridge (UK) has revealed. The study is based on an analysis of nearly 4,000 genomic sequences of the novel coronavirus - SARS-CoV-2 - available in public databases. This includes 25 genomes of the virus sequenced in India. Professor Seyed E Hasnain, the vice-chancellor of Jamia Hamdard, said that they found that some protein in the Indian strain had diverged from the Wuhan strain – the implications of which are yet to be known fully. “It could affect the infectivity of the virus, both positively and negatively,” the Jamia Hamdard VC said. He added that the mutations seen in the strains of the virus will also impact the efficacy in India of any vaccine developed abroad. The initial strains of SARS-CoV-2 in India came from China, but the travel ban in early February 2020 prevented large scale spillover directly from China to the Indian subcontinent. However, the Jamia Hamdard VC said, due to unrestricted travel from other Asian regions, those strains still appear to have been transmitted indirectly from China, as they fall in the same cluster. The strains sequenced in India have the highest degree of similarity with European strains, he added. Hasnain said more such studies are required to understand the pathogen’s outbreak dynamics. “Low sampling rate and a smaller number of genome submissions are major bottlenecks in the assessment of the evolution of SARS-CoV-2 in India. We hope that the government will work to increase the sampling rate. Rapid and diverse sequencing of viral strains will help researchers find better diagnostic probes leading to higher sensitivity and specificity, improved drug efficacy and broad-spectrum vaccines,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/significant-mutation-in-virus-hamdard-study/articleshow/75815157.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: When teachers came home with bread, biscuits and chocolates||CHENNAI: A couple of days ago, three teachers of the Panchayat Union Middle School at Savulur in Krishnagiri district set out with food packets (mainly bread and biscuits) and groceries to be distributed to differently abled children of a government-run institution in Kaveripattinam block. At one house, as a teacher handed over a packet, a one-armed girl couldn’t hold it tight and it slipped to the floor and the contents spilled out. More such incidents were witnessed at the other houses, all having differently abled children. The continuing lockdown has compounded the woes of the families, already deflated by abject poverty. “My daughter doesn’t eat well, because we are not able to provide her a healthy and tasty meal. My husband lost his job and we don’t know how to manage,” said the mother of a disabled child. The teachers distributed relief material to 40 families of the students of the school for special children who have been sent back home as soon as the lockdown began on March 24. “We distributed the relief material in two packets. One with rice and groceries, and the other with biscuits, bread and chocolates. Since the children need special care, they depend mainly on their mothers. Many families are having a tough time,” said Sugavana Murugan, senior teacher at the Panchayat Union Middle School in Savulur who led the team. The teachers of the school have contributed a major portion of their salary as well as relief material to the initiative. “Since the special school was closed due to the lockdown, we knew that the children must be having a tough time. Parents of many disabled children don’t know how to manage the situation. Many parents are running out of money because they are jobless now. We are happy we could do this at the right time,” said Murugan. “We will monitor the families. If they need more help, we will do it.” The donation drive, according to Murugan, is not over as they have more houses to cover in other villages. “We have finished distribution to only 40 families. We will be covering more houses in other villages in the coming days,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/when-teachers-came-home-with-bread-biscuits-chocolates/articleshow/75815649.cms||M T Saju
May 19, 2020||Bhopal||Silawat supporters quit Cong, join BJP||Bhopal: In a major setback to Congress ahead of by-polls, prominent leaders of Sanwer assembly constituency in Indore district and farmer union members, quit the party to join BJP on Monday. Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, BJP state president V D Sharma and water resources minister Tulsiram Silawat, welcomed them into the party. Among those who jumped the ship included block chiefs; former mandi president Bharat Singh Chouhan; former president of Sanver Nagar Parishad and state Congress committee member Dilip Chaudhary; former district panchayat president Hukum Singh Sankhla; social worker Hukum Singh Patel and district president of Kisan Congress Indore and Janapad member Om Seth. “Supporters of minister Tulsiram Silawat have joined the BJP under the leadership of Shivraj Singh Chouhan and former Union minister Jyotiraditya Scindia. The way BJP organisation is progressing under the leadership of stalwarts, it seems that Sanwer will be soon become Congress free under the leadership of Silawat,” Sharma said. Silawat said several Congress leaders in the region were waiting to join BJP. Congress hit out at the BJP for luring party workers. Former Congress media in-charge, K K Mishra said, “Amid Covid-19 crisis, BJP is busy prepararing for bypolls and trying to lure Congress workers, which is shameful,” K K Mishra, former Congress media in-charge said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/silawat-supporters-quit-cong-join-bjp/articleshow/75814167.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Jaipur||Pandemic delays swachhta survey results indefinitely||Jaipur: Swachhta Survekshan 2020 results have been delayed due to coronavirus and it is not expected to be released any time soon.Swachhta Survekshan 2019-20 was held in three phases. In December 2019, results were declared of the last phase and final results were supposed to be announced in March-end or April. A senior JMC official said they had done all the preparations for Swacchta Survekshan 2020 results, but it is yet to be announced. Jaipur was granted ODF ++ status this year but it is yet to be announced by the central team in the final results. With the delay in results of 2019-20, Swachhta survey of 2021-22 has also been delayed. Last year, Jaipur ranked 41 across the country. The total number of points has been increased to 6,000 this year and the result are yet to be announced.Jaipur had difficulty in getting good citizen feedback that had put a dent in getting good ranking since the last two years. This year efforts were made by Jaipur Municipal Corporation (JMC) to get feedbacks from citizens. Officials visited many educational institutions to motivate people to give feedback on the Swachhta app. It seems Jaipur city has to wait for a while till pandemic is over.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/pandemic-delays-swachhta-survey-results-indefinitely/articleshow/75815655.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Jaipur||‘Stop traffic movement in containment & curfew zones’||Jaipur: Nodal officer for Covid-19, Ajitabh Sharma, during a review meeting on the status of spread of coronavirus, expressed the need for making a strategy to completely stop traffic movement by making patrolling more effective in the containment and curfew-affected areas in the city.He said public awareness (information, education and communication) and publicity on preventing the spread of coronavirus must be done on a large scale as the challenges have increased now since the imposition of the first lockdown in the state. “A strategy has to be made to completely stop traffic movement in the containment zone and curfew-affected areas by making patrolling more effective. With a fresh corona case in an area, the size of the curfewed area also changes,” Sharma said. He stressed on the need to be careful during contact tracing and quarantine work and emphasized on the need for quality screening of people. “The strategy to stop the spread of corona for Jaipur and its management will now be compared with other big metros of the country as it is the 10th largest metropolitan city in the country,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/stop-traffic-movement-in-containment-curfew-zones/articleshow/75815656.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Nashik||Nashik cops consider restarting signals||NASHIK: The city police are thinking about restarting the traffic signals in the city roads given the rise in the number of vehicles out on the roads over the past week. With certain shops, commercial establishments as well as industries being given permissions to start operations, there has been a significant rise in vehicular. There have also been reports of traffic snarls and accidents on the city roads. DCP Pournima Chaugule said there has been a demand for the restart of traffic signals. She said the signals had been inoperational for more than a month. However, now, the police are seriously considering starting the signals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-cops-consider-restarting-signals/articleshow/75812987.cms||Santosh Sonawane
May 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Teacher, an MPhil and wife, an MBA, turn into labourers||HYDERABAD: After being a high school teacher in private institutions for 12 years, Chiranjeevi K has chosen to work as a daily-wage labourer in drought-related work in Yadadri-Bhuvanagiri district. With the lockdown in place and schools not paying salaries, this is the only way he can feed his family of six. Chiranjeevi, who holds three degrees – MA in social work, an MPhil in rural development and Bed — and his wife Padma, an MBA graduate and a private teacher, have been toiling under the blazing sun as a daily-wage worker for the past week. The family’s collective monthly income was Rs 60, 000 before the lockdown. Today, it is down to zero. Chiranjeevi is not alone. Many teachers who had been working in schools, junior colleges, degree and even professional colleges before the lockdown in both Telangana and Andhra Pradesh have been forced to work as daily-wage workers. Most teachers hold post-graduate degrees and have been in the profession for at least half a decade. “Until now, we have seen farmer suicides. At this rate, teachers will be next,” says Chiranjeevi. None of us received our April salaries. We fear we won’t get a steady income till October.” He added thousands of teachers have been suffering without salaries. “I have two daughters, both in kindergarten, and elderly parents. Despite having a white ration card, we are not given ration or the Rs 1,500 relief promised by the state,” he said and added that although he got groceries from local leaders initially, they too were helpless now as too many people were looking for help. Many of the teachers TOI spoke to said that life was not easy even as labourers as there is high demand for drought-related work. There are just too many educated people apart from teachers competing for these jobs since the lockdown. They said that more than school and college managements, the government has failed to support teachers. “Even without pay, we are forced to help out in admission-related work at the schools and colleges. Parallelly, I have been working as a painter and worker for a meagre pay of Rs 300 per day to feed my family,” said M Jayaram, who was a social studies teacher for the past eight years. A few of them have also taken to vending fruits and vegetables but are too embarrassed to come out in the open about sudden change in profession. “Almost all teachers in the Telugu states are in the same situation. Many are embarrassed to discuss their financial condition. Quite a few of them call teacher unions daily and request them to talk to managements or government officials to restart their salaries,” said P Mani, an English lecturer in a junior college in Chittoor district in Andhra Pradesh, who is currently working for a daily wage of just Rs 250 cleaning up lakes. The teachers now want the state government to fill up vacant teacher posts instead of using Vidya volunteers or guest-faculty and help teachers in this dire situation. They also want the state to provide incentives to managements or convert private schools into aided ones.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cash-strapped-teachers-turn-labourers-for-lockdown-survival/articleshow/75815918.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
May 19, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Dirty toilets, poor quality food at shelter home irk workers||JAIPUR: Migrant workers, most of them from Bihar and West Bengal, staying at a shelter home at Kanota in Bassi, from where they are sent to different states, complained that there were no separate toilets for women and ceiling fans were not functioning properly. They also complained that cleanliness in the toilets was a big issue, quality of food was not up to the standard and adequate number of mattresses were not available there. Most of them wanted the administration to arrange transport for them at the earliest so that they could leave for their states. They even threatened to start walking again if buses or trains are not arranged for them to leave. “We have to go to the jungle to attend nature’s call. The toilets are very dirty and are not cleaned properly. The toilets stink. Please arrange transportation for us so that we can leave this place. I have been living in this shelter home for the past three days. Even the food which is being provided is not of good quality,” said Pintu Barman, who hails from West Bengal and was working in Ajmer.  Following complaints district administration swung into action and made necessary arrangements. “Earlier, there was one mobile toilet, now two mobile toilets have been arranged - one for male and the other for female. We have set up separate stalls for distribution of food packets and pots made of mud (matka) have been kept at the camp. The toilets at the school ground (shelter home) have also been cleaned up for them to use. We have also made arrangement for proper lighting and the tents have been expanded,” said Bassi SDM Ram Kumar Verma. “We will also be making arrangements for 25 coolers and 200 more mattresses for the migrants workers from Bassi,” he added. Divisional commissioner K C Verma and collector Joga Ram on Sunday inspected the shelter camp set up at the girls’ higher secondary school in Kanota and enquired about the problems faced by the workers living there. They had instructed the officers to improve standard of the facilities, improve quality of food, arrange disposable plates to serve food, to arrange milk packets and biscuits for children. Verma said a water tank should be arranged along with 100 pots made of mud (matka) in the camp. On Monday, 700 workers were sent to Uttar Pradesh from the camp on 20 buses and 200 others were sent from Mahua camp. They were sent to Hathras via Bharatpur border. Around 800 migrants workers are now staying at the shelter home, of which 650 are from Bihar and will be sent home in 2-3 days. On Monday, in all 1500 workers left for Uttar Pradesh on 50 buses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/dirty-toilets-poor-quality-food-at-shelter-home-irk-workers/articleshow/75815658.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Nagpur||Kin deny Mum returnee entry, save village from coronavirus||Nagpur: One of the five Mumbai-returned labourers, tested Covid positive in Gadchiroli, had tried to sneak into the district and also reached his home in Mulchera on May 15, but his family ensured he was sent out of the village as part of the precaution the residents have been observing. District collector Dipak Singla, commenting on the unexpectedly high awareness level among the Gadchiroli population, shared the information how the Mumbai-returned labourer was refused entry by his family members, who also informed the villagers. “It was a surprise case for us as the family came forward to inform the rest of the villagers about the Mumbai-returned labourer, who worked with the civic body on contracts, having returned to stay at home against their wish,” said Singla. “ Without allowing entry in village or home, the man was immediately asked to stay at an ashramshala which was readied as a quarantine centre. He was later shifted to Chamorshi’s institutional centre and tested,” said the collector. “Full credit to the family members and villagers that they are practising caution to the extent of not allowing any outsider or even their kin to enter the villages without getting quarantined. They are informing the district administration, police or other authorities about anyone returning from the hotspots or other places. This awareness level is amazing,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/kin-deny-mum-returnee-entry-save-village-from-coronavirus/articleshow/75815155.cms||Soumitra Bose
May 19, 2020||Pune||Special flight brings home 9 Indians, departs with 143 Afghan nationals||Pune: A total of 143 Afghan nationals departed from Pune aboard a special flight which flew in from Kabul at 12.38pm on Sunday with nine Indians who had been stranded in Afghanistan. “The Afghanistan-based Kam Air took off from Pune around 3.30pm. Proper screening was executed during the process,” Pune airport director Kuldeep Singh told TOI. Of the nine people who had arrived on the flight, eight of them were sent for quarantine while one, who had flu-like symptoms, was sent for a swab test. Four passengers who had come to board the flight were sent back as the maximum capacity of the flight was that of 143 passengers, sources said, adding that none of the departing passengers showed any flu-like symptoms. Sources in Pune customs told TOI that those who departed were mainly students who had come to Pune airport from Goa and Bengaluru in addition to the some students of the National Defence Academy. “Apart from the NDA cadets, there were also defence personnel who had come to Pune for a short course at the Military Institute of Technology (MILIT). There were some exchange students from Symbiosis International College and Fergusson College as well,” the source said. Another special flight from Phnom Penh, the capital of Cambodia, will be landing in Pune on May 19, senior airport officials told TOI. “Though details are awaited, the flight from Phnom Penh will be flying in from Bengaluru and landing in Pune, after which it will depart for Delhi. We are yet to know whether it will carry passengers from here or will drop off those who have been stranded. The timing and other details are awaited,” the director added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/special-flight-brings-home-9-indians-departs-with-143-afghan-nationals/articleshow/75795469.cms||Joy Sengupta
May 19, 2020||Delhi||Community surveillance in Delhi in the next phase||NEW DELHI: The capital now has more than 10,000 Covid-19 cases, but no community surveillance of the disease is taking place here. The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), in collaboration with the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), is conducting surveys in 69 districts across 21 states to assess the disease spread, but Delhi is yet to be part of the study. Dr Manoj Murhekar, director of ICMR-National Institute of Epidemiology, told TOI that community surveillance would be undertaken in top 10 cities with the highest incidence of Covid-19 in the next phase of the survey. “The next phase will include Delhi and Mumbai,” he said. As part of the community survey, health workers are collecting blood samples from 400 randomly selected individuals — one per household — from 10 clusters in each district. These samples are then being tested for the presence of IgG antibodies using ELISA test developed by the ICMR-National Institute of Virology (NIV), Pune. Dr S K Sarin, the chairman of Delhi’s Covid-19 task force, said random testing would help in knowing the community spread of the pandemic. “It will also tell us the extent of herd immunity in an affected population,” Dr Sarin added. Delhi needs antibody testing on a mass scale to be able to reorganise the zones, he pointed out. At present, the city is dependent on real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) tests for the diagnosis of Covid-19. It is considered the gold standard for testing for the novel coronavirus but is not suitable for community surveillance. The test takes time and has high bio-safety and bio-security requirements. Also, it involves taking nasal swab samples that many people tend to avoid, an official said. Rapid testing kits, for example the ELISA test developed by the ICMR-NIV, Pune, are quicker to conduct and their bio-safety requirements are less strict. Apart from the ICMR-NIV one, many such kits developed by other companies, some of them Indian, were approved last month. Delhi government had, in fact, procured 42,000 rapid test kits for community surveillance of Covid-19 in the state. However, ICMR directed states not to use these kits — mostly imported from China — because their results weren’t reliable. In New York, which has been badly affected by the pandemic, a random testing showed nearly one in five persons had been infected. It’s a sign of herd immunity developing in a significant population. “If we have similar results for, say a red zone, then easing restrictions is possible. The focus can be shifted to the other zones, orange and green, to strategise preventing the disease spread,” said an epidemiologist.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/community-surveillance-in-delhi-in-the-next-phase/articleshow/75815163.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Jaipur||Covid effect: Rajasthan high court halves its summer vacation||JODHPUR: Rescheduling its summer vacations, the Rajasthan high court administration has decided to continue working from June 1 to 14 without any break. According to the schedule, the high court observes summer vacations from June 1 to 28. Under the fresh decision, the one-month summer break has been reduced to half. In a notification to this effect, issued by the registrar (administration) on Monday, it has been intimated that the period of summer vacation from June 1 to 14 has been rescheduled and declared as working days while next 13 days from June 15 to 28 will be the vacation. In a meeting through video conferencing with all the judges of both the seats (Jodhpur and Jaipur), advocate general, assistant solicitor general and senior advocates of the bar council, it was decided that arrangements of hearing at the high court and subordinate courts will continue as per previous directions through video conferencing. Apart from this, the decision of increasing the number of the cases being taken up for hearing per day, was also taken by extending the court’s timings. The courts will now be functioning from 8.30am to 12.30pm with half-an-hour-long break from 10.00am to 10.30am. In the same meeting, suggestions regarding the summer vacations, were also taken from the participants and in accordance with those opinions, it was decided that in order to make up for the loss of work due to Covid-19 pandemic, the summer vacations would be rescheduled. Besides this, the administration has also suspended the previous order of 10 days’ casual leave of the registry officers and other staff members of the high court during summer break due to the coronavirus outbreak.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/covid-effect-raj-high-court-halves-its-summer-vacation/articleshow/75815665.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Agra||Agra: Delay in test results hampering fight against Covid-19||AGRA: Lack of proper management and lapses in monitoring by senior officials in SN Medical College and National Jalma Institute For Leprosy is causing a delay in declaring the results of Covid-19 tests in Agra, the worst hit by novel coronavirus (Covid-19). In Agra, only two medical institutes—SN Medical College and Jalma institute —conduct Covid-19 tests. Both have a combined testing capacity of 300 samples. But since last week, less than 200 samples are being tested every day, say sources in the health department. The health department officials said both the institute have been passing on the samples to each other without conducting test. Citing an example, health officials said “A batch of 30 samples were collected from a suspected Covid-19 patient lodged in a quarantine centre and sent to SN Medical College. But on the next day, the samples were transferred to the Jalma institute. It was only after the intervention of the health department officials, the testing of the samples was started on May 17.” Responding to the situation, chief medical officer RS Pandey said, “We are improving the sample collection and lab testing for detection of Covid-19 positive patients in a time-bound manner. Efforts are being made to ensure that the reports of testing are declared as soon as possible”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/delay-in-test-results-hampering-fight-against-covid-19/articleshow/75814180.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Nashik||Nashik: Rotation system for doctors, nurses||NASHIK: The Nashik zilla parishad has set up a 21-day rotation system for the doctors, nurses and other paramedical staff working in the Covid facilities to ensure that there is no shortage of staff. Currently, 500 doctors, nurses, community health officers, lab technicians, pharmacists etc. are working in shifts at the covid care facilities in the rural district. Additional district health officer Dawal Salve said they are making the medical workers work for seven days at the Covid facilities, stay in home- quarantine for the next seven days, and then work in non-covid facilities for another seven days before being assigned duties in the Covid units again. So far, 104 people from the rural district have tested Covid-19 positive. To treat these patients, Covid care cand dedicated Covid healthcare centres have been set up at the taluka level. Moreover, 20-bed fever clinics have also been set up at the covid care centres. Officials said they were working hard to ensure that the Covid-19 patients get the best treatment at the rural level.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/rotation-system-for-docs-nurses/articleshow/75813016.cms||Santosh Sonawane
May 19, 2020||Nagpur||Olectra, Red bus operators threaten to stop service||Nagpur: The electric bus manufacturer and operator Olectra Greentech Limited, which is running women-only buses since September 2019, has threatened to stop the service as the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) has failed to pay even a single penny out of the Rs1.10 crore dues till date. The three Red bus operators also have threatened to discontinue Aapli Bus service being pressed into transporting residents from containment zones to quarantine centres over uncleared bills. In a letter to the NMC’s transport manager, Olectra stated that despite many requests for release of due operational payments since September 2019, nothing has been done in this regard. “Even though the NMC has not paid us since the inception of the e-bus operations, we have been running the service uninterruptedly by timely paying salaries to drivers, service manpower, electric charges related to energy consumed for vehicle operations, depot lighting etc,” the letter stated. The due operational payments from the civic body are increasing every month. Due to lockdown for over 50 days, companies are finding it difficult to pay salaries and rents of the offices. In addition to this, earnest money deposit submitted for an amount of Rs10 lakh while bidding is also due from the NMC’s end. The NMC has also failed to return the performance bank guarantee, the letter revealed. NMC’s transport committee chairman Narendra Borkar admitted that the civic body has defaulted on the firm’s payment since September 2019. To a query, Borkar also admitted that the department has made short payments to all three Red bus operators for providing buses to ferry citizens from containment zones to quarantine centres. He, however, assured to look into the matter and claimed that he has approached municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe to release payment to all the six firms, including three Red bus operators and two ticketing agencies, so that they can pay salaries to drivers and conductors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/olectra-red-bus-operators-threaten-to-stop-service/articleshow/75815165.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
May 19, 2020||Agra||Post-Auraiya tragedy, labourers still travelling in crowded trucks||Agra: Days after 26 migrant workers died in a tragic road accident in Auraiya, Uttar Pradesh police continues to intercept large number of distressed labourers, including pregnant women, all crouched in crowded goods trucks. In the past two days, Kasganj police have rescued over 350 such migrant workers and their family members from Mathura-Bareilly national highway, and later arranged both government and private buses for their onward journey. Most of these labourers have arrived in UP from Gujarat, Rajasthan and Haryana, the police said. According to sources, at least 40-70 migrant workers and their family members were found travelling in each truck. One of the migrant labourers said, “We are close to 50 people who were going to Bareilly from Jaipur in a truck, when Soron police of Kasganj intercepted us. Prior to that policemen didn’t object to our journey.” Another worker said, “This is our second day in the truck. Forty men boarded the truck from Surat.” Mohammad Athar, a migrant from Muzaffarpur district of Bihar, who came along with 70 others in a truck from Faridabad said, “We had no choice but to risk our lives in a truck. Due to lockdown, there was no job left for us, every day our landlord use to hurl abuses and demand rent. There was no way we could have survived in Faridabad, as we didn’t even have enough food or money. However, when our truck was intercepted by Kasganj police, we were offered food and drinking water. None of the workers had eaten anything since our journey began.” Another worker of Bihar’s Sitamarhi district said, “The truck driver didn’t charge a single penny from anyone. Our situation was grave in Faridabad, and we just want to go home. The UP police have intercepted our truck, but they have also offered food and water. Our only demand is to let us go home.” Speaking to TOI, Ripudman Singh, SHO Soron, whose team intercepted over 350 labourers in two days, including 140 coming from Jhansi, said, “Majority of the labourers caught travelling in trucks are from UP districts such as Bareilly, Budaun, Shahjahanpur, Bahraich, Moradabad, Rampur and some from Bihar. They all were coming from Gujarat, Rajasthan and Haryana. For UP’s migrant workers we have arranged UPSRTC buses, and for Bihar, private buses were used to drop them at their home districts.” “On Sunday, over 250 were sent in eight buses, on Monday 146 have been dispersed after rescuing them from crowded goods truck. The workers also included pregnant women,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/post-auraiya-tragedy-labourers-still-travelling-in-crowded-trucks/articleshow/75814194.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Bhopal||Jyotiraditya Scindia hails revival of Chambal Expressway||BHOPAL: Former Union minister Jyotiraditya Scindia has hailed the decision of chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan to revive the Chambal Expressway project connecting Madhya Pradesh with UP and Rajasthan. “On behalf of the entire Gwalior-Chambal region, I express my heartfelt gratitude towards the government of Madhya Pradesh, chief minister Shivraj Singh Chauhan and Union minister Nitin Gadkari to revive the Chambal Expressway project,” tweeted Scindia. “The previous Congress government had put the Chambal Expressway on hold, which was planned to speed up the development, growth and progress of Chambal region. Today the MP government has decided to resume to project with immediate effect with a new name, Chambal Progress Way,” Scindia said. “Bypolls are scheduled for 16 seats of Gwalior-Chambal region very soon and BJP is spreading lies to misguide the public. It was the then Shivraj Singh Chouhan government that had dumped the project.” said Congress state spokesperson, KK Mishra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/scindia-hails-revival-of-chambal-e-way/articleshow/75814193.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Nagpur||Blogger warned for fake Gorewada tiger post||Nagpur: The officials of Gorewada Rescue Centre, run by Forest Development Corporation of Maharashtra (FDCM), have tracked blogger who posted fake report on tiger sighting near Gorewada thereby spreading panic among people. The ‘tiger spotted in Gorewada’ report was published by nagpuroranges.com. It went viral on social media on Sunday creating confusion among the media circles and wildlife lovers. FDCM divisional manager Nandkishore Kale, who was flooded with calls on Monday about the tiger sighting, said, “I managed to track IT engineer from city Devashish Jain, who works in Pune. He operates the said blog and has admitted the mistake. He also tendered an unconditional apology for the fake news and removed it.” The nagpuroranges.com had also distorted the pictures of Gorewada leopard that was sighted on compound wall by RFO Nilay Bhoge on Friday morning. The blog said the said leopard escaped from the forest and had entered Palloti Nagar on Katol Road leading to scare among the citizens. Talking to TOI, Jain admitted he committed a big mistake. He blamed the content writer Mohammed Zia from Jaffar Nagar who sent the report by faking image of the tiger he had received. “Zia works as a freelancer with me and I pay him on per article basis. I should have verified the fact, but we lack professionalism. I have blocked Zia and he will now not be able to post any content on the blog,” said Jain. This is Jain’s seventh website and his six websites have been closed earlier for lack of writers. During the last few days, there have been a couple of images of wild animals doing the rounds on social media. “These animals are being shown straying from Gorewada forest, which is not true. The other day a cheetah, which has gone extinct from India in 1952, was shown in an image purportedly preying on cattle on Katol Road,” said Kale.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/blogger-warned-for-fake-gorewada-tiger-post/articleshow/75815162.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
May 19, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: Factory employees in Sitapura area still waiting for their March salary||JAIPUR: Let alone the salary of April, some employees who worked in Sitapura industrial area have not been paid for the 10 days in March when the lockdown started. While most of the workers have gone back to their states in Bihar, UP and Madhya Pradesh, those who could not arrange a passage are waiting for companies to restart operations so that they can get employment. “The abrupt lockdown was a chaos and paying workers within a day’s time was never easy. And the difficulty was more so for the contract workers, who are not on the payroll. May be some have been deprived of their salary on that day. But subsequently, employers have paid when they were allowed passes to open their offices in April,” said a garment factory owner. He said in many instances companies paid the contract workers through the hiring agents who may not have passed on the salaries, depriving workers the salaries for the lockdown period. Those who could not make it to their home states are waiting for the factories to restart their business but there is hardly any demand. “Big sourcing companies like Reliance and Big Bazaar have cancelled orders and unless the malls, shopping joints, and even standalone outlets open, demand won’t be there for factories to restart,” said Hero Ravjani, a garment manufacturer. “Even if demand starts slowly, these big companies will place new orders. It is very likely that they will quote prices very low because there will be more suppliers and less buyers,” said Ravjani. While the garment industry is yet to kick off operations, the gems and jewellery industry has taken small steps in starting its manufacturing activities. “Out of 125 units, around 85 have started manufacturing although on low base of 25% workers. The bigger challenge is labour. We want the government to help us train the Rajasthan migrant labourers who have returned to the state and already written to the state chief minister and labour secretary,” said Gaurav Jain, president of Sitapura Gems and Jewellery Industries Association. The gems and jewellery sector is heavily dependent on workers from West Bengal but the industry, which already has a training facility, wants to create a talent pool of Rajasthani workers in skills required for gem and jewellery making.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/factory-employees-in-sitapura-area-still-waiting-for-their-march-salary/articleshow/75815673.cms||Srikanta Tripathy
May 19, 2020||Jaipur||Prepare policy to prevent bird deaths in Sambhar: HC to govt||Jaipur: The Rajasthan high court on Monday asked the state government to tell what policy has been formulated to prevent unnatural deaths of migratory and local birds in the Sambhar Lake area. Along with this, the court has asked to remove all the carcasses from the lake and conduct postmortems. A division bench of Chief Justice Indrajit Mahanty and Justice Satish Kumar Sharma gave the order while hearing an urgent case. The court also directed the state government to set up a temporary nursery near the lake. “This nursery should be used for the treatment of injured and sick birds. Postmortem must be conducted to ascertain the cause of deaths that took place on May 9 and 10,” the court said. During the hearing, advocate Nitin Jain, amicus curiae in the case, stated that the migratory birds have been dying in Sambhar Lake for the last few days. “To prevent this, the departments concerned are not taking any action. There is not even a nursery to take care of the birds on the spot. As the nursery is several kilometres away, many birds are sent together. Due to which most of these birds die,” Jain informed the court. The court also ordered to prepare a policy and inform the court about it. The court will hear the case on July 3.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/prepare-policy-to-prevent-bird-deaths-in-sambhar-hc-to-govt/articleshow/75815675.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Delhi||Isolate new entrants, panel tells jails||New Delhi: Alarmed at prisoners getting infected in a city jail last week, a high-powered committee headed by a Delhi high court judge has asked the prison administration to isolate new entrants.In its latest meeting on Monday, minutes of which are available with TOI, the committee led by justice Hima Kohli deliberated upon the possible steps which could be taken to prevent the spread of Covid-19 on jail premises. “The novel coronavirus can enter jail premises only through the new entrants or through jail staff, paramilitary staff, medical staff and other persons entering it for delivery of ration and other essential items. It is necessary that new entrants should be kept in isolation wards/cells so as to prevent their intermingling with other inmates,” the panel said.Earlier, the committee was informed by the director general (prisons) that 15 inmates and a staff found Covid-19 positive in Rohini Jail were quarantined and undergoing treatment, while the process of tracing other prisoners who came in contact with them was still underway.“If required, a coronavirus test will be done on other inmates who had come in contact with the Covid-19 positive prisoners,” the DG reported, adding that all the 15 inmates as well as the staff were asymptomatic. A total of 16 inmates and one jail staff had tested positive last week. The first positive case was reported after an inmate had undergone a surgery in DDU Hospital on May 11. He is recuperating at LNJP Hospital.A concerned justice Kohli then sought details from the DG on availability of individual cells in any prison which can be converted into isolation cells for keeping the new entrants at least for an initial period of 14 days to prevent them from coming in contact with other inmates. As per minutes of the meeting, as many as 160 of 178 “high-risk prisoners” may be shifted from the Mandoli Jail to different jails in Tihar to create such cells.Till Monday, a total of 3,678 prisoners have been released on interim bail, parole or remission of sentence as part of the programme to de-congest jails to contain the spread of Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/isolate-new-entrants-panel-tells-jails/articleshow/75837572.cms||Abhinav Garg
May 19, 2020||Delhi||Govt looks to ramp up health infra in viral fight||New Delhi: Delhi government is working on increasing the number of Covid-19 beds with oxygen support from 2,000 to 4,000 and ramp up other infrastructure necessary to respond to any spike in novel coronavirus cases. The capital has already crossed 10,500 cases, out of which 500 were reported within the past 24 hours. The government is taking steps to deal with even 50,000 active cases and readying a phase-wise plan to include more hospitals into the Covid network, said an official. With the government allowing widescale relaxations under Lockdown 4.0, which will be in force till May 31, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday held a review meeting with health department officials. Appealing to Delhiites to abide by the rules, the chief minister tweeted, “From today some economic activities are starting. It is our big responsibility to remain disciplined and keep the coronavirus under control. Use mask, social distancing and hand sanitisers. I pray to God to keep you and your family safe. The God will protect us only when we will remain disciplined.” A day before Lockdown 3.0 was to end, the government added two Covid hospitals — Batra Hospital and Research Centre in Tughlaqabad Industrial Area and Cygnus Orthocare Hospital in Safdarjung Development Area. Eight private hospitals are part of the Covid netwrok.The number of cases may go up suddenly in the next two weeks if the norms are not strictly followed, an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/govt-looks-to-ramp-up-health-infra-in-viral-fight/articleshow/75837570.cms||AlokKNMishra
May 19, 2020||Goa||Level at Opa dips, 46cm above critical mark||PONDA: The water level of the Khandepar near the Opa water works pumping station is nearing the critical mark on Monday afternoon. The water level dipped to 2.88m on Monday evening. It was just 46cm above the critical mark of 2.42 m. The water resources department (WRD) has been rejuvenating the river basin by augmenting water from Selaulim dam and Ganjem over the Mhadei in addition to water from bandharas along the Khandepar and Kalay rivers. However, the water augmentation from Ganjem has been discontinued since Thursday as the work of laying a pipeline is in progress. WRD executive engineer Arun Naik, who is overlooking the work on the Ganjem scheme and pipeline, said 400m of pipe laying work is pending and it will be completed in a week. WRD canal officer Ankush Gaonkar said there will be no water crisis as two major bandharas—one each at Okamb and Signevhal—are full and a weir at Bimbal village in Dharbandora taluka has plenty water in stock. The 12 bandharas along the Khandepar, jointly store about 21.86 lakh cubic meters (CuM) of water and the WRD opens the bandharas as per need. While the WRD fetches 35MLD water from the Mhadai at Bolcornem bandhara and pours it in the Ganjem river which flows to Opa, the Selaulim water treatment plant pours 48MLD water in the Kalem river that flows down to the Opa water treatment plant, said the WRD canal officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/level-at-opa-dips-46cm-above-critical-mark/articleshow/75815687.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand: Man arrested for molesting minor in Pauri quarantine centre||DEHRADUN: A 32-year-old man has been arrested on charges of molesting a minor girl inside a quarantine centre in Pauri district of Uttarakhand. The man, who has been booked under relevant sections of POCSO Act, was presented before a court on Monday and sent to a 14-day judicial custody. The accused happens to be a distant relative of the girl and had brought her and her two brothers from Dehradun to Pauri. They were all lodged at a quarantine centre together and left on May 15. On reaching home, the girl narrated her ordeal to her family members, who then reported the matter to police. Pauri police station in-charge Laxman Singh Kaitaith said, “The incident took place on May 14 night. Police have registered a case and arrested the man on the basis of a complaint filed by girl’s uncle.” (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/man-arrested-for-molesting-minor-in-pauri-quarantine-centre/articleshow/75813027.cms||Gaurav Talwar
May 19, 2020||Delhi||CR Park raises a stink over cops notallowing cutting and scaling of fish||New Delhi: You cannot sell fish in retail without cutting and scaling. The closest analogy is that of a mutton shop where all the chopping and discarding happens before the customer collects the order. However, the local police in Chittaranjan Park has refused to allow the two fish markets in the area to reopen if the shops do not sell the fish in whole.The two markets, about 650 metres from each other, are not only a local hub for the staple food of Bengalis but quite popular among people from elsewhere in the city too. In the cliché called ‘Mini Bengal’ – with its sweets and chop-and-roll shops – the fish markets are where many foodies drop a pin.In the wake of the Covid-19 scare, the two markets had been closed right when the first lockdown was announced. Now, when all shops have been allowed to open by the Centre and Delhi government with the necessary social distancing and other measures, the police have put their lathi in the wheel.The fish sellers, who for obvious reasons wish to remain anonymous, say the cops are fretting over what they say is lack of sanitation and cleanliness. South Delhi Municipal Corporation, however, says that all sanitation arrangements have been made at the markets. “We do not know why police has closed the markets. Only they can explain. As far as the corporation is concerned, we have allowed opening of the market,” said a spokesperson.DCP (south) Atul Thakur said he had received information about the closure of the fish markets from the local authorities and will find out the reason behind it. However, local police sources confirmed this.The apex RWA body of the area, East Bengal Displaced Persons Association, said they had taken up the issue with the SHO and ACP through email on May 11. The secretary of the association, P K Paul, had requested for allowing reopening of markets “with certain restrictions imposed, such as maintaining of social distancing as well as hygienic conditions”.Apart from the fact that this has affected availability of fish in the area, many livelihoods too are at stake. “Since selling of fish is their only source of income, if they are not permitted to resume their activities immediately, their families will die of starvation,” Paul has said in a letter. Residents may be raising a stink over the issue but the cops have so far refused to budge.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cr-park-raises-a-stink-over-cops-notallowing-cutting-and-scaling-of-fish/articleshow/75837576.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Jaipur||Brahmin outfit decides to abolish practice of Mrityubhoj||Jaipur. The Brahmin society has taken a decision to abolish Mrityubhoj (feast after death) and start the tradition of restoration of spiritual places. Vipra Foundation, a group of Brahmin society in India, has taken the decision in a video conference that took place on Sunday. In this online meeting, more than 207 people from the Brahmin society participated from 69 places in the country. Jaipur MP Ramcharan Bohra and Chittorgarh MP CP Joshi were among the participants in the meeting, where the decision was taken. Founder convener of the foundation, Sushil Ojha, said that they will conduct a public awareness campaign for this, to make people aware of only conducting the rituals for the peace of the dead soul, but no mass death feasts should be organized. “The money used for the feast should be put to a good use by renovating spiritual places and other public places in remembrance of departed souls and for their peace,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/brahmin-outfit-decides-to-abolish-practice-of-mrityubhoj/articleshow/75815677.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Aurangabad||No screening of staff, allege GMCH doctors||AURANGABAD: Resident doctors at Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) on Monday said that even a day after a trainee doctor working at the casualty department of GMCH tested positive for Covid-19, the administration conducted no screening of other doctors and nurses. The doctors also said that the hospital does not have thermal testing for the staff. A resident doctor on duty in the surgical building tested positive on Sunday. Though he was posted in a non-covid ward, multiple cases he had screened had later tested positive. He was admitted to the isolation ward of the hospital on May 16. On May 17, he received a call from the Aurangabad Municipal Corporation asking about his contacts. He was told that he had contracted the infection. The close contacts of the infected doctor were not screened for close to 24 hours even as the doctors and nurses continued to treat and examine other patients, the residents alleged. The trainee doctors said that even after repeated requests to keep thermal screening for the doctors and nurses, it was not done. They also sought for reduction in duty timings for non-covid ward as one cannot wear the PPE for long shifts When asked, GMCH dean Kanan Yelikar said that 13 doctors and nurses who were close contacts have been put in home quarantine. “We have facilitated thermal screening at all hospital entrances from Monday. So far, 68 doctors and nurses have tested negative,” Yelikar said. Yelikar said that the work shifts of doctors have been shortened.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/no-screening-of-staff-allege-gmch-docs/articleshow/75813035.cms||Arpita Sharad
May 19, 2020||Delhi||CBSE exams from July 1 to 15, masks and sanitisers a must||NEW DELHI: With the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) finally declaring the dates for the remaining classes X and XII examinations, students will have to report at the centres with masks and hand sanitisers in transparent bottles. Issuing the dates spread over July 1 to 15 on Monday, CBSE also mentioned that physical distancing norms would be followed at the centres. The parents have been asked to ensure that the children are not unwell while reporting for the examinations. The board will conduct Class X examinations for the students in northeast Delhi, where a few examinations had to be postponed due to the February riots. The Class XII examinations were put on hold from March 19 for the whole of India following the outbreak of the novel coronavirus pandemic. The Class X social science exam for northeast Delhi will be held on July 1. But CBSE examination controller Sanyam Bhardwaj said this exam would be just for those students who could not appear for it on March 18. “The students who have already given the examination need not write it again,” Bhardwaj clarified. There will be tests for three more subjects. For Class XII, the examinations for nine subjects will be held in northeast Delhi, with four subjects — mathematics, economics, biology and history — scheduled on July 15. For the rest of India, seven subjects have revised exam dates. Delhi education minister Manish Sisodia had requested the Union human resource and development minister not to conduct the examinations due to the rising Covid-19 cases in the capital. CBSE has decided to conduct the exams only for main subjects, which will be crucial for admissions to higher educational institutions. For other subjects, it will issue marking/assessment instructions. For the schools located in 25 other countries, the board will come out with a separate assessment process as all of them are in various phases of Covid-19 restrictions. The evaluation process, which was also on hold due to the outbreak and the resultant lockdown, has resumed from May 12 with answer books getting delivered at the evaluators’ home.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cbse-exams-from-july-1-to-15-masks-and-sanitisers-a-must/articleshow/75815169.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Jaipur||50 days on, buses to carry ashes to Haridwar||Ajmer: After more than 50 days, two private buses with 36 passengers from Kishangarh will carry deceased ashes for immersion in Ganges at Haridwar on Tuesday. Kishangarh MLA Suresh Tak arranged the private buses that will take the kin of the deceased, free of cost. All bus services, state as well as private, had been stopped during lockdown. Since March 24 when the lockdown was announced by the Centre, the ashes had been kept at either homes or at the cremation grounds. Many people have been waiting for the lockdown to end to complete the last rites of the departed souls. Suresh Tak took the initiative and talked to chief minister Ashok Gehlot to allow people to visit Haridwar for religious purposes and to provide facilities for immersion of ashes in the Ganges. “On Monday over 100 families from Kishangarh got their registrations done for Haridwar. In the first round on Tuesday, 36 people in two different buses will be sent,” said Deepak Mundra, a volunteer. He said that social distancing will be maintained and remaining people will be sent to Haridwar in the second round. He said people from Jodhpur, Bikaner and from other districts are calling to register themselves for Haridwar. “According to Hindu religion it is very important to immerse the ashes in Ganges for the soul’s peace. Therefore, those families who were waiting for the lockdown to get over can now hope to finally do the final rites,” said priest Mukesh Sharma. After Haridwar, the bus will take them to Pushkar to perform prayers. “This facility is only for people of Kishangarh but later it will be extended to Ajmer and other places,” added Mundra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/50-days-on-buses-to-carry-ashes-to-haridwar/articleshow/75815679.cms||---
May 19, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: 550 bar hotels set to sell liquor parcel||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: At least 550 bar hotels and 200 beer and wine parlours have given consent to the government for participating in the virtual queue management system being introduced by Bevco for selling Indian made foreign liquor (IMFL) and beer over the counters as take-home parcels. Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that beverage outlets can be opened conditionally for parcel service once the online booking facility is ready. The taxes department issued order on Monday permitting Bevco outlets, bar hotels and beer and wine shops for sales in the prescribed manner. This will be applicable for food and liquor sales in bars. The chief minister said that in addition to bars and Bevco and Consumerfed outlets, clubs too can sell food and liquor to its members from the day the new system is in force, with the condition that not more than five members turn up at a time. “Clubs should utilize booking through telephone or some other system to ensure this. However, non-members will not be permitted,” the CM said. The government had amended the foreign liquor rules to legalize the sale of liquor as take-home parcels from bar hotels and beer and wine parlours through sales counters. The rules 3 and 11 of the foreign liquor rules as well as the relevant forms for granting bar and beer and wine licences too were amended. However, with the new decision of the government in favour of clubs, the government will also have to amend foreign liquor rules 4A and the relevant forms to permit the clubs to sell liquor as take-home parcels.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/550-bar-hotels-set-to-sell-liquor-parcel/articleshow/75813074.cms||---
